New Year s Greetings ITH the advent of another New Year, the general board sends love and greetings to the more than 156,000 Relicf Society members living in many parts of the world. We are grateful for the abiding testimonics of Relief Society members as to the divinity of the work in which we are engaged. We acknowledge with deep appreciation the devoted service continuously given to the work of the Society and the love that exists in the hearts of the sisters everywhere for Relief Society and for one another. Relief Society work is the work of the Master. It calls for love of God on the part of its members, with hearts attuned to his will; it calls for love of his children characterized by the free and ready exercise of compassion toward them. As we look forward to the New Year, each of us desires for this Society an abundance of blessings from the Father; we wish to meet more fully our individual responsibilities toward the Society. It is the season when each of us is imbued with the deep desire better to conduct her own life so as to bring about greater personal blessings and a higher degree of happiness. It is but natural that those of us who love Relief Society would wish for its continued well-being. It is but natural that each one would desire and hope for herself and her loved ones as high a degree of peace, happiness, and security as is possible in a world filled with trials and uncertainties. It is comforting to know that, regardless of the impact of evil and the strains and stresses of life, the continued well-being of Relief Society is assured and the blessings of personal peace and happiness as well as eternal well-being are attainable for each of us, if we but follow the path simply and clearly defined for us by the Master: "And one of the scribes came, and having heard them reasoning together, and perceiving that he had answered them well, asked him, Which is the first commandment of all? "And Jesus answered him, The first of all the commandments is, Hear, O Israel; The Lord our God is one Lord: "And thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind, and with all thy strength: this is the first commandment. "And the second is like, namely this, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself. There is none other commandment greater than these. "And the scribe said unto him, Well, Master, thou hast said the truth: for there is one God; and there is none other but he: "And to love him with all the heart, and with all the understanding, and with all the soul, and with all the strength, and to love his neighbour as himself, is more than all whole burnt offerings and sacrifices. "And when Jesus saw that he answered discreetly, he said unto him, Thou art not far from the kingdom of God..." (Mark 12:28-34). One who is not far from the kingdom of God enjoys an incomparable sense of peace, joy, and well-being. The dominant principle of Relief Socicty work has always been and must continue to be love of God and love and 'compassion for his children. Therein lies its hope of continued blessings from the Father and the full realization of its mission. Obedience to the first two great commandments is the greatest guarantee of carthly and etcrnal blessings for each of us as individuals. The sister who will give to Relief Society through the new year a full measure of devotion will be an instrument in bringing about the desired blessings for Relief Society, and she will find herself on the pathway that leads toward the earthly and eternal blessings she deserves for herself. May the New Year bring to Relief Society women everywhere the love, approbation, and blessings of our Heavenly Father is our earnest prayer. Belle S. Spafford Marianne C. Sharp Velma N. Simonsen Page | From Vlear and Sar I do not want to miss any issue of The Relief Society Magazine. I probably can say that Iran is one of the farthest places this Magazine travels. I am very grateful it can reach here. I was so thrilled when the September issue arrived, to open it and see President McKay's picture before me and read the beautiful poem (by Elizabeth Hill Boswell) composed especially for him. Every word is true. —Mtrs. Bert Gardner Tabriz, Iran I always enjoy the lessons in our fine Magazine and want to congratulate you on the wonderful story "Meet Mother, Jody," by Rosa Lee Lloyd (August 1955). I am sure we would all wish to be the same kind of mother-in-law. I also enjoyed the lovely poem "The Mountain Climber," by Maryhale Woolsey (August 1955). —Elsie Jack Salt Lake City, Utah I wish to thank my friend Helen Backman of Santaquin, Utah, for the muchappreciated subscription to The Relief Society Magazine. I do enjoy the beautiful lessons and wonderful poetry. The character-building and literary attributes of the Magazine are something fresh and clean. I had the pleasure of meeting a fine group of writers from Utah at the regional meeting of the National League of American Pen Women in Cheyenne, Wyoming, in May. I especially enjoyed the musical program put on by Mirla G. Thayne of Provo, Others I had the pleasure of meeting were: Dorothy Rea, Olive W. Burt, Mabel Harmer, Oliver Milner, Naomi W. Randall, and Christie Lund Coles. —Amelia V. Christeson LaJunta. Colorado I have found much pleasure in reading the October issue of The Relief Society Magazine. 'The lovely sonnet "I Found October" by Agnes Just Reid is explicit and alive with imagery. The article "Wearing a Pretty Face," by Mabel Law Atkinson is arresting and the import revealing. It is also vividly realistic, as are her exquisite poems. —Helen Gee Woods Idaho Falls, Idaho The Relief Society Magazine means so much to our family while we are away from home and have no place to attend Church activities. My husband and I both enjoy the stories and lessons. —Phyllis Grant Naples, Italy Our members in the French Mission who read English are thoroughly enjoying the Magazine. The other members enjoy it through them, and I am sure it is a means whereby our sisters feel themselves a part of a truly great organization. We surely appreciate receiving the copies that we distribute among our Relief Society sisters each month. —Rachel L. Lee President French Mission Relief Society Paris, France Six of my ancestors were pioneers of Utah, and I have been a member of Relief Society for more than thirty years, having served as First Counselor, visiting teacher, and class leader. The wonderful lessons have been an inspiration to me, and as a regular subscriber, I have saved my Magazines. —Edda Simons Noon Payson, Utah _- The Cover: Mountain Vista in the National Park near Bariloche by the Nahuel Huapi Lake, Argentina, South America, Photograph submitted by Amy Y. Valentine Frontispiece Photograph: Mistletoe at Grand Canyon, Arizona Photograph by Josef Muench Cover Design by Evan Jensen Page 2 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - - - - ~ - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - First Counselor Velma N. Simonsen - - - - - Second Counselor Margaret C. Pickering - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Mary G. Judd Evon W. Peterson Alberta H. Christensen Winniefred S. Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Mildred B. Eyring Helen W. Anderson Gladys S. Boyer Manwaring Elna P. Haymond Annie M. Ellsworth Mary R. Young Leone O. Jacobs Louise W. Madsen Aleine M. Young Josie B. Ba Charlotte A. Larsen Christine H. Robinson Edith P. Backman RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford JANUARY 1956 No. 1 Contents SPECIAL FEATURES Vol. 43 Aweincemnmnens—rliza R. SMOW POGM™ GOMESt —. Ccc Mecca ccc ccareccccccnccteectesec re cteecesecreret cen eerie eet cenereenioe 9 Be Still, My Heart—Third Prize Poerm ooo... CceececeeeceececeecceceeccecceceeseescececnasssenssRuth C. Langlois 13 Award Winners—Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest -...........-:::::: essecesecpeecceeeceeeceeeeeceseenenenenees 15 The Argentine Mission wooedPreston Nibley 22 Swiss Temple Table Arrangement ET PMI EInez R. Allen 28 How to Sell The Relief Society Magazine Polio Isn't, Licked Yet FICTION The Living Gifts. Royal L. Garff 36 Ss tte ON Be bh atl lsBasil O'Connor 37 MerDorothy B. Kilian 24 The Closed Circle Hermanas—Chapter 7 Beatrice R. Parsons 38 Fay Tarlock 48 From Near and Far 2 i oe 30 ph Ad a2 a eee MleRamona W. Cannon 31.. Velma N. Simonsen a Sixty Years Ago Woman's Sphere... - Editorial: Greetings for the New Year... In Memoriam—Emeline Young Nebeker 22... Occccececeeeceecsesecceececeseseseseaeseseeessseteseees Covers Will Feature Missions Outside Continental United States New Serial 'There Is Still Time'' to Begin in February Lesson Work for Spanish-Speaking Relief Societies and Other Minority Groups in Stakes 34 FEATURES FOR THE HOME Keith F. Thompson 29 Rhea H. Gardner a Recipes from Argentina Vegetables—A Different Way Every Day—Part [Doe ccccceecccceccsececececeeeeteeeeeeeeee Reba Turner, Lady of Charity = ste LESSONS FOR APRIL Theology: Signs of the Crucifixion; the Voice of Jesus Christ Is Heard........ Leland H. Monson 54 Visiting Teacher Messages: 'But Behold, the Resurrection of Christ Redeemeth Mankind," Edith S. Elliott 57 Rhea H. Gardner 58 Work Meeting: Vegetable Cookery (Continued) "Today,'' by Etta Robbins, 8; 'Winter Memory,'' by Grace Barker Wilson, 8; ''Threshold,'' by Catherine E. Berry, 14; 'Weaving,' by Miriam W. Wright, 25; ''New Year's Day,'' by Christie Lund Coles, 27; "At Midnight, December Thirty-first,"" by Katherine F. Larsen, 35; 'Time Eternal,'' by Vesta N. Lukei, 72. PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 40 North Main, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone EM 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 8, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Page 3 NewaYeans Greetings #iAvtiels ellad | edt) el ae The Objectives of Relief Society 2... Cecccccccceesseeseeeceeeeeeeeesceeeees A Rose for Deseret—First Prize Poem Enduring Memories—Second Prize Poem ou......... Sessssssescecneeerseseeseneosseeees "Now Is a Man Grown''—First Prize Story Biographical Sketches of Award Winners in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest Notes to the Field: Relief Society Assigned Evening Meeting of Fast Sunday in March Award Subscriptions Presented in April Bound Volumes of 1955 Relief Society Magazines Literature: Thomas Hardy ''The Return of the Native'... Social Science: The Constitution and je a 1 Mark E. Petersen 4 Maryhale Woolsey 10 Beatrice K. Ekman 11 Maryhale Woolsey 16 53 34 30 35 Briant S. Jacobs 60 Albert R. Bowen 66 The Objectives of Relief Society Elder Mark E. Petersen Of the Council of the Twelve [Address Delivered at the Annual General Relief Society Conference, September 28, 1955] T has surely been an inspiration to me, my dear sisters, to be present in this meeting with you this afternoon. The Relief Society always has been a great inspiration to me. I have great respect not only for the organization as such, but for you who officer the organization, and surely for the general presidency and general board who direct the work. I join wholeheartedly with what Sister Sharp said about the general board and Sister Spafford, and I would surely like to add Sister Simonsen and Sister Sharp in that reference. These ladies are simply wonderful. They are so outstanding. 'They surely have been abundantly blessed of the Lord, and the reason the Lord blesses them so is because they themselves are so devoted. They put their all on the altar and they never hold anything back. 'They give so freely of themselves, and are so obedient to the Lord that he can work through them successfully and use them as wonderful instruments in accomplishing his purposes on the earth. So I am grateful for the opportunity and the privilege of paying tribute this day to the Relief Society and the wonderful ladies who direct its work both Church-wide and in the stakes and the wards and in the missions. I have been very happy with the music that we have had here today, Page 4 I am always happy with things that come from Sugar House Stake. For a time I was privileged to be in the stake presidency of that stake, and so whenever I hear of Sugar House Stake accomplishing things, it makes me very happy. I was very glad to hear this wonderful chorus under the very able direction of Sister Ann Jones whom I have known for some years, together with her husband, and for whom I also have very great respect. I would like to enter into the spirit of your music here today as I talk with you. You remember that our opening song was "Earth, With Her Ten Thousand Flowers": Earth, with her ten thousand flow'rs, Air, with all its beams and show'rs, Heaven's infinite expanse, Sea's resplendent countenance, All around and all above, Bear this record, God is love. Sounds among the vales and hills, In the woods and by the mills, Of the breeze and of the bird, By the gentle murmur stirred, Sacred songs, beneath, above, Have one chorus, God is love. All the hopes that sweetly start From the fountain of the heart, All the bliss that ever comes To our earthly human homes, All the voices from above, Sweetly whisper, God is love. —"Earth, With Her Ten Thousand Flowers," Wiuitt1amM W. PuHEtpes and Tuomas C. Griccs. THE OBJECTIVES OF RELIEF SOCIETY I was also happy that we sang that one verse of my favorite hymn, "Love at Home." On the front of your program, did you notice the seal of the Relief Society, and did you notice on the upper rim of that seal the little expression "Charity Never Faileth"? Do you remember that The Book of Mormon tells us that true charity is the true love of God? So again everything whispers "God is love." AY I take the opportunity of reading just a little bit from Paul's wonderful first Epistle to the Corinthians: Though I speak with the tongues of men and of angels, and have not charity, I am become as sounding brass, or a tinkling cymbal. And though I have the gift of prophecy, and understand all mysteries, and all knowledge; and though I have all faith, so that I could remove mountains, and have not charity, I am nothing. And though I bestow all my goods to feed the poor, and though I give my body to be burned, and have not charity, it profiteth me nothing. Charity suffereth long, and is kind; charity envieth not; charity vaunteth not itself, is not puffed up, Doth not behave itself unseemly, seeketh not her own, is not easily provoked, thinketh no evil; Rejoiceth not in iniquity, but rejoiceth in the truth; Beareth all things, believeth all things, hopeth all things, endureth all things. Charity never faileth; but whether there be prophecies, they shall fail; whether there be tongues, they shall cease; whether there be knowledge, it shall vanish away. For we know in part, and we prophesy in part. But when that which is perfect is come, then that which is in part shall be done away. When I was a child, I spake as a child, I understood as a child, I thought as a 5 child: but when I became a man, I put away childish things. For now we see through a glass, darkly; but then face to face: now I know in part; but then shall I know even as also I am known. And now abideth faith, hope, charity, these three; but the greatest of these is charity (I Cor. 13:1-13). Reference has been made several times to the instructions given by the Prophet Joseph Smith to the Relief Society in the day in which he lived. You remember that on the day of organization, the Prophet Joseph Smith held out three principal objectives for the Relief Society. One was to provoke the brethren to good works. We heat a great deal about that one, and so we should, but I hope we will always add the latter part. Sometimes it is not put on, you know, and we merely say "to provoke the brethren," but we hope that they will always be provoked to good works. 'The second was to search for objects of charity and look after their needs, and the third was to assist in correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of the community. Now the Prophet, later, talked further with the sisters about their great work, and emphasized _particularly two points: to search out the needy and provide for them; and endeavor to uplift the standards, the living standards, the moral standards, of the community. He knew that in order to accomplish the purpose he had in mind for them, the sisters must have a particular attitude. They must approach these objectives in a certain frame of mind, otherwise they could not accomplish this great thing. 'That attitude of mind, or the approach they were to make, was based entirely upon a spirit of love, of compassion, of genuine charity which was the true love of Christ. If we do not approach our work with that spirit, then can we, in truth, accomplish our work? Again let me remind you of Paul: Though I speak with the tongues of men and of angels, and have not charity, I am become as sounding brass, or a tinkling cymbal. And though I bestow all my goods to feed the poor, and though I give my body to be burned, and have not charity, it profiteth me nothing (I Cor. 13:1, 3). Though I have the grandest Relief Society program in the world, though I have the very best intention, though there are many people to help, unless I carry on my work in the true spirit of charity, with love and compassion in my heart, I am nothing. I am fully convinced that one of the greatest of all the commandments is what we speak of as the Golden Rule. "... All things whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them..." (Mt. 7:12). We cannot do our Relief Society work or any Church work and do it the way the Lord would have it done unless we have the spirit of the Golden Rule in our hearts. F course, this Golden Rule comes back to the second great commandment, which is like unto the first, "... Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself..." (Mark 12:31). Upon these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets. So, no matter what our works may be or what our words may be, if we do not have as our great motivating force, the true spirit of compassion, are we not as sounding brass or a tinkling cymbal? May I quote from one of the addresses given by the Prophet Joseph Smith, to the early meetings of the Relief Society. Referring to unfortunate individuals, he said:. They are fellow mortals, we loved them once, shall we not encourage them to reformation? We have not [yet] forgiven them seventy times seven, as our Savior directed; perhaps we have not forgiven them once. There is now a day of salvation to such as repent and reform.. We must be merciful to one anOuiee 2:: Nothing is so much calculated to lead people to forsake sin as to take them by the hand, and watch over them with tenderness. When persons manifest the least kindness and love to me, O what power it has over my mind, while the opposite course has a tendency to harrow up all the harsh feelings and depress the human mind.... The power and glory of godliness is spread out on a broad principle to throw out the mantle of charity. God does not look on sin with allowance, but when men have sinned, there must be allowance made for them.... The nearer we get to our heavenly Father, the more we are disposed to look with compassion on perishing souls.. My talk is intended for all this society; if you would have God have mercy on you, have mercy on one another.... There should be no license for sin, but mercy should go hand in hand with reproof,.).. I- (Dui H. C. Mola V,. Pay 20, 23-24). And then the Prophet said this:.. The Ladies' Relief Society is not only to relieve the poor, but to save souls...». (D:. A. CY, page 258) He taught the glorious lesson 6 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1956 THE OBJECTIVES OF RELIEF SOCIETY that by love and compassion, we can save souls. We can show love and compassion to the sinner, and we can show love and compassion to those who are poor and needy and have a lack of this world's goods. We need that love, that language of the heart, which goes out to both sets of people. We are not to take the position that people may have brought this difficulty upon themselves, and therefore, are to blame and _ they ought to suffer it out. We cannot judge. It is not for us to judge anyone. It would be wonderful if every Relief Society sister in the reading of The Book of Mormon would refer back at least once a week to that marvelous address of King Benjamin who spoke about charity and kindness toward our fellow men, and who carried out this very thought, of which we have spoken this afternoon, that we need not think that we are any better than anyone else. We need not think that any person who is in difficulty has brought it upon himself, and therefore, we should withhold the hand of charity. 'That is not the true spirit of Christ. May we remember that always, and remember, too, that if we are going to be the true handmaidens and the true servants of the Lord, we must have that Christ-like spirit which led him to say "Blessed are the merciful: for they shall obtain mercy" (Mt. 5:7). UR attitude toward our fellow men is so important to the manner in which God will judge us. It isn't just the handing out with the hand. We must give * | from the heart. And if we, with the spirit of love and the spirit of Christ, can draw near to unfortunate people, extending our hand of fellowship through the language of love, we will save souls. I remember so well the marvelous example set for us by our beloved President George Albert Smith, who always told us that we were to love people into the Church. Do you remember that? I am always impressed by the 25th chapter of Matthew, and may I just refer briefly to it. You remember how the Lord there told about the judgment and said:... I was an hungred, and ye gave me meat: I was thirsty, and ye gave me drink: I was a stranger, and ye took me mM: Naked, and ye clothed me: I was sick, and ye visited me: I was in prison, and ye came unto me (Mt. 25:35-36). When I read those words, I think of you wonderful ladies of the Relief Society, because you call upon the sick, you call upon those who are unfortunate otherwise, and if they are hungry, you feed them, if they are naked, you clothe them, if they are downcast, you lift them up in their spirits.... Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me (Mt. 25:40). It is in that spirit of love and compassion that we accomplish the great work of the Savior. Do you remember what he said to the Prophet Joseph in one of his great revelations? And faith, hope, charity and love, with an eye single to the glory of God, qualify him for the work. Remember faith, virtue, knowledge, temperance, patience, brotherly kindness, godliness, charity, humility, diligence. Ask, and ye shall receive; knock, and it shall be opened unto you. Amen (D. & C. 4:5-7). I am grateful for the privilege again of paying tribute to the marvelous work you do and to each one of you who does the work. I am grateful beyond expression for the Relief Society. I am grateful beyond expression for the spirit of love and compassion you exhibit in your work, and that you may always have it, and that you may breathe that spirit into all of your instructions and in your leadership throughout the Church, is my humble prayer in Jesus' name. Amen. Today Etta Robbins Today is an assignment The Lord has given me, To magnify each moment— To live consistently. Tomorrow is a field unknown Its harvest, who can say? Yet it may yield rich fruitage From seed I sow today. Winter Memory Grace Barker Wilson Something there is that echoes in my heart When snow begins to fall and lie in drifts On hillside and arroyo. A small part Of mountain winter comes when the wind lifts A tumble weed, and rolls it like a ball Across the whitening plain. We used to make A snowball on the slope where meadows fall Away, and let it gather size, and take Its course down to the brook. We followed then And laughed to see it grow. And we came back Along its trail to start it all again; And through the snow it left a darkened track. Somcthing there is I find remembering sweet, When wintertime and snow and memories meet. 8 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1956 Award Winners Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest THE Relief Society general board is pleased to announce the names of the three winners in the 1955 Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest. This contest was announced in the May 1955 issue of the Magazine, and closed August 15, 1955. The first prize of twenty-five dollars is awarded to Maryhale Woolsey, Salt Lake City, Utah, for her poem "A Rose for Deseret." The second prize of twenty dollars is awarded to Beatrice Knowlton Ekman, Portland, Oregon, for her poem "Enduring Memories." 'The third prize of fifteen dollars is awarded to Ruth C. Langlois, Salt Lake City, Utah, for her poem "Be Still My Heart." This poem contest has been conducted annually by the Relief Society general board since 1924 in honor of Eliza R. Snow, second general president of Relief Society, a gifted poet and beloved leader. The contest is open to all Latterday Saint women, and is designed to encourage poetry writing, and to increase appreciation for creative writing and the beauty and value of poetry. Prize-winning poems are the property of the Relief Society general board, and may not be used for publication by others except upon written permission of the general board. The general board also reserves the tight to publish any of the poems submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rate. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. There were 118 poems submitted in this year's contest. Many of the poems revealed a discriminating choice of subject material and a careful use of poetic technique. Nineteen states and the District of Columbia were represented in the contest entries. 'The largest number of submissions came in the following order: Utah, California, Arizona, Idaho, Colorado, Missouri, Virginia. Four entries were received from Canada, two from Australia, and one from England. Mrs. Woolsey, winner of the first prize, appears for the first time as a winner in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest. Mrs. Ekman was awarded second place in 1932 and in 1936. Mrs. Langlois is a first-time winner in the contest. The general board congratulates the prize winners and expresses appreciation to all entrants for their interest in the contest. The general board wishes, also, to thank the judges for their care and diligence in selecting the prize - winning poems. The services of the poetry committee of the general board are very much appreciated. The prize-winning poems, together with photographs and biographical sketches of the prize-winning contestants, are published herewith. Page 9 Page 10 Cree Winning Poems Eliza Roxey Snow Memorial Poem Contest q MARYHALE WOOLSEY First Prize Poem A Rose for Deseret Maryhale Woolsey On leaving their old home, she brought along To this new land, some sturdy roots of rose— Cinnamon-scented blossoms she had loved, That brightened every June. One might suppose It foolish, sharing the crowded wagon space With non-essentials; but her John, loving-wise, Approved.... His spade turned the hard earth to set Them in. (Hope was so fragile in her eyes! ) But those small twisted roots held stubborn life.... The first young leaves, to her, were almost pain— So keen her joy to see them greening there Amid the vastness of sage-burdened plain. She carried precious water for their need, Kept guard against the locust and the crow, Routed encroaching weeds, and blanketed With sand and brush, against the winter's snow. Eagerly one June morning, even before She dressed, or started up the breakfast fire, She hastened from the cabin door, to stand Entranced beside the wonder, to admire A bright, full-opened yellow blossom. 'Then She knew, herself, the triumph men must feel In empire-conquest. Home was hers at last— This first proud rose a symbol, and a seal. 'BEATRICE KNOWLTON EKMAN Second Prize Poem Enduring (yin Beatrice Knowlton Ekman So long, so long since my wandering feet Last turned away from my Grandfather's door, But the cherished memories are clear and sweet And my heart brims up with such golden store, That I go at will to the old loved home, 'To the mown sweet hay and meadowlark's cry, To the tree-fringed acres of teeming loam Under piled, white clouds in a blue, blue sky. Page 11 Page 12 I leave the train at the low, red station And follow the tracks to the crossing place Where the dirt road leads to my destination, Through the wild sweet clover and Queen Ann's lace. When I take the turn for the low hill's crest By the marshy pool that has cupped the rain, A flock of swift blackbirds, yellow of breast, Wing up from the cattails and bullrush cane. At the top of the hill, from the clumped oak brush, Comes the plaintive call of the whistling quail, As up and away, in its coat of plush, Like a streak of light, leaps a cottontail. I follow down to the foot of the hill Where the lucern fields stretch far and green Past the red brick schoolhouse, empty and still, Standing alone in the small ravine. To the east tall mountain peaks notch the sky And farm land checkers the foothill's side; To the west the Inland Sea waters lie, And over salt marshes the gray gulls glide. At the end of the field I climb the stile And walk in the shade of the locust lane; From the nearby pasture the milch cows file, And the west has cradled the sun again. The herd boy has put up the pasture bars, And birds in the hedge row drowsily fret. The night will be crowned with a roof of stars, For the windows flame with the red sunset. Through the bending willows the swift creek flows And the narrow footbridge sways with its strain; Through the shining windows the lamplight glows On night moths futilely beating the pane.... At the supper table we take our place. My Grandmother sits in her straight armchair. Light falls on my Grandfather's deep-lined face And his bowed white head as he offers prayer. RUTH C. LANGLOIS Third Prize Poem Be Still My Heart Ruth C. Langlois Now spins the universe its years away, Drops each by one in time not slow nor fast, Blind and unchanged from day to darkened day, Nor caring what ages are, nor musty past; Heaping the dust upon a manger far From jeweled city and the might of men, Losing in galaxies one brighter star That man will ne'er identify again. Ah, Bethlehem, how little cares the night That in thy darkened streets once angels trod; That once this little place held all the light Of seraphims in song for love of God! Search not the hills, my heart, nor cobbled street, Nor rocky cavern where the Infant lay For some small, certain sign, obscure and sweet, To tell thee God was born to man that day. Page 13 His gentle passing left no graven mark For thee to read and say, "I know! I know!" Nay! Through the crumbling ages each must hark To whispering truth that falls as snow on snow, Till, solitary as the star that swings Ten million light years from his next of kin, To thee alone, all clear, the angel sings His message, flooding hallowed light within The still, dark caverns of thy wondering doubt. Oh! Mark how bright his message then doth glisten, How true and sweet each measured note rings out To fill thy soul! Be still, my heart, and listen! *Note: For biographical sketches of the award winners in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest, see page 53. Threshold Catherine E. Berry In a few brief moments the bells will ring Proclaiming the old year has gone, A requiem for the memories that cling, A salute to the coming dawn. Here in this small space of time we review The blessing the new year imparts, The hopes and the promises life will renew, The vision of dreams for our hearts. On the threshold of time we say a prayer For all of the days that will be, May we follow the star that is gleaming out there, To the goal of our destiny. Page 14 Award Winners Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest HE Relief Society general board is pleased to announce the award winners in the Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest which was announced in the May 1955 issue of the Magazine, and which closed August 15, 1955. The first prize of fifty dollars is awarded to Maryhale Woolsey, Salt Lake City, for her story "Now Is a Man Grown." The second prize of forty dollars is awarded to Margaret Hardy, Salt Lake City, for her story "Keep Me Forever." The third prize of thirty dollars is awarded to Edith Larson, Manton, Michigan, for her story "Room for Nancy." Mrs. Woolsey is a first-time winner in the Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest, although she is a frequent contributor to the Magazine. Mrs. Hardy and Mrs. Larson also appear as award winners for the first time. It is interesting to note that this year, for the first time since the contests were initiated, the same woman has won the first prize both in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest and in the Short Story Contest. The Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest was first conducted by the Relief Society general board in 1941, as a feature of the Relief Society centennial observance, and was made an annual contest in 1942. The contest is open only to Latterday Saint women who have had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication by a periodical of recognized merit. The three prize-winning stories will be published consecutively in the first three issues of The Relicf Society Magazine for 1956. Thirty-four stories were entered in the contest for 1955. Many of these stories were unusually well written. The contest was initiated to encourage Latter-day Saint women to express themselves in the field of fiction. 'The general board feels that the response to this opportunity continues to increase the literary quality of The Relief Society Magazine, and will aid the women of the Church in the development of their gifts in creative writing. Prize-winning stories are the property of the Relief Society general board, and may not be used for publication by others except on written permission from the general board. The general board also reserves the right to publish any of the stories submitted in the contest, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rate. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. The general board congratulates the prize-winning contestants, and expresses appreciation to all those who submitted stories. Sincere gratitude is extended to the judges for their discernment and skill in selecting the prize-winning stories. The general board also acknowledges, with appreciation, the work of the short story committee in supervising the contest. Page 15 Sirst PrizeWinning S tory Bilan Reliof Society Short Story Contest "Now Is a Man Grown'"' Maryhale Woolsey afternoon moved toward its end, wan yellow lhght fading to gray; there was a hint of ice in the small wind and of snow in clouds piling up at the western horizon. But in the roomy "livingkitchen" at the Hirsch farm there was the warmth of a coal fire in the range, the cheer of light from a redshaded lamp hanging above the set supper table, and the comfortable pleasant odors of sausage and fresh bread and baked potatoes and spicy peach cobbler. Poppadee would be coming any minute now, and soon the good meal would be over and it would be time to read the Letter. And to open the large flat package marked "Photograph." Mommadee had almost yielded to an urge to open that. Exciting, it was, so big and important-seeming, and oh, she was impatient to see it! To see The Boy's face looking out of it at her.... But it would be unfair for her to see it first and all by herself. So she had set it behind the Letter on top of the linen chest, where all The Boy's letters in turn waited for their time to be read. Poppadee would do the reading, while Mommadee sat close by in her rocking chair, mending or darning. Poppadee could read beautifully, his voice making a_ pleasant Page 16 O UTSIDE, an early November rumbling sound in the room and sometimes sounding so much like The Boy's voice that it was almost as if the three of them were there, all magically and happily together. After the reading, they would talk over The Letter and their dream of when The Boy would be home again and starting the big task of making the farm over into the small dairy that was his dream of the future. It was a lovely ritual they made of each letter reading. Tonight it would be especially pleasant because of the brightness and cheer and warmth of their house against the outdoors cold and storm threat. Mommadee loved the small flickering of the old range through its tiny windows; its spot of warmth in these late autumn days when it was not time to start up the big furnace, and yet too cool to have no fire at all. The electric stove which stood in shiny whiteness and _ baffling efficiency amongst the many-doored cabinets along the kitchen wall, was wonderful for summer; it and the furnace symbolized the success and progress the Hirsches had made; but the range symbolized somehow their simple, happy contentment and secure comfort. Waiting, a crisp blue-flower-printed apron tied around her plump waist, she moved serenely back and NOW IS A MAN GROWN forth from range to table, peeking occasionally into the oven and into the covered skillet where the sausages lay in luscious brownness. When presently she heard steps around the house corner, she beamed and briskened and began to put the food into warmed serving dishes. "Here you are, Poppadee! Just in time you come," she greeted him. "T smelled it, Mommadee. It brought me by the nose," he replied, chuckling. His arm caressed her shoulder as he passed. "Just let me wash a bit." He went past the linen chest and through the little inside hall to the bathroom, shedding his denim jacket as he called back, "I see we have a Letter today." "Yes, a Letter from The Boy. There's something else, too, Poppadee. Didn't you see?" "M'mm...." It could have been a question or an assent, the murmur he made through the swooshing of water filling the washbowl. When he came back to the kitchen she had food on their plates and glasses of hot tomato juice beside them, and was standing by, giving the table a last-minute survey to make sure everything was right. He set her chair for her, smiling at her rosiness and placid cheer. It was the smile that told her, each evening, what a dear good wife she was and how lucky he was to have her and her good cooked food waiting for him. "It is a photograph, the big one?" he asked, glancing at the envelopes on the chest. "Yes," she replied. Eagerness brightened her tone and her round 17 blue eyes. "Now don't hurry your eating, Poppadee," she warned him. "Is plenty of time." "Sure, I know." Blue twinkles danced between them, sparkling with affection. "You be careful, Mommadee. Eat slow. Is plenty of time." This was their way, these small jokes at each other to make time pass faster, on the occasions when a Letter from The Boy was waiting to be read. E, was a wonderful son, The Boy, Herbert. Once, long ago in Holland, there had been another son and a delightful small daughter; but they had died of the "flu" after the first great war, and the Hirsches had known long, sad, lonely years before Herbert came to them. By that time they had learned of the gospel; and for Herbert they sought the better life America offered. For "The Boy" they had worked hard to build a new home; they had learned the new language, the new ways, with painstaking care and patience; they had been successful and happy. The Boy had gone through high school, had given two years to the service of his country, and now was at college learning how to make his dreams come true. A good son. "There are two photographs, Mommadee." Puzzled, Poppadee drew them from the envelope. "Now why would there be two?" his wife wondered. "Maybe different — no, they are the same. One for you, one for me, maybe?" She was thinking, The Boy should know that one would be enough; big photographs cost money, and it was not like him to spend _needlessly.... She brought her mending basket while Poppadee was setting the two folders up, side by side on the table, admiring them. They were handsome photographs; The Boy's round, honest, sober face with wide clear eyes, a pleasant mouth, and neatly brushed light hair. His tie was carefully nght, his handkerchief's corners were exact tiny points edging the coat pocket. Nothing fancy or arty about the pose; it was just a good, ordinary likeness of the good, ordinary, serious-minded young fellow who was Herbert Hirsch—The Boy. The Letter began just as all The Boy's letters began: "Dear Mommadee and Poppadee — I have not got much time but want to let you know I am well and hope you are the same. Everything is fine with me. We had some tests today; I guess I won't shine but I got by. Don't worry about me, I'm fine but I will sure be glad to come home at Thanksgiving and have some of Mommadee's good cooking. My belt fastens two notches tighter, but it won't take long to fill it out again." Usually there would be no more than that. But this time there was a second page, and as Poppadee read it the words came slower, and Mommadee's hands stopped their busy to-and-fro-ing with the needle and thread. "T had my picture taken, had two made up, and I'm sending them to you today. One is for Gloria Jean Steffens, I want you to take it up to her because then Ill be sure she got it. And maybe you can find out why she hasn't written to me for so long. She lives at 3197 Elm Drive, up on Normandie Heights. This is very important to me and I hope you can take care of it right away. I guess you will know by this, that I am in love with Gloria Jean, and it makes me very sad and blue when I don't hear from her. Please see her right away and tell me how she is. Your loving son, Herbert." Carefully, with hands that trembled, Poppadee refolded the Letter and put it back into the envelope. It was very still in the kitchen now, so that a coal falling inside the firebox of the range made a sudden, loud-seeming thud. Mommadee's plump pink fingers moved again, guiding the needle in and out, in and out of the cloth, but there was a lump in her throat so that no words could come through, even if she could have thought of words to say. POPPADEE made a small cough. "In love, he says. Is real, you think, Mommadee?"' Her round blue eyes met his. "May be. The Boy, he is serious kind; no fooling around." "Is right. No fooling." Poppadee's voice was proud. "Well, we have something we should do for The Boy, Mommadee. Right away, he says." He looked at the clock. "Seven o'clock is plenty time we go now, no?" "Of course." Mommadee stood up briskly; she folded the cloth and laid it back into the basket. "I should put on my better dress, I think; and you should wear your good suit, Poppadee." Elm Drive, broad and clean and curving handsomely around a small circular park bright with chrysanthemums, led to houses that 18 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1956 NOW IS A MAN GROWN were big and well-kept, with glimpses of gardens behind them and shiny large cars standing by. Lights shone everywhere, as if night were not permitted to shadow the bright world of Elm Drive. "Is fine people here, Poppadee," Lena Hirsch said softly as they stopped in front of Number 3197. "The Boy makes good choice; you think so?" "The Boy is fine, himself; like takes to like," Poppadee responded, opening the car door for her and helping her out, careful of the photograph she was holding, which she had rewrapped in white tissue paper and tied with a white nbbon. Together, they started up to the imposing white-doored entrance of the house. They had reached the top step when the door opened suddenly to eject a young boy, sixteen perhaps, struggling into a leather jacket as he came out. He stopped to look at the Hirsches with questioning eyes. "Good evening," Poppadee said. "We come to see Miss Gloria Jean Steffens, please." "Sure; she's here. Come in." The boy stepped back into an entrance hall all soft carpet and glowing light wood, and called up the stairs: "Hey, Glor — come down. Somebody's to see you." "Tell her, is Herbert Hirsch's mother and father," Mommadee spoke up quickly. The boy stared a moment, then called, 'It's Herbie Hirsch's folks, Glor. [Il tell 'em to wait — I gotta be going, myself." _ "Have them sit down," came a teply. A girl's voice, soft but hold- 19 ing surprise and puzzlement. "T'll come as soon as I can." Side by side in a deep-cushioned settee they waited. Mommadee's hand crept into Poppadee's. "Is nice, this," she said. "See how beautiful, Poppadee; the pictures, and the lamps and _ carpeis... "All nice. Good housekeeping here. Good living." 'They smiled at each other with tender satisfaction. It would be a good wife who came from such a home. HEN a girl was coming downstairs. She was slender and all golden — goldenhaired, goldenskinned, amber-eyed, and sheathed in a slim gown of gold cloth. A gold necklace and matching bracelets sparkled with diamond-bright settings, and gold sandals twinkled with each downward step. The waiting couple stood up, awed. "Hello," the girl smiled brightly. "Sorry to make you wait. I—I was dressing.... You're Herbie's folks, you say? I'm happy to meet you, I really am. How is Herbie?" She gave them each a cool smooth hand. "Is wonderful to meet you!" Mommadee said softly. She was regarding this wondrous girl with shining wide eyes. What a fine daughter Herbert had chosen to bring her! "The Boy has told Usp. 2 "Asked us to come to see you," Poppadee interrupted. "To bring you something." "This!" Mommadee thrust the package into Gloria Jean's surprised hands. "Is very fine picture of Herbert, for you." "Why — why, that's kind of you — to bring it to me." Gloria Jean seemed suddenly confused and all at once wordless. She untied the ribbon and unfolded the tissue. "Why, yes, it is fine — very nice, of Herbert." They beamed at her, happily. Until her next words came, reluctant and hesitantly. "But I — he shouldn't have sent it.... I mean, I can't accept it." "But — no?" Poppadee asked after a stunned, silent moment. "No. You see, I'm engaged; I'm to be married very soon. I thought Herbie knew; everybody knew, I've had an understanding with Kent for a long, long time. I had dates with other boys until a few weeks ago, but I thought they all understood how it was. I'm sorry if Herbie — didn't." "He — did not speak to you of his love?" Poppadee questioned gently. Mommadee's hands clasped themselves tightly together over her breasts. "No, never." Gloria Jean shook her head; her eyes were clear and honest. "Of course, he's such a quiet boy, Herbie is. Shy. He'd probably find it awfully hard to say — words like that, to me. Oh, he's a fine boy; truly he is — but I'm sorry if he fell in love with me. Because — he's not the one I love—" Silence hovered around, thick with their unspoken thoughts. Again it was Poppadee who broke it: "So — that is the way of it. Well, these things happen, Miss — Miss Steffens...." "Call me Glory," she said. "All my friends do." "Glory..." he murmured. "Ts lovely name; is like you. We are proud to be friends with you, Glory." "['m proud to be friends with you, Mr. Hirsch, and Mrs. Hirsch," Glory said. "And with Herbie. But youll excuse me if I don't ask you to stay now, won't you? I must be ready to leave, to go out — in just a few minutes." "Of course. Mommadee and me, we understand." "Mommadee — Glory said. "And it is Poppadee," Mommadee explained. "The Boy — Herbert — try to say 'Mamma dear' and 'Papa dear' when he was learning to talk.... So always we keep those names." "You're a darling," Glory murmured. "Oh — you must take this back with you." Gently she put the photograph back into Mommadee's hand. "You'll want it, sometime." They understood perfectly her meaning: that Herbert's photograph, and Herbert, could have no place in her life. That's cute!" QUTSIDE again, they felt older and aware that their clothes were shabby and cheap by Elm Drive standards; they saw their little old car as small, incongruous, outclassed in all ways, parked beside the curb among the splendid latemodel ones here. It was a relief to drive away, to find themselves on the older streets among the heterogeneous traffic that was the whole city rather than an exclusive section. It was greater relief still, to leave the city, entering the country lanes and quiet acres where night was deep-blue-blackness sprinkled only sparsely with street lights and oc- 20 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1956 NOW IS A MAN GROWN casional porch lamps or uncurtained windows shining out. All the way they were silent, their dismay and disappointment heavy between them. Not until they were at home, within the warm comfort of the kitchen, did they speak what was in their hearts. "The Boy — he wants something we cannot get for him!" Mommadee said then. "He must be hurt.... And..." her voice rose in protest... "is nothing we can do, to make it right for him!" She shook out her handkerchief to wipe away tears which would no longer be denied. Never before, she was thinking, had The Boy asked something impossible. Now they must fail him, his Mommadee and Poppadee, in the most important desire he had expressed. Poppadee came to help her out of her coat; his arms lingered at her shoulders in a gesture of comforting. "We can stand by, Mommadee. The Boy will not be — alone, while he needs us. That is something we can do. Is not so?" "Not — enough!" she protested. "Almost I wish he was a child again, happy with small toys — and to be healed his bruises with kisses." "Shame on you, Mommadee! Now is a man grown from our son, and you would keep him a child!" She smiled at him, blinking. "IT only said, almost I wish so, Poppadee." "That," he said, "is better. Let the tears come if they will; they help you, my Lena. But not The Boy, you see." "The tears I have finished with! But my heart it aches for The Boy. Love can hurt so terribly...." She stood back suddenly, looked 21 searchingly into his gentle gaze. "You — you do not grieve for him, Gustaf! How is?" "Oh, a little, Mommadee," he answered. "There is no need. 'The Boy will be all right. 'This Gloria Jean is not the right girl for him; you will see, will come the right one, soon maybe." "How can you know so surely?" she exclaimed. "Sometimes there is only one, and always a loncly heart...." He shook his head. "No," he said patiently. ""The Boy is like me. For me there was one like Gloria Jean; a burgomeister's daughter, she was. The hurt — oh, it was soon over, my Lena." "So?.... You never told me this, Gustaf." "Pshaw," he said. "It was not important. I forgot all about her, after I found you, my Lena. Only then, did I know truly what was love, and how to live. Now cease the fretting, Mommadee. Everything will be fine." "|. Like a man..." she murmured. Not with disapproval, but gently and with a sort of wonder. She started about the business of preparing for the night; she would say a special prayer for The Boy, that he would bear his hurt bravely and be the better for it when the new, the true love, came along. Now is a man grown, The Boy, she repeated softly to herself. When his mother and father can no longer fulfill his wishes for him, cannot shield him from hurts, nor cure them with their love and kisses like small-boy bumps... Oh, now is a man grown — when he must stand by himself with life, and learn what grown men know. She A gentine Wiion Preston Ni bley N the fall of 1924, Wilhelm Fredricks and Emil Hoppe, members of the Church from Germany, who had moved to Argentina, wrote to the Church Authorities in Salt Lake City, asking that missionaries be sent to Buenos Aires, as there were a number of converts in that city awaiting baptism. In September 1925, announcement was made by the First Presidency that Melvin J. Ballard of the Council of the Twelve had been appointed to open a mission in South America, and that he would proceed to Buenos Aires, after the October Conference, accompanied by Rulon S. Wells and Rey L. Pratt of the First Council of Seventy. Elder Wells spoke the German language and Elder Pratt the Spanish. The above named brethren arrived in Buenos Aires on Sunday, December 6, 1925, and were met by Brothers Fredricks and Hoppe. One week later Elder Ballard baptized six persons in the Rio de la Plata. They were "the first fruits of the restored Gospel in South America." On December 25, 1925 (Christmas day) the three brethren from Salt Lake City, together with eight members of the Church, met in the Park 3 De Febrero at Buenos Aires, and Elder Ballard offered a prayer, dedicating the land of South America to the preaching of the gospel. Oer k, -4 400% BAe ee Photograph submitted by Amy Y. Valentine ISCHILIN A small village in the northern part of the Sierra Chicas (small hills) of Cordoba, Argentina. Page 22 THE ARGENTINE MISSION 23 Photograph submitted by Amy Y. Valentine ENTRANCE TO THE LUJAN MUSEUM In the Province of Buenos Aires, Argentina Elder Ballard returned to Utah in 1926 and was succeeded by Elder Reinhold Stoof, as president of the South American Mission, with headquarters in Buenos Aires. A separate mission was formed in Argentina in 1935, with W. Ernest Young as president. He was succeeded by F. S. Wilhams in 1938; President Williams was succeeded by James L. Barker in 1942; President Barker was succeeded by W. Ernest Young in 1944. President Young presided until 1949, and was succeeded by Harold Brown who presided until 1952; he was succeeded by Lee B. Valentine, who presides at the present time. 'There are now twenty-nine branches of the Church in Argentina with approximately 1,400 members. 'T'wenty-one Relief Society organizations were reported in 1954. Amy Y. Valentine is now president of the Argentine Mission Relief Society. The Living Gifts Dorothy Boys Kilian front window looking gloomily out past the bare black trees and the snowy slope to the silent sawmill on the river bank. "If I could only get a few odd jobs somewhere," he sighed, "so I could pick up a little extra cash." His wife, Greta, came in from the adjoining kitchen, broom in hand, and laid a warm hand on his arm. "IT know what you're thinking, Rick," she said softly. "But you mustn't to-ture yourself because we don't have money for Pete's Christmas presents this year. He knows that, with the mill closed down temporarily, it's a hard winter for all of us." Rick turned unhappy eyes to her. "Maybe he knows, yes, Greta, but you can't expect a five-year-old really to understand an empty stocking.. "Tosh, it won't be empty," Greta protested. ""There's that bushel basket of Winesaps we got from the lodge orchard, and the nuts you gathered along Old Mill Road. And I'm going to bake gingerbread men tonight, such nice, plump, big ones...." Her voice trembled to a stop. "Greta, don't!" Rick groaned. "T'd almost feel better if you'd whack me over the head with that broom, for being such a fool." "I don't happen to think you are a fool, Mr. Extrom... Else why would I have married you?" Greta returned with spirit. Rick grinned and squeezed her 24 Rio Extrom stood at the hand. "You know what I mean, though," he insisted. "If I hadn't been such a pighead about staying - here in Woodville when Uncle Gus offered me that janitor's job in Chicago...." "You said you'd rather stay in the village where we've always lived, you and I, Rick, and where we know how, with the Lord's help, to bring up our boy to be a fine, strong man. You said," Greta reminded him, "that with your job as caretaker for the lodge, we'd probably get along better and be happier than with a full-time job in the city, living in a tiny, dark apartment...." "Oh, sure," Rick interrupted, "I had fine, brave ideas. But it wasn't Christmas Eve then." "Since when is Christmas Eve a time to stop being fine and brave?" Greta asked indignantly. "You go along now, Rick, before it gets dark. Take Pete's sled and get that fir they promised you from the lodge grounds. At least the boy'll have a tree... And maybe something more." She looked over at the little wooden creche figures carefully set up on the living-room table. "Somehow," she said, smiling at her husband, "it's just not in me to feel hopeless about anything on Christmas Eve." S Rick strode down the lane towards the lodge, the crunch, crunch of his boots on the hardpacked snow seemed to be saying "fool—fool—soft-hearted fool...." He knew that it wasn't just for THE LIVING GIFTS Pete's sake that he'd stayed on here. It was also because he loved the sound of the river-wind sighing, as it was now, through the pines, loved the glittering beauty of white fields touched by the slanting rays of the late afternoon sun, would miss, painfully, the quiet peacefulness of a man alone on a road in his very own countryside.... He shrugged his shoulders and opened the gates of the lodge grounds. 'Through the trees he saw the building itself ablaze with lights as the December day drew in. Several families, he knew, had come up with their children for a country holiday. What would Peter think tomorrow when he saw the elaborate gifts those youngsters would surely receive! Well, he'd at least have a Christmas tree; the grove behind the lodge needed thinning. Rick picked up the axe from the sled and looked around him. Deciding on a shapely balsam fir about his own height, he began, with his foot, to scrape the snow away from the base of its trunk. Then he pulled the mitten off his right hand and ran his fingers carefully along the blade of the axe. As he raised the gleaming tool to swing, and faced the tree directly, he stared at its lustrous green needles, its dark purple cones standing erect like candles on its upper branches. Then, in a flash, he saw that same tree a month from now, lying forlornly on the ash heap by the back fence, brittle, brown, lifeless. Slowly he lowered the axe, laid it on the sled and scuffed off through the grove to get a shovel from the shed back of the lodge. It took some time to get the fir 25 on to the sled in just the condition he wanted it; the sun had now gone down and the winter dusk was rapidly turning to night. Just as he was ready to leave, he heard a rustling sound nearby. Peering through the gloom he saw a rabbit huddled under a bush, its eyes glazed with fear, one hind leg stretched out unnaturally straight. Apparently, it had gotten loose from _a trap, with a broken leg. ICK himself had often snared rabbits. But, somehow, this was different... It was Christmas Eve, and the little animal had made a brave escape. Tenderly and carefully, he picked it up and tucked it under one arm. 'Then, pulling the sled rope with his other hand, he started home. At the bend of the road, near the river, a gray shadow crossed his path, then stopped at his feet. A tiny, thin kitten, meowing piteously, rubbed its back against his boots. "You been deserted on a cold night like this?" Rick asked softly. He hesitated a moment, then dropped the sled rope and scooped the furry little thing up into his jacket pocket. The lights of his own cottage, usually so warm and_ beckoning, this time only reminded him of his problem. As he opened the kitchen door he sniffed the fresh, tangy odor of newly popped corn. That would be Greta preparing trimmings for the tree. She never failed to do her part. If only he might have come through with something.... "T got the tree all right," he said, standing motionless on the gray and red braided rug just inside the door. "And see," he looked down ruefully at the animals, "two more mouths to feed. Don't bother to say it, I know I'm hopeless." "They won't eat much," Greta said lightly, putting an old towel down behind the wood stove for the kitten to cuddle on. She stayed on her knees for a long moment, gently stroking the tiny animal's back. When she got up she said eagerly, "Did Peter see you when you came in just now?" "No, why?" "Rick," Greta's eyes were shining, "do you realize what's happened?" STV ATAIT'LL you see what I got!" Rick heard Peter shout excitedly late Christmas morning as he brought two little boys from the lodge out into the kitchen. "What'd you get?" the boys echoed. "Present number one," crowed Peter, pointing behind the stove where the kitten, with a huge, slightly chewed, red bow around its neck, slumbered peacefully. The boys stooped down to pat the cuddly little animal, but Peter was already at the back door. "Come on," he called impatiently, "this way for number two." He led the way out to the back porch where stood a wooden cage made from two apple crates and some wire screen. Dozing contentedly in a corner, a splint tied with red and green ribbon to one hind leg, a carrot between its front paws, was the rabbit. "Boy!" Peter's friends breathed in unison. "Even -our Christmas tree is alive," Peter finished exultantly. "Come look." Rick followed the children into the living room and looked with them at the little fir set in a washtub full of dirt, its cones touched with silver paint, its branches decorated with red cranberry chains and dazzling white popcorn balls. "We're going to plant it out in the front yard next week, so we'll have it always," Peter explained happily. "See what I meant when I told you I had a very special Christmas this year? A living Christmas, that's what Mommy called it." Rick moved close to Greta, who was standing by the table, smilingly fingering the little figures at the creche. "Peter's right," he said gratefully. "This was your idea." "But it was you who brought home these things," Greta answered warmly. "See what Christmas Eve brings to people with soft, foolish hearts!" > Wravin g Miriam W. Wright The tapestry of truth brightens with time, For threads of truth endure. Hands should define And cast aside the skeins which weave so soon A fabric of deceit. Guard well thy loom. 26 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1956 Willard Luce DEER CREEK RESERVOIR, UTAH With Mount Timpanogos in the Background a Christie Lund Coles The breaking day is luminous and bright As the New Year gilding the horizon's mm; And all the snowy earth is touched with light, As diamonds sparkle on each furry limb; The slender icicles are crystal clear, As they catch and hold the sequins wrought by sun; The arch of sky is after-snow-storm near. The snow is webbed, and delicately spun. What an exultant morning, what a day, What an expectant hour to start again, With bounteous nature heralding the way, Transmuting all to beauty and to gain. Gone is the night, the sorrow of the past. The New Year dawns. Oh, hold its promise fast! Page 27 Swiss Semple able Arrangement Yale Second Ward, Bonneville Stake Inez R. Allen gee is always joy and happiness when it is again time to cemmence our Relief Society activities. Every member comes ready and willing to help with the opening social. Hal Rumel TABLE DECORATION WITH THE SWISS TEMPLE AS MOTIF Our Heavenly Father has so generously distributed his gifts and talents among us that great things may be accomplished if we but try. At our opening social last September, the air was full of news and reports of the European trip of the Tabernacle Choir. For this reason we chose as our theme: "The Temple in Switzerland." Sister Emma Ray Riggs McKay who had just returned from the dedication of the new temple, graciously accepted the invitation to be our guest speaker. It was as if a mother were speaking to her own family of daughters, and we loved her for it. To create the atmosphere of Switzerland, three lovely Swiss dolls, dressed in costume, were placed among roses and fern by the side of the pulpit. To the left was displayed the red and white national flag of that country, while our own Stars and Stripes proudly reigned over the whole picture. Displaying the two flags seemed to bring about a feeling of unity between the two Page 28 SWISS TEMPLE TABLE ARRANGEMENT 29 countries. The musical program correlated with the theme and seemed to transport us to Switzerland. After the program, refreshments were served in the amusement hall. The above picture was the center of the serving table, and as Sister McKay approached she exclaimed, "The Temple!" The cake in the shape of the temple was made of delicious white cake with pineapple filling. Brother Martin Backer made and donated it to our Relief Society. Small geranium blossoms were used to represent the flower gardens, while shrubs and real grass finished the landscape. The two adjoining tables from which tasty refreshments were served, finished the picture. When each member does her bit to help and is generous in donating, everything moves along harmoniously and with little expense. The cake was well preserved and kept until the next Tuesday when it was cut and served to all the members. --<iP—o— Recipes from Argentina Keith F. Thompson Tuco (SAucE) For serving with spaghetti, tallarines, and pastries. Proportions may be varied to suit individual taste. Simmering of the sauce should begin three to four hours before serving time, as long simmering improves the flavor. 3 or more pork chops (according to number to be served). Brown the chops in butter or other fat and cook until nearly done. Place pork chops in kettle and add: 1 small onion 2 small tomatoes peeled 1 medium-sized carrot % tsp. Nutmeg % green pepper 1% tsp. Salt 3 cloves of garlic % tsp. White pepper When the mixture has simmered until it becomes thickened, add: 1 six-ounce can tomato paste 2% c. Water Continue simmering until time for serving, three to four hours in all, TALLARINES To be served with Tuco (Sauce) Mix together: 1 c. White flour 1 gg " tsp. Salt Add enough water to knead into a dough like pie crust. Potatoes, butter, or milk may be added to suit taste. Roll out on board and cut into narrow strips like spaghetti. Place strips in boiling water, salted to taste, and boil fifteen to twenty minutes, according to size of strips. Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, January 1, and January 15, 1896 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomeEN oF ALL NATIONS" THE RELIFF SOCIETY IN BUNKERVILLE, NEVADA: On the 23rd of Nov., we left for Bunkerville, crossing the Rio Virgin a great number of times. When we were nearing Bunkerville, the braces on our carnage tongue broke and left us in the river; through the kindness of our esteemed friend George F. Jarvis, we were carried out and landed on terra firma.... We met with the Relief Society sisters. They own a lot containing an almond orchard also a granary, and something over a hundred bushels of wheat. We advised them to make what improvements they could and turn their almonds into grain, and store it against the time of need..... —Ann C. Woodbury TO MRS. ZINA D. H. YOUNG (on Her Birthday) From ev'ry saint that dwelleth here, From saints that long this land to see, This day is wafted heavenward Remembrances and prayers for thee. From weary march and roofless camp Unto the temples famed and grand Thy feet trod first the barrenness And to His houses lent thy hand. —Augusta Joyce Crocheron WOMAN'S SUFFRAGE ASSOCIATION: 'The W. S. A. Of Parowan held an exultation meeting the evening of the seventh. It was a general time of rejoicing. The house was filled to o'er flowing as it generally is at the meetings of the W. S. A. The room was neatly decorated for the occasion.. After the opening exercises yellow ribbon badges were passed to all present. The program consisted of speeches, songs, music from the orchestra and band. Many were called on for sentiments or expressions of their feelings on this joyful occasion (the granting of statehood to Utah)..... —J. M. L. DYING, YET LIVING After seasons of storm-cloud and sunshine Close the year with unerring pace, The traces of pleasure or trial Are written on mind, heart and face. Again we pause for a reckoning— Contrition, and solemn resolve; Sweet conscience silently beckoning While many new plans we evolve, That will chasten, uplift, and inspire To feelings more pure and divine... —E. R. Shipp Page 30 HE women of the Philippines are extraordinarily progressive. Usually the business managers in their households, they are often also joint managers with their husbands, of business enterprises. The percentage of women physicians, surgeons, dentists, pharmacists, lawyers, and professors is much higher than in the United States. In the College of Liberal Arts, University of the Philippines, thirty-five per cent of the faculty are women—a three or four times higher percentage than in most co-educational institutions in the United States. Although it was 1937 before female suffrage came to the Philippines, two-fifths of the voters in 1953 were women. ALICIA PATTERSON, publisher of Long Island's Newsday, is a brilliant journalist. She represents the fourth generation of the Medill, Patterson, McCormick journalistic dynasty. Stormy Colonel Robert R. McCormick, recently deceased, and his cousin, Joseph Patterson, published the Chicago Tribune upon the death of their famous grandfather, Joseph Medill, a_ great journalist. "Bazy" Miller Tankersley, former Washington Times-Herald editor, another woman-of-thefamily newspaper star, is a niece of Colonel McCormick. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon RS. PANSY H. POWELL, of Salt Lake City, a frequent contributor to The Relief Society Magazine, has been awarded first place in a recent national contest of the American Poetry League, with the poem "Greenwich: 1390 A. D." MBs. AGNES JUST REID, long a contributor to The Relief Society Magazine, is one of twentyfive women photographed and quoted in Life Magazine (October 3, 1955) as responding to Anne Morrow Lindbergh's philosophy, expressed in her recent book, Gift from the Sea. "Each explains her own method of finding inner peace and satisfaction. Birthday congratulations are extended to: Mrs. Emma _ Bandley, Salt Lake City, one hundred; Mrs. Eliza Drake McManus, Ogden, Utah, one hundred; Mrs. Janet Buchanan Evans, Salt Lake City, ninety-three; Mrs. Mary Ann Reese, Paragonah, Utah, ninety-three; Mrs. Annie M. Whitehead, Logan, Utah, ninety-two; Mrs. Mary Eliza James, Phoenix, Arizona, ninety-two; Mrs. Stene Christiansen Jensen, Salt Lake City, ninety-one; Mrs. Agnes Power Vincent, Salt Lake City, ninety; Mrs. Carrie A. Niccolls, Phoenix, Arizona, ninety; Mrs. Mary Ellen McElroy Hawthorne, Salt Lake City, ninety. Page 31 @Q-—> EDITORIAL DS VOL. 43 JANUARY 1956 Greetings for the New Year ONCE more we greet the dawn of a New Year. Another page of our life history, filled with the events of everyday living, is ready to be turned. Let us review the page of life written this past year, for the purpose of taking stock of ourselves and our possessions, to determine if we have been wise stewards, and to aid us in our resolve to do better in the coming year. What of ourselves? Have we been what we professed to be? Have we been what people thought we were? Were we true to God, true to our fellow men, true to ourselves? Are we satisfied with what we have accomplished in the year just gone? What of our possessions? Have we expended our means profitably in assisting to build the kingdom of God? Have we treasured our time and sanctified it in service to our fellow men? Have our talents been left unused, or have they increased because we have used them for the benefit and blessing of others? Have we hidden away or selfishly used that which has been conferred upon us, thus deserving to have withdrawn that which was entrusted to us, or have we been wise stewards and profitable servants, deserving of additional blessings? Only the Bestower of our gifts, can judge. Page 32 Let us turn the leaf. Before us lies a clean, new page, ready to receive whatever record we choose to make. How full of promise it appears, for most of us are prospectively good at the beginning of the year! We enjoin ourselves to reform from our bad habits of the past, and we determine to take upon ourselves a multitude of new virtues. It is well to aspire, to make good resolutions, but we should bear in mind that no matter how earnestly we resolve, we cannot overcome well-established habits merely by resolving to do so. Neither can we remake ourselves overnight. So, in making our resolutions this New Year, let us be sure that they are such as we can keep, overcoming our faults one at a time, improving here a little, there a little, one step at a time, until we approach the goal set by the Savior when he said, "Be ye therefore perfect." Only with the spirit of the Lord can we attain that goal, so let us, above all else, resolve to seek earnestly for the spirit of the Lord, that we may write upon this year's page of life a history of achievement better than we have been able to do in any previous year, earning from our Father in heaven the plaudit, "Well and faithfully done." —V. N. S. Gn Memoriam — &meline Young Nebeker MELINE Young Nebeker, former member of the general board of Relief Society, died Monday, November 7th, in New York City. Sister Nebeker, a resident of Salt Lake City, had recently returned from Europe and was visiting with her daughter, Mrs. Sam D. (Emeline) Thurman. Funeral services for Sister Nebeker were conducted in the 'Twelfth Ward, University Stake, Salt Lake City, November 12, 1955. Emeline Young Nebeker was born September 27, 1875, a daughter of Hyrum S. And Georgiana Fox Young, and was a granddaughter of Brigham Young. She was married to Walter D. Nebeker in 1900, and became the mother of two children: W. Dilworth Nebeker and Emeline Nebeker Thurman. Sister Nebeker faithfully served the Church for many years in the Primary, the Young Woman's Mutual Improvement Association, and in Relief Society. She became a member of the general board of Relief Society in 1929 and served with outstanding ability until 1939. Gifted with the qualities of gracious leadership, she was beloved by Relief Society women throughout the Church, and her inspirational addresses will long be remembered. Generous with her time and talents, she discharged with exceptional ability many civic and community responsibilities. Her kind ministrations were a blessing to her family and her friends, and the example of her "works of compassion and charity" are as a memorial to her sisters in Relief Society. She is remembered with love and appreciation. Covers of the Relicf Society Mlagazine (Vill Feature TT comn Oriede Comtasoaial, Ulmted States Beginning with the cover for this issue, "Mountain Vista in the National Park Near Bariloche, by the Nahuel Huapi Lake, Argentina," The Relief Society Magazine will feature covers from the missions of the Church outside the continental United States. Short histories of the respective missions will be presented in connection with the covers. Note the summarized history of the Argentine Mission on page 22 of this issue, and the "Recipes From Argentina," on page 209. New Serial "Shere Ls Sull Sime' to Begin in February A new serial "There Is Still Time" by Margery S. Stewart will begin in the February issue of The Relief Society Mazazine. 'The story concerns a strange dream which has a significant meaning for Elizabeth Anderson, her husband Brent, and their children. Only after the patte-n cf their lives has been greatly changed does Elizabeth realize abiding joy in their family life. Margery S. Stewart has written several serials, many short stories, and a number of excellent poems for the Magazine. Her work reveals a most careful selection and use of words and vivid character portrayal. Page 33 Notes TO THE FIELD Relicf Society Assigned Evening Meeting of Fast Sunday in March HE Sunday night meeting to be held on Fast Day, March 4, 1956, has again been assigned by the First Presidency for use by the Relief Society. Suggestive plans for this evening meeting have been prepared by the general board and sent to the stakes in bulletin form. It is suggested that ward Relief Society presidents confer with their bishops immediately to arrange for this meeting. Music for the Singing Mothers should be ordered at once. Lesson Work for Spanish-Speaking Reliof Societies and Other Minority Groups in Stakes ELIEF Society lessons for Spanish-speaking Relief Societies are now translated at Church Headquarters and printed in pamphlet form. These pamphlets are on sale at The Relief Society General Board Office, 40 North Main Street, for 64 cents per copy, postpaid. The pamphlet contains theology and visiting teacher messages used in the English-speaking wards in 1954-55; the second year of The Restoration of All Things, by President Joseph Fielding Smith, in lieu of the literature course; and the third year of The Signs of the Times by President Joseph Fielding Smith in lieu of the social science course. For Lamanite organizations in stakes which do not follow the outlined courses presented in The Relief Society Magazine and which do not speak Spanish, these same lessons may be followed through writing to the general board for the annual previews in English to The Restoration of All Things and The Signs of the Times. Where it is felt that these lessons are not suitable for minority groups, then it is left to the good judgment of each Relief Society stake board, in consultation with the stake president, to choose and plan lessons which will be particularly suited to a particular group. Where a stake Relief Society has a collection of volumes of The Relief Society Magazine, it is usually possible to find suitable lesson work through a careful evaluation of past lessons which will have significance in the lives of these sisters, since Page 34 Relief Society lessons published over the years have dealt with a great variety of subject matter prepared for use in both stake and mission organizations. Award Subscriptions Presented in April HE award subscriptions presented to Magazine representatives for having obtained 75 per cent or more subscriptions to the Magazine in relation to their enrolled Relief Society members, are not awarded until after the stake Magazine representatives' annual reports have been audited. Award cards for these subscriptions for the year 1955 will be mailed to ward and stake Magazine representatives about April 1, 1956. Bound Volumes of 1055 Relief Society Mlagazines ELIEF Society officers and members who wish to have their 1955 issues of The Relief Society Magazine bound may do so through The Deseret News Press, 31 Richards Street, Salt Lake City, 1, Utah. The cost for binding the twelve issues in a permanent cloth binding is $2.50, including the index. If a leather binding is preferred, the cost is $3.50. See schedules of postage rates in this issue of the Magazine, page 72. If bound volumes are desired, and the Magazine cannot be supplied by the person making the request, the Magazines will be supplied for $1.50 by the Magazine Department, General Board of Relief Society, 40 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. Only a limited number of Magazines are available for binding. It is recommended that wards and stakes have one volume of the 1955 Magazines bound for preservation in ward and stake Relief Society lbraries. I At Midnight. December Shirty-first Katherine F. Larsen White in the chime-begun year Snow swirls incessantly, silently there Beyond the glass, covering mistakes, softening harsh fact To make an ideal world. Lean on my shoulder, dear, Let us look together out into the whorl of storm. If I have in that spent year of days Done other than I should have, or in any act Or word offended, let your forgiveness cover it As does this snow all bleakness, all raw forms. Take my hand; let us begin as if over again, Telling each other silently by our nearness How far we have come, together; And how our hearth's fire we knelt and lit together, Tongues of fire crackling at our backs, And warming. NOTES TO THE FIELD 35 _ How to Sell m=. She Reliof Society Magazine Dr. Royal L. Garft Professor of Speech and Selling, University of Utah HERE is a rule that sharply separates the order taker from the salesman. It emphasizes that the order taker "sells only things,' while the "creative salesman sells ideas about things' — ideas that make for health, education, happiness, income, and _ security. An order taker for The Relief Society Magazine would merely ask the sisters to subscribe as a duty, a favor, or to help them get a percentage, by saying, "You wouldn't like to take The Relief Society Magazine, would you?" The Relief Society Magazine, like all good products, has to be sold, if an acceptable circulation is to be achieved; and those imaginative, energetic sisters who sell it will sell not a magazine, but its value of knowledge, culture, and spirituality. They will sell pleasant hours and the value of building character and a home, and the joy of developing the talents of children. 'They will show how the Magazine contains material for two-and-a-half minute talks and priceless ideas and helps on home-building and life-building. They will take carefully chosen copies of the Magazine along with them as they work for subscriptions, and point out specific articles, poems, and choice bits that every sister will desire to possess. 'They will show how these treasures may be had for less than fifteen cents a month—the price of an ice-cream Page 36 cone or a couple of pieces of candy. They will paint pictures of benefits, advantages, and values in the mind of the subscriber that will greatly exceed the price. Why do we need salespersons for so fine a publication? Because people do not see what they look at. They see an expenditure of carefully saved money or just so much type and paper. The desire to subscribe develops only when the features of the Magazine are pictured as benefits by a sincere, cheerful, enthusiastic, and persuasive salesperson. To do a topflight job of selling your excellent Magazine, excel in these suggestions: 1. Get to work at once and see all your prospects immediately — don't delay or proceed hit or miss. Pitch in, anticipate success, banish discouragement and a negative attitude, radiate enthusiasm and joy in the work. And do it now! 2. When people hesitate and refuse to subscribe, ask '"'Why?' Find out the real objection. 'Then, answer it in a pleasant, calm manner. Use facts, testimonials, and brief stories that show how and why those who subscribe benefit. Under no circumstances get into an argument. When you have completed your presentation of the benefits to be enjoyed from subscribing, when you have taken the dark glasses from your prospect's eyes and enabled her to see what she will lose if she deprives herself of the Magazine, suggest that she subscribe now! And HOW TO SELL THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 37 give her a choice between two alternatives, either of which will result in a subscription. Don't ask her to choose between something Should the subscription come in the name of Mrs. Frank Smith or Mrs. Ruth Smith? And so on. Apply these simple principles of and nothing. Help her decide not between subscribing or not subscribtnuch easier the work of getting ing, but between such alternatives cubscriptions is—and how greatly as: your subscribers increase, and with less effort. Now, go to work, and have fun! Good salesmanship and observe how Should the subscription begin with next month's issue or the followmg onc? Polio Isnt Licked Yet Basil O'Connor President, The National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis Many people mistakenly believe that, now that we have an effective polio vaccine, the fight against the disease is over and there is no further need for the March of Dimes. Polio Isn't Licked Yet. This theme of the 1956 March of Dimes seeks to drive home the fact that the fight against polio must continue unabated even though a March of Dimes vaccine has been developed, tested, and administered to several million children. Polio Isn't Licked Yet. Why? Because we cannot forget the polio victims of yesterday, today, and, yes, tomorrow.... Because vital March of Dimes research must continue.... Because the training of desperately needed medical and scientific people must go on until polio is really licked. Polio Isn't Licked Yet. But the reading and listening habits of this busy nation are such that the phrase Salk vaccine automatically means to many that the end of polio is already with us. Of course, no success comes this quickly and it would be a desperate tragedy if true success were delayed by such a misconception. Polio challenges still confronting the American people include: 1. Continued scientific research to improve the vaccine and to find ways to overcome crippling left by the disease itself. 2. Assistance to the tens of thousands of persons already stricken with polio and to those who will come down with the disease before the vaccine is universally used. 3. Professional education to increase the number of skilled heads and hands in polio hospitals and laboratories. 4. Education to increase public demand for polio protection. In all candor, continued progress toward the eventual control of polio can proceed at full speed only if people realize that we still have a long way to go. And even as I thank you for all your past cooperation, I appeal to you anew to throw your full support behind the 1956 March of Dimes. The Closed Circle Beatrice Rordame Parsons IGHT-year-old Kenny came rushing into the kitchen from outdoors. His galoshes dripped messily on Sybil's newly scrubbed linoleum. His face was alight with eagerness. "Can we buy a Christmas tree? They've got 'em in over at the store! Can we... Mother?" There was a tiny, uncertain pause before the word. Sybil's heart twisted. She wasn't the children's mother. Not their real mother. But she so wanted to be. Not that she wanted to take their mother's place in their hearts. She only wanted to earn a love of her own. Kenny was already on his way into the living room. "Tl ask Daddy," cried Kenny, and in another moment Sybil heard his voice urging his father to buy a tree before they were all picked over. Sybil shivered with sudden cold, knowing what Paul was about to tell the children. He'd called them all into the living room to tell them. Yet Sybil knew how reluctant he was to speak. Dan and Danielle, Paul's sixteenyear-old twins were making gay plans for the holidays. "Skiing!" laughed Danielle, and through the archway Sybil could see her blue eyes brighten as she tossed her shining blond hair back from her face. "Skating!" shouted Dan, and his eyes matched his sister's. His blond hair was cut into a very short crew, and his long legs moved like pistons as he walked about the room. Page 38 Twelve-year-old Elna had other plans. "I'm going to all the movies! With Helen. We've got a crush on Boyd Lawson. He's smooth!" Kenny tugged at his father's sleeve. "Can we buy a tree? Can we?" Paul's face was pale, tense as he sat in his wheel chair, the cast he was wearing heavy and uncomfortable about his body. His voice was strained. "Before we talk about the tree, Kenny, there's something I want to discuss." His voice was low, and Sybil could not hear the exact words. But she knew them by heart. She and Paul had talked it over that very afternoon. Paul hated to dash his children's plans, but Paul wasn't a man to shirk his duty. He was a commercial airline pilot. An accident had put him in the hospital for weeks, then at home in a wheel chair and cast. Paul was worried with expenses. Now that his tone was less muffled, she could hear what he was saying. "It's not that we're broke. Just bent. My accident wasn't entirely covered by my insurance. You know how I feel about debt. I can't afford to send Dan and Danielle to Brighton for the Christmas Hollidays...." Kenny broke in shrilly: "Can't we have a tree?" Paul's smile tried to reassure them. "Of course we'll have a tree. And a merry Christmas!" "Without presents?" insisted THE CLOSED CIRCLE Kenny, and his voice sounded hollow. "A few," promised Paul, and his own voice sounded strange. LNA'S face was stricken. "But I was planning!..." She was close to tears. "Oh, Daddy, isn't there some way we can have all the things we want?" Paul shook his head slowly. "Not this Christmas, darling." He burst out: "It makes me feel...." He skipped that and said quietly: "Maybe there is a way. All of you worked at odd jobs during the summer. Y "You mean our piggy banks!" squealed Elna, rushing to hug him in spite of the cast. Kenny's shout was triumphant. "Then I can still buy my 'lectric train." EIna's face was wreathed in smiles. "Just oodles of skirts and blouses for my money!" Dan and Danielle caught the spirit. Danielle said laughingly: "That blue frock in Rogers' window. Warren's taking me to the Christmas Prom. He thinks I look keen in blue!" Dan spread his legs wide apart, and his eyes sparkled. "I'll bet I've enough for a down payment on that swect little chassis over on the used car lot." Kenny squealed: "Let's put together and buy the biggest tree at the grocery store." His face fell, and he said uncertainly: "What about Christmas dinner? Are we going to have a turkey?' Paul smiled. He saw Sybil standing quietly in the background. "Your mother will see to the tura9 key," he promised. He put out his hand to draw Sybil into the circle. It widened. But it didn't close. Sybil sat at Paul's side, and knew that she had spoiled things once again. Fora moment no one spoke. Then Kenny headed for the kitchen with his piggy bank. "Where's the hammer?" He shouted, and the others went to help him find it. There was the loud sound of shattered plaster, laughter, as nickles, pennies, and quarters spilled over the kitchen table. Paul put out his good arm and pulled Sybil closer. He was very relieved. "Well, that's over," he said, and let his breath out in a big sigh. Sybil leaned her head against his arm. She loved him too deeply to remind him that the children had acted very selfishly. Not a word about gifts for each other, for their father, for Sybil. They had thought only of what they wanted. She hoped Paul wouldn't see. Her voice was gay, excited. "We'll have lots of packages under the tree, Paul. Ill talk with the children. Make plans. I can sew." She was as excited as a child, and her brown eyes glowed happily. Paul put his lips tenderly against her warm cheek and kissed her. His own eyes were shining happily as he told her: "The doctor's promised Pll be out of this cast in time to help trim the tree." Like Elna, she hugged him fervently, laughing because his cast was so unyielding. 'Tears and stars were mixed together in her eyes, and her voice was gentle. "Oh, Paul! Merry Christmas! Having you well and strong again is all the Christmas I want." She giggled a little, and forgave the children. She was being selfish, too. Couple of days later when the children came tramping through the snow after school, they went straight to the living room for a conference with their father. Sybil, knowing that she did not belong, stayed quietly in the background, reading her magazine. But she could not fail to hear, for FIna's tone was shrill, stricken. "Oh, Daddy! I can only buy one skirt, and one blouse with my piggy bank!" Danielle sounded just as miserable. "I can't afford that blue dress." She bit her lip, then burst out furiously: "I've told Warren I'm not going to the Prom. Id rather die than be seen in my old green dress." Kenny's lip trembled. "That 'lectric train costs more'n I've got." Dan paced the room, not looking at his father. ""The man at the used car lot says you'll have to sign the contract, Dad." Sybil saw how tense and strained Paul looked. Yet he lifted his head and spoke quietly. "Tm sorry. It's against my principles to go into debt." When they would have interrupted, each intent on his or her own problem, Paul lifted trembling hands, and spoke soberly: "We'll all just have to make the best of it." "The best!' cried Elna, then burst into tears and rushed away to her room. 'The others followed silently. Sybil crept close to Paul's wheel chair. She tried to make her voice light, unworried as she said: "Paul, darling, I've got a little money saved. I meant to use it to send for my mother and father. They've never met you or the children. I wanted them for Christmas..." her voice wobbled, but she made it firm and added: "maybe I can send for them next year." She saw Paul's hands turning and twisting in his lap. She knew how helpless he felt. She wanted to help him. She put her own hands over his and said with a tender smile: "Dll tell the children right this minute." Before he could prevent her, she was on her way upstairs. As usual all of them were in Danielle's room, for it was biggest, and boasted more chairs. 'The door was closed, and the children's voices rose and fell behind it. When Sybil knocked, the voices stopped, and when Danielle opened the door, Sybil knew just how unwelcome she really was. Her legs trembled a little as she stepped inside. She hated herself for feeling shy and tongue-tied before Paul's children. But from the first — three months ago — they had built a wall against her. Not that they were rude. Unkind. Just that they were strangers. As she was a stranger in their home. 'They resented her intrusion. Danielle's voice was quietly uninterested. "Did you want something... Mother?" The wotd tagged along. Not with any desire to hurt. But as an afterthought. From the first Sybil had wanted the children to think 40 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1956 THE CLOSED CIRCLE of her as a sort of second mother. She hadn't wanted to take anything from Paul's first wife. Lula had been the children's mother. Paul's first love. She belonged in this house. In all their hearts. Sybil, shy, retiring, had never wanted to usurp her place. If only she could make the children know. UT she found a lump in her throat as she tried to speak, and instead of telling of her mother and father, she tried to make them interested in the plans she had formed. She made her voice gay, excited, but deep inside she was shaking with pain and loneliness. "T've a little money. My very own. I thought perhaps you'd let me put it with what you have and...." She stopped. They were staring at her with cold suspicion. As though she might be trying to buy herself a place in their lives. She hurried on, stammering a little, because her shyness had made her cheeks too pink. "T''d like to sew for Elna and Danielle. Remnants at Rogers' aren't too awfully expensive. Blouses can be made out of very little material. Perhaps I can copy that frock...." She could not go on in the face of their unresponsive stares. She managed something light, foolish, before she withdrew and closed the door. Though Paul called to her, she did not go back downstairs for a little while. She had to have time to compose herself. Even scold herself for being presumptuous. Instead of making the children happier, she had 41 made them uncomfortable. Instead of drawing the children closer, she had pushed them further away. Yet, she couldn't abandon her plans. 'There was a certain stubbornness, a deep desire to make the children love her, that made her tell Paul what she had in her mind. She hoped he would not find traces of her tears in her voice as they sat together, side by side, hands clasped, happy in their companionship. She swallowed painfully, but she made herself speak. "I'm going to give the children a nice Christmas, Paul. I know how they feel. Kenny's just a baby..." she broke off, seeing the wistful frown on Paul's face. He spoke almost angrily. "Sybil, if I could, I'd give him the biggest, longest train that ever wheeled a track."" His voice failed, he lifted his pale hands in a helpless little gesture that twisted Sybil's heart. She couldn't bother Paul further with her plans. She couldn't let him know how the desire to be a teal part of the family was churning within her. She pretended to be busy with her grocery list. She wrote: Turkey, and found Paul grinning down at her. "Don't forget stuffin," he reminded her teasingly, and when he took away her pencil and kissed her, she felt better. "Paul," she said, returning his kiss, "even in that wheel chair you're my pillar of strength." His smile was one-sided. He confessed: "J'm just a phony, darling. Deep down inside I'm scared. But I know how blessed I am to have you. And the children." Her smile was tender. "Darling, a man is twice blessed if he know's he's blessed." HIE next morning Sybil was first down to the kitchen. Someone — she suspected Kenny — had ringed the 25th with bright red crayon. It gave her hope until the children assembled. A dark curtain of gloom hung over the table as she served breakfast, went to take Paul his tray. As she came back into the kitchen, she heard Dan say angrily: "Lately, everything's come unglued! Things were all right unthew." Sybil's fingers flew to her ears so that she might not hear the end of the sentence. She realized that in some obscure way the children were blaming her for spoiling Christmas. She stood there in the hallway, leaning weakly against the wall, while she looked at the situation as the children saw it. They had been happy with their father after their mother died. Just having him there, close, dependable, had eased the pain of their loss. For over a year the little family had been a unit. Then Paul and Sybil had met. Paul had flown a cargo into the city where Sybil worked. 'They had met when he came to her office. He had come several times. And on his last visit he had asked her to have dinner with him before he teturned home. Over white linen and gleaming silver, Paul had talked of his home and children. Of Lula. Sybil had known his loneliness. His need for a woman's understanding and love. Yet, when he came again, and asked her to marry him, she had not said yes. 'There were Paul's children. All of them big enough to remember their dear mother. All of them old enough to resent another woman's presence in the home. When Paul went away, Sybil knew how much she loved him. When he came back with an insistent question, she accepted eagerly. After their temple marriage, and a short honeymoon, they had flown to Paul's home. Home! How Sybil had dreamed of going home with Paul. Of sharing that home with Paul's children. But the children had shut her away. They were fine people — Paul's young brood. 'They were not deliberately impolite. But the wall they raised between themselves and Sybil was insurmountable. Paul did not guess, nor know. Sybil did not tell him. She knew how hurt he would be. She tucked her secret pain deep in her heart, and knew she was pretending that everything would turn out all right. Now, as she stood there, her fingers pressing her ears so that she could not hear, she knew that in some odd way Paul's children were packaging all their disappointments about Christmas with the fact that Sybil was part of the cause for their unhappiness. When she stepped back into the kitchen with its tangy smell of crisp bacon and browned toast, her face was pale and strained, but the children paid her small attention. Taut nerves showed in the way they bickered with each other. Danielle said sharply: "Those fingernails, Dan! 'They look like you've been cleaning chimneys!" He gave her a scathing glance, 42 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1956 THE CLOSED CIRCLE and said, too sweetly: "All the better for Santa Claus!" "Well, he's not coming down our chimney," cried Kenny darkly. "Once we used to get lots of gifts. Our stockings used to be stuffed with candy, oranges, and nuts!" "Nuts!" Dan said the word deep under his breath. But it did not lose any of the bitterness that burned in Dan's heart. That car had been the dream of his young life. Like every other going-onseventeen-year-old fellow, Dan needed that chassis. No wonder his world had come unglued! HERE were unshed tears behind Sybil's lashes as she washed the breakfast dishes after the children had left for school. She kept thinking of Kenny's train. An ad she had read in the newspaper popped into her mind: "Buy now, pay next year!" Maybe she could talk to Paul about it. But she was sure he would not approve. Paul hated to be in debt, and there were plenty of doctor's and hospital bills to be settled by the first of the year. She thought about the savings bonds she had bought before she and: Paul were married. From the first Paul had refused to touch them, saying that they were hers. She had wanted to share her possessions and had had them made out in his name, too. 'They were hoarding them for an emergency. Sybil swished the dishcloth angrily through her detergent suds and mumbled loudly, "If this isn't an emergency I don't know what is!" Paul, hearing her voice, called out from the living room to know if she'd been talking to him. She answered laughingly, "To my- 43 self, darling. Just grumbling through my long, white beard!" Here she was, anxious to become Santa Claus, and she was completely stumped as to how to go about it. While Paul read, she sat at her desk and got out her budget book and her grocery list. Her pretty forehead was concentrated into a deep frown as she went through her list trying to see if there wasn't some way she could economize. "Well have hamburgers and meat loaf every dinner until Christmas," she declared, waving her list. AUL looked up from his book and said emphatically: "TI like hamburgers. Those meat loaves you dream up are better than roast pheasant." Sybil laughed. Then she said hesitantly: "Paul, do you mind?... I mean... Will it be all right if I sort of juggle my budget? As long as I can see our way clear, do you mind if I sort of...?" Paul's grin interrupted _ her. "You're the banker. I don't mind you shuffling the budget. I trust your good judgment." His eyes were on his book, as he said very quietly: "Sybil, if you're thinking about the children, and Christmas, I love you for it. But no one can buy the real deep-down spirit of Christmas." Her flush was so fiery that she hid her face as she checked her list. Paul had guessed how she felt, how important it was for her to find her way into the children's hearts. Yet he continued slowly, "I've nothing against giving presents. The Wise Men traveled to Bethlehem to make gifts to their King. But there was a great deal more to their journey than that. They went carrying gifts which were only the outward glitter for the true meaning of what they carried in their hearts. I know the children are selfish. Perhaps it's my fault. Perhaps I've spoiled them She wouldn't let him blame himself. She cried miserably: "It's not your fault, darling. It's mine. I want them to love me. But I don't know how. That's why I want them to have the sort of Christmas they've always had." Even as she said it, she knew how... Yes, cheap... It sounded, trying to buy love with presents. Paul shook his head solemnly. "It won't kurt them to go without just this once. Perhaps this will help teach them the true meaning of the season. I have hopes that they know what is right." "Perhaps..." agreed Sybil faintly. But deep inside she couldn't be sure. It wasn't only Christmas, or the lack of gifts that madePaul's children seem selfish, hard, and cold towards her. There was a much deeper reason. Sybil knew until Paul's children wanted her love, even Paul's quiet reasoning couldn't make them give their love to her. HAT evening when Paul and the children formed their usual close little circle in the living room, Sybil pretended to be very busy in the kitchen. Their voices were faint threads of sound as they talked and talked. She wished fervently that they'd need her, that they'd call her into the room. But when they finished talking to Paul, all of them went upstairs to bed. Paul told her that he had explained about her mother and father, and she busied herself with helping him get ready for the night so that he would not see traces of disappointment in her eyes. "You wouldn't like to change your mind, Sybil?" asked Paul, when she kissed him goodnight, but she shook her head and tried to answer without a quiver. "Maybe, next Christmas, Paul. I've written mother, and I'm sure she'll understand." She folded a blanket, and said brightly: "I'm going shopping in the morning, Paul. I want to have a good look at that blue frock. I know how disappointed Danielle is about the dance. I'm going to try to copy it." She added with a little smile: "I love to sew." It had snowed during the night, and when Sybil waved to Paul as she went down the walk, her galoshes left small holes in the snow along the walk. When she came back, her arms were filled with bundles. Paul kissed her, and said: "You look like a kitten who's just eaten the cream." "Bargains, bargains," she laughed, and her eyes were shining. But she refused to open her packages. "No fair until Christmas." She hurried to the sewing room, and shut herself up with needles, pins, and patterns. For two days Paul scarcely caught a glimpse of her. He complained a little, but smiled when she told him that the blue dress and several skirts and blouses were under way. There were pajamas for Paul and the boys, and yards and yards of nylon ruffling to be finished on the blue dress. Somehow, Sybil got everything done. The pies were made. The 44 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1956 THE CLOSED CIRCLE turkey was in the refrigerator. She and Kenny had chosen the tree. Not the magnificent pine that Kenny had had his eye on, but a smaller one which had lost all the branches on one side. "It won't matter, Kenny,' she said, seeing his disappointment, "when it's in the bay window." "It's ugly," said Kenny dully, "but I guess it's the best we can afford this year." He kicked at a piece of ice, and said under his breath: "I guess Christmas isn't so much, anyways." It could be, Kenny! Sybil's heart was so full that for a moment she thought she had said the words out loud. But Kenny's sullen, disappointed little face, told her that she had not spoken. She walked silently beside him, feeling her own Christmas crumbling to bits within her heart. HEY trimmed the tree on Christmas Eve. With Paul's help, for Sybil's Christmas gift had come true. Paul was tall, and well, and strong again. The children were happy. It was like the Christmases they had had before. 'They scattered tissue and boxes all over the room, and when all the decorations were in place, Kenny stood back and stared at the tree with a critical eye. "IT guess you were right... Mother," with that tagging little hesitation, but the smile he gave her was filled with happiness, "it looks all ght in the bay." Sybil had scarcely time to nod, before the doorbell pealed imperatively. It was Paul who urged: "You answer it, Sybil." Sybil went to the door, and had 45 a queer fecling that all eyes were on her, that each one of them was waiting for her to turn the knob. When she did and saw her parents, she found herself laughing and crying in a single breath. "Mother! Dad!" She hugged them. Kissed them. Then put out her hand to Paul, asking a breathless question: "How....?" Kenny explained, excitedly. "We put all the money from our piggy banks...." "Into one pile..." that was Elna, just as excitedly. "And sent for them." Dan was just as excited, but not quite so shrill. "Because you were trying to make a nice Christmas for us, Mother," finished Danielle eagerly. Sybil was glad that Paul's arm was tight about her slim waist. Why, she needn't have worried about Paul's children. They had seen the true meaning of Christmas much plainer than she had. Sybil's eyes were clear and shining blue as they reached out to encompass everyone in the room. 'The glow in her heart was a_ steady blaze. "Merry Christmas, darling," she said, meeting Paul's proud glance. Dan had turned on the tree, and it shone with a soft, beautiful radiance over all the room, as Sybil watched the children getting acquainted with their grandmother and grandfather. Why, she thought, we're a real family now, and knew, deep in her soul, that fears and doubts had fled. From that minute on, she belonged. The children had given her love for Christmas. Vegetables - A Different Way Every Day Part II Rhea H. Gardner Extension Service Home Management and Furnishings Specialist Utah State Agricultural College EW foods are more pleasing to the taste or more appealing to the eye than are gardenfresh or fresh frozen vegetables cooked just right and seasoned just enough to bring out the good, sweet natural flavors. However, the serving of three vegetables every day, does call for variety in both selection and methods of preparation, if there is to be no monotony. Here are just a few recipes to start you thinking up new and interesting ways to prepare vegetables for your family. Lima BEAN CASSEROLE 2% cups lima beans, home-cooked 1 tablespoon butter or drippings or canned 1 tablespoon flour 1 tablespoon brown sugar % teaspoon salt % teaspoon pepper 2 teaspoons lemon juice % cup cheese, grated 2 teaspoons dry mustard 4 cup buttered crumbs. 4 or 5 bacon strips or frankfurters Place drained lima beans in a casserole. Save liquid. Heat butter or drippings over low. Heat; add flour and stir until well blended. Slowly add % cup liquid from the beans, stirring until smooth; cook over low heat until thickened. Add brown sugar, salt, pepper, mustard, and lemon juice. Pour sauce over lima beans; sprinkle with buttered crumbs and grated cheese. Place strips of bacon or frankfurters on top. Bake in a moderate oven (375°F) 25 to 35 minutes or until lightly browned. VEGETABLE SOUFFLE Vegetable souffle is an excellent way to use left-over vegetables. It needs only a crisp salad as an accompaniment. To make a serving for six, you will need: 1 cup cooked vegetables 2 teaspoons grated onion 1 cup thick white sauce* 4 eggs separated 1 tablespoon lemon juice % teaspoon cream of tartar Finely chop or sieve the vegetable. To the white sauce add the prepared vegetable, lemon juice, grated onion, and beaten egg yolks. Cool. Beat egg whites until frothy; add cream of tartar and beat until stiff but not dry. Fold into the above mixture. Put into a casserole that has been coated with a light film of melted butter. Bake in a moderate oven (325°F) about one hour. Carrots, spinach, peas, green beans, or corn are delicious in souffles. The use of sauces on vegetables can create new interest and appetite appeal in vegetable dishes. Her are a few sauces that help to make good vegetables better. Each makes four average servings. 1. Cream sauce base: To 1 cup of medium thick white sauce add: a. Three or 4 tablespoons horseradish, 1 tablespoon lemon juice, and % teaspoon paprika. Fold into sauce and serve hot over string beans, asparagus, cabbage, or cauliflower. B. One cup grated cheese and % teaspoon Worcestershire sauce. Mix with sauce *Recipe page 59. Page 46 VEGETABLES 47 until cheese is all melted. Serve at once over spinach, string beans, cauliflower, or asparagus. C. Two chopped hard-cooked eggs and 1 tablespoon chopped parsley. If desired, add 1 teaspoon dry mustard. Serve over broccoli, spinach, asparagus, or string beans. 2. Easy Hollandaise Sauce: Cut 4 pound butter in small pieces. Put in top part of double boiler with 3 egg yolks and 3 tablespoons lemon juice. Let stand at room temperature for one-half hour. Just before serving, place over gently boiling water for 1% minutes, stirring briskly. Serve over freshly cooked asparagus, carrots, broccoli, or cauliflower. 3. Almond Butter Sauce: Melt % cup butter in a heavy pan and heat carefully to a golden brown. Add % cup toasted almonds slivered and 3 tablespoons lemon juice. Pour over hot broccoli, cauliflower, or string beans and serve at once. Reba Turner, Lady of Charity men Turner, Loa, Utah, sixty-nine years old, is never idle. She works for anyone who asks her, and has never taken a penny for any of it. People ask her to work on gifts for their loved ones, and although she will never see some of the recipients, she freely gives of her time and talents. She seems always to know of someone who would like something really lovely, so she makes gifts for all occasions and for no particular occasion—just gifts. She has made seventy-five doilies, hundreds of handkerchiefs, many lovely quilts, dozens of embroidered towels. During the second world war she knitted hundreds of pairs of sox and made many good warm sweaters. Sister Turner has served as an executive officer in the Primary Association, as a Sunday School teacher, a ward president in Relief Society for six years, and has been a visiting teacher for forty years, a service which she still enjoys. She has three living children, ten grandchildren, and nine great-grandchildren. In commenting upon the charity and love which are so much a part of all that Sister Turner accomplishes, her friend Mrs. Nell Ekker characterizes her as a most exemplary Relief Society woman: "When I think of charity or Relief Socicty, I think of Sister Reba Turner. Perhaps her many years of association with this fine organization have interwoven love and thoughtfulness and service into her being until she is indeed a part of all that Relief Society work symbolizes." Hermanas CHAPTER 7 Fay Tarlock Synopsis: The story '"Hermanas'' (sisters) is narrated by an American woman living temporarily in Mexico. She has befriended Lolita, a widow, and her lovely daughter Graciela. At Church Graciela meets Jim Flores, studying to be a doctor, and the two become deeply in love. Graciela, after attending secretarial school, obtains a position with a banker, and meets a wealthy Mexican, Senor Munoz, who becomes interested in her. Lolita consents to the arrangements for a marriage between her daughter and Senor Munoz. The American Senora visits Lolita and asks for an explanation, but she fears that she has pleaded for Graciela in vain. Jim tries to see Graciela, but his efforts are useless, and he plans to leave Mexico. The American Senora asks Lolita and her daughter to come to her home on a matter of great importance. RACIELA'S dark liquid eyes G begged me to believe she had no other plans, but I kept my attention on the mother. ~ "You did not know, perhaps, that he came to me this afternoon to say goodbye. He is leaving Mexico." There were two startled gasps in the room. "He feels that everything he had in Mexico is lost to him and he is adrift in the world." Graciela came swiftly to my side and grasped my arm. "It is not true. What you are saying?" Solemnly I nodded. With a protective gesture, Lolita moved to her daughter. "I did not know it would affect him so, believe me," she said, her voice gentle with love. "But," and hardness came into her voice again, "he is young, he will recover." "That I do not know," I answered Lolita. "I only know what Page 48 I have seen." I stepped back, my eyes holding Lolita's. "Since I have seen Jim Flores, I feel there is one thing more I must know, and you must answer me before this child." I made my voice ring out. "She is," I pointed a finger at Graciela, "in your words, a woman grown. Did she have any choice in this decision to cast aside her affianced one, and her hope for a different life in her new religion, for you have tied the two in one knot?" Pitching my voice higher, for I knew now that I had touched something in Lolita's tight defense, I asked, "Did she choose this man whose hands are full of gold, but whose back is weary with the burden of the years? Did she?" With head thrown back, I defied Lolita to answer. There was no sound in the room save that of our labored breathing. The three of us waited in the dim light. Graciela acted first. She looked at her mother as if she were a stranger, seen for the first time. When Lolita refused her gaze, the girl jerked off the fragile black scarf and in an unexpected burst of passion, twisted the lace in her hands until it frayed and pulled in two. I watched the girl's eyes blaze, her cheeks go high with color. "No!" she fairly shouted. "T was not asked. I did it because she, my mother, said I must!" Then she threw the lace fragments at her mother's feet. Lolita, horror and fear marking her face, stooped to pick them up. HERMANAS "No!" Graciela commanded her. "Let them lie. Never again will 1 wear a black scarf." I think I caught the purport of her declaration even quicker than her mother did, and a wave of happiness and warmth surged through me. Why, I told myself, I should never have doubted this girl's strength. So it was I who stooped and picked up the tortured fragments of lace. Holding them in front of me for Graciela to note, I asked, "Are you sure you have the strength of will to keep the promise you have just made yourself?" "Yes," the girl's voice was firm. "T will keep that promise." Lolita stood as if rooted to the floor, a growing look of fear on her face, and, even now, I would have dealt with her compassionately, if I had not felt more compassion for her daughter. "Tt is as I thought," I said, keeping my role as judge. "You did not consider her. You thought yourself wise enough to decide all things. Do you still feel that you are?" Slowly Lolita raised her eyes to mine. The fear and_ indecision pulled at me, but I hardened myself again. From me she turned to the girl, rebellious for the first time. "I did it for you," she said, her voice thick and dry. "It was a wonderful thing he offered you. I thought it best, you understand?" "How could you think money piled on money to be what I want. I want only my nght to believe and my Jaime." She picked the tattered scarf from my hands and tossed it on the table near her in a last ges- 49 ture of defiance. "I want my Jaime," and she began to sob. "You see,' I said to Lolita, "she is exhausted by the ordeal of these long weceks."" And I, too, felt weary and the warmth gone from me. I would have comforted the girl and told her she had done well, but that was the mother's right. I looked at her, my eyes saying, "Now you must act." "Where can I find this joven?" Lolita raised her tired shoulders, and there was the beginning of light in her face. Silently I pointed to the telephone and to the pad beside it, where I had written Jim's number earlier in the evening. Graciela's sobs did not stop — not until she heard Jim's voice, clear in the quiet room. AITING in the night, we were a strange trio. Lolita sat on the brown leather couch beside her daughter, who sat there with a look that was almost the bliss of heaven, now that her decision was made and Jim was on his way. Upstairs I heard one of the children murmur, and I excused myself. When I came back we heard the honk of a taxi and the bell's shrill clamor. Amporo, whose nose must have been in the kitchen door, came running through the living room to admit Jim. Worn and puzzled, he came to us. This time, however, his clothes were neat, and there was a look in his eyes that could easily be turned into hope. Graciela's eyes leaped to meet him, and he responded to the gladness in her, but she did not stir, and quietly he pulled a chair next to mine, his questioning face turned towards the three of us. I nodded to Lolita. 'The responsibility was hers. I knew her enigma, but I could not help. She clutched at the lace scarf, still knotted about her throat, and the touch of it was like the answer to her disturbances. Silently she undid the scarf, rose, and placed it side by side with Graciela's torn one. Jim watched, more puzzled than ever, and I thought Graciela's joy would burst through her skin, she was struggling so hard to contain herself. Calm now, Lolita returned to her seat on the couch. "Today," she told him, "when I came to you I was wrong. I did not ask my heart, only my head. If you will help me, we will forget all that was said." A complex person, this little serving woman. Many things had changed in her while she sat so passive on the couch. Jim was equal to the moment. Gravely he rose and crossed to her, his hand extended. "I will be grateful to you all the days of my life," he said sitting beside her. The words made a bond between them. Then he turned toward Graciela, his eyes warm with love. I rose and beckoned Lolita to follow me. These lovers, who had never been completely alone since the spring morning they met in the shadow of the chapel, deserved their hour of privacy. In the kitchen, Amporo was sitting in the harsh light of the naked bulb, her head, with its dark braids resting on the table. Awkwardly she arose, her eyes opaque with sleep, and pulled out two more straightbacked chairs from against the whitewashed wall. Lolita sat uncomfortably in her chair. I was eager for the explanation she was preparing herself to make, but I wanted it to come in her own way, and I knew she must be hungry. "Let's have a piece of cake and something to drink. It won't take the place of the supper you missed, but it will help." I nodded to Amporo. Happy to be once more part of the eventful evening, Amporo brought the cake and removed the wax paper. In my unrest this morning, I had used my dwindling supply of raisins and nuts from home. There is, I had early discovered, a certain national quality in the sweet confections of Mexico, and my cake was purely foreign. When Lolita had eaten a few bites, her face lighted eagerly, and she ate until the last crumb was gone. With the taste lingering in her mouth, she leaned forward, studying the cake, unable to analyze its ingredients. Amporo offered her another piece to eat with her glass of limonade, but she denied herself. "Would it be possible, Senora," she asked, her eyes still on the cake, "to have such a cake for the wedding?" If there was hysteria in my laughter it was because of the unexpectedness of the request coming after the tension of the evening. Amporo shared my amusement. In a moment the three of us were laughing 50 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1956 HERMANAS without restraint, the innocent cake before us. "Pues," I picked up a crumb that had fallen on the table. "I think it can be done. When will you want it?" I was truly curious. OLITA beamed. "That will depend upon the novio, of course, but I have been doing much thinking, and I am of the opinion that the young people need not wait. I only ask that my daughter have a wedding worthy of her." She moved uneasily in her chair. "Before we speak of weddings, there is something I must say to you." "I am waiting." "Senora, I must tell you tonight a burden is gone from me. I had not realized it myself until I made the telephone call, but I did not altogether act with unselfishness — as I pretended to myself. Oh, I thought I did everything for my daughter's sake, believe me, I thought it would be best for her, that in the years to come she would be grateful. Now I know that I was thinking more of myself... And that I denied the truth that had come to me." Hot tears stung my eyelids. It was not in me to blame her because she wanted a soft bed, the assurance of daily food, the luxury of an American dress. 'The security of things she could caress with her eyes and hold in her hands meant much to one who had lived in the twilight of bondage. What she had not understood was the fact that she was placing herself in another kind of bondage, perhaps more fretting than her earlier chains. And there was enough of the 51 child left in her to want the traditional wedding of her people. I patted her hand. "You feel there should be a wedding festival?" "Tf you're discussing weddings, we are two interested parties." Startled, we looked up to see Jim and Graciela standing in the archway. Jim's arm was possessively around his girl; their happiness was as warming as a fire. "Lolita has just said she would like my nut cake for the wedding, which means it must be soon for my supply is almost gone," I said looking at Jim. His expression was not all I had expected. Graciela, from the protection of his arm, smiled up at him. "You will believe me now, my Jaime, there is no reason why we should not be married very quickly." With her slender fingers she smoothed the deep furrow in his brow. "He," she said including us all in her happiness, "is already a viejo—worrying for fear my mother will delay us, worrying he won't have time to fix the house in San Angel. See, his wrinkles will not rub away." She removed her fingers to show us the furrow persisted. "T think a toast of limonade, supplemented with a piece of cake, would be appropriate before we get into further discussion." I reached for the cake and signalled for Amporo to fill the pitcher. "T could go for that," Jim said, "T don't think I've eaten today." Picking up the cake, I led them to the larger table in the dining room. Amporo followed with the limonade and large bowls of corn flakes and milk, over which she lavishly sprinkled banana slices. The national supper of the people, I thought. OT until Jim had settled back in contentment, Graciela's hand modestly in his, did I ask about his wedding doubts. "For one thing," Jim said reluctantly, "'there's the old house in San Angel. It isn't safe to live in, and it would take a lot of time and money to get even the necessary three rooms livable. Troubled, Graciela withdrew her hand. "You must remember, Jaime," she said softly, "We have been living there for some time." He was a little taken back. "I know," he said, "but things are different now." 'Taking both her hands, he looked at me for support. "The floors are so rotten, it's a wonder none of you have fallen through. And the plumbing!" He glared at the polished mahogany of the table. "T don't imagine it's been changed since the days of the viceroys." "A sanitario was installed the year before I went to work for the Urbinas," Lolita said with hurt dignity. Jim winked at me, his face straight. "There's running water, too, all cold. And have you seen the sink? It looks like something Cortez dreamed up for the whole army to use. And that brick masterpiece that takes up half the kitchen was used to cook the first meal, centuries ago." "T have a right to live in the house as long as I desire." Lolita was firm. Designed to be a peacemaker, Graciela drew them together with her loving glance. To Jim she said, "Tt is not as bad as you say. We live there and are healthy. Before long I shall have money saved, then we can make the repairs you think necessary. But we do not wait for those, do we?" "T guess we'll sleep over it, anyway." Jim smiled at his two women. I was willing to give Jim my support. "We've decided enough for one night." I pushed my chair back and stood a little apart, surveying them. Then quite unexpectedly I heard myself saying, "You want to be married soon, don't you, Jim?" "What do you think?" His lips touched the burnished roll of Graciela's pompadour. There was a puzzling look on Lolita's face as she watched them. Looking at me as if for permission to speak, she rose and stood beside me. "I am the eldest, you would do well to listen to me." All of us turned our eyes on her. "The time for you to be married is now — very soon, [ mean. It will help to forget the sorrow of these past few weeks and the two of you can go about your work, not waste time dreaming. Is that not right, Senora?" Emphatically I nodded, glad for her wisdom. "And, in addition," the color rose in her face, "the Senor Munoz is away from Mexico for a short time. I do not anticipate trouble..." she stopped Jim's protest with a gesture of her hands. "As I say, there will be no trouble, and I, myself, will go to him immediately on his return, but it will be better, if the marriage is accomplished." A sweet smile lighted her eyes. "I ask only that there be a wedding worthy of my daughter." (To be concluded) 52 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1956 Biographical Sketches of Award Winners in the Gliza R. Snow Poem Contest Marvhale Woolsey is well known to readers of The Relief Society Magazine. Her poems, stories, and articles have appeared in the Magazine since 1925. She has also contributed to other Church publications and to many national magazines. Her songs and operettas have received wide recognition, the most famous song being "Springtime in the Rockies," which has been acclaimed an American folk lore classic. Until recent years Mrs. Woolsey has "'sandwiched" her writing between work as an advertising copywriter and newspaper reporter and caring for four daughters who now have homes and families of their own. Mrs. Woolsey has eleven grandchildren. For the past several years Mrs. Woolsey has been active in civic and community projects in Salt Lake City. She is a member of the League of Utah Writers, the Utah Poetry Society, the Art Barn Poets, and other writers' organizations. Also she is a member of the American Society of Composers, Authors, and Publishers. She was chairman in 1953 of the central committee in charge of publishing the third volume of Utah Sings. Now devoting most of her time and energy to writing, Mrs. Woolsey is in New York City doing research work for a long-planned book and continuing various other writing projects. Beatrice Knowlton Ekman was born on the Knowlton Ranch in Skull Valley, Tooele County, Utah, the daughter of J. Quincy Knowlton and Ellen Smith. After her father's death, Beatrice moved with her mother and the other children to Kaysville, where her maternal grandparents resided. She attended the University of Utah, where she met John A. Ekman. They were married in 1896, and made their home in Salt Lake City. Here their three children were born—Milton Woodruff, Catherine, and John A. Young John died soon after returning home from the Navy in the first world war. Beatrice and her husband lived for thirty years in the home at "C'' Street and Eighth Avenue, where Mr. Ekman was born. When they sold the old home to the Latter-day Saints Hospital, they moved to Portland, Oregon, to be near their two children. Since Mr. Ekman died in 1947, Mrs. Ekman has made her home with her daughter, Catherine Renstrom Pitkin. Mrs. Ekman has written poetry since childhood, and for the last forty years has published many poems and some stories and articles, mostly in Latter-day Saint Church publications. She is represented in Utah Sings, Our Legacy, Of Stone and Star, Poets of the Pacific, and other anthologies. She loves to visit her beloved Utah and the beautiful mountains of her homeland. Ruth C. Langlois, Salt Lake City, Utah, is a newcomer among the award winners in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contests. She writes: "I am strictly in the amateur class as a writer. Most of my efforts have been confined to road shows, birthday greetings, commemorating ward affairs, and the like. Writing, however, has been more or less of a hobby, and I have written for the satisfaction of the activity, but have never attempted to have any of my efforts published. When I was a Junior in M. I. A. I won first place in a district story contest and The Relief Society Magazine published the story. "Between that contribution and this, my life has been very full — a wonderful husband (C. Vernon Langlois), four sons and a daughter; P. T. A. And M. I. A. — it's a very busy and satisfying life. I've always kept busy in Church work, mostly in M. LA., in which I am now a counselor in Wells Stake. "Reed, the oldest of the children, is a graduate of Brigham Young University and is at present a lieutenant in the Navy; Sharon is attending the Brigham Young University; Larry is in high school; and Tommy achieved fourth grade this year. Bob and his wife Shirley made me a grandmother this fall!" Page 53 Sheology—Characters and Teachings of The Book of Mormon Lesson 39—Signs of the Crucifixion; the Voice of Jesus Christ ls Heard Elder Leland H. Monson (Text: The Book of Mormon: 3 Nephi, chapters 8-10) For Tuesday, April 3, 1956 Objective: To learn of the prophecies concerning the crucifixion and their fulfillment. Y thirty-four a. V. People began to look for the fulfillment of the prophecy of Samuel the Lamanite relating to the crucifixion of Jesus Christ on the Eastern Hemisphere. Samuel had said:... Behold, in that day that he shall suffer death the sun shall be darkened and refuse to give his light unto you; and also the moon and the stars; and there shall be no light upon the face of this land, even from the time that he shall suffer death, for the space of three days, to the time that he shall rise again from the dead. Yea, at the time that he shall yield up the ghost there shall be thunderings and lightnings for the space of many hours, and the earth shall shake and tremble; and the rocks which are upon the face of this earth, which are both above the earth and beneath, which ye know at this time are solid, or the more part of it is one solid mass, shall be broken up (Helaman 14:20-21; see also verses 22-29). Page 54 Fulfillment of Prophecy of Destruction In thirty-four a. V., this remarkable prophecy had its literal fulfillment. Mormon, recording the event, wrote: And it came to pass in the thirty and fourth year, in the first month, on the fourth day of the month, there arose a great storm, such an one as never had been known in all the land. And there was also a great and terrible tempest; and there was terrible thunder, insomuch that it did shake the whole earth as if it was about to divide asunder. And there were exceeding sharp lightnings, such as never had been known in all the land (3 Nephi 8:5-7). Mormon then details the nature of the destruction: And there was a great and terrible destruction in the land southward. But.... LESSON DEPARTMENT there was a more great and terrible destruction in the land northward; for behold, the whole face of the land was changed, because of the tempest and the whirlwinds, and the thunderings and the lightnings, and the exceeding great. Quaking of the whole earth; And the highways were broken up, and the level roads were spoiled, and many smooth places became rough. And many great and notable cities were sunk, and many were burned, and many were shaken till the buildings thereof had fallen to the earth, and the inhabitants thereof were slain, and the places were left desolate (3 Nephi 8:11-14). Zarahemla was gutted by fire, the city of Moroni sank into the sea, and Moronihah was buried beneath a mountain. And these are only examples of what happened to many others. After this destruction "thick darkness" settled over the land, so thick that the people whose lives were spared could "... Feel the vapor of darkness" (3 Nephi 8:20). In fact, it was impossible to light candles or torches.. Neither could there be fire kindled with their fine. And exceedingly dry wood, so that there could not be any light at all; And there was not any light seen, neither fire, nor glimmer, neither the sun, nor the moon, nor the stars, for so great were the mists of darkness which were upon the face of the land (3 Nephi 8:21-22). Lamentations of Survivors Survivors of the destruction lamented that they had not heeded the prophets. And in one place they were heard to cry, saying: O that we had repented before this great and terrible day, and then would our brethren have been spared, and they would not have been burned in that great city Zarahemla (3 Nephi 8:24). 55 The Voice of Jesus Christ Amidst these lamentations:... There was a voice heard among all the inhabitants of the earth, upon all the face of this land, crying: Wo, wo, wo unto this people; wo unto the inhabitants of the whole earth except they shall repent; for the devil laugheth, and_ his angels rejoice, because of the slain of the fair sons and daughters of my people; and it is because of their iniquity and abominations that they are fallen! (3 Nephi 9:1-2). And many great destructions have I caused to come upon this land, and upon this people, because of their wickedness and their abominations. O all ye that are spared because ye were more righteous than they, will ye not now return unto me, and repent of your sins, and be converted, that I may heal you? Yea, verily I say unto you, if ye will come unto me ye shall have eternal life. Behold, mine arm of mercy is extended towards you, and whosoever will come, him will I receive; and blessed are those who come unto me. Behold, I am Jesus Christ the Son of God. I created the heavens and the earth, and all things that in them are. I was with the Father from the beginning. I am in the Father, and the Father in me; and in me hath the Father glorified his name. I came unto my own, and my own received me not. And the scriptures concerning my coming are fulfilled. And as many as have received me, to them have I given to become the sons of God; and even so will I to as many as shall believe on my name, for behold, by me redemption cometh, and in me is the law of Moses fulfilled. I am the light and the life of the world. I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end. And ye shall offer up unto me no more the shedding of blood; yea, your sacrifices and your burnt offerings shall be done away, for I will accept none of your sactifices and your burnt offerings. And ye shall offer for a sacrifice unto me a broken heart and a contrite spirit. And whoso cometh unto me with a broken heart and a contrite spirit, him will I baptize with fire and with the Holy Ghost, even as the Lamanites, because of their faith in me at the time of their conversion, were baptized with fire and with the Holy Ghost, and they knew it not. Behold, I have come unto the world to bring redemption unto the world, to save the world from sin. Therefore, whoso repenteth and cometh unto me as a little child, him will I receive, for of such is the kingdom of God. Behold, for such I have laid down my life, and have taken it up again; therefore repent, and come unto me ye ends of the earth, and be saved (3 Nephi g:12-22). After these sayings there was silence in the land for many hours. Then the voice of Jesus was heard again, telling them that he had often wanted to gather this branch of the house of Israel together as a hen gathers her chickens, but they would not permit it. 'This instruction was followed by more weeping and howling over the loss of their kindred and friends. Then it was that the three-day period was ended, and darkness dispersed from off the land, and the destruction ceased. Appearance of Christ to Nephites It was only the more righteous of the people who remained to rejoice over the appearance of the Son of God, only those who had received the prophets: And the earth did cleave together again, that it stood; and the mourning, and the weeping, and the wailing of the people who were spared alive did cease; and their mourming was turned into joy, and their lamentations into the praise and thanksgiving unto the Lord Jesus Christ, their Redeemer (3 Nephi 10:10). Mormon cautions the reader of the account to read with understanding: And now, whoso readeth, let him understand; he that hath the scriptures, let him search them, and see and behold if all these deaths and destructions by fire, and by smoke, and by tempests, and by whirlwinds, and by the opening of the earth to receive them, and all these things are not unto the fulfilling of the prophecies of many of the holy prophets. Behold, I say unto you, Yea, many have testified of these things at the coming of Christ, and were slain because they testified of these things. Yea, the prophet Zenos did testify of these things, and also Zenock spake concorning these things, because they testified particularly concerning us, who are the remnant of their seed. Behold, our father Jacob also testified concerning a remnant of the seed of Joseph. And behold, are not we a remnant of the seed of Joseph? And these things which testify of us, are they not written upon the plates of brass which our father Lehi brought out of Jerusalem? (3 Nephi 10:14-17). Thus we see the literal fulfillment of the prophecies concerning the destructions which were to accompany the crucifixion of Christ. We see the glorious appearance of the Christ on the Western Hemisphere. Nephi became an active participant as one of the twelve disciples of Christ in helping to establish a period of freedom and security, of happiness and serenity. Mormon does not unfold this portion of his record to us without showing how the Lord blessed those who had survived, saying: And it came to pass that in the ending of the thirty and fourth year, behold, I will show unto you that the people of Nephi who were spared, and also those 56 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1956 LESSON DEPARTMENT who had been called Lamanites, who had been spared, did have great favors shown unto them, and great blessings poured out upon their heads, insomuch that soon after the ascension of Christ into heaven he did truly manifest himself unto them— Showing his body unto them, and ministering unto them; and an account of his ministry shall be given hereafter. Therefore for this time I make an end of my sayings (3 Nephi 10:18-19). Es | Questions and Topics for Discussion 1. What were the signs of the crucifixion? What early prophecies were fulfilled by "ie signs and events which followed? 3. How is God's mercy shown in his dealings with these surviving Nephites? 4. To what did Mormon, the Nephite historian, attribute all this destruction? Visiting Seacher ITlessages Book of Mormon Gems of Truth Lesson 39—"But Behold, the Resurrection of Christ Redeemeth Mankind, Yea, Even All Mankind, and Bringeth Them Back Into the Presence of. The Lord" (Helaggep 14:17). Edith S. Elliott" For Tuesday, April 3, 1956 Objective: To show that Christ broke the bonds of death and all men will be resurrected. ASTER time is accepted throughout the realm of Christianity as a time of rejoicing because it is the anniversary of the resurrection of Christ, the last act needed to complete his mission on earth. In his few years of mortal life he taught the plan of salvation, experienced death, then immortality. His whole life was one of example, proving to mortals that the plan is sound and workable. Some may say, "Well, he knew the plan, he knew that he was the Son of God and the Savior of the world." Yes, he knew, and knowing it, has shared every phase of the plan with us. He outlined the way back to God's presence so clearly that anyone sincerely desiring salvation can follow. In John 11:25-26 is the summary of his plan and his promise... | am the resurrection, and the life: he that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live: And whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall never Ge, 2 A careful analysis of the above quotation will prove the profundity of the statement. To know that this life is not the end of our activity is most rewarding. It challenges us to make our every act one that is acceptable to our Heavenly Father. We have our free agency and are not coerced, so think how great can be our blessing if we choose to follow the example of Jesus! There should be no doubt about a life hereafter. We find its evidence in scripture and modern revelation. The loving concern of our Heavenly Father for his children proves without a doubt that his plan is to return them to his kingdom as sanctified, resurrected beings. The prophet Alma tells us:... The resurrection of the dead bringeth back men into the presence of God; and thus they are restored into his presence, to be judged according to their works, according to the law and justice (Alma 42:23). Work IT leeting—Food Preparation and Service (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 7—Vegetable Cookery (Continued) Rhea H. Gardner For Tuesday, April 10, 1956 FEW foods are more delicious than are properly cooked, garden-fresh vegetables. Very little seasoning is needed to make them appealing to both the eye and the taste. Sauces, buttered crumbs, and other seasonings are too often used to camouflage poor quality or improperly cooked vegetables. Good cooking is essential if you wish to have a truly delicious, nutritious, and eye-appealing vegetable dish to serve your family. Cabbage Cabbage is one of our good, comparatively inexpensive, year-round vegetables. 'There are many ways to. Prepare it, but one of the most popular is to cook it in milk. Put six cups of shredded cabbage and one cup whole or top milk into a heavy pan. Simmer for two minutes. While it is cooking, cream together two teaspoons each of butter and flour and one-half teaspoon salt. Add to cabbage, stirring until thickening is well distributed. Cook three or four minutes longer. Serve immediately. For added flavor, grate cheese over it just before placing it on the table. Red cabbage does not stay red during cooking unless acid is added to the cooking water in the form of vinegar, lemon juice, or fresh, tart apples. Carrots Carrots are one of our best and least expensive year-round vegetables. They are colorful and fairly bursting with body-building materials. Serve them often, but in a variety of ways. Carrots cooked in a minimum amount of water, either whole, cut in strips, diced, or shredded are delicious seasoned with a sauce made of melted butter, lemon juice, and minced parsley. Pour the sauce over the carrots just before serving. The bright green color of the parsley is an appealing contrast to the deep orange of the carrots. If you have never served braised carrots or celery, do so soon. Cut the vegetables into three to fourinch lengths. For each quart of vegetables, melt two tablespoons butter in a heavy pan. Add the vegetable and cook over low heat in 58 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1956 LESSON DEPARTMENT a covered pan for about ten minutes. In the meantime, dissolve a bouillon cube in one-half cup hot water. Pour over the vegetable. Continue cooking until the vegetable is tender and the stock is reduced in volume so it serves as a sauce. Carrots are delicious cooked with cabbage. Put two cups shredded carrots, one teaspoon salt, and one cup boiling water in a pan with a close fitting lid. Cook about ten minutes or until partly tender. Add three cups shredded cabbage and simmer, uncovered for ten minutes. Add two tablespoons butter, and pepper, if desired, and cook about five minutes longer. Carrots and turnips are also delicious cooked together, mashed, and seasoned with butter, salt, and pepper. Carrots combine well in creamed and scalloped dishes, as do most other vegetables. Sauces for Vegetables For creamed dishes the sauce should give the appearance of being a dressing on the food, therefore, less sauce than food should be used. More pleasing results are obtained if the sauce is poured over the hot vegetable rather than have the vegetable stirred into the sauce. White sauce is the basis for all creamed dishes. It is important that it be the right consistency for the use intended. WHITE SAUCE Thin) Medium — Thick Butter 3 Ths. 4 Tbs. 6 'Tbs. Flour 2 Tbs. 4 Tbs. S ils, Salt 1 tsp. 1 tsp. 1 tsp. Pepper % tsp. % tsp. % tsp. Milk 2 cups 2 cups 2 cups 59 Mix butter and flour in pan over low heat. When butter is melted, add all of the milk at once and stir until mixture is thick and smooth. Add seasonings. Scalloped Vegetables For scalloped vegetable dishes use one half to one cup of medium white sauce for each cup of cooked vegetables. Put alternating layers of vegetables and sauce into a baking dish, then cover with a layer of buttered crumbs. Place in a moderate hot oven until the food is piping hot and the crumbs are delicately browned. Grated cheese, either cheddar or Swiss, minced onion, or parsley may be added to the sauce, or the grated cheese may be sprinkled over the top about a minute before the dish is removed from the oven. Vegetable Souffles Vegetable souffle dishes are favorites in many homes. A souffle is an exceilent way to use leftover vegetables, such as carrots, green beans, peas, corn, and spinach. 'This basis of a souffle is a thick white sauce. Mix equal parts of vegetables and white sauce. Add from two to four well-beaten egg yolks for each cupful of sauce. Fold mixture carefully into the beaten egg whites. Turn into a well-oiled baking dish. Place the dish in a larger container of hot water. Bake in a moderate (350°F) oven until mixture is firm and delicately browned on top. A vegetable souffle served with a crisp salad and a light dessert makes a complete meal. Variations of White Sauce There are a variety of sauces using medium white sauce as a basis that may be served over vegetables to enhance their natural flavor. Mock Hollandaise sauce is delicious served over broccoli, asparagus, and cauliflower. Cheese sauces add food value and complement the flavors of spinach, cabbage, cauliflower, and beans. Egg sauce and horseradish sauce are others that add interest and delightful flavors to many vegetables. For exact amounts of ingredients to add to the white sauce for the particular sauce you desire, see any reliable cook book. Dress up your vegetables for variety's sake occasionally, but don't make a regular practice of it. Learn to know and appreciate the true, natural flavor of good vegetables, cooked well, and seasoned with butter and a little salt. Get out of the rut of serving the same vegetable over and over. There is such a variety for selection in our markets. Let it be a challenge to try out new ones as well as new methods of cooking them. Suggestions for the Class Leader 1. Demonstrate the preparation of one or more unusual vegetable dishes or bring to the class some you have previously prepared. 2. List vegetables that are not commonly used which might be enjoyed by our families. Note the supplementary material to this lesson in the article "Vegetables—A Different Way Every Day, Part Il" by Rhea H. Gardner, on page 46 of this issue of The Relief Society Magazine. Jiterapare the Literature of England Lesson 55—Thomas Hardy (1840-1928) "The Return of the Native" Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: The Literature of England, 11, Woods, Watt, Anderson, pp. 918-926) For Tuesday, April 17, 1956 Objective: To achieve greater insight into the world of Thomas Hardy by studying briefly his life, some of his poems, and one of his great novels (The Return of the Native). HOMAS Hardy is one of the Titans of English Literature. He wrote fourteen novels and more than nine hundred poems. Because of such productivity Hardy can be known completely only by the scholar. Even when we select rigorously from his best works, it is most difficult within our small time span to choose that which represents fairly his basic excellences. Hardy's Life Hardy was born in Dorsetshire, a rural county bordering England's southern seacoast, which was to become the Wessex of his poems and the Egdon Heath of The Return of the Native. His father, a carpenter and mason, gave his son hardly more formal education than the three R's, but he made up for it by breaking him to the hard tasks of 60 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1956 LESSON DEPARTMENT the building trades. At nights father and son rushed off to furnish music for weddings, christenings, and rural parties, Hardy playing the fiddle. Sundays they played in the local church. 'Thus Hardy's formative years were shaped by no literary or artificial force; instead, he knew at first hand the very texture of common people. 'Throughout his more than fifty years of productivity this region furnished the artist Hardy with most of his tools: scene, language, characters. Likewise, his mood and theme, while more nearly his own, also echo this region's isolated somberness. Thus all the true roots within the essential Hardy grew deep into his home soil and the common rural people it nurtured. The Lost Youth Young Hardy had long dreamed of becoming a minister. His natural, boyish optimism was as pure and unbounded as Shelley's. As a youth he taught Sunday School and was active in the Anglican Church. When at the age of sixteen he was apprenticed to a church architect in nearby Dorchester, for the first time he had leisure to read. Soon he was studying each night after work from six until midnight. Throughout the next decade he still planned on entering the ministry, but increasingly he wavered between faith and doubt. Soon after he turned twenty-five Hardy realized, after close self-examination, "that he could hardly take the step with honor," since, to his intense pain, he no longer found it possible to believe, desperately as he longed to (see his moving, simple poem, "The Oxen," text, page 926). 61 A Perry Picture THOMAS HARDY (1840-1928) When we are tempted to blame the young Hardy for seeing the universe as being indifferently managed, then, in fairness and understanding, we must recall how desperately Hardy wished his view of reality could be otherwise, how devoutly he coveted a faith which he could not know. 'Then we are more nearly ready to meet Hardy on his own terms and measure out to him the same sympathy which he measures out in abundance to his characters. The Successful Hardy Though Hardy won prizes for his architectural skills, he found the drafting board tedious; still it was his living, since his first published works were not well received. In 1870, when he was thirty, Hardy met Lavina Gifford. They were engaged but did not marry until four years later, since his desire to become a poet, even had it been fulfilled, scarcely could have kept them. Slowly realizing that writing poetry was a luxury he could not afford, Hardy began writing novels. When in 1874 his Far From the Madding Crowd sold well, Hardy felt an adequate income was assured and they were married. Within a period of twenty-four years Hardy published fourteen novels and many short stories, though he still considered himself primarily a poet. He wrote fiction to please a growing audience, not himself. When his Jude, the Obscure was harshly criticized in 1896, Hardy ceased writing novels, not so much because his feelings were hurt, but because he had made enough to live on the rest of his life, and because he had said everything in fiction he wanted to say. For the next thirty years and more he wrote poetry to please himself. His first wife was sometimes difficult, yet at her death Hardy felt a genuine loss. With his second wife he knew greater peace. He had lived for a time in London, but in 1885, the Hardys moved to the countryside of Dorsetshire, where they lived the rest of their lives. During his final decades Hardy was universally regarded as the grand old man of English letters. Through the years he had won more and more personal friends by the sweetness of his personality, as well as by kindness, deep sincerity, and freedom from hypocrisy and ambition. When he died at the age of eighty-eight, the English public demanded he be given the honor of burial in Westminster Abbey, but his dearest friends, knowing that his heart had ever been in the Dorsetshire soil, felt he should be buried there, which was done. Hardy's Nature That Hardy is pessimistic is the truth immediately evident in Hardy, but it is not the whole truth. First let us remember that Hardy, both as a man and as an artist, was dominated by great sincerity and great integrity: he believed as he did— he wrote as he did, because he could do no other. How desperately he wished he could believe. Next, only those holding a high concept of man can suffer beneath the pains of mortality as deeply as did Hardy. Basic to his writings is his belief, as he quoted from St. Jerome in his preface of Tess of the D'Urbervilles: "If an offense come out of the truth, better is it that the offense come than that the truth be concealed." He felt compelled to portray all of life as he saw it; he wanted to show how in lives of common, isolated people "dramas of a grandeur and unity truly Sophoclean are enacted in the real, by virtue of the concentrated passions and _ closely knit interdependence of the lives therein." And by painting this common reality with such tenderness and sympathy for the downtrodden that the reader cannot escape his accurate and vivid words, he defined the universal experience of all men, giving to the lives of average mankind a tragic significance hitherto unknown. Most important, nature in Hardy is not evil; it is indifferent. Men's lives are 62 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1956 LESSON DEPARTMENT controlled both by their own wills and by fate or doom. But though life sometimes seems aimless, our world is by no means the worst possible. While many evils seem to result from fate, others come from man's own failure to remedy his own inhumanity to his fellows. If man will but abandon his "robustious swaggering optimism," which is "cowardly and insincere," — says Hardy, he can improve man's lot through his own charity and understanding. In an age which increasingly emphasized the machine over man, and the universe-as-machine versus the individual, Hardy _believed that first and last was the human soul, to be balmed through gentleness and love in the face of the suffering and cruelty it seems mortal's lot to bear. Hardy's Poems In his novels Hardy creates strong women and universal situations; but it is in his poems that Hardy reveals his more intimate self. Resisting any tendency to ornate imagery or elaborate rhyme schemes, Hardy's poems often depict the English working class as alternately frank, proud, self-belittling, fickle, weak, obstinate, stoical; often they are heavily tinged with Hardy's ironic humor, as in "A Beauty's Soliloquy During Her Honeymoon" (page 919), "The Man He Killed" (page 923), "A Workhouse Irony," and "Satires of Circumstance" (pp. 924- 925), and "Ah, Are You Digging on My Grave?" (page 925). While several of the above have this sharp twist which makes us wince, basically Hardy is lamenting the loneliness and suffering which all of us know in some degree. 63 Some of his poems have a sense of oneness with nature, a delicacy and lightness which we find in Shakespeare and Robert Frost. The very lilt and word texture of Shakespeare are strong in the poem "Weather" (not in the textbook), which begins: This is the weather the cuckoo likes, And so dol.... A fairly representative mid-note, not gay, is struck in "The Darkling Thrush," despite "Winter's dregs" and the "Century's corpse" (See text, page 920, lines 21-32). In this poem, as in "The Oxen," lies the essential Hardy: lost, pained, aware "that life has bared its bones to me," yet "willing to give ten years of my life to see a ghost," he was eager to believe that life must be better than he had found it. The enduring, the classic Hardy is also best seen in his simple, moving "In Time of "The Breaking of Nations'" (page 926), his reassuring affirmation written during the first world war in protest to the ravages of war within the human soul. Hardy, the Novelist For Virginia Woolf, Thomas Hardy is "one of the greatest writers of tragedy in fiction." His best novels create within themselves great poetic and dramatic powcr. Hardy is a master storyteller who, with a realist's eye, compassion, and an insight deep into humanity, in his best works, often told far better than he knew. The Return of the Native This novel, great as it is, might not be Hardy's greatest; but certainly it is his most representative. Within its pages we find humor, superstition, realism, romance, nature, conflict, suffering, tragedy. It illustrates Hardy's fundamental belief that "a novel is an impression, not an argument." Herein he argues nothing: instead he tells a great story with magnificent power as seen through the eyes of an observer, kindred but detached. Plot Lovely, innocent Thomasin Yeobright lies concealed in the van of her former sweetheart Diggory Venn, the reddleman (or red ocher peddlar), as she returns from the town where she could not marry Damon Wildeve because the license was faulty. Wialdeve had been infatuated with fiery Eustacia Vye, and wasn't too fervent in his desire to marry Thomasin. That same night Eustacia by building a huge bonfire signals Wildeve at his Quiet Woman Inn to come to her. Despite his vow to give her up, he goes to meet Eustacia, but each is unhappy. <A_ boy reports their meeting to Diggory, who pleads with Eustacia to leave Wildeve for Diggory's beloved Thomasin, that she might be happy. When Thomasin's cousin, Clym Yeobright ("the native'), returns to the heath from his life as a diamond merchant in Paris, Eustacia goes disguised to the welcoming party. They fall in love, and Eustacia marries him partly because through him she hopes to escape the dull life on the heath. But Clym becomes neatly blind. When he becomes a menial brush-cutter, Eustacia feels degraded. Partly in resentment she begins seeing Wildeve again. Clym's mother from the beginning of the affair had distrusted Eustacia and opposed the marriage. Relenting, she called at their home, but because Wildeve was there, Eustacia dared not answer her knock. Deeply hurt and exhausted, Mrs. Yeobright begins her return over the hot, barren heath, but is bitten by a snake and dies. When Clym finds how she died, he orders Eustacia out of his house. She returns to her grandfather's house in despair and attempts suicide. Wildeve, now rich through an inheritance, pleads with her to elope with him. The night she leaves to meet him, Clym delivers to her room a letter of reconciliation which she fails to see. Wandering about on the dark heath either she falls or jumps into a pond. Wildeve hears her death-struggle and attempts to rescue her, but both drown. Here the original novel ended, but when his public objected to so gloomy an ending Hardy added a happier one. Clym gives up his attempt to lift up the heath-folk by teaching them and becomes a traveling teacher, and the unselfish and patient Diggory finally wins Thomasin. Excerpts, Characters, Conflicts The great force in the novel is Eustacia, in conflict with the timeless Egdon Heath which has been her only home. In Book First, Hardy at once displays his powers by defining its majestic, brooding splendor. The beginning "The heath wore the appearance of an installment of night...." from chapter I, is a good example. Chapter III contains tangy talk and humor of the heath-folk and reveals Hardy's delight in pixies, ghosts, and racy talk. Chapter VII describes Eustacia, "Queen of Night... Raw material of a divinity," "Assuming that the souls of men and women were visible essences, you could fancy the colour of Eustacia's soul to be flame-like. The sparks from it that rose into her dark pupils gave the same impression." In Book Second, chapter VII, Diggory brings to Wildeve, Eustacia's letter ending their relation, to Diggory's delight. For humor, irony, and reversal, read the dialogue in which Diggory replies "Ru-um-tum-tum" to Wildeve's 64 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1956 LESSON DEPARTMENT pained questions, only to have the tables completely turned a minute later. In Book Third, chapter II, Clym's great love for humankind is defined. For him the heath gives "a barbarous satisfaction at observing that, in some of the attempts at reclamation from the waste, tillage, after holding on for year or two, had receded again in despair, the ferns and furze-tufts stubbornly reasserting themselves." He was the heath, and completely at home there. One of the most powerful scenes is in chapter VIII, when Diggory wins back from Wildeve all the money he had won by gambling from innocent Christian. When a death's-head moth snuffs out the candle, and feverish Wildeve resumes throwing the dice in a desperate effort to regain his losses— when a drove of wild ponies move out of the gloom, attracted by the light—then we have Hardy at his realistic best. For power of dialogue, read in Book Fourth the first chapter, when Eustacia and Mrs. Yeobright, her mother-in-law, flare up over a misunderstanding. Here are two strong wills that neither bend nor break each other. Chapter V records Mrs. Yeobright's journey across the heath, and the painful conversation she tries to carry on with young Johnny Nunsuch after her son's door was not opened to her. The innocent bewilderment of the child, and the scarcely concealed heartbreak of the rebuffed mother are highlighted in a scene of great pathos and power, before she is bitten fatally by the snake. 65 Book Fifth begins with Clym's lamenting to Eustacia that his mother had never called on them, while she has not yet told him that Mrs. Yeobright had come to their home and she had refused to answer the door. Here the irony is indeed painful. Then comes Clym's blind fury when he mistakenly feels that Eustacia was his mother's murderer. The climax of the novel is in chapter ITI when they confront each other. Clym accuses Eustacia, and while she knows, in part, she is guilty, her spirit is never broken. In chapter VII she wanders in confusion into the chaotic night. In chapter IX Wildeve and Clym hear her fall into the weir; both she and Wildeve are drowned. (Read what Clym says to Diggory as he looks at their bodies. ) Book Sixth contains the tackedon happy ending, in which Thomasin marries Diggory. In this novel, then, are blended into one unified whole the scene, character, dialogue, theme, which embody Hardy's central conviction: Oh, would that man could be happy here below. But, as we witness the suffering, which is man's by his very nature, let us sympathize with our fellows, and stand in awe of the existence which seems to shape us to its own indifferent ends. Thoughts for Discussion 1. What qualities must a writer possess to write great poetry and great fiction? 2. What factors in Hardy's life are reflected in his writings? 3. Discuss Hardy's attitude toward nature (1) in his poetry; (2) in The Return of the Native. 4. What effect might an understanding of the gospel have had on Hardy's life? Sane Science— The Constitution of the United States Lesson 20—The Constitution and World Affairs Elder Albert R. Bowen For Tuesday, April 24, 1956 Objective: To show how the United States evolved and developed from weakness to strength under a policy inaugurated by Washington, and to consider our country in relation to world affairs since World War I. Transition of the Nation From Weakness to Strength DURING the first century and a quarter of her constitutional history, the United States developed from a position of perilous weakness to become the mightiest Nation the world has ever seen. This transition from weakness to strength is one of the greatest political miracles of the modern world. It is not to be supposed that the position of the United States among the nations is the result of fortuitous accident. It has come about because of wise and statesmanlike leadership aided by Divine Providence. It often happens, not only in the affairs of men but likewise of nations, that the beginnings are of crucial importance. In order to gain a better understanding of our national beginnings it should be useful to review the circumstances of our national birth. America did not arrive upon the world scene a strong and robust infant. The contrary was the fact. In all categories by which greatness in nations is measured, except one, we were terribly weak and vulnerable. Our population was small, about four million, Page 66 by 1789. We possessed no great cities nor centers of population and industry. 'The Nation was virtually without money or credit. We had no armed strength which deserved mention measured in terms of world power. Such population as we possessed was widely scattered with difficulties of travel and communication between each widely separated section almost insurmountable. It is difficult to imagine in what way foreign invasion could have been successfully defended against in those early years, if undertaken by a strong, well-armed, and determined power. Threats of such attacks were very narrowly averted on many occasions. —. """h. Wisdom of Early Leaders In one quality, however, the United States possessed an abundant superiority. That superiority was founded in the wisdom of her great early leaders, headed by Washington. Beginning with Washington, the United States launched upon her world journey, carefully steering a course the results of which bear eloquent testimony to the greatness of her leadership. It should not be ', \ LESSON DEPARTMENT deemed out of place to suggest at this point that we have not always followed as wisely as we were led. It should likewise not be considered out of place to suggest that the perils of our day are as great as those of Washington's day, and require as enlightened a leadership as in any period of our history. Constitutional History, 1789-1800 The constitutional history of the United States, in relation to world events, may be divided into three phases or periods. The first of these periods was from about 1789 to 1800. This period might be characterized as the period during which the United States was struggling to escape from the toils of European entanglements. Principle of Neutrality It will be remembered that during the perilous days of the Revolution we entered into an alliance with France. This was implemented by two treaties. One a treaty of friendship; and, two, an alliance which required each party to come to the aid of the other in case of attack. When France, under Napoleon, became involved with the rest of Europe in a series of wars, she remembered the American treaty, and demanded that the United States should enter those wars as her ally in return for the help she had rendered during the Revolution. In 1793, Washington and his Cabinet, after very carefully weighing the provisions of the treaty, concluded that its terms did not require the United States to enter this war on the side of France. It was firmly decided that the United States would remain neutral. 67 There followed a period of several years during which the American Nation had to suffer great indignity at the hands of both Britain and France in asserting and attempting to uphold the principle of neutrality and free trade. American shipping, property, and citizens were seized with contemptuous impunity, and many American sailors were impressed to fight in British warships against the French. In spite of the insults and the great injuries suffered, the United States steadfastly refused to recede from its position of neutrality and continued to protest and assert its citizens' right to free access to the markets of the world as non-belligerent and peaceful traders. This policy was maintained despite the demands of many Americans who were sympathetic to the French cause and who would have fought with France against England. In his Farewell Address, Washington laid down the principles of American foreign policy which were adhered to by succeeding administrations from that time until World War I. His philosophy of neutrality is expressed in this language: In the execution of such a plan [neutrality] nothing is more essential than that permanent, inveterate antipathies against particular nations and passionate attachments for others should be excluded; and that, in place of them, just the amiable feelings towards all should be cultivated.... The nation which indulges towards another an habitual hatred or an habitual fondness is in some degree a slave. It is a-slave to its animosity or to its affection, either of which is sufficient to lead it astray from its duty and its interest. It should not be supposed that this American policy laid down by Washington emerged spontaneous- 68 ly. It was the result of experience coupled with great wisdom and foresight on the part of the Nation's leaders who announced it. It is an historical fact that the colonies of England in the New World had been drawn into every European quarrel which England entered _before the Revolution, beginning with King William's War, in 1689, and ending with the French and Indian War in 1763 in which Washington himself had fought. In all of those struggles the colonies suffered serious loss in life and property and had received no compensating gain of any kind. At the end of each of those wars the peace was made in Europe without consulting Americans, and the situation, so far as it concerned Americans, was returned to the same position as before the struggle was commenced. 'These wars were primarily dynastic quarrels involving Britain, France, Spain, and Austria. Our forefathers learned by bitter experience that it was a costly and profitless adventure to fight in the quarrels of Europe. Thus equipped with the lessons of the past, Washington and_ those who followed him, determined that the strength and vitality of the new Nation should not be dissipated by taking sides in foreign wars. In his Farewell Address, Washington made the shrewd and statesmanlike prediction that if America adhered strictly to her own concerns and followed a policy of friendship toward all nations, that day would come when America would be strong and independent, capable of following an independent course of action. He said: RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1956 If we remain one people, under an efficient government, the period is not far off, when we may defy material injury from external annoyance; when we may take such an attitude as will cause the neutrality we may at any time resolve upon to be scrupulously respected. When belligerent nations, under the impossibility of making acquisitions upon us, will not lightly hazard the giving us provocation when we may choose peace or wat, as our interest, guided by our justice, shall counsel.... The wisdom, the foresight, and the sagacity of Washington and his successors have been so abundantly proved by events, as to leave no room for doubt or disagreement. Constitutional History, 1800-1917 During the Nineteenth Century, the predictions of Washington became a reality. The Monroe Doctrine was announced in 1823, which excluded the European nations from further acquisitions of territory in the New World. In the meantime, the borders of the United States were widened until they encompassed all territory between the Atlantic and the Pacific. The American policy of neutrality was strengthened, the doctrine of Freedom of the Seas was developed and successfully asserted. America was not involved in a single non-American war until World War I. Constitutional History, 1917— With World War I we began the third phase of American world affairs. We have completely, or nearly so, reversed our traditional world policy until now our commitments and responsibilities have become world-wide. We are furthermore committed to a whole series of alliances and treaties which bind us to the fate of other nations, and LESSON DEPARTMENT which have destroyed the freedom of action which we enjoyed during the great development of our country into a mighty world power. 'The question we must now ask ourselves is, where is this new American world policy leading us? Under the Constitution the conduct of our foreign affairs is divided between the President of the United States and Congress. 'To the President is given the command of our armed forces, and upon him is placed the responsibility of defending and protecting the Nation from external attack. To Congress, however, is committed the power to declare war. Emergency Powers of the President Congress has conferred upon the President many powers that the Executive may use only in time of "emergency." 'There has been, and continues to be, great controversy over these powers, but it is generally agreed that the President decides what shall be regarded as an "emergency." However, it is clear that the President uses these powers mainly in times of foreign danger or periods of economic depression. President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. In his address (November 21, 1952) entitled "Let Us Not Sell Our Children Into Slavery," warns the Nation against the augmentation of the President's war powers, beyond the provisions of the Constitution. He reminds us that the war powers prescribed by the Constitution are all in Congress, except, of course, that the President is Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces... - But when that body [Congress]: DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 69 Three Part Sacred Choruses For Women's Voices = Peace | Leave With You— Roberts _..2.......022 2 eee eceeceeeeceeeceteeeeee 16 a O Lord Most Merciful—Wilson.....18 De Forth In Thy Name, O Lord, | Go—Madsen...00.......2...2000 econ.20 a When Children Pray—Fenner.......18.. Recessional—Dekoven.............--.---- 18 a Lord, Hear Our Prayer— Aschenbrenner................--sccseseeeeee 15 Bis How Happy All They— Mendelssohn.....: 15 = The Silent Sea—Neidlinger...........20 oe Unto Thee, I Lift Mine Eyes— Beethoven...............:::: c. Ceceeeeceesseees 18 —— Still, Still With Thee—Madsen.......22 Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank; 15 £. Ist South! Salt Lake City 1, Utah: Please send the music indicated above. O On Approval Lj) Charge (1 Money Enclosed Name TTT ttl vs E. Ist South 445 NORTH UNIVERSITY, PROVO / 2260 WASHINGTON BOD OGDEN passes laws to implement these powers, then the execution of these laws becomes the duty and responsibility of the Chief Executive, and the powers granted by such laws, and only those so granted, constitute the war powers of the President as Chief Executive. But none of such powers are inherent in the office of the Chief Executive.... But as our laws show, such Chief Executive powers (conferred upon him by Congress in time of war) may be of the widest scope, including provisions derogatory and even largely destructive of the ordinary peace-time civil rights of individuals. However, to repeat, this authority and these powers are to be measured exclusively by the express statutory enactments of the Congress... As specifically authorized by Constitutional provision. They are not to be considered as growing out of, or in any necessary way, concerned with, related to, or enlarged by his powers as Commander in Chief.... It is wholly governed by Constitutional provision and limitation. 'Thus-far-shaltthou-go-and-no-farther is inherent in the whole situation (Clark: J. Reuben, Jr., "Let Us Not Sell Our Children Into Slavery"). Treaty Making Power The treaty-making power under the Constitution is likewise divided. It is the duty and prerogative of the Presidential Office to negotiate treaties, to appoint all ambassadors, consular officers, and _ representatives, and to conduct our foreign affairs. All treaties and diplomatic appointments are subject to Senate ratification. It is interesting to see how this constitutional authority, divided as it is, has worked out in actual practice. Commitment of Armed Forces Previous to Declaration of War As far as the wars in which America has been involved are concerned, declaration of war in every case, except one, has followed the commitment of our armed forces to action by the President. The sole exception was the war of 1812. American armed forces have been sent abroad into action over one hundred times in engagements too limited in scope to be defined as war. Our recent experience in the Korean War is a case in point. United States troops were ordered into action with no previous consultation of Congress whatsoever. In the case of World War II, aggressive, wat-like action was undertaken upon presidential order far in advance of war declaration. Intention of Founding Fathers It was not intended by the Founding Fathers that the presidential authority should extend to making war without the action of Congress to approve it. On the other hand, it was also not intended that the hands of the President should be helplessly tied in the event world crises made it imperative, in the face of national peril, to use the Nation's armed forces to repel attack or to prevent a threatened attack from becoming successful. In this sphere of constitutional function it was impossible to draw the lines sharply and with absolute certainty. Under these conditions the personality of the President is of unique and very special importance. Our history has proved that the United States can be committed to war by the President. Once we are so committed it is very difficult if not impossible to withdraw. In the case of Korea, perhaps, it 70 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1956 LESSON DEPARTMENT may be said that the President acted to meet a situation requiring instant decision. Without debating the merits of the Korean War or of any other war in which the United States has been engaged in the past, one thing at least stands out with crystal clarity—may heaven preserve us from the misfortune of an irresponsible, ambitious President who could, without our consent, involve us in foreign adventures which could result in our destruction! It must be remembered that the conditions of this modern world are so critical and so pressing that strong, decisive, speedy action is often necessary. The President alone can provide this kind of action. Consequently many are willing to give very far-reaching powers to the President. Others fear our republican form of Government cannot be maintained if further, stronger powers are placed in the hands of one Executive. 'Thoughtful citizens therefore fear future misuse of such near-absolute power and must know constitutional provisions for separation of powers, checks and balances, in order to vote intelligently for men who will act to keep the word and spirit of the Constitution. Questions on the Lesson 1. What was Washington's foreign policy? 2. Why did he adopt such a policy? 3. What are the three phases of the Constitutional history of the United States in relation to world affairs? 4. What had been this country's experience in foreign relations before the Constitution? 5. What does the term "Freedom of the Seas" mean? 6. What is the Monroe Doctrine? 71 THE WORLD'S FINEST PIANOS Mason & Hamlin The Stradivari of Pianos EVERETT Finest Toned Spinet Piano Built Cable | Nelson Finest Low Priced Piano Built ~~ All Obtainable At Beesley Music Co. Pioneer Piano People 70 S. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH WRITE FOR 1956 TRAVEL PROGRAMS <~> VIDA FOX CLAWSON 966 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah Phone: EMpire 4-2017 7. How does presidential action under the Constitution affect war or peace in America? What is the function of the President in time of danger? What is the function of Congress at such times? 8. In the history of the United States has war followed a declaration by Congress or preceded it? G. Why is the personality of the President important to the question of war Or peace? Chime Sternal Vesta N. Lukei The clear Light of today Has lost its mystery, But always of tomorrow we Can dream. COOKING ELECTRICALLY brings better food with (=) less work Ch ao, ® Buy from Your Dealer Be Modern... Live Electrically UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. 2nd Annual L. D. S. SPRING BLOSSOM CRUISE TOUR HAWAII Via S. S. Lurline MAY 3, 1956 DELUXE FOUR ISLAND TOUR $695.00 minimum INGLEWOOD TRAVEL SERVICE 327 E. Manchester J. Keith Gudmundson, Conducting Inglewood, Calif. It's awaiting You... E WES there is still a tremendous amount of outstanding instruction and use awaiting you in this and other copies of the Relief Society Magazine. Your editions may be handsomely bound at the West's finest bindery and printing plant for $2.50 cloth bound and $3.50 leather bound per volume plus postage for mail orders. All mail orders must be paid in advance. Follow these postage rates if you send your order by mail: Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles 2.0... Eeeeeceeeeeeeeece35 150 to 300 miles 39 300 to 600 miles.......45 & 600 to 1000 miles som ooh! 1000 to 1400 miles.....00...2..2... Ee. 64 1400 to 1800 miles —....0.. 76 Over 1800 miles..87 Leave them at our conveniently 'located uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-2581 31 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah 72 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1956 Building a Bigger... Cored ae taals Gigantic strides have been made the past year in building a bigger, better, greater University of Utah. This is the most extensive building program in the history of our school, providing wonderful new facilities, opportunities and conveniences for students at the 'U'. But there is much more to offer at the University, including the strongest faculty ever assembled at the school and special training in ten varied fields of education. The University of Utah also offers the advantages of home and the opportunity for outstanding religious study at the Institute of Religion. Environment There are many reasons for studying at the 'U' For full information write: OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT UNIVERSITY OF UTAH Salt Lake City 1, Utah Better University for YOU UNION BUILDING—The $2,250,000 student Union Building is well under way and will be ready for use next fall. A OE SG — JOHN L. BALLIF HALL—The long-needed John L. Ballif dormitory for men costing $1,000,000 is already partly occupied and will be completely finished and filled for the winter quarter. ORSON SPENCER HALL—The $750,000 Orson Spencer Hall, beautiful and modern classroom building, is being utilized to capacity. "4 W JOR-LA-40-41493 PEB Yromn the Crossroads € ¥ GE JAMBE BM. FeUH AM L. Richard L. Evans This latest collection contains over 100 sermonettes that offer rich and abundant food for thought. Life Magazine describes it as, "A brief respite from the world's week... A great chord of common thoughts on God and love and the everlasting things." $2.75 2. Commentary on the Book of Mormon VOLUME | George Reynolds and Janne M. Sjodahl Teachers, students, and general readers will greatly appreciate this newly revised edition of a valuable commentary on the first part of The Book of Mormon, from First Nephi to the Book of Omni. It supplements much of the historical] data, explains many of the dominant passages, and offers greater understanding of basic doctrine. $5.00 3. Doctrines of Salvation VOLUME I Selections and Writings of President Joseph Fielding Smith Compiled by Bruce R. McConkie From thousands of personal] letters, published sermons, articles in publications, cemes this wealth of doctrinal information on such vital subjects as the Godhead, our first and second estates, creation and destiny of our earth, the fall and atonement, everlasting covenants, restoration of all things, and many other subjects. $3.00 4. Doctrines of Salvation VOLUME II Selections and Writings of President Joseph Fielding Smith Compiled by Bruce R. McConkie Just off the press, this second volume also contains much new material that has not been available before in L. D. S. Literature, on such pertinent topics as the plan of salvation for both the living and the dead, exaltation, celestial marriage, spiritual life and death, law of temple building, law of the resurrection and many other subjects.; $3.00 "Deseret | f Book (0. — __ 44 East South » Temple -- Salt Lake City. Lake City, Utah ——— ' AR Ney — —_—_------ DESERET BOOK CO. 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah Gentlemen: Enclosed you will find. (| ) check ( ). Maney order ( ) charge to my account the following amount $ for the encircled (numbered) books: 1 2 3 4 Name Address 77 cc (CE 7 ecco ocpener cere coceececocnene reer eRe ZONGC....00-. StAte........ Cecsecesene-coeee Residents of Utah include 2% sales tax. R | I | I | | | | | | I | | I | l 1 1 l 1 I l I J; toll WVhite Flour Dorothy J. Roberts Not inexorable in their power, The years and distance lend a still, white hour. On mounded hush, you cross, and leave no trace, The long way back to me through time and place. And far beyond the field's unsullied snow You lead me to the land of long ago— The rutted lane, the gelding's crystal track. By these familiar places I come back To humped canal and quilted arc of hill. A tingling pulse denies the evening chill. Companioned still, I mark the winter dune; In your eyes pool again the opal moon. On blades of steel I sign the frozen pond, Your crossed hands clasping mine in mittened bond. Your words are vapor on the frosty night; Each murmur but a passing mist of white. With muted step along the fettered streams, I walk with you the land of youth and dreams. The Cover: Flats and Old Windmill Relic in Wickham Terrace Brisbane, Queensland, Australia Photograph Courtesy Australian National Publicity Association Submitted by Leah Liljenquist Frontispiece: Mount Olympus, Utah, and Meadow Land in Winter Photograph by Peterson Studios, Salt Lake City, Utah Cover Design by Evan Jensen Page 73 From lear and Sar May I tell you how much I like the article "Wearing a Pretty Face," by Mabel Law Atkinson, in the October 1955 issue of the Magazine. It is one of the most inspiring features I have ever read. I am reminded that time for New Year's resolutions is drawing near, and among those which I shall make I shall incorporate the philosophy contained in Mrs. Atkinson's article. And just to make certain that I remember to wear a pretty face myself, I shall keep a copy of the October Magazine handy so that I can refer to it often. —Edna Day Idaho Falls, Idaho I particularly enjoyed the story "The Scarlet Cloak of Love," by Lane Stanaway Christian in the December Magazine, and also the lovely poem "Christmas Night," by Eva Willes Wangsgaard. The poem is an exquisite piece with a deeper meaning implied! I was proud to be in the same issue with that fine work! —Maude Rubin Santa Ana, California I was proud of the story "The Scarlet Cloak of Love," by Lane Stanaway Christian in the December issue of The Relief Society Magazine, and the poem "The Greater Part," by Della Adams Leitner, my Idaho friends. I also enjoyed the article "Mother Had a Way," by Leone E. McCune. I met her at a writer's convention in Logan some time ago. By way of commendation for the literature lessons, I might say that while attending a convention in Boise last fall, I was seated between two college professors, teachers of English literature. During the dinner their conversation turned to the great writers of the ages. I was surely appreciative of the fine course of study which has been given us in the literature lessons, for I was able to follow them and join in the conversation. —TFrances C. Yost Bancroft, Idaho Page 74 I like the serial "Hermanas" currently running in The Relief Society Magazine very well. It has more to it than some of the other serials have had, and its effectiveness is enhanced by the foreign setting. It is beautifully written, and the Church element is brought in naturally— not thrown in. —Dorothy Clapp Robinson Boise, Idaho I especially enjoyed and appreciated the short articles in the August issue. How simply stated, yet how powerful are the sermons without preaching in "Light Bulbs," by Elsie Scott; "An Invisible Means of Support,' by Caroline E. Miner; "Watchers," by Kate Richards (I needed this); "Trouble," by Lucille R. Taylor; "A Song of the Heart" (lovely, lovely), by Elsie Sim Hansen; and "Look to the Mountains," by Blanche Johnson. How beautifully and effectively stated are the timeless values in "Family Patterns" (editorial by Marianne C. Sharp). My heart sang a prayer of gratitude as I read it. Since that first reading I have reread it many times and have caught a glimpse of the glorious possibilities that are mine as a mother and grandmother — and I hope a great-grandmother. I am glad for the help this article gave me in teaching these truths to my group in our home. I am deeply appreciative for all the help we receive in our effort to get our own to see the importance of courtship, its sacredness and meaning in the joyous married life anticipated. Surely our leaders are inspired in the messages they give us through our Magazine from time to time. —Mabel Law Atkinson Salt Lake City, Utah We certainly appreciate The Relief Society Magazine and receive much joy and instruction from reading through each publication. —Asael T. Sorensen President Brazilian Mission Sao Paulo, Brazil THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - - - -. - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - First Counselor Velma N. Simonsen - - - - - Second Counselor Margaret C. Pickering - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Leone O. Jacobs Mildred B. Eyring Winniefred S. Edith S. Elliott Louise W. Madsen Helen W. Anderson Manwaring Florence J. Madsen Aleine M. Young Gears S. Boyer Elna P. Haymond Leone G. Layion. Josie B. Ba Charlotte A. Larsen Annie M. Elisworth Blanche B. Stoddard Christine H. Robinson Edith P. Backman Mary R. Young Evon W. Peterson Alberta H. Christensen RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Vol. 43: _ FEBRUARY 1956 No. 2 Con tents SPECIAL FEATURES IL (2x6 (SKE) OY ©), ee Adam §. Bennion 76 The Australian Mission............ CcsccssecscsssscessssescscessseecassseeioceccceecnsnessessceseencasnsassonsnsereneasensceseceePreston Nibley 88 Tribute to the Visiting Teachers... Ce ececec-ceceecececeecceceeeeccncnececeesceceeessenenseceoeneeenuenenencteWanda Pexton 103 The Majestic View a.. Ruth Wilson 103 Weal LE TURES rE_Nell Murbarger 104 Table Decorations for Anniversary Day...........--- Inez R. Allen 106 FICTION Keep Me Forever — Second Prize Story....... -Margaret Hardy 82 There Is Still Time — Chapter 1] -..... Eeeeeieeceeeeeeteteee eee Margery 8S. Stewart 90 Hermanas — Chapter 8 — Conclusion................ Fay Tarlock 111 GENERAL FEATURES From Near and Far 74 Sixty Years Ago Se eR ere 96 Woman's Sphere 0.2 eeeecececeseeeceeeceeseeeeeeeeeeceeeceeeeeneeeceees Ramona W. Cannon 97 Editorial: Anniversary Day - _ Belle S. Spafford 98 In Memoriam — Mary Grant Judd. A. A Se... 100 Birthday Congratulations to Former President Amy Brown Lyman......... 100 Notes to the Field: Notes From the Field Should Be Submitted Promptly -.0.......2.-----.2c: c: c-csseseceseetee 101 Programs for Anniversary Day; 101 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities 4 Margaret C. Pickering 118 Penne * FOR THE HOME Recipes From Australia Irene T. Erekson 102 Salads for Health and Beauty Rhea H. Gardner 108 Mary Blanchard Williams Decorates Cakes............ 110 Miniature Plants 2........ Ceceesecsccesesccecesceceecteecseeceeecesesceeeeeceenees Elizabeth Williamson 117 LESSONS FOR MAY Theology: Christ Among the Nephites 2... Oe. CceececcececcseseesneseneeececceescteeeeeseeeeeeetecsLeland H. Monson 122 Visiting Teacher Messages: *... For Behold, Ye Are Free; Ye Are Permitted to Act For Yourselves' ooo eececeecceceececeeceeenecceeceeeseesecesneneeeceseesceeceeseneneeceneceens Edith S. Elliott 127 Work Meeting: Salads..... 2. EsRhea H. Gardner 128 Literature: Review of English Literature _ Briant S. Jacobs 130 Social Science: The Fruits of Freedom ooo...... CccciceeeeesceececcseeceneeseneeceeeeeeeceeeeeeeeeceeeeeneeeaeessAlbert R. Bowen 137 POETRY Still, White Hour — Frontispiece Dorothy J. Roberts 73 SSIOXON SCS) c=)Eva Willes Wangsgaard 81 STOW ~ssscssssseeccsncanceeseeecnssteenercomnecsereecesanenecanasateerconassssonnsnuastesetausersestanseneneeecsserseesranasaseronnssnseeChristie Lund Coles 95 Down Under'' Ruth MacKay 103 Prairie Winter. Grace Barker Wilson 109 Time Mabel Jones Gabbott 110 SS] 8 e)<] ol -\o] Anna Rice 121 My New Home....................: Pearl D. Bringhurst 144 Rocketeer Maude Rubin 144 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 40 North Main, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone EM 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year, payable in advance. Single copy, 15c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1108, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Page 75 Leadership Elder Adam S. Bennion Of the Council of the Twelve [Address Delivered at the Annual General Relief Society Conference, September 28, 1955] I think it was Elbert Hubbard once who was asked, "Is a woman as good as a man?" and he made that classic remark, "She is if she is." Now, having heard these singers and these speakers, they are! It is an honor to be here. The comprehensiveness of the presentations, the loveliness of this music— Berkeley is a kind of second home to me, and I'd like these lovely ladies to go back with my tribute that this has been some of the most beautiful music I have ever heard— and to think that it comes from one of the stakes of Zion—this is a wonderful Church. I have been assigned a subject— there are many things which I think I should like to talk about this morning—but I have been given the subject of leadership. I hesitate to launch it because you do such an eminently good job, I know you are wonderfully well led, and all of you are the leaders of this great organization. Since childhood, I have been brought up on the sanctity of the Relief Society tradition, the tradition of helpful, unselfish service. Sister Bennion always insists this is the finest organization in the Church, and though I am a Sunday School man, we never quarrel. Here is an institution which all through its illustrious history has been guided by the inspiration of Page 76 Grin Spafford, Sister McKay, leadership. As a matter of fact, I am impressed that good leadership is the key to every organization that succeeds. Civilization over and over bears witness that that statement is true. Try to imagine the advancement of Greece without Plato and Socrates and Aristotle. 'Think of Rome without her Caesar and her Cicero, or England without Gladstone, Disraeli, the Pitts, and Churchill. And what might America have been or not have been without Washington, Jefferson, Hamilton, and Lincoln? I have thought of the progress of this great organization. You try to think of it without the achieving inspiration of such leaders as Emma Smith, Eliza R. Snow, Zina D. H. Young, Bathsheba Smith, Emmeline B. Wells, Clarissa S$. Williams, Louise Y. Robison, Amy Brown Lyman, and Belle S. Spafford. A man is proud to pay tribute to that kind of women leaders in very deed. Leadership has made this organization memorable all through the history of the Church throughout the stakes and down through the wards. Week after week, as we go out to these conferences, we thrill at the goodness of the people. It is wonderful to come into an audience like this. That roll call to me was tremendous. I could not afford to sit and let one stake detract from a one-hundred-per-cent _ response. LEADERSHIP OW, under your gracious invitation, you want to become still better leaders, and you give to me the invitation to think through for a few minutes with you what it is that makes for leadership and the development of power in it. I am mindful that leaders are born as well as made, and we cannot all be equally strong. You remember the words of Abraham: Now the Lord had shown unto me, Abraham, the intelligences that were organized before the world was; and among all these there were many of the noble and great ones; And God saw these souls that they were good, and he stood in the midst of them, and he said: These I will make my tulers; for he stood among those that were spirits, and he saw that they were good; and he said unto me: Abraham, thou art one of them; thou wast chosen before thou wast born ( P. Of G. P., Book of Abraham 3:22-23). No one can tread the history of God's work and not know that he has chosen his inspired leaders. We cannot all reach the heights of Abraham, but we can all add to our stature. Under stimulation and direction, we can more neatly approach our potential, and so, if I may enjoy the spirit of this remarkable occasion, and the spirit of the Lord, I should like to offer you five suggestions which we have developed in the last quarter of a century in the world of business as we have undertaken to build leaders in a great organization. I come to you today with the conviction that the principles, the basic principles, hold in religious circles quite as they do in secular realms. These suggestions are a little homely; they have come from 77 men who have achieved. They are from sales managers and plant superintendents, crew foremen in a workaday world, and they smack a little of the earth. 'They are couched in terms of the shop and the field; they are in the language of your sons who earn their bread by the sweat of their faces. I have to ask a little indulgence. I have debated whether I should do this. I am talking to a group of lovely and refined women, and I am going to bring you some English that isn't of my training (that used to be my major field, and so I am aware of the colloquialisms), but I like the effectiveness of the way these men have said these things. And so will you take them, right off the vine, and if you are a little annoyed at them, you refine them, will you? I am sure the sense is good; the words are a little on the rough side. Asa matter of fact, I bring them to you in a sort of recipe. I left the house this morning with the odor of chili sauce in my nostrils. I was impressed, Sister Romney, with your description of Central America — I want to see that some time, but I want to tell you in the fall of the year, it's hard to beat chili sauce. Now, will you let me bring you a homely kind of recipe. This almost smacks of chili, too. IVE suggestions which have been given me, and which have been worked out, and which have been translated into courses of leadership. I take you where you are; I bid you to aspire to be stronger tomorrow than you are today, and in that spirit, I bring you these suggestions: You gotta know your stuff. You gotta understand people. You gotta spread a contagion. You gotta see through today to tomorrow. 5. You gotta have help. Ne NOW: you needn't worry if I went a little bit fast for you, because I'm going to back up. But that's it, and I just want to fill in a little. Will you pardon that "gotta." G-o-double-t-a._ It isn't in the dictionary, but I like it. It carries with it a kind of compulsion, if you would achieve the end result. First, you gotta know your stuff. The man who said that, for twenty years had been the leading salesman in Our organization, and he said there is no substitute for it. Who lead in the field of social science or in work projects or in theological lessons or in visits to the home, did you notice the comprehensiveness of the suggestions of Sister Spafford this morning? To be equipped, really to know what to do, an executive must know—a leader must be familiar with a wealth of information. For years I have been saying the man who presumes or aspires to be a leader should know more, or should be learning more, than anybody in the group to be led. Now that makes provision for the young worker. He may not know so much now, but he can be learning faster, he can be working harder. I am always impressed that Jesus spoke, "... As one having authority..." (Mt. 7:29). Inspired of his Father, he knew the word, he knew the truth. The Prophet Joseph was asked, You - "What do you believe?" and he gave in answer that tremendous statement couched in the Articles of Faith. No man could have done that who was not prepared, prepared under the inspiration of God Almighty. He was the Prophet's teacher. I cannot tell you where you will get your information; did we have the time to expand it, I would just weary you. The plain fact is that a leader—can't improve on the language—you gotta know your stuff. You teach a lesson, you must know it. You've gone through it, you know it thoroughly well. You cannot teach well when you prepare your lesson on the way to Relief Society meeting. The best teacher prepares his lessons months in advance and matures them and dreams about them, and fills them in and enriches them. Suggestion No. 1, You gotta know your stuff. I was thinking of the second one all the time Sister Romney was speaking. See the contrast, from the classic loveliness of the music of Berkeley Stake to the native costumes and the bare feet of Central America—and we are called to minister in both fields. "You have to understand people." And be able to make the allowance to adjust. Look, every leader must have followers, and the followers are people, and people are born into the world with instincts which they develop out of an environment—and people are what they are. (If there were more men here, I'd say some of us are odd creatures. ) People are a challenge. I have 78 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1956 LEADERSHIP been working with young people all my life. You work so hard to try to understand youth, and you just begin to feel that perhaps you do a little bit, and along comes a new generation—new slang, new dress, new everything. I saluate you, if you understand your group. I confess that I do not. And the more people I see and work with, the less I seem to know about them. But it is a fascinating challenge to try to understand them. Why do some people get bored, and why are some people annoyed, and why do some people never seem to warm up to the truth? This is part of your challenge. With their feelings, with their inertia, with their aspirations, with their occasional prejudices, with their fixed opinions sometimes. How do you understand them, and how do you appeal to them to move them? What a study! A leader must be aware, first of all, of all these differences, and then he must have the genius to reconcile them and to inspire a response. It is one of the great challenges of leadership! The third suggestion, "You gotta spread a contagion. We have an odd way in America, whenever there is a contagious disease, we hang a little yellow strip out on the door saying, "You better not come in, you'll come down with something." I wish I had the genius to put a little badge across every leader's forehead which would invite in these terms, "Come on in and mingle with us, and you'll come up with something." We haven't done it, I wish we might. I would like to have the genius to do that. 79 "You have to spread a contagion." Look, some days are tough, some days you are tired, some days you are worn out, I know that. I was in a home the other night where there was a little family of seven children, and I wondered how the mother keeps it up. The everlasting who, where, why, and how— men have such an easy task as compared with women who bring up and train and nurture little children. I have always said it, I salute them. Now I know you get tired, and when things go wrong, I suppose you get a little out of sorts, but the tough days will never make a leader out of you if the discouragement gets you down. "You gotta spread a contagion." Leave the ills and the worries and the unfortunate things back in the closet. When you go out to Relief Society, take the cheer, rise above the circumstance, and aspire to inspire fine workers. 'This is scant treatment of a homemade recipe, but it is there. What do they come up with from you? I can't put it better than that. They are tired, too, and they are a little discouraged, and they are haying some difficulty, and sometimes their husbands are unmindful of them. Sometimes they are facing catastrophe; sometime they are trying to climb up out of sin. What do you do for them? That's the challenge of spreading a contagion— you just have to reach out with the spirit that gives them the buoyancy of soul that will lead them to accomplish their aspirations. And the fourth suggestion, "You gotta see through today to tomor- row." 'The leader always is a man of vision. Let me get into my own group. The leader is a woman of vision. She is a long-range worker. She is a pioneer of thought. She plans ahead, so that she always knows the next move. She looks the year's work through. That gives her time to arrange the details for the program ahead. Special days, special occasions, fascinating problems, and challenging and intriguing questions. By being prepared in advance, she can anticipate all of those. More than that, she can meditate along the way. A preliminary thinking conjures up new ideas, and the more you turn them over, the more they breed additional ideas. The trouble with eleventhhour preparation is there is no time for hatching the idea. This is crude, particularly in this presence, but no hen ever hatches an egg in a hurry. She sits—as a matter of fact—I like it a little better if you say she "sets," and you gotta "set" long enough to warm the eggs to hatch them. I want to tell you, some of. Us sit on. Ideas, and we are so cold and the period is so brief, they can never be "hatched." Well, pardon the crudeness of that —I came off the farm, you'll soon understand. Will you let me borrow another figure from the farm? "Once you look over the fence, you can see the field out ahead, but you can never see the field if you are all the time looking behind the fence." You gotta get up where you can see, "you gotta see through today to tomorrow." "Well, you are gracious and patient. I want to give you the fifth point. "You gotta have help." Real leaders are always strong individuals, but they are seldom soloists. They solicit help, and they capitalize on the strength of the men they lead. Every man and every woman has some contnbution to make. That is the glory of being children of God. Nobody is born into the world, so far as I am able to find, wholly devoid of ideas, and the wise leader capitalizes on the strength of his group. There is a little bit to be added by every woman here this morning; could we clear the decks here, there would come a suggestion from every good woman in this presence, and the sum total of what you give is the strength of this gathering. OW, you work in the field of religion. I want to close with the thought that brings you the real help. I am just back from a stirring experience up in the Northwest, with the boys who are up there on missions. I've listened to their testimonies, and one boy stood up and said, "I was frightened; I was nearly afraid to death when I first came, I seemed such a kid, but, you know, I soon learned I never called on a home alone." I like that. He said, "Somebody seemed always to go along with me, and it wasn't just my companion." Dinsmore said it beautifully, "If no help had ever come from God" (if you get nothing else out of what I say today, take this one back, will you? I would have read for weeks to get this line), "If no help had 80 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1956 LEADERSHIP ever come from God, the impulse to pray would have died out long ago." After you have done all that you can, after you have worked to the full of your capacities, after you have given your whole concern and your whole heart to this labor, you go out with the wonderful assurance that there is help for you. I think one of the richest promises in all sacred Scripture is Doctrine and Covenants, section 112, verse 10—it is a favorite of mine— "Be thou humble; and the Lord thy God shall lead thee by the hand, and give thee answer to thy prayers." And that promise we give to you fine workers. You do not work alone. You need help, as the boy said, "You've gotta have help," and it is yours for the asking. And so, summing it up in a word: 81 you gotta know your stuff; you gotta understand people; you gotta spread a contagion; you gotta see through today to tomorrow; and you gotta have help. Do you want to translate this homely little recipe into a tangible idea? I bid you to observe the First Presidency of this Church: I think one of the strongest First Presidencies in 125 years. I pay them that tribute. 'This honored wife today of one of the greatest prophets ever to live could give you the intimate witness that leadership is bestowed upon that Presidency, because they have achieved it, and it can be bestowed upon you, on the. Same terms. God bless you and sustain you and magnify you, I pray, in the name of the Lord, Jesus Christ. Amen. Snowscape Eva Willes Wangsgaard We reached the snow-wrapped hilltop where a blast Of wind caught up a plume of smoke and hurled It fiercely at the clouds. Below, a vast Array of wintered hills made up the world. The drifts were deep and furry on our hill Where rippled shadows, blue and violet, lay; But mountain peaks were calcite-sharp and chill, Majestic, crystalline, and far away. The house from which the blue-gray smoke had climbed Lay with its sheds, half-hidden in a swale. They seemed just smaller hills all winter-rimed Till someone walked there, swinging a sunlit pail, A sign of homely warmth, a fruitful stall; And peace, no longer cold, lay over all. Second Prize Story Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest Keep Me Forever Margaret Hardy MARGARET HARDY LLY sat in the middle. Of her K father's potato field, her braids nearly brushing the ground as she rested her head on her knees. There was no shade anywhere, so she sat between the rows that she had been hoeing. Picking up her apron, she wiped the perspiration from her face and sat absently examining the dirty place it left. The clumsy, hateful hoe lay on the ground beside her, waiting to be used again. She looked at it, then at her father to see if he could see her sitting there. He could, for he called to her, and she Page 82 stood and picked the hoe up again. Her muscles ached from all her stooping, and she stretched her stocky body out thin. When she turned her head from side to side, she could see clean, cold snow high on the Alps bordering their valley, and she wished she had a handful to rub in her face. As she stood wishing, she heard a loud, distressing cry coming from the house. She saw her father spring up and stand still to listen. The sound came again, closer this time, and they could see the mother in the yard, leaning against the fence post, by the gate. It was Papa's name she was calling, but in no ordinary way, and Papa and Elly dropped their hoes and ran across the field, jumping over potato plants as they ran. Papa ran faster than Elly, with his long legs, and shoes to protect his feet from the sharp stones; so when Elly reached the gate, Papa was helping Mama into the house, and Mama was bent over, and was hardly walking at all. Elly didn't know why she had run, and now that she was there, she didn't know what to do. So she went to the watering trough and splashed water in her face until it trickled down her braids and made her blouse cool and wet. She heard Mama cry out again from the house, KEEP ME FOREVER but this time she wasn't calling anyone, but making noises that a ten-year-old didn't understand. She went to the goat pen and let the goats chew on the stick she had in her hand. Mama cried out again and again, and Elly dropped her stick and clutched her fists to her mouth and cried, too. She wanted to run in the house and see what all this was, but she didn't dare, for if Papa wanted her, he'd call. And he did call then, a roaring, demanding call, and Elly jumped and ran like a deer in the forest. "Elly!" he shouted. "To the village! Run! Fetch the doctor for Mama. Run, Elly. Hurry!" Elly stood frozen to the spot, stiff with terror. Something was terribly wrong with Mama, and she wanted to see, but Papa barred the way. "Elly," he shouted, and took hold of her shoulders and spun _ her around and started her down the path. "Doctor Hoggenheimer! Get him!" he roared after her. Pst the bake oven and through the ox corral she ran, and down the rutted road. She wanted to cry, but she had no breath. Her bare feet scraped the stones in the road and a knife stuck in her side, but she thought of Mama, and kept running. A peasant woman drove an ox cart piled high with hay, and Elly climbed on the back to ride. But it bumped and jostled along so slowly that she jumped off and ran on down the road again. In the village, she found the street and the house where the doctor lived. With both her fists she 83 pounded on the door until it opened, and an angry looking servant woman with both hands on_ her hips stood looking down on her. Elly shook with fear, and choked on the words she tried to say. Tears sprang into her eyes, and it was sev-. Eral minutes before she could say anything at all. Then she tried to tell the woman about Mama, but before she was finished telling it, the woman had told her the doctor was not there, and had closed the door. Elly sat down on the stoop to get her breath and cry, and didn't know what to do, because there was no one there to tell her. The doctor would come when he came home, the servant had said, but, when would that be? Papa said to hurry, she thought, but what good is there without the doctor? It was coming into evening, and Elly left the stoop, and wandered through the village, watching the shopkeepers lock their doors. Farmers' carts, loaded with fresh vegetables for sale in the morning crowded the street. The bell on the textile mill tolled, and women and girls poured out of its doors. Like sheep they swarmed, and Elly pressed herself up against the leather shop wall to let them pass. A few of the girls stopped and gathered around two young men, one of whom stood preaching. Their talk was muddled, and Elly couldn't understand what they said, so she walked on. There was a goose boy in the street, piping his goose song, and she thought of Peter in the hills with his geese, and she decided to walk home with him. She left the village and walked across the field and followed a path that ran alongside an old canal. The earth felt damp and smooth under her bare feet. She stooped and picked a bunch of daisies, and then there were so many, she walked in them, and watched them bend down under her feet and spring up again. OT far from the farm was the hill where Peter was, and Elly climbed to the top of it and sat to rest. Below her she could see her house, nearly hidden by trees, peaceful and quiet. Seeing it, she remembered her errand, and ran down the goose trail and caught up to. Peter. He turned at her call and waited. "Elly Bohmer! Where did you come from?" "From an errand to the village, silly boy," she panted, and she ran around the goose herd, shooing the hissing geese back together again. "For your mother, no doubt, to buy some trifle." Peter swung his stick around importantly. "It was for my father I went. Mama was in great pain, and I ran to the village to fetch the doctor. He must surely have come, for I can't hear her now." They were nearly to the gate, and suddenly Elly couldn't bear to wait longer to see Mama. Up the road she raced, leaving Peter with his geese behind. Up the path and through the door of the cottage she burst. Inside, she stopped short. It was dark in the house after the bright outside, and no one had lit a candle. As her eyes grew used to the darkness, Elly saw Papa sprawled at the table with his head in his hands. Mama wasn't bustling about cooking the supper, so she must be outside in the yard. She turned to go back out the door, when she saw a hump under the quilt on Mama's bed. It looked like Mama, but Elly couldn't be sure, because the quilt was pulled up over her head. She went to pull it down to look, but Papa looked up. "No, little one, don't touch it. Your Mother is gone." Gone? But Mama must be here. Where could she be gone to? Elly asked herself. She turned questioning eyes to her father, but his head lay on the table again. Bewildered, her eyes rested on the old cradle, waiting there for the new baby that was. Soon to come. It stood near Mama's bed, and Elly had only to look from where she stood to see inside it. With a cry she reached her hands into the cradle, but her father's voice stopped her again. "No, Elly, little one. The baby, it is gone, too." Elly didn't understand. The baby was there, but it didn't move, so it was gone, and Mama, there under the quilt—and she turned and fled from the house to find Peter. Peter was fourteen, and knew everything. He would know about this, too. She caught up to him, running through the goose herd, scattering them every way. Catching his arm, she pulled him to the side of the road and down on the grass of the ditch bank. Peter thought Elly played a game, and started to twirl her braids around, overjoyed at the attention. But Elly was sobbing and talking, 84 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1956 KEEP ME FOREVER and through it all, Peter heard of her grief, and understood, and thinking himself to be a man, he cried out, "Ill take care of you, Elly. You'll be mine from now on, and always. One day a piece of my father's farm will be mine, and then Pll marry you." So Elly stopped her weeping, and clung to Peter, and loved him as well as a ten-year-old could. * * * * LLY stayed on at the farm with her father and kept house, and learned to do all the things Mama had done. Sometimes she felt like a woman, and tried very hard to please Papa, and make him happy. But there were times when her child heart took over, and she romped in the grass, and played with the goats as she had done before. And there were excursions into the hills when she took a long stick in her hand and waved it over the geese while Peter piped his goose song. But these days were not as they had been, for she was getting older, and didn't feel the same with Peter alone. When she was thirteen, she took work in the textile mills, as did the other girls her age. Each morning she walked down to the village by the road that she had run over so frantically those years before. And each morning as she walked, she thought of Peter, who would be waiting for her at the door. And of Gabrielle, who stood next to her at the loom, who thought Peter to be so very handsome, and_ told Elly about it every day. Elly had never looked at Peter to think him handsome, or anything but just Peter, but Gabrielle made her see 85 him through new eyes, and so she thought of him often. Some days when they left the factory together, they saw two young men standing in the square, one always preaching. Peter liked to listen to them, for he was a scholar, and understood much of what they said. Gabrielle often stood with them, and sometimes she slipped her arm through Peter's in the way that city girls did, holding him close to her. She pretended to understand all that the two young men said. Then as they walked through the village, Gabrielle would jostle Peter, and tease him, tossing her head so that her hair danced on her shoulders. Elly had let her braids down when she went to work at the mill, and to her dismay, her hair hung straight and feathery, like corn silk tassels. It hung down her back, nearly to her waist, and she held it back from her face with a ribbon. She felt plain beside Gabrielle as she danced and laughed beside them, so she looked down at her feet as she walked, and hardly spoke at all until Gabrielle turned off on her own road. One day as they stood side by side at their loom, Gabrielle and Elly, Gabrielle put her hand into her pocket and took out a piece of paper and handed it to Elly. "T have something for you, Elly," she whispered. "It's from Peter. He told me to give it to you." "Something for me, from Peter?" and Elly took it and thrust it into her apron pocket, until such a time as she could read it. At noontime she ran to find a corner where she could be alone. Her hand held the note tightly in her pocket, and she trembled inside with excitement. Sitting on the floor with her back against the wall, she opened the folded paper and read: To Elly, You are my friend, and I will think of you always. But my heart belongs to another. Peter Elly sat dumfounded. She read it again, and then again, but each time it was the same, and she rumpled it tightly in her fist. Then, knowing she was too old, she sat and cried as she had cried on the doctor's stoop when the door had been closed to her, for a door had been closed to her again. She went back to her loom, but she couldn't look at Gabrielle standing by her, for surely Peter's heart must belong to her. HEN the evening bell tolled, Elly slipped out the door, and there stood Peter in his usual place. He stepped toward her to greet her, and Elly, amazed, stopped still and looked full at him. Then she picked her skirts up in her hands and fled through the village street. The astonished Peter dropped his mouth open, and stood staring, glued to the spot, and when he ran, she was already far ahead. "Elly!" he shouted. "Elly! Wait for me. Where are you going, EIly?" But Elly didn't turn her head, or stop her running. Peter stopped near the preaching men, wondering what to do, and as he turned, Gabrielle was at his side. "Gabrielle! What is it with El ly? I waited at the door as always, but when she came, she ran from me. Has she spoken to you?" Gabrielle didn't answer, but she slid her arm through Peter's as was her way, and led him along, talking to him of the carnival that was to come. When Elly saw Peter after that, she hurried the other way, and soon Peter did the same. Sometimes she saw him strolling with Gabrielle dancing along beside him, holding on to his arm. But mostly she saw him as she left the factory, listening © to the missionaries. She wondered what they had to tell, but she didn't stop now, because of Peter. Gabrielle had never once spoken of Peter to Elly since the day of the note. But one day Gabrielle was disturbed, and she couldn't hide it. Elly didn't ask, but when the girls ate their noon lunch, Gabrielle talked to Elly, and Elly listened. She looked very dark. 'Peter goes to America soon," she pouted. "He goes alone." Elly ate on in her usual way, but she trembled inside. Peter to America! It was unbelievable. And Gabrielle hadn't won his_ heart. This made her smile a little. But Gabrielle had more to say. "It's those preaching men," she said bitterly. "They told him to go, and he does everything they Saye" Elly stopped eating and drew herself up straight in front of Gabrielle. "Peter believes in them," she said. "It's their gospel that he loves. And if he says it's so, it's so." And she looked defiantly at Gabrielle. But defending him brought 86 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1956 KEEP ME FOREVER tears, for she had lost him surely, for he was going away. A x * x AS it two years? Three? Elly could never remember how long it had been that Peter was away. The road from the village to the farm had grown much, much longer, and each week was a month. There were new missionaries preaching in the square, and Elly stopped often to listen. Gabrielle had left the loom next to Elly's, for she had soon found a new love, and she had told Elly every day how handsome he was, until she had married him and gone away. The note had long since been forgotten by Gabrielle, but not by Elly. The words of it were engraved on her heart, and she could never forget it, for her heart had told her how it was. One day when Elly was eighteen years old, she stood listening to the missionaries from America. 'The young man who was talking finished, and stepped down from the box he was standing on, and another took his place. He stood and looked all around him, at the leather shop, and the mill, and the farmers with their carts, and at the people with their faces turned up to him, waiting. And he couldn't talk. 87 Then, instead of this clean-shaven young man in a dark suit, so full of emotion, with his hands in his pockets, Elly saw a boy in short leather trousers and a peaked little hat with a feather stuck in it. In one hand he carried a goose stick, and in the other a flute. And Elly dreamily reached her hand up to where her braids had been. But the gray eyes of the young man were the same in his sun-tanned face, and the teeth, when he smiled were Peter's. Elly wanted to snatch his hand and run with him through the daisy field and up to the goose pasture, but that would have to wait until a later day, for Peter was a missionary. A happy shiver ran through her body as she stood watching him, and she listened to his message, for he was talking now. He finished, and the people started to drift away, but Elly stood still and waited. When he came, she caught his arm and pulled him away from the people and stood. With him by the leather shop wall. And she wept, and Peter comforted her as he had done when she was a child. For yesterday was their childhood, with all that it held, but tomorrow would be soon — and forever. Me Forever." Magazine. As yet." Margaret Hardy, Salt Lake City, Utah, appears for the first time as an award winner in the Relief Society Short Story Contest, with her entry "Keep "T am overjoyed by the news of my story being awarded second prize," Mrs. Hardy writes, "as it will be my first published story, my other publication, an article called ""A Good Day," having appeared in The Relief Society I am not affiliated with any writing groups. And writing at the University of Utah and have done singing locally. The Primary chorister; I sing with the Singing Mothers, teach a Sunday School class, and am a visiting teacher in the Relief Society of the Forest Dale Ward. I have worked in most of the auxiliaries of the Church. Mine is a family of three children, an assortment of pets, my husband, and myself. I enjoy skiing, tennis, and painting, and I work at learning to play the piano, with no success I have studied voice I am She Australian Mission Preston Nibley N the summer of 1840, ten years after the Church was organized, a young convert in Hanley, Staffordshire, England, named William Barrett, seventeen years of age, who was about to make a voyage to Australia, was ordained an elder by George A. Smith, of the Council of Twelve, and appointed to labor as a missionary in that country. He arrived in Australia and delivered his message, but it is not known that he made any converts. Two years later, Andrew Anderson, one of the first converts baptized in Scotland, by Elder Orson Pratt, in 1840, moved to Australia with his family and located at Sydney, New South Wales. In 1845 he reported to the Church Authorities in Nauvoo that he had baptized eleven people and organized a branch of the Church. The real beginning toward the establishment of a mission in Australia was made in 1851, when Elder John Murdock of Salt Lake City, Utah, was appointed by the First Presidency to open a mission in that land. He was Photograph submitted by Leah Liljenquist THE MURRAY RIVER FROM THE NEW SOUTH WALES SIDE AT COROWA, AUSTRALIA Page 88 THE AUSTRALIAN MISSION 89 pre Photograph submitted by Leah Liljenquist THE BURRAGORANG VALLEY, NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA accompanied on his journey by Elder Charles W. Wandell, and the two brethren arrived in Sydney on October 30th. 'Through their diligence they soon established a thriving branch of the Church, and the work of proselyting has not ceased since that time. New Zealand became a part of the Australian Mission in 1854, and the two countries were known as the Australasian Mission. From 1880 to 1897 the headquarters of the mission was at Aukland, but in October 1897, two separate missions were formed. In 1930 the membership of the Australian Mission was 1,313; in 1954 the membership had increased to 3,053. President David O. McKay made an extensive tour of the Australian Mission in January 1955. During July 1955, the Australian Mission was divided into the Australian and South Australian Missions. 'This was done by Elder Marion G. Romney of the Council of the Twelve, who had journeyed to Australia for that purpose, acting under the direction of the First Presidency. Before the division of the mission, there were twentyfive Relief Society organizations. Elder Zelph Young Erekson is president of the Australian Mission, and Sister Ada Irene Soane Erekson presides over the mission Relief Society. There Is Still Time CHAPTER 1 Margery S. Stewart T was the dream that awakened ] her. Elizabeth opened her eyes quickly. She felt suffocated from the quick beating of her heart. She sighed with relief at sight of familiar pale green draperies, white bars of Venetian blinds through which night flowed darkly. She was trembling. It was only a dream, she told herself, but the fear persisted — the building-onquicksand feeling that was with her so much of the time. Brent, beside her, turned over, mumbled in his sleep. Elizabeth crept out of bed, put on robe and slippers. She slipped down the hall to the twins' room. They were fiercely asleep, Johnny with the red Indian paint still showing on his forehead, Jennie with her new set of Gene Autry guns on the blanket over her stomach. Elizabeth went quietly to her oldest daughter's room. 'The door was firmly closed. She lifted her hand to knock, but thought better of it. Elaine was impassioned these days about her right of privacy, "... After all when one is sixteen!" She spoke it in caps all the time, as though the year sixteen was a gateway into a land no one else had ever entered and out of which she would never emerge. But there was one room which held no fears, and, as yet, no annoyances — Donna's room. It had originally been intended for a dressing room and was rather small, but Page 90 Elizabeth had seen its possibilities at once and the result was almost as charming as its occupant. Donna opened her eyes when Elizabeth bent above her bed. She smiled sleepily in welcome, her dark eyes luminous, her dimples showing. "Can I really go to school when it's September?" "Really, my darling." "Tll be awful big then, won't I?" "So—o big." Donna smiled and turned over on her side, her dark curls slipping across her cheek. Elizabeth pulled the sheet higher over the small, outflung arm. Love made a soft singing inside her. I should go back to bed, she thought, the dream was just one of those frightening ones. She stamped her feet lightly. You see, she scolded herself, your feet are strong and well, nothing wrong with them, nor with your legs, nor you, for that matter. But still the soft winds of apprehension brushed along her neck. She felt her way down the stairs, crossed the enormous living room and the almost as large dining room into the kitchen. Here she felt free to turn on the lights, bang the refrigerator door, rattle pots and pans. She felt a slight pang in the small tasks. Once she had been queen of the kitchen, but now Matilda, large and dark and bustling, had full command. 'The twins were slavish in their adoration. It was, "Let's ask Tildy to THERE IS STILL TIME make us some lemon cookies.... Maybe Tildy will make us some taf-* fy this afternoon." Elizabeth lit the fire under the milk. $NA AKE some for me, too." She whirled, then relaxed at sight of Brent, short, stocky, his thick light curly hair rumpled, the overhead light twinkling on_ his glasses. He draped himself on the stool. "Wake the whole house when you go tiptoeing around." "T do not." "Certainly do. Johnny had a coughing spasm right after you lene. Jennie started yelling something about the Khyber Pass, and Elaine came out to demand, and haughtily, that the family leave her in peace." Elizabeth laughed. "But I didn't even go near Elaine. I only stood outside her door." "She said she could hear you breathing in the hall." "She didn't!" "You know she did. You know very well that even the way we eat soup these days is more than she can bear." Elizabeth tightened the cord of her robe. "Too true." She brightened, "But Donna was glad to see me." Brent smiled wryly, "So glad that she is now in our bed... In the exact center... And we are homeless for the night." "Tm sorry," Elizabeth said. She got down another cup and saucer. "Toast?" "No thanks, I think I'll have some of Matilda's banana _ bread. Any left?" 91 "No. Johnny." "Confound it! I told him to leave at least a crust." "He forgot. I'll tell her to make some more tomorrow." "But I wanted it tonight." His good humor was melting away. The sharp impatience that possessed him so much of the time, lately, edging back. She said quickly, "There's cake. Here, let me get it for you." He scowled. "Kids never give you a thought, just themselves... All the time... Selfish... Thoughtless. Look at all I give them. New bikes for the twins just yesterday. They hardly said thanks." "Brent! They were thrilled to death. It's just that they're used to getting things." "Bert Neibar's boys really stand around for him... Follow him around like a couple of puppies." She bit her tongue. She would not say again, "But Bert Neibar gives the boys more than things... He gives them himself... Games, hiking, Church on Sundays... The three of them." She took a deep breath. "What about the lot of us going on a picnic, come Saturday, down to the beach?" "Corny." "Take the boat out?" "Rather not." "Go down to San Diego to the ZOO?" "T've got enough monkeys in my own house." His smile vanished. "T think they're planning a new tract over in the valley. I'm going to go look at it. I want to make a good bid. If I get to build those houses you and the kids can wear ermine this winter." She put the cup of milk before him. "I don't want to wear ermine." "Mink, then." "Nor mink." "A'right a'ready! Four o'clock in the morning, and you decide to be unreasonable. What's the matter with you lately... No gratitude? Nothing in this house but arguments and fights... The kids fight.. We fight... Everybody growls all the time." She spoke quickly, before her courage could ooze away, "When are we going to start rearing them together? They need you, Brent. When are we going to start doing for them all the things we've meant to do, Church, family days...?" "Now, Eliza, you know you've been just as busy as I have, trying to get us where we are today. Besides, I just can't start any projects now. I've got enough on my hands." He drank his milk swiftly, tension beginning to show in the working muscles of his jaw. "All I ever get around here is criticism." HE said swiftly, throwing him the new thought as a caged man might throw a bone to a pacing lion. "I had the strangest dream. That's what woke me up... The strangest dream." He looked at her with lackluster eyes. "Everybody gets weird dreams." She sat on the other stool. "This will make you laugh. I dreamed we were having a party... Oh, a really gala affair, like the one the Jafferey's had last week." "That was something!' He stopped the cup at his lips. "Butlers all over the place. I'll bet that cost old man Jafferey...." "It was like that, only more beautiful. The grounds were so green and velvety and there were pieces of statuary here and there. I was waiting to receive my guests... And Brent...." She put her cup down. "I looked down at myself and I was leaning on a pair of crutches." "Crutches!" "Yes, but they weren't ordinary. They were gold and silver crutches... Really beautiful." He reached for more cake. "It was the junk Lois served us tonight. Honestly, how that woman gets by serving the stuff she does...." "Lois' buffet was delicious, Brent. Anyway, I hardly touched it. But Brent, listen, this is the strangest part of my dream. When the guests came, they walked on crutches, too, all of them." "What a dream!" "Karen Jones, you know how beautiful she is?" Brent nodded appreciatively. "She was wearing crutches, too. Hers were ivory with amethysts and rubies... And Mr. Jafferey. Oh, you should have seen his!" Brent laughed. "His were pure uranium, I'll bet." "Some kind of silver metal." Brent stood up and _ stretched. "Nice dream. If it were only true, we could have our guests park their crutches and forget to take them." "No." Elizabeth moved toward him, put her arms around him. "It wasn't like that at all. I was leaning on my crutches and, suddenly, they crumbled and fell. I couldn't stand by myself... I had 92 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1956 THERE IS STILL TIME ) been leaning such a long time.... To her dismay, tears blurred her voice. Brent shouted with laughter. "Page Freud, darling. You've probably been harboring some suppressed fixation and it popped out in a dream." She wanted to pull understanding from him. "Brent, it was so awful, the feeling when the crutches crumbled. I was so helpless. I felt it was my fault." Brent shook her lightly. "Darling child, you just keep right on leaning on our bank roll. It'll never let you down. I'm going to get the bid for that new tract, and you can fly to Europe and buy diamonds that'll put the eyes out of Karen Jones." "But I don't want diamonds." His face darkened with anger. He dropped his hands. "You never want anything. If it weren't for me you'd still be sitting in Beaver, Utah, waiting for Saturday night and the big dance at the ward house." "Those were fun days, and I wish they were back again. Oh, Brent, it isn't that I don't appreciate everything you've given me and the children. But our life isn't right. There's something missing... Something lacking." "What's lacking?" He was instantly defensive. "What could you possibly want that you don't have?" "It's something I can't go down to Bullock's and buy," she stormed, furious with herself for quarreling, angry with him for his unwillingness to understand and be patient. He turned to the door. "When 93 you find out what it is, let me know and I'll get it at a discount." THe swinging door rocked sharply with his going. Elizabeth put down the now cold cup of milk. What a fool I am to quarrel with Brent. I'm unreasonable. I do have everything, she told herself. She drew her housecoat closer about her and went out on the patio. It was beginning to be morning. In the hibiscus bush a mocking bird chirped sleepily. 'The swimming pool looked cold and dark. Elaine had forgotten to close the garage doors, and the small sports car she loved glinted bright red. Elizabeth looked about. The neighborhood was like a park, trim and green and fresh, beautifully cared for by the patient Japanese gardenCig: The dream came vividly back to her mind. She went into the house and dressed swiftly in a sweater and skirt and flat blue shoes. She came down again with Elaine's keys in her hands. She eased the little red car out of the driveway and turned it in the direction of the sea. How still the city was in the morning, and how beautiful here along Sunset Boulevard with its curves and green hills and the fog not closing down grayly but wisping beside her like a gull's wings. There was one lone fisherman on the beach. She walked away from him toward the rocks which jutted out a little way into the sea. She climbed over the rocks and found a little hollow where the spray could not reach her. 'The morning wind was heavy with dampness. It blew against her. The waves came in heavily, driven by the wind and crashed upon the rocks. The sea has not changed since the beginning, Elizabeth thought. It is the same as it has always been. The sand is the same consistency, and the earth and the sky and stars. But we have changed. We have gotten so far away from our beginnings that we cannot remember what it was that we were meant to be. I did not mean to be the way I am, an idle, discontented woman, with idle, discontented children. How I have twisted and distorted the girl who was myself. She sighed and dipped sand out of the rock. What am I supposed to be? To do? Why was I placed here on this island winging between all the other islands in the sky? I do not give my children bread any more. I do not give them anything. The fisherman edged toward her, a large fish dangling from his hand. He gestured toward her with the fish, calling to her, his hand curled around his mouth. He was an old man. "Do you want it?" he shouted. She nodded. The man came toward her. "I got plenty for myself." He looked at her narrowly. "It ain't safe for you to be here. Alone like this." "But it's such a beautiful place," she protested. He shook his head. "A beautiful place is where no ugly thing is, used to be like that, years ago. Nobody who lived around here then would hurt you. But they've changed, got black inside... Blackness coming out in cruel dark things they do." "What changed them?" The old man chuckled, showing sparse and yellowing teeth. "We used to have a sayin' 'so an' so is an honest man,' we used to say... Ever hear it?" She nodded. "My grandfather, about his neighbors." He put the fish in her hands. "That's what's wrong with us, lady. Not enough of us able to say them simple little words about each otheh, She took the fish gingerly and turned in the direction of the car. The old man was right, of course, it had been foolish to come to this lonely place. But she felt frustrated and angry, remembering the hills and canyons of her childhood where she had wandered free and safe as a bird. HE settled herself in the car and went down the ocean highway to Santa Monica Boulevard. More people were abroad now. She came to Overland Avenue, stopped for a traffic light. She looked to her left and caught her breath at the sheer beauty of tall white walls under construction. 'This must be the new temple. She had been meaning to come down to see the grounds ever since the papers carried the news. She turned left on the next street and made her way into the grounds. The builders seemed to be doing everything at once. The openings which would be doors were boarded over. They were already putting in the lawns and trees. Inside and outside bore evidence of feverish activity. Palms as high as the beautiful lower walls were held in place by wires. Spruce, too, had been brought in fully grown, and these 94 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1956 THERE IS STILL TIME also were secured in their places by wires. 'The earth around them was damp and dark. Pools and fountains of soft green tile were almost finished. North of the temple stood the Harold Lloyd home, battered and beaten now from the struggle to tear it down. Elizabeth remembered herself as a child reading about the Lloyd estate, trying to imagine its beauty from the printed word. She left the car and wandered about, picking her way over boards, broken pieces of concrete, bricks, and all the other paraphernalia of building. Morning was fully come in a burst of sunlight breaking through the fog, dispersing it. The tall tower of the temple gleamed in the sun. There were a few men about beginning the day's work. Elizabeth touched the polished surface of the walls, reverence in her fingers. 'There was something infinitely moving and beautiful about this unfinished building, — she thought, reminder of a holiness implicit and absolute. She peered through the doors, trying to see the finished result from the rough be- 95 ginning now apparent. Names made pictures in her mind, Kirtland, St. George, Mesa.... I wish, she thought with a pang, that we had given even a brick to the building of this house of the Lord. Such a long time since she had even been to a meeting, not going because she had not been able to endure the loneliness of going alone. The years stretched behind her to Beaver and the little meetinghouse there, to herself in bobby socks and saddle shoes being chosen queen for the green and gold ball. There had never been a moment since quite like that. The time Grandfather went on his mission. How the people had turned out. -Now that had been a night of joy and tears and such oneness among neighbors and friends, that she, only a girl at the time, had trembled with gladness, drinking it up like a heavenly nectar. What had happened? But she knew. She had always known, shutting the knowledge away in a dark room of her mind, turning the key in the lock. (To be continued ) Snow Christie Lund Coles A white goose is moving Across the gauze-veiled sky, Moving as the wind moves, Rhythmical and high; Beauty caught in transit, Note the white, white wing, Quiet as a shadow, Covering everything. Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, February 1, and February 15, 1896 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE Women oF Att NATIONS" RELIEF SOCIETY IN MARICOPA STAKE: President Alice Richens, Mesa Ward, Louisa Harper, Lehi Ward, Ann Kleinman, Alma Ward, Esther Openshaw, Nephi Ward, and Sister Sarah Tiffany of Papago Ward, gave encouraging reports... All seemed to be doing as well as usual, although there seemed to be a faithful few who had to do the principal part of the work of the respective society, but upon the whole there was general good feeling.... President Collin R. Hakes was altogether proud of the Saints of Maricopa Stake. Spoke a short time on the duties of those who had accepted positions of responsibility in the Church, and the order of the Gospel. —F. E. Robson, Sec. A LEADER OF WOMEN: Mrs. Carrie Chapman-Catt has cleared $140 for the National Organization Committee by her Woman Suffrage Calendars, which have found a ready sale. We congratulate her. —Selected AN INTEREST IN GOVERNMENT: Lady Aberdeen is a constant attendant on the sessions of Parliament in Ottawa. She occupies a place beside the Speaker in the House of Commons. —Selected HEART BE STILL Then heart be thou still, cry out no more! Thy jewels are shining there, In gladness they tread the golden streets, And offer for thee a prayer. Now hark! Through the gathering gloom Hear the angel voices tell, "Daughter arise, thy cross take up, With thy loved ones all is well." —Lydia D. Alder WOMAN OF DESTINY: Qucen Christina of Spain has been asked as arbitrator to settle a long standing dispute over the boundary lines of Columbia, Equador and Peru. This is the first time in the history of the world that a woman has been chosen to settle an international dispute. Her administration of Spanish affairs has been characterized by tact and statesmanlike ability, controlled by high moral principle; and not the least of her claims to admiration is the fact that she has maintained peace in a country proverbial for being in a state of constant unrest and turmoil. —Woman's Voice THE THIRD STAR: The early Mormon women were very largely of New England birth, and they have gloried in having emulated the exile and privations of the Pilgrims for the same cause, namely freedom to worship according to their conscience. —Woman's Tribune Page 96 MB. TATZUMBIE DU PEA, a Piute Indian, born in California, is one hundred and six years old and still works in moving pictures in holes representing an old Indian woman. Her health is good; she does close eye-work; and she has recently woven a rug which she uses in her pictures. Mé8! SANDOZ, whose first book Old Jules, a pioneer story of Nebraska, won favorable acclaim, has written a new novel Miss Morissa — Doctor of the Gold Trail, the dramatic narrative of a young woman doctor who lived in a "soddy" on the Nebraska plains and devotedly followed her profession despite the frontier animosity toward "lady docs." R. EMMA SADLER MOSS, fifty-seven, of New Orleans Charity Hospital, became the first woman in the United States to head a major professional medical society when she was installed as president of the American Society of Clinical Pathologists in Chicago, recently. [N 1954 in the United States, 4,073,000 babies were born, an all-time high figure. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon URING the last twenty-five years in the United States, 7,500 volumes on child care have been published. Benjamin Spock's Common Sense Book of Baby and Child Care has sold 70,000 hard-cover editions and 3,247,588 paperbacks since it was published in 1946. LMA Milotte and her husband Alfred spent almost three years with their technicolor cameras taking shots — some very close indeed — of the animals we may now see in Walt Disney's "The African Lion." This is an astonishingly intimate picture of wild creatures in their native haunts, namely Kenya, Uganda, 'Tanganyika, and_ other African lands. IRTHDAY congratulations are extended to: Mrs. Celestia M. Terry Peterson, Fairview, Utah, ninety-five; Mrs. Emma Mathis, Salt Lake City, Utah, ninety-two; Mrs. Florence 'Tritt Jones, Oak City, Utah, Mrs. Annie B. Jarvis, South Jordan, Utah, and Mrs. Mary B. Egan, Salt Lake City, each ninetyone; Mrs. Emma Eliason, Brigham City, Utah, ninety. Page 97 CQ EDITORIAL DS VOL. 43 FEBRUARY 1956 Anniversary Day HE Spirit of God Like a Fire Is Burning," the opening song of that memorable meeting held March 17, 1842, in Joseph Smith's store in Nauvoo, Illinois, gave voice to the spirit that burned within the hearts of eighteen women who gathered together by appointment, that a Prophet of God might organize them into a society for service and self-development. With the passing years the hearts of thousands of women have become fired with the spirit of Relief Society. Its benevolent administrations have been a blessing; its countless opportunities for self-expression have brought joy and development to Latter-day Saint women; its achievements have been glorious. In commemoration of March 17, the gratitude of Relief Society members will be expressed in Anniversary Day observances. 'Thousands of women in many countries throughout the world will "honor those who fashioned for good the ideals we cherish." The entire Relief Society sisterhood will pause to take thought of the divinity within our organization, of the inspiration that guides its destinies; they will pray that it may know an even more glorious future. Therefore it seems fitting that Anniversary Day programs interpret the spirit of the organization. Though not necessarily somber and formal, a certain dignity and apPage 98 propriateness should characterize them. An understanding of the purposes of the organization, an appreciation of its history and accomplishments, an insight into the lives of those who have contributed to its onward march are evidenced in many interesting programs of the past. An entertaining and appropriate program centering around Eliza Roxey Snow, the first general president of the Society in the valleys of the Rocky Mountains, was given in one of the wards. Sister Snow was presented in a brief biographical sketch as patriot, poetess, and religious leader. 'This was followed by the rendition of "O My Father," that inspired gem for which she will always be loved and remembered. Other familiar songs, the words of which were her compositions, were rendered as vocal and instrumental numbers. 'T'wo of her poems were read, "I Love My Flag" and "My Heart Is Fix'd." Concluding the program, a brief explanation of the Eliza Roxey Snow Memorial Poem Contest was given, and the prizewinning poem for the year was read by its composer. Each of our general presidents has been unusually endowed, her contribution unique, and any one of the presidents might be similarly featured on Anniversary Day programs. Ward Relief Society histories EDITORIAL lend themselves to profitable entertainment. A recent Anniversary program dramatized the most outstanding contribution of each administration to the growth of the ward Relief Society organization. A reader introduced each scene by reading explanatory excerpts directly from the history, and concluded the scene by introducing the sister who was president of that particular administration. 'This ward was fortunate in having each past president present. A bouquet of flowers was presented to each, and a brief response given. The Singing Mothers rendered musical numbers after each scene. Delightful entertainments have been given featuring various phases of the Relief Society program—welfare, education, homemaking, and music. A large replica of the Magazine was utilized by one ward in its Anniversary Day program. The Magazine was opened like a door, by a woman beautifully gowned in white, representing Relief Society. From the pages of the Magazine the sisters stepped forth and formed effective still pictures of each phase of the work; each picture was introduced by a_ reader. Special musical numbers were rendered. This program closed with women ranging in age from very young to those of advanced years, representing Relief Society membership. The last scene was most effective, summing up the meaning of Relief Society in the lives of its members. Wholesome social contacts have always been encouraged. How many appropriate Relief Society birthday parties have been given, with attractive tables, centered with a 99 birthday cake, and delicious luncheons served! Anniversary Day is an ideal time for providing dignified and delightful social entertainment. Anniversary programs should utilize Relief Society members as far as possible. If the entertainment is given at night the use of children should be avoided. Relief Society is an organization of mothers working for the best interests of children. Little children should not be deprived of sleep in order to entertain mothers. If games are used in our entertainments they should be games which challenge the interest of mature women. Should those eighteen charter members of Relief Society step from the pages of history on March 17, 1956, would they be proud and happy to join with your ward in its Anniversary observance? Would they feel again the spirit felt that March 17, 1842? Would they see their ideals a living issue, magnified, bringing joy to every Latter-day Saint woman? Anniversary Day programs should be more than ordinary programs with the usual run of music and verse. 'They should stir us afresh with an appreciation of our organization. 'They should bring together the women of the Church in a spirit of love and fellowship. Anniversary Day should be a day when every woman has a good time, when she returns to her home grateful for the greatness of the organization and her membership in it, singing in her heart: For glorious achievement throughout the passing years, For wond'rous devotion that ever endears, We honor and love those who fashioned for good The ideals we cherish, ennobling womanhood. —B. S. S. Jn Memoriam - - Mary Grant Yudd ARY GRANT Jupp who was appointed to the general board of Relief Society in January 1940, passed away on Saturday, December 17, 1955. Sister Judd was a devoted Latter-day Saint and a faithful Relief Society worker. She was ever alert to shades of meaning in the written word and fearless in defending a position which she felt was right. She was original and creative, with a keen sense of humor which did not desert her. 'Throughout her illness she maintained a cheerful and hopeful outlook. During the sixteen years that Sister Judd has labored on the general board, she has been associated with many committees and she worked zealously as a committee member in connection with the Centennial observance which was to be celebrated in 1942, but which was not held because of war restrictions. Her careful performance on the theology committee, of which she was a member at her death, was also outstanding. Her wide travels gave to her an appreciation of the beautiful which, with her literary talents, enriched her life. The general board and Sister Judd's friends throughout the stakes and missions of the Church extend their sympathy to her family and to her six devoted children to whom she has passed on an illustrious heritage. Birthday Congratulations to Former President Amy Brown Lyman Congratulations and best wishes are extended to our beloved former president Amy Brown Lyman for her birthday, February 7th. In the stakes and missions of the Church, Relief Society women are grateful for her many years of service to the organization. She became a member of the general board in 1909, was appointed general secretary-treasurer in 1913, first counselor to President Louise Y. Robison in 1928, and general president in 1940, serving as a wise and gifted leader until her release in 1945. Sister Lyman still serves Relief Society as literature leader in her ward. Her guiding hand and her spirit of service, as well as her example of diligence and devotion, have become an integral part of the Relief Society organization. It has been said — "beautiful are the hands of the builders" — and we would add: beautiful and lasting are the accomplishments of Sister Amy Brown Lyman. Page 100 Notes TO THE FIELD Notes From the Field Should be Submitted Promptly E call attention to the instruction given at the annual Relief Society conference and sent to stake Relief Society presidents regarding Notes From the Field, wherein it states that: We want to keep the Notes current and up-to-date, and in view of the fact that the Magazine is prepared three months in advance of publication, we request that material for the Notes be sent to us as soon as possible, and not later than three months after the event, otherwise the lapse of time between the event and its publication is too great. Please do not send more than one picture of the same event to us as the selection of the best picture should be made by the local organization itself. Pictures or activities which have appeared in the Church Section of the Deseret News are not printed in the Magazine because they reach largely the same readers. When pictures of stake boards are submitted for publication, it is essential that they be in connection with an account of a Relief Society activity. This ruling went into effect as of January 1, 1956. —oPrograms for Anniversary Day pts. Pageants, and programs suitable for presentation as a part of the observance of Anniversary Day, March 17th, may be obtained at the office of the general board of Relief Society, 40 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah, at a cost of 15c¢ for each program. The following programs are suggested as suitable for Anniversary Day: 1. "A Great Day for Women.". A re-enactment of the organization of Relief Society written in the spirit of the occasion, historically accurate, although not all statements are direct quotations. Characters: Eight who speak, thirteen who represent others present. Time: Approximately 25-30 minutes. 2. "Relief Society Memory Book," script by Virginia Driggs Clark. Additions by Marianne C. Sharp and Alberta H. Christensen. Characters: Reader and nine women from album representing the different general Relief Society presidents. Time: Approximately 30 minutes. 3. "On Your Birthday," by. Alberta H. Christensen. A very short playlet in one scene dealing with the organization of Relief Society in a generalized way. Characters: Three — Time: Approximately 10 minutes. For a complete list of plays, pageants, and programs, see The Relief Society Magazine for November 1953, pages 745-749. Page 10] {Recipes Srom Australia Submitted by Irene T. Erekson TRIFLE (Elsie F. Parton) 1 stale cake, plain or sponge, broken into pieces. Moisten with orange juice. Have ready a cool custard; pour over gently and mix without breaking cake. Over this put set jello, cut into cubes (red and green or red and yellow). Cover with whipped cream flavored with vanilla and sugar. Sprinkle with chopped walnuts or almonds, or glazed cherries. Chill. Cut and serve in wedges. STEAK AND KIDNEY PIE (Elsie F. Parton) 1 Ib. Steak, cut into 2-inch pieces (remove all fat) 2 kidneys—sheep, ox, or veal (skin and cut into small pieces) 1 medium onion, cut fine Simmer meat and onion in water until tender. Season with salt and pepper to taste. Thicken with 1% tbsp. Flour. Add 1 tsp. Vegemite (or substitute Kitchen Bouquet gravy mix) for color. Line greased pie tin with pastry. Fill pie with meat mixture; cover with pastry and prick with fork. Brush pastry with milk. Bake in very hot oven until brown. Pastry 6 oz. Shortening 1 tbsp. Lemon juice Y, tsp. Baking powder 1 egg yolk 1 tbsp. Water pinch salt Y% |b. Flour Sift flour, baking powder, salt. Rub shortening into flour until mixture looks like bread crumbs. Add water, egg, lemon juice, gradually, making into a dry dough. Turn onto lightly floured board and handle as lightly as possible. When rolling out, move rolling pin in one direction only, not back and forth. Coconut Biscurts (Cooxtgs) (Irenia P. Innis) ¥, Ib. Arrowroot biscuits (or use % Ib. 1 tsp. Vanilla vanilla wafers ) coconut, finely cut 1 tin condensed milk 2 tbsp. Cocoa Roll the biscuits out fine; add cocoa; moisten with condensed milk to which the vanilla has been added. Mix well; make into small balls, about 1 inch in diameter. Roll in coconut, and flatten. Boiitep Fruit CAKE ¥% Ib. Raisins 1 Cc. Sugar 1% Ib. Mixed fruit 1 Ib. Butter or margarine 1 c. Water - 1 «tsp. Soda Place above ingredients in saucepan. Bring to boil, and cook 5 minutes, stirring constantly. Let cool. Add % tsp. Cinnamon, % tsp. Ginger, 1 tbsp. Vanilla. Break in 6 unbeaten eggs; mix well together. Add 1 cup walnuts. Gently stir in 4 cups selfrising flour. Line tins with heavy paper and grease well. Bake at 300°F. For 3 hours. While baking, cover pans with more heavy paper. Where self-rising flour cannot be obtained, add baking powder according to amount of flour, as directed on the can. Page 102 Sribute to the Visiting Seachers Wanda Pexton A visiting teacher is a helping hand to the Relief Society in reaching out and drawing our sisters into this noble organization. She is an angel of mercy as well as a missionary. It is her desire and also a privilege to relieve the needy and distressed, to give succor and comfort in times of illness and death. She can uplift the spirit by instilling love, faith, peace, and harmony as she enters the threshold of each home. She Mlajestic Cew Ruth Wilson A tropical sun shone down unmercifully, wilting the hikers on the precipitous mountain path. Exhausted, they halted and wished for water. Resting often, in the sparse shade of overhanging bushes, they encouraged each other with the thought of the majestic view visible from the summit. I too have climbed life's rugged path, beset with discouragement and weariness, and halting, wondered if I could achieve my ideals and purposes. Yet, I, too, have felt the awesome and exultant thrill of extended, comprehensive vision. <> "Down Under ' Ruth MacKay The strength and the pride of a nation lie in its people, they say, And here the casual Australian excels in his happy way; The strength of the blue hills upholds him, in his search for the right and true; And the sun-drenched acres of country give him vision to carry it through. His soul is inspired by the beauty of rivers and lakes and of sea; And wherever there's danger to threaten, that's where Aussies are likely to be. We welcome a new population, from lands in sore trouble o'er-sea, And gladly accept their traditions, with the crafts and the cultures they bring; But we must not forget our first settlers, the black men whose praises we'll sing, For paintings and carvings they've left us, on their long walkabouts through the scrub, When the country was wide-open spaces, and they lived on the witchetty grub... * * * * * We lift up our voices, Australians, in praise of this great open land, And give to our brothers in friendship, the warmth of our welcoming hand. We'll go on together to make this a home full of plenty and peace, And the nations which see us will wonder and their talks of war shall cease. Our destiny is in the future, let's make it as great as we can, So lift up your voices, Australians. Be proud of your own noble land! Page 103 World of Three Nell Murbarger Y four o'clock of a midwinter afternoon, a great stack of juniper wood and pitch-pine bark would have been corded behind the cookstove in our little oneroom homestead shanty. The dozen hens would have been fed, the eggs gathered, two cows milked, and the two horses comfortably bedded for the long night ahead. On these winter days, our thin, cold sun never seemed actually to set, but, with the waning hours of afternoon, receded only a bit farther into the dull gray void of the winter sky. With that final recession, night would close upon us, a night when the wild wind of the High Plains country would whistle and wail, and snow would pile deeply around the little sod claim shack, where Father and Mother constituted my world and all its people. Even though there had been nothing beyond those four walls but whirling winter and gray vagueness and lean coyotes slinking through the coulees, it would have been enough for me, for within those walls I never knew any lack of warmth and peace and love, and the glory of home. As Father returned to the aie from his final inspection of barn and cattle, the angry wind would whip | through the hastily opened slab door to lay a skiff of snow on the floor, and whirl through the room like a busy old woman hunting a stray particle of dust. But once Father was inside, the door would be closed, the heavy crossbar dropped into place behind it; and, with a Page 104 folded burlap sack laid along the crack at the door's lower edge, all the wind and weather and winter would be shut outside like an unwelcome intruder! Removing his four-buckle Arctics and his sheepskin coat and cap, Father would knock them free of encrusting snow and hang them beside the stove to dry; and with his back turned to the crackling wood blaze and hands locked behind him, he would stand for awhile, rocking back and forth on the balls of his feet, and warming himself. Usually he had some story to tell — some amusing antic of the horses, or something the snowbirds had done that afternoon. Darkness came early on those midwinter days, and, even though it would be no more than four or five o'clock when we ate supper, the kerosene lamp would be burning brightly in its wall bracket, and the gray breast feathers of night would be pressing against the small panes of our single window. And then, with the supper dishes washed and dried and stacked away neatly in the apple-box cupboard, the long winter evening — like an anticipated drama — was ready to begin. E. Had no television, no radio, no moving pictures, no close neighbors, and, virtually, no money; yet, we never wanted for something to do. Sometimes we hand-cleaned navy beans, picking out pebbles and bits of pod, and leaving only perfect beans to be traded to the grocer for sugar and flour. Other times we WORLD OF THREE shelled seed corn or mended _harness; but, even though we had no special work to perform, there was never any lack of activity. Gathered around the oilcloth-covered kitchen table, we played '"Authors," "Old Maid," or "Pit," or enjoyed lively sessions of dominoes or croquinole. Or mother and father would play checkers, with me looking on and trying desperately to foresee the "traps" they were laying for one another. In the course of every evening there was certain to be an hour or so when we took turns reading aloud. No matter how little money there might be for other things, we always managed to take a few magazines — Youth's Companion, Farm and Home, Comfort, and, generally, the National Geographic. And, although there was no library closer than the distant county seat — an almost mythical town which we visited not oftener than twice each year — we even had books to read. Some of them, such as Robinson Crusoe, Treasure Island, and Swiss Family Robinson, had been cherished by Father and Mother in their own childhood. Others had been sent to us by city relatives as Christmas and birthday gifts; but, whatever its manner of origin, every one of those volumes had been read and reread until it was smudged and weary and limp-backed, and almost committed to memory. But what a wonderful wide world came trooping past our fireside through the pages of Joseph C. Lincoln, Gene Stratton Porter, and Harold Bell Wright! As Father read aloud in his full, rich voice, or I took my turn struggling, not too skillfully, 105 with the grownup words and phrases, Mother would always be busy at some sort of sewing — either mending or braiding strips of rags for a rug, Or piecing quilt blocks. OMETIMES, as the evening progressed, Father would take the little wire corn popper from its nail on the side of the cupboard and, ladling into it a few handfuls of popcorn we had grown that summer, he would shake it over the fire until the tender white grains began bursting with a staccato clatter. After a huge panful had _ been popped, Mother would melt a generous slice of butter and stir it into the fluffy mass. Sometimes, for a change, we parched sweet corn — the hard, dry kernels being placed in a skillet, with butter and salt, and heated until they swelled to double their volume and became crisp and crunchy; or we made popcorn balls, or pulled taffy, using Mother's scissors to cut it into fat little pillows. For extra-special occasions, we might have even a dish of fruit; but apples must be shipped all the way from Oregon, and, consequently, were scarce and expensive; oranges were never seen save at Christmas time, and bananas were seldom seen at all. With the hour drawing toward nine, Father would shake down the grate and poke the embers, sending a shower of gleaming sparks sailing into the dark night. Games and books laid aside, we would pull our chairs to the fire. With Zip, the Collie, resting her cold muzzle on Father's knee and looking searchingly into his face, and Stripes, the tiger cat, purring contentedly on Mother's lap, we would talk of our hopes for the spring ahead, the garden we would plant, the baby chicks we would raise. It didn't matter that our home it was ours — a symbol of our security, our solidarity as a family, our ability to meet the High Plains country on its own terms. No matter how wildly the wind might howl, how cold and dark the night, our animals were dry and warm in the barn, and peace and contentment reigned in our World of Three. Was only a drab little sod shanty, lost in a winter void. Despite its plainness and crudeness, its walls and roof were stout and tight, and Sable Decorations for Anniversary Day Inez R. Allen ACH year as the month of March approaches, we are mindful that it brings the anniversary of our beloved Relief Society. We have been privileged to have this organization for nearly one hundred and fourteen years. It gives to our sisters a wellrounded development and growth through service. Most great people and events are honored on their anniversaries. Their many virtues and achievements are rehearsed. None deserves special mention more than does our Relief Society organization. The picture on the opposite page was taken of a table-setting designed to represent the many phases of this organization. In all good arrangements there is always a focal point, something of special interest. Inasmuch as this was our anniversary celebration, a large oblong cake was used as the point of interest. White icing was used as background, and large yellow roses and rosebuds, with an occasional tiny bluebird, made an attractive border. In the center was written: Happy Birthday Relief Society 1842 — 1955 The cake was supported on a bank of green lemon leaves, which afforded an attractive background for the many golden daffodils and blue Dutch iris. These two flowers were chosen because they represent the "blue and gold'"' emblem of the Relief Society organization. The dolls, dressed in pastel colors of pink, green, yellow, orchid, blue, and white, represented the six phases of the Relief Society programs. They are seen presenting a candle around which is draped a ribbon. On the mbbon is printed each special phase. They are: Theology, Work Meeting, Literature, Social Science, Visiting Teachers, and the Magazine. Each doll carries an article representing her special phase, for example, the one representing Theology carries a tiny Book of Mormon; for Literature it is a miniature book of the Literature of England. A basket carrying small quilt blocks, 106 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1956 TABLE DECORATIONS FOR ANNIVERSARY DAY 107 Hal Rume! L TABLE SETTING FOR A RELIEF SOCIETY ANNIVERSARY PARTY thimble, thread, and needle, and a tiny tea towel, represents the Work Meeting. Social Science holds a miniature scroll of the Constitution of the United States. A small duplicate of the Magazine represents that phase, while the last doll carries a Visiting Teacher blank. There is one more thing that is outstanding in the Relief Society program. It is the music. The harmony and spirit with which the songs are sung are really thrilling and inspirational. The Singing Mothers in nearly every ward have achieved great success and honor. To represent this, musical notes of gilded paper were placed at strategic places throughout the arrangement. Using the suggestions offered here, several different arrangements might be made, for example: 1. A float, made of flowers or some other material carrying these different phases, could very beautifully be arranged. 2. Perhaps a May Pole, representing the Relief Society, might be made with ribbons reaching out to each doll. 3. A garden scene wherein the dolls might be the center of a beautiful flower plot. The flowers in each case would match the color of the dress. 4. A low, long arrangement with the six representing candles formed in a semicircle at one end of the flowers. With a bit of imagination and a clever use of flowers and symbols, our Relief Society can reign supreme on each anniversary. Salads for Health and Beauty Rhea H. Gardner Extension Service Home Management and Furnishings Specialist Utah State Agricultural College _* list of possible combinations of vegetables and fruits for salads is as long as your imagination. If you have plenty of imagination, you will have little need for recipes. However, sometimes our imagination gets a bit sluggish and requires a little push to get it going. That's the purpose of the following recipes and suggestions for salad combinations. Vegetable Salad Combinations 1. Cut or break up leaves of lettuce, endive, and water cress. Toss together in a salad bowl with tomato wedges, sliced cucumbers, radishes, and little green onions. Sliced. Serve with French dressing. 2. Mix thinly sliced radishes, water cress, endive, and cauliflower broken into pencil. Size flowerets. Toss together with French dressing. 3. Mix together narrow strips of green pepper, sliced celery, cucumber, and very thinly sliced carrots and turnips. Serve on a bed of lettuce with French or Thousand Island dressing. 4. Toss together, just before serving time, shredded cabbage, shredded tender young beets, and very thin strips of green pepper. Season with French dressing. Fruit Salad Combinations 1. Alternate wedges of avocado, orange, and grapefruit on a bed of lettuce or endive. Serve with fruit French dressing. 2. Combine melon balls of honeydew, cantaloupe, and watermelon. Serve in Iettuce cups with fruit French dressing. 3. Combine equal amounts of cantaloupe or honeydew melon balls with sections of grapefruit. Serve with pineapple dressing. 4. Peel and core fresh or canned pears. For each serving allow half a pear. Frost with softened cream cheese and roll in chopped peanuts or blanched and toasted almonds. Serve with or without a cream-type dressing. Fresh Fruit Salad Plate Any variety of fresh fruit may be used. Select fruit combinations that will give a pleasing color harmony. Leave berries and sweet cherries whole, cut peaches, fresh pineapple, melons, and pears in bite-size pieces. Fruit Plate as a Dessert Finely crush ice and form on a mound on a serving platter. Put one end of a toothpick into a piece of fruit and the other into the mound of crushed ice. Continue until the ice is all covered with fruit. Refrigerate until ready to serve. Thoroughly chill but do not freeze fruit. Serve as a dessert with a heavy meal. Frencu DRESSING 1/; cup vinegar or lemon juice 1 teaspoon paprika 1 cup salad or olive oil 1 teaspoon sugar, if desired % teaspoon pepper few grains cayenne Combine all ingredients. Shake or beat until thoroughly combined. Chill. Page 108 Fruit Frencu Dressinc Combine all ingredients. Beat or shake until well blended. PINEAPPLE DRESSING Mix dry ingredients in the top of a double boiler. Stir in the pineapple juice, Cook over boiling water, stirring constantly until mixture thickens. Cover and cook for 10 minutes, stirring occasionally. Stir a little of the hot mixture into slightly beaten egg yolks. Add to remaining hot mixture. Cook over hot water, stirring constantly for 3 minutes. Stir in lemon juice. Chill. When the dressing is cool, fold in 1 cup of heavy cream, whipped. Pra irte Win ter Grace Barker Wilson All night long, under frozen sky With never a hint of stars or moon, The prairie lay like a dragon fly Wrapped in an eiderdown cocoon. No wind ruffled the icy air Nor stirred a flake of the falling snow; Not even a track of wild thing there To mar the quietness below. With ashen face the morning came, But no sun pierced the overcast, While winter's undisputed claim Held all the prairie frozen fast. SALADS FOR HEALTH AND BEAUTY % cup orange juice % cup pineapple juice 2 tablespoons lemon juice % cup sugar 2 tablespoons cornstarch dash celery salt % teaspoon salt 109 % cup salad or olive oil % teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon sugar 1% cups pineapple juice, or combination of orange and pineapple 4 egg yolks, slightly beaten "% cup lemon juice Mary Blanchard Williams Decorates Cakes ARY Blanchard Williams, St. Anthony, Idaho, has developed a hobby which makes use of her artistic abilities and, at the same time, proves to be useful and challenging. She is especially skillful in making ornately decorated cakes for special occasions. The cake which she made for the 111th birthday anniversary of Relief Society was a masterpiece of graceful scrolls and leaf and flower designs, bearing the motto: "Charity Never Faileth." Mrs. Williams has found that a cake made especially for an important occasion makes that occasion even more important in the memories of people who are eager to cherish the happening of a birthday celebration, a wedding, or a wedding anniversary, or the delights of a holiday. Mrs. Williams, as a young woman, was left a widow with six children and a farm. With the help of her boys, she managed the farm, and with great success she reared her children and educated them. Later, she married again, and by this marriage became mother to eight stepchildren. She has shared with her large family the expetiences of missions, college education, friendships, and the deep joy of seeing children mature into useful and happy citizens and devoted members of the Church. Moreover, she has found time for much Church work, including eight years as a Primary president, ward organist and ward chorister for many years, and for five years she served as president of Yellowstone Stake Relief Society. In her happy, busy life, Mrs. Williams exemplifies the old saying: "If you want something done well, ask a busy person to do it." Sime Mabel Jones Gabbott Time is a fleet winged chariot whose wheels Trace on one's face for all the world to see Unspoken thoughts, and words, and all one feels, In fretful lines or smooth serenity. Page 110 Hermanas CHAPTER 8 (CONCLUSION) Fay Tarlock my way," he said in a half whisper to Graciela, "I'd take you to Salt Lake to see the golden angel on the temple, but that will have to wait a while. Anyway," he gave her a little hug, "we have first to see that you are prepared for baptism." "The baptism, we are ready for that," Graciela told him eagerly, her face alight. "No," Jim still held her, "it is too important a step to be done emotionally. It is forever, and I want you to be sure you know what you are doing." I watched Graciela withdraw from his arms and firm herself to oppose him. "If we do things without emotion, we are cold, 'useless things." Her voice rose a little. "My mother and I have had two years to know the Church, and in this I tell you the sacred truth, I was ready before I met you. My mother will tell you that." She stood there, an exquisite figurine, but there was strength and decision in her. When Lolita spoke her agreement, Jim demurred no more. "But there is," Jim said, his hands thoughtfully in his pockets, "an old Spanish custom that bothers me." "Meaning what?" I spoke to him in English, and he answered me in kind. "It's hard to explain it, but I guess it's the whole thing, the big J IM'S face softened. "If I had wedding with all the fuss. I like privacy and simpleness. Once we started the thing, we'd follow tradition and go the whole way, the full three days. And you know how it is.' He looked like a small boy caught in a_ transgression. "The bridegroom has to furnish everything, the wedding clothes, the feast. It would take all I've been saving to equip my office when I'm ready for practice. But all that aside, I'd like nothing better than a quiet ceremony in your garden, with your permission of course, and EF] Presidente officiating." He looked first at Graciela, then at her mother, and back to the girl. "Couldn't we do that, no fuss, no feathers, no band, just a marriage?" Ardently Graciela translated for her mother. "Couldn't we," she ended in a plea, "be married here in the garden by El Presidente? Jaime says it is an American custom to have simple weddings, and we should consider his wishes." "I have heard of these simple American weddings," Lolita replied, all scorn. "Three minutes to be married and not much longer to be divorced. I have but one daughter, and I want her to have a wedding to remember all her life with pride. If you," she turned to Jim, "are sincere in your wishes to live here, you will respect our traditions." "What can I say to that?" Jim grinned at me. "Everything seems to be turning out all right. Ill go Page 111 along with anything except a threeday fiesta." "You're in capable hands," I told him. "You get back to the hospital and don't worry about a thing." With Jim in proud possession, | bade them goodnight. Lolita's bow was formal as to a mistress, and | was troubled, for we should be friends. Har night may not have been the exact moment when the idea began fermenting in my mind, but the germ of it was there when I awoke the next morning, refreshed from the first sound sleep in a week. I told Amporo to get breakfast * for the children while I went to market. It was so early that, save for an occasional maid sweeping the sidewalk, only the rag pickers were on the streets, eager to get first chance at the storm's debris. Overhead the sun moved in a washed sky, and the breeze was light and warm. In the market a few customers were about, cooks who had risen early and a few energetic housewives. I found Roberto alone at his stall, arranging a pyramid of oranges. After my compliment on his design, he selected a few limes, a small papaya, and a kilo of bananas for me. All the while I kept the conversation on one theme, that of the friendly, helpful Church people who made me feel so at home in Mexico. "Si," Roberto beamed, holding the bananas for my inspection. "The Church makes us one indeed." Graciously he inquired if my little protege and her mother were ready for membership, though of late he had been saddened because of their absence at the Sunday service. He would soon be happy, I told him. Lolita and her daughter would probably be at the service next Sunday. "Graciela and the young doctor—to be," I said as if it were an afterthought, "are to be married." "No me digos!"' Roberto pushed over the pyramid of oranges in his excitement. "Esas son de_ veras buenos nuevos!" Over the tumbled fruit he leaned, his face close to mine, exclaiming, "When will wedding be?" By now Jorgina, his wife, who presided over a nearby stall of fruit, rushed over to hear the news. Absentmindedly I pushed the oranges towards Jorgina, who stacked them with expert brown fingers. "It presents a little problem," I mused, eyes on the oranges. "Tt is the wish of the doctor to have a simple ceremony at my home with only the immediate families present. The doctor would find it difficult to provide for the Mexican wedding with the feast and the bridal finery. He also likes quiet weddings." I rolled the last orange into Jorgina's hand. "It would be a pity to deprive their friends of the pleasure of the wedding," Roberto said, signaling the curious Jorgina to attend to a customer. 'La Senora Lolita, what are her wishes?" He leaned close to my ear. "Oh," I-said, lowering my voice to meet his whisper, "you know women, Don Roberto." Signifying with a humorous smile that he did, he led me aside, the papaya display shielding us from the W2 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1956 HERMANAS customers. "Ay, Senora," he sighed with an elaborate wink, "I do indeed know women. But in this instance it is my opinion that la Senora Lolita has good reason." "With that I agree." I set down my basket, heavy with fruit. "Yet you must look at the young doctor's side. He feels that any money spent must go to fix up the old house at San Angel, since Lolita insists that they live there, and he insists that the place is not a fit habitation for them. This," I whispered discreetly, "is for your ears alone, Don Roberto. For a time it looked as if the San Angel house would prevent the marriage." "Que lastima!" He wiped his hands on his stained apron. I could see the idea growing in him. Proudly he raised his head and smoothed his black mustache with a confident hand. "If you would be so good as to give me a little time I think a way can be found to meet Lolita's wishes and, at the same time, satisfy the good doctor." "You amaze me," I said in admiration, "but I leave it in your hands." With a lordly gesture he lifted my basket and summoned a market boy to carry it. "The marriage is to be very soon," I confided, holding a finger on the basket to detain the boy. "Whatever you do must be quickly executed." "You spoke this morning of the co-operation of the brothers and sisters in the Church. Perhaps you will see something new." He put out his hand. "Remember you may call on me for anything that is practical for 113 me to do." I shook his hand and signaled the boy to go. "For a little of the material things, Senora, we may call on you, but the work we will do entirely." ESS than three weeks' time passed before the wedding, preceded, a few nights before, by the baptism of the two women. The matriage ceremony, at Lolita's request, was held in the garden of the old San Angel home. After a few preliminary skirmishes with Roberto, I was not consulted. "You are to be surprised," he told me mysteriously. "I am working with the missionaries." The Relief Society women were directly responsible for the feast. My assignment was the wedding cake. It took Amporo and me a full day to buy, beg, and borrow the proper pans to make the big threetiered cake — and all my raisins and nuts. Amporo dressed the miniature bride and groom and placed them under the silver bell I loaned for the occasion. Oddly I felt a little left out. Jim telephoned me only once. "I'm getting the afternoon off to spend with my future mother-in-law." "To do what?" I was mystified. "To observe an old Spanish. Custom." He took delight in teasing me. "T hope you're not going to do anything foolish." After all, the wedding was only the beginning. The future should not be mortgaged for it. "We're spending our money in the mercado — the one you frequent — so judge-for yourself." And I had to be satisfied with that evasive answer. Graciela came once for dinner. All she would tell me was that the Relief Society women were helping her mother make the wedding dress, rather wedding dresses, for Lolita was to have a new one. I don't like mysteries and there was a dark spot in my mind that said Lolita still resented me. She had not even told me of her interview with Miguel Munoz, whose early return was heralded in the dailies. Late afternoon of the wedding day, John and I dressed in our best suits, and with the Senora de Vargas as our guest, rode to San Angel. The twins were with Esperanza, who had a tooth extracted earlier in the day and was in no mood for a fiesta that would last late into the night. On this day of autumn the rain came early, staying only long enough to polish the shrubbery and splash the pavement clean. Overhead was an opalescent sky and the air was cool and sweet. We were in a gay mood as we rode past Obregon's monument and the suburban villas onto the rough streets of the old part of San Angel. John's hand had no sooner found the bell, than the gate in the high wall swung open, and the happy confusion of the party spilled out to meet us. The laughter of a hundred people was mingled with the strum of guitars and the higher notes of the marimba. Before I got past the entrance, Amporo, wearing a new pink dress, her hair oiled and coiled, and her feet uneasy in high heels, pulled at my arm. "Come quickly, Senora," she trilled, "it is almost time for the ceremony, but Roberto says you are to see it first." WITH no time for a "con permisso," I followed her through the shaded hallway into the main house where the newlyweds would live. "See!" She opened the heavy door with a flourish. "Es marvelleso, no?" - It was indeed marvelous. The long room with the windows overlooking the gallery and garden had been made into a living room. New boards replaced the rotted wood, and over its newly painted surface was a collection of bright serapes from Pueblo. A combined bookcase and table, so new that I could still smell the fresh wood, was decorated with multi-hued flowers. "Jorge, the carpenter, made it for a wedding gift, but the other things are from the Mormones,'" Amporo told me, awed at the generosity. The room had two comfortable chairs made of cowhide and a number of cane-bottomed chairs, bright with paint. I recognized the other piece of furniture. It was a couch Senora de Vargas and I had found in her attic. The cover was one of native sheets of heavy muslin, which Amporo had dyed and embroidered with vivid flowers. "There is -aume aft ofly «a glimpse,' Amporo reminded me, dancing with excitement. "You must see the wonders of the kitchen." In my heart I had sympathized with Jim. It was an impossibility to live in this kitchen, so little changed from colonial times. 'The 114 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1956 HERMANAS brick stove needed the attention of two stokers, and the cavernous sink, with its trickle of cold water was high enough to break a woman's back. I thought of the dirty cobwebbed walls, the lack of cupboards. When Amporo swung open the planked door I saw a high-ceilinged room freshly whitewashed, the high windows sparkling and framed by freehand drawings of fruit and flowers. The ancient brick ovens were covered by a dark blue cloth and brightened by a basket of golden mangos. When my eyes had taken in this splendor, I saw something that was akin to a miracle, a shining table top, enameled electric range, so new that it sang. In the States at this wartime, a new electric range was as unobtainable as the moon. Here in Mexico it was the possession of the tich. When I stopped to examine the flower-splayed card tied to the oven handle, I saw "Congratulations" written in the firm hand of Miguel Munoz! "Look!"" Amporo threw open a closet door to show me an electric water heater, dazzling in its newness. "Also the gift of the Senor." Surprise was hardly the word for my reactions. I had not thought him capable of sportsmanship in the grand manner. After this I could think pleasant thoughts of the Senor. "But the wiring? The house needed to be wired for the stove?" "It was another of the Mormones, a man who is an electrician who came with his helper and put all new wires in the house. Now," Amporo was brisk, "there is but time to see the bathroom and the bed- 5 room of Lolita." The bathroom I looked at only long enough to see that some modern fixtures with a banker's card had been installed, and the broken tile repaired. Lolita's room was a simple one, far from the street wall, and had a dressing table concocted by Jorge, the carpenter, and a long chest that must have been in the old house. I took time to sit on the bed. The mattress was new, one made of innersprings. "Fl doctor himself gave the bed to Lolita,' Amporo explained, her fingers tracing the design in the blue and white spread. So Lolita had her soft bed. ROM the kitchen we hurried to the gallery to see the wedding feast. The late afternoon sun shone through the poplars against the convent wall and threw a light around the bell in the tower. Golden shafts slanted across the garden, freshly trimmed and weeded, and rested upon the deep green of the pomegranates. The rays filtered through the Poinsettia trees and over the Burmese honeysuckle that separated Ramon's rows of beans from the garden. On the lawn, still shaggy from neglect, were the lovely red day lilies, open these last days of the rain. Last of all, the westering rays lighted the wedding feast that lay like a vast mural against the green background of the garden. There were stacks of tortillas, warm in blue and green napkins; terra cotta trays piled with dark green chili rellanos; braziers holding steaming pots of frijoles, fragrant with hot sauce and oregano; a copper caul- dron filled with carnitas; dishes of chicken mole brimming with dark sauce; deep pans of cabrito el horno, and bright dishes of sharp-tasting guacamole; colorful baskets spilling with the fruits of Mexico — mangoes, golden ripe, papaya ready for their baths of lime juice, sticks of freshly cut pineapple, slices of the pink mammea, and rosy strawberries, small and fragrant. In the very center was the wedding cake on a bank of flowers, and scattered about were the lacy baskets of sweet rolls and the glazed pastilles. In the background were the gayly designed pitchers, full to the brim with limonade, and the exotic drink of mango juice. So colorful was the feast that it seemed a desecration to touch it. Against the flaming bougainvillaea and blue plumbago that shaded the south gallery, the wedding guests waited in the shimmering light, ready for the feast that would begin as soon as E] Presidente pronounced the words — and the bride kissed within an inch of her life. I saw among the expectant group the bright blouses and shirts of the country people, splashes of accent for the dark garb of the city guests. 'To one side, half lost in the green shade, were a group of young persons dressed in green and white with sequin trimmings. They carried _ silver-trimmed sombreros and crimson serapes for the graceful jarabe tapatio to come later in the evening. In the far background against the plum trees were the musicians, shepherded by the proud Roberto, their instruments hushed but themselves poised for the signal that would start the festivity. All of a sudden, a wave of something that was more than exhilaration possessed me. It was a disembodied elation that seemed to lift and hold me above the garden with its riot of color and emotion. 'This, my heart said, is home. Tonight you will be happy with your people. My husband's beckoning eye, Amporo's quick tug, made me realize that the ceremony waited for my presence beside Lolita. My feet quickened on the damp grass, and I saw El Presidente, benevolent and towering in his black broadcloth and snowy linen, urging me forward. Waiting outside in a bower of autumn flowers stood Jim and Graciela. Jim was smiling and confident in his white jacket, but it was Graciela, petite and radiant, who drew all eyes. Jim's almost imperceptible wink brought my gaze to the bridal dress. It was a simple one, white, and fashioned after the native style, with a long swirling skirt and full blouse, embroidered in bright bands of cross-stitch. On the girl's slender feet were thonged sandals, and her blue-black hair was brushed into a shining pompadour in which she wore a single red Camellia. Jim's eyes took me from the bride to her mother. Lolita stood to one side, her graying hair coiled at her neck, her black eyes wet with happy tears. Like Graciela's, her dress material had been purchased by Jim in the market and made with the loving hands of the Church women. It was deep blue, with a full skirt and embroidered in red and green flowers. On her arm she carried a long white scarf with a band of in- 116 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1956 HERMANAS tricately woven flowers. Later, when the evening wind blew cold from the snow-topped mountains, she would place it on her child's shoulders. Quickly I advanced towards Lolita, my hand outstretched. Would she greet me with a courteous bend of her head and a respectful "Senora,' or would her eyes look 117 straight into mine? So near was I that the hem of my tailored suit touched the crisp folds of her blue gown; yet I did not know the answer. But, as our hands touched, her fingers were firm in mine, and she raised her eyes. With a warm smile, her hands pressed tightly over mine, and she said, "Bien venida, muy Hermana." iy Plants Elizabeth Williamson INIATURE plants are not a new idea. The Japanese and the Chinese thought of _ them centuries ago. However, the charm of these tiny plants and containers continues to please us, and their uses are many. They always delight anyone who creates them or anyone who receives them as a gift. Keep on hand very small containers and the smallest of flower pots, and when you are transplanting or making slips, put the smallest ones in the containers. Rock plants and succulents seem to adapt themselves best to miniature planting. Enliven the pots with tiny colorful figurines which you may pick up from time to time. These miniature plants make charming gifts and will be joyfully received. From The F ield _ Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1950, page 278, and the Handbook of Instructions, page 123. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Florence O. Gillman TIMPANOGOS STAKE (UTAH), PLEASANT GROVE FOURTH WARD BAZAAR, October 6, 1955 Standing, left to might: President Alice T. Judd; work meeting leader Fern M. Hicks; First Counselor Beth Hall; Second Counselor Vida F. Conway. This ward reports a most successful bazaar: "Our bazaar consisted of rugs made by the Deseret Industries, quilts, embroidered and painted pillow cases and tea towels, dolls made from men's hose; also monkeys, hassocks made from juice cans, baskets made from reeds, planter boxes made from cans and paper mache, aprons, children's clothing, homemade soap, hand-painted ceramics, sofa cushions, crocheted handkerchiefs and other crocheted novelties, including plates with crocheting around them. We also had a bake sale and featured homemade candy. Dinner was served while the bazaar was in progress. All of the sisters in the ward worked diligently to make our bazaar a success." Florence O. Gillman is president of Timpanogos Stake Relief Society. Page 118 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 119 Photograph submitted by Ruth M. Pell SANTA ROSA STAKE (CALIFORNIA) SINGING MOTHERS FURNISH MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE Stake chorister Jean Porter, stands second from the left in the back row; stake organist Katherine Davis is seated at the right end of the second row. Sister Davis has been released because of ill health since this picture was taken. Sister Eunice Southwick the new organist, is not in the picture. Ruth M. Pell is president of Santa Rosa Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Helen B. Walker POCATELLO STAKE (IDAHO), POCATELLO FOURTEENTH WARD VISITING TEACHERS ASSEMBLED AFTER ATTENDING A LUNCHEON IN THEIR HONOR, September 22, 1955 Front row, seated, left to right: Dorothy Harris; Pearl Cook; Emily Cameron; Pearl Gravatt; Cora Norton; Josephine Shipp; Phoebe Derricott; Chloe Bailey; Della Tucker; Lilian Day; Janice Romney and baby. Second row, standing, left to right: Leona Spillman; Mae McLaws; Edith Bell; Louise Koho; Grace 'Thomas; Ida Francom; Anne George, Secretary-Treasurer; Margaret Bartley, First Counselor; Bena Willes, President; Ruth Noble, Second Counselor; LaRue Cook; Helen B. Walker, President, Pocatello Stake Relief Society; Agnes Wheatley, First Counselor, Pocatello Stake Relief Society; Florence Wright; Louise Decker. This special luncheon was held in honor of the visiting teachers who have had a one-hundred per cent record for nine years, or ever since the Fourteenth Ward was organized from the Second Ward in 1946. 120 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1956 Photograph submitted by Laura M. Wilkin OQUIRRH STAKE (UTAH), PLEASANT GREEN SECOND WARD VISITING TEACHERS WHO HAVE ACHIEVED A ONE HUNDRED PER CENT RECORD FOR THREE YEARS Front row, left to right: Areta Loutensock; Eleanor Whittaker; Louella Wall; Lavinia Bullock; Ione Ashton; Reva Keetch, First Counselor; Violet Powell, President; Clara Silcox, Second Counselor; Josephine Thomas; Delilah Pendleton; Ireta Arave; Dorothy Evans; Isabelle Spiers; Alice Warr; LaVeda Shurtleff; Mildred Lindberg, Secretary. Y Second row, left to right: Dorothy Smith; Annie Fyfe; Helen Duckworth; Ruth Coon; Reva Brown; Lorraine Elkins; Alice Carter; Velva Duckworth; Ella Burrell; Ednal Daybell; Mabel Poulsen; Mabel Martin; Lucile Simpson. Third row, left to right: Zelma Hales; Asenath Chipman; Vervene Shaw; Beverley Carter; Beatrice Redmond; Gladys Robison; Maxine Crapo; Mary Westerman; Annie Nelson; Laura M. Wilkin, President, Oquirrh Stake Relief Society; Hazel Call; Cecil Mills; Winnifred Metcalf; Minnie Mills; Myrtle Russon; Evelyn Cook. Photograph submitted by Laura Beckstrand MILLARD STAKE (UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS FURNISH MUSIC FOR RELIEF SOCIETY CONVENTION AND FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, October 1955 Front row, seated, left to right: Delores Jones; Lola Stevens; Jewel Crosland; Laura NOTES FROM THE FIELD 121 Beckstrand, President, Millard Stake Relief Society; Merle Hone, director of the Singing Mothers; Jo Ann Harmon, accompanist; Mary Jean Robison; Winla Whitaker. Second row, seated, left to right: Lillian Rogers, chorister; DeAun Anderson; Ann Adams; Henrietta Hunter; Roma Turner, Beth Stephenson; Afton Finlinson, Gladys Warner; Nelda Paxton, Stella Day. Third row, seated, left to right: Lottie Anderson; Luella Mitchell; Emily Weed; Ruby Iverson; Iva Howlett; Helen Stevens; Ethel W ood; Nada Melville; Maxine Rowley; Algie Stephenson. Fourth row, standing, left to right: Sarah Stringham; Geneva Jones; Bly Nixon; Alice Robison; Louie Duncan; Carol Frampton; Evelyn Peterson; Eva Goulter. Photograph submitted by Nilus S. Memmott JUAREZ STAKE (MEXICO), DUBLAN WARD ANNIVERSARY PARTY, March 17, 1955 Front row, seated, left to right: Carel Wagner; Agnes Bluth; Rhoda Taylor, First Counselor, Juarez Stake Relief Society; Nilus Memmott, President, Juarez Stake Relief Society; LaVetta Taylor, Secretary, Juarez Stake Relief Society; Theresa Call; Matilda Wagner; Maria Hardy. Second row, standing, left to right: Cary Robinson; Thelma Bluth; Ella Anderson; Hannah Call, First Counselor, Dublan Ward Relief Society; Bernice Coon, President, Dublan Ward Relief Society; Ruth Longhurst, Second Counselor; Marge Alberta Robinson; Hannah Vee Jarvis; Willa Wagner; Nita Taylor; Eloise Spencer. Third row, standing, left to right: Beulah McNiel; Leah Robinson; Leona Wagner; Lucille Taylor; Glena Call, chorister; Anna Marie Taylor; Nell Bowman, LaRee Bluth; Arletta Taylor; Naoma Bowman, Alleen Bowman; Emma Pinon. -— Retrospect Anna Rice For many months long This was my lament, this was my song, "Things are continually going all wrong." Suddenly, one day the light I could see, It was my thoughts, not things, which were bothering me. LESS@ N DEPARTMENT Sheology—Characters and Teachings of The Book of Mormon Lesson 40—Christ Among the Nephites Elder Leland H. Monson (Text: The Book of Mormon: 3 Nephi, chapters 11-14) For Tuesday, May 1, 1956 Objective: To testify to the appearance to the Nephites of the resurrected Christ; and to comprehend Christ's teachings on baptism; the calling of the Twelve Disciples; and the Sermon on the Mount. Appearance of Jesus Christ After the cataclysm which they had experienced, a group of survivors was gathered around the temple in the land Bountiful. They were conversing about the changes which had taken place and about Jesus Christ who was to come. Suddenly they heard a voice, but they did not understand. Three times they heard it. The third time they heard it distinctly saying, "Behold my Beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased, in whom I have glorified my name—hear ye him" (3 Nephi 11:7). As they looked toward heaven they:... Saw a Man descending out of heaven; and he was clothed in a white robe; Page 122 and he came down and stood in the midst of them; and the eyes of the whole multitude were turned upon him, and they durst not open their mouths, even one to another, and wist not what it meant, for they thought it was an angel that had appeared unto them. And it came to pass that he stretched forth his hand and spake unto the people, saying: Behold, I am Jesus Christ, whom the prophets testified shall come into the world. And behold, I am the light and the life of the world; and I have drunk out of that bitter cup which the Father hath given me, and have glorified the Father in taking upon me the sins of the world, in the which I have suffered the will of the Father in all things from the beginning (3 Nephi 11:8-11). The people were so astonished that they fell to the earth for then ".. They remembered that it had been prophesied among them that Christ should show himself unto LESSON DEPARTMENT them after his ascension into heaven" (3 Nephi 11:12). Jesus spoke to them again saying: Arise and come forth unto me, that ye may thrust your hands into my side, and also that ye may feel the prints of the nails in my hands and in my feet, that ye may know that I am the God of Israel, and the God of the whole earth, and have been slain for the sins of the world (3 Nephi 11:14). And when they had all gone forth and had witnessed for themselves, they did cry out with one accord, saying, Hosanna! Blessed be the name of the Most High God! And they did fall down at the feet of Jesus, and did worship him (3 Nephi 11:16-17). In this decisive manner, Jesus affirmed his divinity, and by means of displaying his wounds established beyond doubt that he was Jesus the Christ, and that he had atoned for the sins of the world. Twelve Disciples Chosen Singling Nephi out of the multitude, Jesus said to him, "... I give unto you power that ye shall baptize this people when I am again ascended into heaven" (3 Nephi 11:21). Eleven others were endowed with this same power. " (now the number of them who had _ been called, and received power and authority to baptize, was twelve).." (3 Nephi 12:1). Jesus gave them specific words to be used in performing the ordinance and instructed them to baptize by immersion. Verily I say unto you, that whoso repenteth of his sins through your words, and desireth to be baptized in my name, on this wise shall ye baptize them—Behold, ye shall go down and stand in the water, and in my name shall ye baptize them. 123 And now behold, these are the words which ye shall say, calling them by name, saying: Having authority given me of Jesus Christ, I baptize you in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. And then shall ye immerse them in the water, and come forth again out of the water. And after this manner shall ye baptize in my name; for behold, verily I say unto you, that the Father, and the Son, and the Holy Ghost are one; and I am in the Father, and the Father in me, and the Father and I are one. And according as I have commanded you thus shall ye baptize. And _ there shall be no disputations among you, as there have hitherto been; neither shall there be disputations among you concerning the points of my doctrine, as there have hitherto been. For verily, verily I say unto you, he that hath the spirit of contention is not of me, but is of the devil, who is the father of contention, and he stirreth up the hearts of men to contend with anger, one with another (3 Nephi 11:23-29). In regard to baptism the Savior further said: And whoso believeth in me, and is baptized, the same shall be saved; and they are they who shall inherit the kingdom of God. And whoso believeth not in me, and is not baptized, shall be damned. Verily, verily, I say unto you, that this is my doctrine, and I bear record of it from the Father; and whoso believeth in me believeth in the Father also; and unto him will the Father bear record of me, for he will visit him with fire and with the Holy Ghost. And thus will the Father bear record of me, and the Holy Ghost will bear record unto him of the Father and me; for the Father, and I, and the Holy Ghost are one. And again I say unto you, ye must repent, and become as a little child, and be baptized in my name, or ye can in nowis¢e receive these things. And again I say unto you, ye must repent, and be baptized in my name, and become as a little child, or ye can in nowise inherit the kingdom of God. Verily, verily, I say unto you, that this is my doctrine, and whoso buildeth upon this buildeth upon my rock, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against them. And whoso shall declare more or less than this, and establish it for my doctrine, the same cometh of evil, and is not built upon my rock; but he buildeth upon a sandy foundation, and the gates of hell stand open to receive such when the floods come and the winds beat upon them. Therefore, go forth unto this people, and declare the words which I have spoken, unto the ends of the earth (3 Nephi 11:33-41). After calling the Twelve Disciples Jesus instructed the people ".. Blessed are ye if ye shall give heed unto the words of these twelve whom I have chosen from among you to minister unto you, and to be your servants..." (3 Nephi Fag! 1 After instructing the people that the first principles and ordinances of the gospel were prerequisites to salvation, and following his empowering the Twelve Disciples to baptize the people, Jesus turned to the multitude and gave them his Sermon on the Mount, substantially as he gave it on the Eastern Hemisphere. The Sermon on the Mount Retold This Sermon on the Mount gives in detail the Christian pattern of living. 'This pattern is needed today perhaps as much as anything in the gospel, for we have learned many things, but we have not yet learned how to live the more abundant life. The Beatitudes The Beatitudes represent Jesus' blueprint for happiness and blessedness. "... Blessed are the poor in spirit..." (3 Nephi 12:3) may mean blessed are those who feel the need of spiritual direction and come to Christ for help. Pride, self-righteousness, self-conceit are condemned. 'The parable of the Pharisee and the Publican is a good commentary on this beatitude.... Blessed are all they that mourn, for they shall be comforted" (3 Nephi 12:4) has been interpreted by James E. Talmage as follows:. The mourner shall be comforted for he shall see the divine purpose of his grief, and shall again associate with the beloved ones of whom he has been beteft... (Jesus the Christ, page 231). The meek, in the _ beatitude... Blessed are the meek..." (3 Nephi 12:5) are those people who refuse to answer evil with evil, which requires real strength of character, for it requires restraint of anger, hatred, and revenge. -—_ blessed are the merciful. 3 Nephi 12:7) reminds us that God will pardon our evil deeds in proportion as we pardon the evils others do to us. He who shows mercy will be judged mercifully. The peacemakers are blessed because they bring so much to others. Peacemakers placate; they bring about concord. They reconcile men who are at variance with one another, whether as individuals, classes, or nations. 124 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1956 LESSON DEPARTMENT Instructions to the Twelve Disciples Jesus then speaks of the responsibility and dignity of the ministry of the Twelve Disciples. He emphasizes it with the following ideas: Verily, verily, I say unto you, I give unto you to be the salt of the earth; but if the salt shall lose its savor wherewith shall the earth be salted? The salt shall be thenceforth good for nothing, but to be cast out and to be trodden under foot of men. Verily, verily, I say unto you, I give unto you to be the light of this people. A city that is set on a hill cannot be hid. Behold, do men light a candle and put it under a bushel? Nay, but on a candlestick, and it giveth light to all that are in the house; Therefore let your light so shine before this people, that they may see your good works and glorify your Father who is in heaven (3 Nephi 12:13-16). Christ, the Fulfillment of the Law When Jesus instructs citizens of his kingdom concerning righteousness, he frequently contrasts his teachings with those current in the law and the prophets, indicating in each case the impressive gulf which divides his sublime morality from the morality of the law and the prophets. The old law punished only the act of murder, but the law of Christ disapproves of the emotion of anger, thus working for a purification of the heart, a schooling of the feelings. 'The old law punished the act of adultery, but the law of Christ forbids a man to lust after a woman, for then he has already committed adultery in his heart. Christ wanted an inward punity. The old law required an - eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth' " (3 Nephi 12:38). The new law required: But I say unto you, that ye shall not 125 resist evil, but whosoever shall smite thee on thy right cheek, turn to him the other also.... And whosoever shall compel thee to go a mile, go with him twain.... And behold it is written also, that thou shalt love thy neighbor and hate thine enemy; But behold I say unto you, love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, and pray for them who despitefully use you and persecute you; 'That ye may be the children of your Father who is in heaven; for he maketh his sun to rise on the evil and on the good. Therefore those things which were of old time, which were under the law, in me are all fulfilled. Old things are done away and all things have become new. Therefore I would that ye should be perfect even as I, or your Father who is in heaven is perfect (3 Nephi 12:39, 41, 43-48). Jesus further states: Verily, verily, I say that I would that ye should do alms unto the poor; but take heed that ye do not your alms before men to be seen of them; otherwise ye have no reward of your Father who is in heaven (3 Nephi 13:1). That thine alms may be in secret; and thy Father who seeth in secret, himself shall reward thee openly. And when thou prayest thou shalt not do as the hypocrites, for they love to pray, standing in the synagogues and in the corners of the streets, that they may be seen of men. Verily I say unto you, they have their reward. But thou, when thou prayest, enter into thy closet, and when thou hast shut thy door, pray to thy Father who is in secret; and thy Father, who seeth in secret, shall reward thee openly (3 Nephi 13:4-6). Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth, where moth and rust doth cor- 'rupt, and thieves break through and steal; But lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust doth cortupt, and where thieves do not break through nor steal. For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also (3 Nephi 13:19-21). No man can serve two masters; for either he will hate the one and love the other, or else he will hold to the one and despise the other. Ye cannot serve God and Mammon (3 Nephi 13:24). Importance of Spirituality In this sermon to the Nephites, Christ points out that materialism is made to serve spirituality; it is never an end in itself. "But seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added unto you" (3 Nephi 13:33), Jesus promised. Jesus calls censorious persons hypocrites, and classifies them as worse than the people they criticize. And now it came to pass that when Jesus had spoken these words he turned again to the multitude, and did open his mouth unto them again, saying: Verily, verily, I say unto you, Judge not, that ye be not judged. For with what judgment ye judge, ye shall be judged; and with what measure ye mete, it shall be measured to you again. And why beholdest thou the mote that is in thy brother's eye, but considereth not the beam that is in then shalt thou see clearly to cast the mote out of thy brother's eye (3 Nephi 14:1-3, 5). The Golden Rule Jesus explained his readiness to bless mankind: Ask, and it shall be given unto you; seek, and ye shall find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you. For every one that asketh, receiveth; and he that seeketh, findeth; and to him that knocketh, it shall be opened (3 Nephi 14:7-8). Jesus then gave the golden rule: "Therefore, all things whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them, for this is the law and the prophets" (3 Nephi 14:12). Notice that this rule makes Chnistianity a positive religion rather than a negative one. It inculcates active benevolence. Jesus also warns us to: Beware of false prophets, who come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly they are ravening wolves. Ye shall know them by their fruits. Do men gather grapes of thorns, or figs of thistles? (3 Nephi 14:15-16). Finally, Jesus urged men to activate the doctrines he taught in their own lives. "Not every one that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven; but he that doeth the will of my Father who is in heaven" (3 Nephi 14:21). And he closed the sermon with the parable of the man who built his house upon the sand and the man who built his house upon the rock, emphasizing the need for applying gospel truths to our lives. Jesus was interested in life service to humanity; not lip service. The urgent words of the Lord to Moses are apropos: These words which I command you this day, shall be in your heart, and you shall meditate upon them, sitting in your house and walking on your journey, sleeping and rising. Questions and Topics for Discussion 1. Are we applying the teachings of the Sermon on the Mount today? 2. How does the sermon in The Book of Mormon differ from the one in the Bible? Give instances where Christ points out the need for correcting practices. 3. How does this account of Christ's appearance and teachings strengthen your testimony? 126 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1956 Ussiting Seacher ITlessages Book of Mormon Gems of Truth Lesson 40—"... For Behold, Ye Are Free; Ye Are Permitted to Act For Yourselves; For Behold, God Hath Given Unto You a Knowledge and He Hath Made You Free" (Helaman 14:30). Edith S. Elliott For Tuesday, May 1, 1956 Objective: To show that free agency is an eternal gift. "T7]—HERE was never any other intent by our Heavenly Father than that man should be free to act for himself. 'The whole plan of salvation encompasses this premise. Throughout scriptural history we read about the fruits of freedom and the curse of bondage. In the Book of Helaman, we read how Nephi exhorted the people to turn from their selfish ways and live the gospel of Jesus Christ and be ready for his coming. He also reminded them that they each had their free agency. In all of our trelations with our Father in heaven, he has made it clear that we are at liberty to choose our mode of behavior. In our everyday lives it is the divine gift of freedom that we must cherish. Unless we guard this precious gift we will be subjects for enslavement by the power of darkness in both our spiritual and temporal conduct. We have all seen the dwarfing effects of apathy and indifference to a worthy project. 'These factors court decay of the will to do, to act, to think, to initiate, to be free. They are indeed a form of enslavement. Let us be aware of entangling influences and cast them aside; rather let us choose our Heavenly Father's plan. He has given us a knowledge that under any circumstance our will to do is free. Matthew Arnold's explanation is: Yet the will is free; strong is the soul and wise, and beautiful; The seeds of God-like power are in us still. Gods are we, bards, saints, heroes, if we will (Courage, page 12). To enjoy the liberties with which we are so blessed, we must respect the rights of others. We do not need to indulge our fellow man to the point of losing our own freedom and self-respect, nor should we be selfish to the point of forcing our will upon another. Understanding, compassion, and truth are foundations for peaceful relations one with another. It is only through freedom and liberty that we can develop our Godgiven talents and enjoy the opportunity to choose our way of life, and we should do so, with judgment, intelligence, and honor, for our Heavenly Father has given us the knowledge. Page 127 Work ITleeting—Food Preparation and Service (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 8—Salads Rhea H. Gardner For Tuesday, May 8, 1956 ALADS have been accorded an undisputed place of importance on the family menu, and at many social functions where food is served. Reasons for their popularity are many. Salads made from fresh fruits and vegetables add color, eye appeal, and texture contrast to many meals that otherwise would be too soft and lacking in color for appetite appeal. In this weightwatching age, they satisfy the appetite with a minimum of calories— unless there is an over-use of rich dressing. Preparing Salads Since the success of many salads depends upon crispness and freshness, every precaution should be taken in their preparation to preserve these qualities. Always cut salad foods with a very sharp knife so they will not have that "overhandled" look. There are certain basic principles of salad-making and service that apply to all kinds of mixed salads. 1. Cut pieces up small enough so they may be easily eaten, but large enough so the identity of each kind of food used is. Hot lost. 2. When combining two or more different kinds of fruits or vegetables for a salad, try for color, flavor, form, and texture contrast, as well as harmony. 3. Plan the ingredients for your salad Page 128 and the salad dressing along with everything else on the menu so that when the meal is served there will be a perfect balance of all the essentials of a wellplanned meal. 4. Unless served only in minute amounts, never duplicate ingredients used in a salad in other parts of the meal. 5. Let simplicity guide you in your salad making. A salad that gives the appearance of having been worked over is seldom attractive. 6. Never let any part of a salad extend beyond the edge of the plate. To do so gives the plate an overloaded, careless appearance. Salad Dressing Salad dressings are of three main types — French, mayonnaise, and cooked salad dressing. The early Romans are credited with being the first to use salad dressing. It consisted of oil and vinegar. The French added eggs and seasoning to it and called it mayonnaise. 'The American housewives initiated the use of boiled salad dressing. 'Today there is almost no limit to the number of variations of French dressing alone. This is the simplest to make and most widely used dressing. Tossed Salads In some ways tossed salads are like little boys. Most everyone loves them, and if you want them to be nice and fresh looking for the dinner party, put the "dressing" on LESSON DEPARTMENT them the last minute. They'll both lose theit chief charm by becoming "limp" if you don't. Have the ingredients for a tossed salad fresh, cold, crisp, and dry, and have the dressing ready to put on it just as soon as the vegetables are prepared. <A tossed salad is improved by giving it a preliminary coating of oil. About one tablespoonful of salad oil will coat a medium-sized head of lettuce. 'Toss it until every leaf is completely coated with oil, then follow up with the dressing, usually French or one of its variations, and toss until it is distributed over all the greens. If the salad is mixed on this principle it will stay crisp. It is unwise to add cut-up tomatoes to a tossed salad, as their juices thin the dressing. Instead, cut them in vertical wedges as they bleed less that way, season them in a separate bowl if you wish, then add them to the salad bowl as a garnish. The flavor of all vegetables, excluding salad greens, is improved by mixing them with French dressing and allowing them to stand for at least one half hour in a cold place. Place the seasoned vegetables on the salad greens. They may or may not be mixed in with them. Most of us do not begin to exhaust the variety of vegetables that are delicious in tossed salads. Bitesize flowerettes broken from a head of cauliflower or broccoli, shredded raw beets or turnips, tender leaves of spinach, and raw peas, are a few of the delicious but seldom used salad vegetables. 129 Fruit Salads Make fruit salads to be served with the main course light and simple. 'The citrus fruits and other acid fruits are most appropriate. If you use sweet, soft, canned fruits, combine them with fresh fruits or something crisp, such as celery. Drain canned fruits well, so ther2 will be no juice on the salad plate and the dressing will not become diluted. Molded Salads Molded salads are convenient because they demand little last-minute attention. Make the gelatin mixture just firm enough to hold the other ingredients together. Select a flavor that compliments but never dominates the flavor of the other ingredients used. Variations in Salads Main course salads usually consist of a protein food and fruits or vegetables blended together with one of the heavier dressings. If lettuce is used, add it only after other ingredients have been combined and just before the salad is to be served. Hot dressing salads may be served either as a salad or as a vegetable. Hot potato salad dressing is usually made of bacon fat, vinegar, and seasonings. Luncheon-type meat, cheese, or boiled eggs may be added before or after the dressing. A simple hot dressing made of vinegar, eggs, sour cream, and seasonings, gives a pleasing variety to cabbage salad. A bed for a salad need not always be lettuce. Shredded cabbage, watercress, tender leaves of spinach, shredded carrots, endive, or other salad greens, make attractive backgrounds as well as flavorful accompaniments to salads. Make a habit of using a variety of salad dressings as well as salad combinations and _ meal-planning will always be a creative experience to look forward to. Suggestions for a Demonstration Prepare a variety of salads to demonstrate the principles of salad making. Note the supplementary material to this lesson in the article "Salads for Health and Beauty," by Rhea H. Gardner, on page 108 of this issue of The Relief Society Magazine. Di sere eae ane Literature of England Lesson 56—Review of English Literature Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: The Literature of England, Volumes I and II, Woods, Watt, Anderson) For Tuesday, May 15, 1956 Objective: To remind and surprise ourselves at how much we have forgotten and remembered. Note: This lesson will be most effective, it is believed, if the program of review is followed by using eight participants, as recommended by Brother Jacobs. The general board does not approve of women dressing as men; however, the eight sisters who read the excerpts might be dressed as women in the dress of the respective periods, and have before them the writing materials used at that particular time to lend atmosphere to the presentation. HORTLY before his death in gol A. D., Alfred the Great, King of the West Saxons and one of the brightest torches in England's history, wrote the following: "He seems to me a very foolish man, and very wretched, who will not increase his understanding while he is alive." Earlier, Socrates (469-399 B. C.) had written that "surely knowledge is the food of the soul," while later Francis Bacon (1561-1626) tells us that "whatever deserves to exist deserves also to be known, for knowledge is the image of existence and things mean and splendid exist alike" (my underscore). Likewise we are commanded in the Bible, ",.. With all thy getting get understanding" (Prov. 4:7) and in the Doctrine and Covenants "... Teach one another... In all things that pertain unto the kingdom of God..." (D. & C. 88:77, 78). How humbly we stand before these great words, how full is our gratitude for membership in the Church whose restoring Prophet taught that "A man is saved no faster than he gets knowledge" (D. H. C. IV, 588). How grateful for membership in the Relief So- 130 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1956 LESSON DEPARTMENT ciety, which bolsters its belief in intelligence as God's glory in one way by leading its members each studymonth to "the best that has been thought and said in the world." Through the past seven years of readings and discussions in English Literature, we have opened many doors, yet, rarely, have we squeezed inside more than a toe or a hand— once or twice a head, almost. Probably a normal reaction might be to classify these seven years as an apprentice period which has served to define the outer limits of our scope, but now we should really begin to master this material which we know but casually. 'To such thorough and willing initiates we should point out that, by its very nature, this course was never meant to be anything but introductory. If our study has given pleasure in the search and the sharing; if it has stimulated our sisters to love the best enough to search for it both within and _beyond the bounds of our outline, then nothing has been in vain. Three Goals Attained But though we have not accomplished all, which was never our aim, still we have nibbled at three goals, at least. Nothing broadens like travel, whether in time or space. In our travels back through time we have come to know a vast array of men and women from all walks of life. Because we have become acquainted with them through their most intimate hopes and fears and beliefs, as couched in their own carefully weighed words, we may possibly know their real selves better than did their non-reading contemporaries. Each of these writers has, in turn, 131 led us personally by the hand past labyrinths of obscurity, pettiness, bombast, and_ insincerity; past mountains of evidence both pertinent and inconsequential, to face those conflicts and hopes which were central to himself and his age. Our survey has thus enabled us to peel back the layers of peoples, customs, ambitions, and fears which have been laid up, then scrambled together, to form England through the centuries. Finally, by bringing us to know all sorts of men and cultures through time, our survey has provided the basis for comparing one reality, one writer with another, and most important of all, with ourselves and our present world. The voyage into perpetual self-discovery is one of the most important we can undertake. Here, again, our survey has provided at least a launching. Such a study of literature prolongs life by quickening and deepening it. Wise Winston Churchill defines three types of people: those who are toiled to death, those who are worried to death, and those who are bored to death. In the last two areas, so increasingly lethal today, literature gives ballast and balance and inward calm; once these are established, zest and the love of life follow. Breaking the Time Barrier In looking back over these seven years devoted to English literature, we must remember that, being mortal and human, and _ heirs to those who have preceded us, we should emphasize those — values which we have in common with our brothers through time rather than those which separate us. Thanks to the wonders of language and books, about the only barrier which separate us—time itself—can be removed at any moment by those who will bother to open a book. It sounds almost too easy. It is Herman Melville who treminds us that "genius all over the world stands hand in hand, and one shock of recognition runs the whole -circle round." Excellence knows no bounds. Procedure Now let us put our imaginations to work; let us annihilate time as suggested above. Since, in varying degree, each of us recognizes excellence and genius, consider, if you will, how much more apparent these high virtues must be to those who possess these attributes. Enter with us, then, if you can, a large and stately study severely plain and subdued in decor. The walls are booklined from floor to ceiling, the room is gently lighted from high narrow windows, draped. As we face the window-slits, only one object breaks the gleam of light reflected across the polished floor: a large round table in the center of the room. Around it are eight high-backed oaken chairs spaced at regular intervals on which eight men are seated, writing. 'The writing materials vary —much goat and sheepskin scraped clean and dried into parchment, various grades and shapes of paper, while writing instruments vary from goose quills to steel-nib dip pens, to handmade pencils and fountain pens. We wait for a time. The men seem unaware of our presence, writing as if in a trance, intent, dedicated. The tension of stillness is blurred only by the scratch of penflourishes. Still we wait. Finally, when nothing happens, slowly we approach near enough to read over a man's shoulder as he writes. It is difficult to see past his massive shoulders and full black cowl as he leans forward to his manuscript; finally we catch a glimpse of his first three lines which, translated, read: Lo! We have listened to many a lay Of the Spear-Danes' fame, their splendor of old, Their mighty princes, and martial deeds! Thus begins Beowulf, the oldest known writing in English. Probably first written down by this English monk, sometime around the year 1000, it was probably composed in northern England about 750. Inasmuch as we have used our imaginations freely thus far, we cannot retract now. 'Therefore, let us imagine the great hall containing the round table is our hall here and now, and the eight persons seated about it are transformed into eight Relief Society sisters chosen to speak for the eight periods and the best writings of each period. Perhaps, after an introductory statement incorporating the scope and goals of our study of English literature, each of the eight might stand, declare the age she represents, then read a brief excerpt from the best writings of the age before passing the continuity on to the next period. In preparing the introductory material or the unifying narrative, the class leader should be reminded that her functions might be compared to that of the string which connects the pearls. In this project the em- 132 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1956 LESSON DEPARTMENT phasis should be on the literature itself; theory and history best justify themselves, if they merely join together the various selections and then remain in the background. It would seem that the greatest problem might be the selecting of what to read. Since the purpose of this hour is primarily one of enjoyment through participation and recollection, the class leader should recall those passages which she remembers most fondly or which she feels will be best received. 1. The Old English Period, 449- 1066 (Text, vol. I, pp. 2-71) From the Anglo-Saxon Invasion to the Norman Conquest In 410 a. P. The Romans left Britain. In 428 began the Germanic invasions of England, organized more completely by Hengest and Horsa in 449. Wave after wave of Scandinavian Vikings brought constant pillage and warfare. About 850 England was conquered by the Danes and ruled by them until Alfred the Great broke their power. The period began in_ barbaric paganism, with England a mysterious isle on the outer edge of civilization. Blood-guilt or murtderguilt could be removed by giving of gifts to the murdered's kin. 'The hero-warrior was supreme, and ties of blood were strongest. The Teutonic mind was moody, somber, and stubborn. The high virtues, as seen in Beowulf, were pride, personal honor, and courage, and loyalty. In 597 Christianity was organized in southern England by St. Augustine, and by the end of the period, through the saving, perpetuating functions of the monasteries and the great love of learning of Alfred 133 the Great, Christianity was dominant. The reader might choose to read aloud a scene from Beowulf (pp. 21-56) or a selection from "The Wanderer" (page 57), "The Seafarer" (page 58), or the lovely, simple Parable of the Sparrow as found in Bede's Ecclesiastical History (page 64, lines 51-72). 2. The Middle English (or Medieval) Period, 1066-1485 (Text, vol. I, PP. 72-277) From the Norman Conquest to the Accession of the 'Tudors This period serves as the link between wild, prehistoric, and modern England. Four great influences dominate these centuries: first, the conquest of England in 1066 by William of Normandy, who made French language and literature dominant until after 1400; second, the feudal pattern of life, which preceded the English village, in which the manor of the lord or the duke was the center of life and commoners were serfs or slaves to the master, he in turn having the strongest loyalty for his lord and king; third, the ideals of chivalry — gentility toward all women, kindness, courage, fighting against wrong, but, most powerful of all, was the concept of courtly love — all these dominated the world of lords and ladies and knights. The fourth and greatest force of the age, however, was treligion: the pursuit of the Holy Grail, the ten Crusades, the other worldliness of the church-dominated culture. Yet then as now people were people. While there was violent persecution by church and state for heresy, there was healthy vigor among the commoners, as seen in their riddles and ballads which survive to the present day, notably "Edward" (page 117), "The 'T'wo Corbies" (page 119), "Sir Patrick Spens" (page 122), "The Wife of Usher's Well" (page 124), and "Bonny Barbara Allen" (page 124). The medieval romance was popular, as in Morte Darthur (page 261), and Sir Gawain and the Green Knight (page 167), and the morality play was the great artform for the people. Chaucer, by first writing in English with power, by combining almost every contemporary subject and literary form in his works, but mostly by knowing and loving his fellow humans more deeply and compassionately than almost any other English writer, is the best representative of the age. The reader might choose to read from the folk ballads, or from the immortal characterizations of knight (page 212), merchant (page 216), or prioress (page 213), as found in the Prologue (page 211) to Chaucer's Canterbury Tales. 3. The Renaissance Period, 1485- 1625 (Text, vol. I, pp. 278-564) From the Accession of the Tudors to the Death of James I. One of the richest flowerings of the English spirit, this period produced some of its greatest literature, as seen in the King James translation of the Bible, and in the writings of Sir Francis Bacon, John Bunyan, Ben Jonson, John Donne, Robert Herrick, George Herbert, and, above all, William Shakespeare. Freed from domination by church and _ illiteracy, more and more Englishmen expressed the exuberance they felt as England became a great commercial nation and the reigning queen of the seas after defeating Spain in 1588. Likewise, in the discovery that man can know and understand the world about him, and even control and _ better his lot, the typical Rennaissance citizen believed all knowledge to be in his province, that everything "which deserves to exist deserves to be known." It is most difficult to choose merely one or two selections from this age of our greatest poetry, but at the top of the list must appear Shakespeare's sonnets and selections from the King James Bible. Suggested sonnets are 18 (page 424), 29 (page 425), 33 (page 426), 55 (page 426), 104 (page 428), and, perhaps best known, 116 (page 428). Songs from Shakespeare's plays (pp. 429-433) contain some of the loveliest lyrics in the language. Bible selections (text, pp. 520-547) are best-known to us. Therefore, it seems rather superfluous to name one passage above another, so personal are many. 4. The Puritan Interlude, 1625-1660 (Text, vol. I, pp. 564-719) From the Death of James I to the Restoration of Charles II. The English peoples ever have been filled with fervor for right and truth and godliness. In Bunyan (page 705) and Milton (page 638) we have the two great voices of Puritanism. In majesty and poetic use of language Milton has been tivaled only by Shakespeare, while his personal intensity, his moral and spiritual integrity stand supreme. Milton the man and Milton the artist are inseparable. His one mag- 134 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1956 LESSON DEPARTMENT nificent protest against the Cavalier and Roman artificialities, and his ringing affirmation of man's necessary right to courage, moral, and spiritual strength, and unhampered freedom of the will—all these virtues set him apart and above from the lesser lights of English literature. And for the epic brilliance of his poetry, read from Paradise Lost, Book I (page 650), at will. Again, Milton's ability to write poetry of beauty and music and great inner power can be displayed by reading from Samson Agonistes (page 676). 5- The Neo-Classical Period, 1660- 1784 (Text, vol. I, pp. 720-1131) The Neo-Classical movement arose as a reaction against both the laxness of Cavalier literary and moral standards, and the rigorous severities of the Puritans. It was an age of skepticism, order, reason. A classical symmetry pervaded literature, music, architecture, and landscape gardening. It was by this same ordering of nature by which the ancient Greek and Roman writers had achieved their unrivaled excellence in structure and form. NeoClassical writers followed the classical unities of time, place, and action, not in blind adherence to rule, but because they felt they must, since by following the ancients, they best followed nature and reason. Wit, reason, balance, restraint— these qualities predominate in the writings of Dryden (page 768), Addison and Steel (page 885), Pope (page 973), Goldsmith (page 1023), Johnson (page 1043), and, in a lesser degree but tinged with a more bitter satire, in Swift (page 910). Perhaps the fairest representative 135 of this period is Alexander Pope, a brilliant craftsman and writer rather than a great one. For power over language, for skill in manipulating the metrical line to fit his needs, for music and wit and brilliance and finish, read excerpts from Epistle II, "An Essay on Man" (page ggg). If you desire something of lesser intensity, read a passage from Addison or Steele. This concludes excerpts from volume I, 6. The Romantic Period, 1760-1832 (Text, vol. II, pp. 1-397) Just as the pendulum swung far to one side in Neo-Classicism as it opposed earlier patterns, so emerging Romanticism swung just as far in the opposite direction in reaction against what it considered the excesses of Neo-Classicism. 'The previous period had been of the head; emerging Romanticism was of the heart, the emotions, the imagination. While Neo-Classicism had been a sophisticated literary movement designed to appeal to the rich, noble, intellectual, and leisurely classes, Romanticism gave a body to the new forces of democracy: It believed passionately in the individual, in freedom, in beauty, love, and nature. The mature Romantic Movement began in the works of William Wordsworth (page 118), and Samuel 'Taylor Coleridge (page 163), but these two writers were prefaced and surrounded by a group of lesser Romantics: James Thomson (page 32), William Collins (page 66), Thomas Gray (page 46), William Cowper (page 73), Robert Burns (page 83), William Blake (page 111), Charles Lamb (page 337), and Wilham Hazlitt (page 360). 'The great Romantics, in addition to Wordsworth and Coleridge, were Sir Walter Scott (page 190), Lord Byron (page 200), Percy Bysshe Shelley (page 248), and John Keats (page 273). To decide which one or which two should be read is about as difficult as choosing arbitrarily which star in the summer heavens is the brightest. Here, as throughout this review, the teacher is encouraged to choose that which is richest and best for her and her class. Likewise, I can name those I know and love best (which really proves nothing for others): Coleridge's "Kubla Khan" (page 184), Byron's "She Walks in Beauty" (page 205), "The Prisoner of Chillon" (page 207), "So We'll Go No More A-Roving" (page 224); Shelley's "Ozymandias" (page 253), "Ode to the West Wind" (page 255), "Io a Skylark" (page 258), "To Night" (page 261); Keats' "On First Looking into Chapman's Homer" (page 275), "Ode on a Grecian Urn" (page 281), ""T'o Autumn" (page 291), "Bright Star! Would I Were Steadfast as Thou Art" (page 292). 7. The Victorian Period, 1832-1880 (Text, vol. II, pp. 399-839) During Victoria's reign England became "'big business" in world-wide commerce and imperialism, and in manufacturing and scientific progress at home. With the widespread use of power tools and engines to save labor and to shrink the globe like a wrinkled apple; with man's conquest of plague and pain, many idealistic Englishmen came to believe that the perfection of the Ideal Man was to be attained here and now. Others saw the worship of success and wealth as a_ passion which seriously endangered the English spirit. As England became wealthier, at the same time some of her peoples became poorer; this contrast between extremes hurt. Likewise painful and confusing was the wavering between faith and doubt, which had been brought to an issue as new scientific thought conflicted with apostolic, traditional religious views. The great writers of this period dealt more nearly with the problems of our own day: Matthew Arnold (page 527), Tennyson, (page 593), Dickens (page 424), Macaulay (page 427), the Brownings (pp. 655 and 709), the Brontes, (Emily, page 716), Thomas Carlyle (page 464), Ruskin (page 501), the Rossettis (pp. 783 and 748). "The spirit moveth where it listeth," and likewise each teacher whose responsibility asks that she choose one representative from this period can only select the one who speaks to her and her group most forcibly. 8. The Break With Victorianism, 1880-1914 (Text, vol. II, pp. 841- 1009 ) Fading Traditions and New Patterns In this period, even more near, the problems, hopes, and confusions of our own day, and many of the clashes of the Victorian Period are intensified; also there emerges the tendency to refuse entirely to acknowledge problems and to seek various avenues of escape. This age, like our own, contains within itself 136 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1956 LESSON DEPARTMENT sample forces and philosophies and literary trends which represent almost every value and trend in English Literature since the Renaissance. It is almost like counting off our own family as we list the period's voices: Victorian Humorists (pp. 826-839), George Eliot, Stevenson (pp. 874, 934), Synge (page 1002), Kipling (page 896), Housman (page gog), Masefield (page 927), Henley (page 863), and Hardy (page 918). Again, choose as you will, but to me Hardy's "In Time of "The Breaking of Nations'"" (page 926), might be one possible choice. This "voyage into self-discovery" 137 is now at an end. We have met ourselves in many mirrors, as we have seen our opposites. We have "weighed and considered" a great wealth of human wisdom and art and life. May this study now serve as provocation to further reading and growth, rather than an attained reward fulfilled at the present moment. May you invite these men constantly into your homes and into your own hearts, to stimulate and challenge and exalt. After all "How can I learn save from him who is my friend?" In this re-examination and review may you have found many friends who sustain and challenge your better self. Dae OW 1 elie (Gene nuilen of the United States Lesson 21—The Fruits of Freedom Elder Albert R. Bowen For Tuesday, May 22, 1956 Objective: To show that the growth and development of the United States were made possible and are the direct result of the institutions of freedom established by the Constitution. Love and Respect for Constitution OR the past three years during which time the Constitution of the United States has been the subject of study and discussion, the wisdom of its framers has been referred to on many occasions. 'The greatness of the document itself has been the subject of frequent comment, and we have also pointed out its sources, history, and the way in which it has worked as the framework of our Government. Above all else, we have lauded this great charter of our liberty as the guardian of freedom and the guarantor of justice to all having the good fortune to live under its influence. We come now to the conclusion of this study, and it is hoped that there has been reaffirmed in the heart of every member of the Relief Society, a love and respect for the Constitution, coupled with a deeper appreciation and understanding of its great and indispensable value to us, and our children, and our children's children. Love of country and patriotism is the common attitude of nearly all Americans, and this is especially true of Latter-day Saints. It was not supposed when this course of study was decided upon that the women of the Relief Society needed any serious urging to love of country and of our free institutions. All this was taken for granted. Intimate study and the refreshing of recollection of the things we were taught as children in school concerning the United States, must surely enhance and strengthen our patriotic sentiments and make us resolve to be better Americans, better citizens, and cause us to acknowledge the goodness of God in providing for our progress and happiness a form of Government which no other people on earth have the good fortune to enjoy. Fruits of the Constitution Long ago it was pointed out that the test of a man, of a teaching, of an idea presented as a truth, can be judged by the actions of the man or the product of the idea or teaching. "By their fruits ye shall know them." What are the fruits of the Constitution? For one-hundred and sixty-seven years we in the United States have lived under it. By now it should be apparent whether it has produced a good fruit. We should be able, now, to judge if men are better off living under such a system of Government as it provides, or if there is a better system under which men can prosper more. We should judge if there is a better system under which men can realize, to a fuller extent, their legitimate hopes and aspirations and, while doing so, enjoy the freedom and liberty which is so essential and indispensable to happiness. We all of us know the answer. 'lhe Constitution of the United States is the greatest charter of Government ever devised in the history of mankind. In America we live under a system commonly called the "Free Enterprise System." We refer to our national life as the "American Way." What are the distinctive features of this system? Freedom of Choice It is fundamental to the American system that men are entitled to freedom of choice. Freedom to choose where to live, what occupation or calling to follow, for whom to work, whom to hire, and when. The result of this freedom of choice has been the building of an economic system entirely unique and far more successful and productive than exists anywhere else on the face of the earth. Right to Own Property Closely allied to freedom of choice under the American system, and equally as important, is that the right to own property is recognized and protected. What a man legitimately and lawfully acquires belongs to him. In spite of the fact that many feel rebellious at the tremendous sums which are siphoned off by Government in the form of taxes, which have reached oppressive proportions, the right to own property is recognized and protected. It was an absolute truth in years gone by and would be an 138 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1956 LESSON DEPARTMENT absolute truth today, except for our deep involvement in terribly costly world politics. This situation is not the fault of the American system, but is partly the result of the dangerous times in which we live, and, in part, due to the pursuit of unwise policies which have made governmental expenditures needlessly high. But after all of our complaints and dissatisfactions are voiced, we still, in the United States, control our private destinies and may use what is ours for any lawful purpose which we select. Free Rein to Private Enterprise The basic and fundamental philosophy of Government under the Constitution, even today with its many controls exercised over the economic life of the citizens, is to permit free rein to private initiative. Most Government controls over farmer, businessman, or industry have been brought about either to curb selfish and ruthless practices, or because of the selfish demands of special groups for special favor. Our national life would be healthier and more prosperous without such controls or special favors, but so long as there are those who refuse to live by the rules of conscience, part of our potential strength will be diverted into unproductive channels. Accomplishments Under the Free Enterprise System In spite of acknowledged faults and defects, what has free enterprise accomplished in America? One of the most dramatic, if not indeed the most dramatic illustration of the effect of the free enterprise system upon the United 139 States, is seen in the awe-inspiring changes which have occurred in the economic conditions under which we live. Another and equally dramatic illustration of this same effect is the manner in which the work of our country is done now contrasted with the way in which it was done at the beginning of our history. Discussing the latter first, it is a fact that until the Civil War more than one half of the work energy required to accomplish this work was supplied by the muscle and brawn of men and animals. It has been estimated that by 1960 less than two and one half per cent of this work energy will come from those sources. In the meantime, the machine has taken over and, by the use and application of the energy supplied by coal, petroleum, and electricity, the work of our country is done in almost one half the time required at the beginning of the Civil War. The average work week then was about seventy hours; it is now fortythree. This change from the use of animal and human energy to machines has made the United States an industrial giant, changing her from a rural agricultural Nation to the position of leading the remainder of the world in output and production. While this change to industrialization has occurred, the productivity of the workman has continually gone up until today a worker in about one half the time produces about five times as much as the same workman was able to produce a hundred years ago. In 1850 the average worker produced about twenty-seven cents worth of goods per hour. He now produces one A Perry Picture—Copyright by Eugene A. Perry THE CAPITOL, WASHINGTON dollar and forty cents worth of goods per hour. Not only is this true but, in addition, there has been a net increase in the output of goods and services which is twenty-nine times greater than it was in 1850. This has been done with the expenditure of much less time and with a population which has increased only six times in the same period. Improved Condition of Worker in the United States Let us now consider for a moment the effect all this change has had upon the worker. We have already mentioned the number of hours which he worked. By 1900 the average work week was about sixty hours. It was six days a week, ten hours per day. In terms of wages it has been estimated that women workers probably did not average more than $280 per year. The wages of unskilled workers was about $400 per year. 'This figure has steadily risen so that now the average worker at constant dollar values earns twice as much as he did twenty-five years ago. 'T'wentyfive years ago, two-thirds of American families did not have sufficient to meet normal requirements for basic necessities. Now two-thirds of American families enjoy a surplus over and above such needs. The free enterprise system has enormously increased the wealth of America. New inventions and_ technologies have led to the creation of whole new industries. Let us take the automobile for an example. This invention is directly responsible for the growth of the rubber industry, the building of super-highways, the stimulus to the use of petroleum 140 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1956 LESSON DEPARTMENT products, which is responsible for the oil and gas industry. This is only one example. This same process has been repeated countless times in other industries. Alleviation of Need and Hunger Finally America has provided the laboratory demonstration of what can be accomplished to relieve human suffering and need and has given the emphatic denial to the theory of Malthus who postulated that the world is destined always to know hunger and privation; that population increase in any country will ever keep ahead of the ability of the world to supply its basic requirements of food and energy. 'This theory was propounded near the end of the eighteenth century and, based upon the past history of the world at that time, seemed conclusively true. The American system has demonstrated the seemingly paradoxical truth that by the application of modern technology, nations may increase their productivity far in excess of population increases. In all the history of the past, the vast majority of human beings have lived and died in poverty and slavery. It was not until the advent of America that this tragic trend in human existence was reversed. Material and Spiritual Progress As great and necessary as the vast changes and betterments in the economic sense undeniably are, there are even more important values which have accrued to us as Americans as a fruit of freedom under the Constitution. The fruits of freedom have produced in the United States, to the 141 extent not known before, an attitude of mind and spirit which has added immeasureably to the value of the human personality. The great pronouncements of the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution in recognition of human rights have been, in no small measure, responsible for the growth of the United States. Lofty ideals and noble sentiments must inevitably produce their effect, if believed and practiced until they become a part of the society in which they find recognition and acceptance. Ideals of liberty and freedom may not have had their origin in this country—but here they have taken deep root and have become strong and vigorous. In this atmosphere the spirit of men has found nourishment. Men have been encouraged to dream great dreams and to accomplish— knowing that their efforts would not be destroyed nor thwarted by other men nor by a government unfriendly to individual initiative. Eight Reasons for Growth and Development In conclusion, the following eight reasons are submitted as controlling in the growth and development of America into the greatest Nation the world has ever known: 1. Great natural resources 2. A plentiful labor supply 3. Surplus capital 4. Great demand for manufactured goods and services encouraging and stimulating the growth of industry and business 5. Labor-saving devices and machinery 6. Cheap transportation 7. Friendly Government, leaving economic development largely in private hands 142 | | Easter \ Three Part Choruses for Women's Voices mid Calvary—Rodney........... Csceneeeeeee- 22 nnn Christ, the Lord, is Ris'n Today—Erb SS SETTES sro eee SEE 16 a God So Loved the World—Stainer.12 = Hosanna—Granier.........................20 _—_ Hosanna! Blessed Is He—Marryott.18 a Hymn For Easter—Templeton.......20 ~s Legende—Tschaikowsky.................20...... Message of the Bells—Pohlmann...20 et Our Christ Has Risen—Connor.....25 ae The Palms—Faure..............-.: c:--00-- +22 — Unfold, Ye Portals—Gounod.........14 Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank; DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 15 E. Ist South Salt Lake City 1, Utah; Please send the music indicated above. O On Approval [) Charge (1 Money Enclosed Name Address: City & State * ecw ce nec ce sce cena nn wanna ene cece cen n cc an ene ce nen see nsenan een esecceeend Daynes Mace | Sal Lake 145 NORTH UNIVERSITY, PROVO #! 2260 WASHINGTON BEID. Coben RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1956 8. The non-existence of tariffs and barriers to trade in a vast territory permitting the free movement of goods and trade from state to state. Of all the foregoing, by far the most important is number seven. Without that friendly Government, the other factors would never have had full scope and opportunity to affect the growth of the United States. The Constitution forms the background of that Government,. And without it, it is inconceivable that the United States would ever have become what it is today. We all have a great stake in America. Our well-being and happiness and that of our children depend upon the preservation of her ideals and institutions. The United States can endure as long as her people retain those ideals and institutions and so long as the people of the United States are imbued with moral sense and courage and live righteously the principles laid down as the conditions for her continued existence. In Conclusion The fruits of freedom are concrete and real. At the conclusion of this three-year study of the Constitution of the United States of America, every Relief Society woman should be keenly aware of the rights and privileges which the Constitution guarantees. She should have no doubt about it being a divinely inspired document, framed by wise men "... Raised up unto this very purpose..." by the Lord (D. & C. 101:80). Every Relief Society member should be reverently grateful for the privilege of living where the blessings of freedom may be enjoyed LESSON DEPARTMENT daily and where she has the voting franchise so that she may use her influence in preserving these freedoms. Moreover, she should feel that she has a definite responsibility to assist in the safeguarding of the Constitution. She should demonstrate this feeling of responsibility by going to the polls on each election day to cast her individual vote. She should be aware of her opportunity to further the cause of freedom by speaking constructively of the Constitution, and should endeavor to keep herself alert to, at least, the major issues confronting the Government. Last, but by no means least, she should avail herself, as a Latter-day Saint mother, of every opportunity to instill in her children and maintain in her home, a love and respect for the Constitution of the United States, and an appreciation for life in this choice and promised land. Questions on the Lesson 1, What is the prevailing economic system in America? 2. What does "free enterprise" or the "American Way" mean? 3. Are property rights Why? 4. What is the attitude of Government in America towards private initiative? Is this the correct attitude? Why? 5. What has been the effect of the "free enterprise system" in the United States? Upon the individual? Upon the creation of a strong Nation? 6. In what other country prior to the Constitution were conditions comparable to the United States since the Constitution was adopted? 7. What has been the most important result of freedom under the Constitution? 8. Name the factors which have made the United States the greatest Nation the world has ever seen? G. Which has been the most important? Important? 143 2nd Annual L. D. S. SPRING BLOSSOM CRUISE TOUR HAWAII Via S. S. Lurline MAY 3, 1956 DELUXE FOUR ISLAND TOUR $695.00 minimum INGLEWOOD TRAVEL SERVICE 327 E. Manchester J. Keith Gudmundson, Conducting Inglewood, Calif. It's awaiting You... E Dae S there is still a tremendous amount of outstanding instruction and use awaiting you in this and other copies of the Relief Society Magazine. Your editions may be handsomely bound at the West's finest bindery and printing plant for $2.50 cloth bound and $3.50 leather bound per volume plus postage for mail orders. All mail orders must be paid in advance. Follow these postage rates if you send your order by mail: Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles 35 150 to 300 miles.........--...------2-00-+ 39 300 to 600 miles ® 4 @ 600 to 1000 miles 1000 to 1400 miles ¢ 1400 to 1800 miles................-.-------- 76 Over 1800 miles 87 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-2581 31 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah HAWAII Sail from Los Angeles Via the Lurline April 9, 1956 EUROPE Another famous Festival Tour sails for Europe from Montreal on July 17, 1956, via the Empress of Canada. For Complete Details Write or Phone: VIDA FOX CLAWSON 966 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah These Simple Piano Arrangements of Favorite L. D. S. Hymns By Seldon N. Heaps Should Be In Every Home An Angel From On High As the Dew From Heaven Distilling Come, Come Ye Saints Gently Raise the Sacred Strain High On the Mountain Top How Great the Wisdom and the Love Joseph Smith's First Prayer Oh, My Father O Ye Mountains High Prayer Is the Soul's Sincere Desire Redeemer of Israel Shine On Sweet Is the Work We Thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet 35c EACH Add Postage, and 2% Sales Tax in Utah Order From GLEN BROS. MUSIC CO. 74 So. Main Salt Lake City, Utah Page 144 My lew Home Pearl D. Bringhurst I have a new and lovely house With spotless walls and doors, With ceilings light and windows bright And newly polished floors. My little children in their glee Go running in and out Leaving footprints on the floor And fingerprints about. But once, a little child, I ran On Mother's shining floors Leaving footprints through her house And hand prints on her doors. Each room was laid in tenderness And sweetness filled the air; The doors were made of friendliness The walls of loving care. There was goodness in the cupboards A welcome at our door, Kindness on the hearthstone; Love carpeted our floor. There was courage in each archway And charity was there, With faith in every corner And the roof was made of prayer. I look my new house over, But it's really just begun For it must wear some virtues Before my home is done. Rocketeer Maude Rubin He's only five, but very sure Of what he wants! The house next door has more allure Than pirate haunts... Swift as magic arrow-flight Through day's wide blue or dim twilight, His space-ship heads for distant star But lands at Grandma's cooky jar! The Ten Commandments Today The fundamental truths laid down at Mt. Sinai are discussed in their relationship to the atomic world of today by seven members of the Council of the Twelve; Joseph Fielding Smith, Harold B. Lee, Spencer W. Kimball, Mark E. Petersen, LeGrand Richards, Adam S. Bennion, and Richard L. Evans; by Superintendent Elbert R. Curtis of the YMMIA, and W. Cleon Skousen of Brigham Young University. $2.00 Youth, Love and Marriage 2. Dr. Rex A. Skidmore This book, written by a great leader of youth, gives expert counsel to youth on dating, making friendships, on courtship, marriage, and family living.. - in an easy-to-read and interesting style. $2.75 Commentary on The Book of Mormon — Volume I 3. George Reynolds and Janne M. Sjodahl This new book is an outstanding commentary on the Book of Mormon from I Nephi to Omni. It serves as an excellent guide and stimulates renewed enthusiasm for seriptural reading. $5.00 et DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah Please send me the following Pooks: -.. Sccssereceeeeecore ie 24 Sa sworeecscnnnsccconensneccenccecscccseasease®Street or RFD......--.---------ee0--7 Zone........ State Check or money order enclosed. Sait Lake City. Utah oo How you benefit from Beneficial's Planned Futures Where will you be five, ten, or fifteen years from now? Still doing business at the same old stand? Or, like the "voung'' couple above, you can enjoy life to the fullest, free from the worry of how to make ends meet on meager Social Security or other income that provides only for the basic necessities. A Beneficial Planned Futures program can make all the difference. The same insurance dollars that provide mortgage insurance, guarantee educational funds, and protect your family during their growing-up years will do double duty for you—providing retirement meome for you and your wife. Investigate Beneficial's Planned Futures today. YOUR BENEFICIAL COUNSELOR A professionally trained insurance counselor, like your friendly Beneficial agent, can give. You valuable help in planning an insurance program tailored to your income, your family, and your financial needs—now and for the future. His competent advice can save you time and money. BENEFICIAL Lire Salt Lake City, Utah MARCH 1956 KRindness Jane B. Wunderlich Like the gentle gift of shade where strong trees grow, Whose pliant green deflects gold-pinioned heat, Whose branching promise beckons dusty feet, And punctuates their wayworn come and go; Or, like the firelight's all-inclusive glow, Whose welcome conquers wind-wild cold and sleet, Whose cordial hearth enfolds to snug retreat, And beautifies the silent drift of snow; So a brief beneficence may fall, May nourish roots, deep in arid need, Releasing tenderness concealed in seed To lift its valiant foliage over all, And bloom in thumb-frayed memories, half hidden, Spilling fragrance everywhere — unbidden. NZ ZAIN The Cover: Parana Pines, Brazil, Photograph by Asael T. Sorensen Frontispiece: Lonely Vista in Craters of the Moon National Monument, Idaho Photograph by Willard Luce Cover Design by Evan Jensen Page 145 Srom Near and Sar As the year is soon coming to a close, I want to thank you for the lovely Magazine for 1955, with a wish for continued success in 1956. —Margaret A. Anderson Richmond, Utah I have found so much enjoyment in The Relief Society Magazine every month since I have been receiving it. I read it from cover to cover, and I am so thankful to my good daughter-in-law, Mrs. Laura Huffman, EF] Paso, Texas, for sending it to me for my birthday. —Mrs. Alva Huffman Hotchkiss, Colorado' Although the Magazine is a woman's book, I wish to congratulate you on its splendid contents. Whenever I have a spare moment and there is a Relief Society Magazine near, I relax and read it and enjoy the wonderful stories. I have never been disappointed in them. —Elder J. Elhott St. Michaels, Arizona I wish to express my appreciation for The Relief Society Magazine. We have enjoyed reading it each month from cover to cover. When I read the From Near and Far messages, it is very interesting to know what the Magazine means to everyone. It is a Magazine with perfect reading material for every L. D. S. Family, and for all non-members, as well. The Magazine has been a long-time reading companion in my home, as I joined the Relief Society about 1930. I have enjoyed the faith-promoting stories, the inspiring editorials, and the lessons have been an everyday education in rearing my children. —Ruth Marriott Roberts, Idaho I do enjoy the Magazine very much— the stories, poems, and lesson material. Sometimes it seems that the Magazine is a direct answer to my problems. It gives me so much to think about when I am doing the housework or driving the tractor. —Mrs. Mildred Jensen Johnson Rexburg, Idaho Page 146 We three (Mrs. Joan Cannon, Mrs. Mary Glidwell, and Mrs. Lilie Newton) are the membership of our Relief Society. We have our lesson each Tuesday, and occasionally we enjoy a visitor. We enjoy such a sweet spirit in our meetings. Sister Cannon has been a member of the Church about ten years, and my sister and I have been members thirteen and a half months. We hope this year, through our welfare work, to inspire an interest in Relief Society, as well as giving us a chance to tell people about the Church. 'Thank you for such a wonderful inspirational Magazine. —Mrs. Lillie Newton Milan, Missouri The response we receive to the Magazine is tremendous. I just received a letter from the Rio Cuarto Relief Society requesting a copy each month, because they are sure that one of the sisters reads enough English so that she can translate the contents for the other sisters. We receive enough copies each month so that we can distribute. Them throughout the mission, and the sisters enjoy them very much. During every visit I make someone is sure to comment on something she has read in the Magazine. —Amy Y. Valentine President Argentine Mission Relief Society Buenos Aires, Argentina I have been taking The Relief Society - Magazine for about a year and a half and do enjoy it very much. I can't get to Relief Society meetings, as I have to work, but I can keep up with the lessons and feel more a part of it through the Magazine. —Margaret Kearney Idaho Falls, Idaho The Relief Society Magazine brings much joy into our home each month. I feel it is the means by which hundreds of women throughout the Church can give expression to their thoughts and talents. —Ruth W. Heiner Heyburn, Idaho THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - - - - - - - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - - - First Counselor Velma N. Simonsen - - - - - Second Counselor Margaret C. Pickering - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Leone O. Jacobs Mildred B. Eyring Winniefred S. Edith S. Elliott Louise W. Madsen Helen W. Anderson Manwaring Florence J. Madsen Aleine M. Young Gladys S. Boyer Elna P. Haymond Leone G. Layton Josie B. Bay Charlotte A. Larsen Annie M. Ellsworth Blanche B. Stoddard Christine H. Robinson Edith P. Backman Mary R. Young Evon W. Peterson Alberta H. Christensen RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - ° = - - - -. - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Vol. 43 MARCH 1956 No. 3 Con tents SPECIAL FEATURES "Words to Live By" Josie B. Bay 148 The Brazilian Mission..........0.. Cc--sscececeso-ee-cceeneeeceeeeeeees __ aPreston R. Nibley 158 How We Conduct the Family Hour in Our Home 20.0.0... -ceeeeececececeee eeeHelen S. Gardner 160 Getting New Subscriptions and Renewals for The Relief Society Magazine........ Lucy Horman 167 Strange Land of the Chiricahuas.. Nell Murbarger 180 The Preparation and Serving of Food for Large Gatherings ee aeFrank D. Arnold 183 Put on Your Gay Sunbonnet......... Jennie E. Graham 206 The Home on the Hill Alyce O. Nelson 208 FICTION Room for Nancy—Third Prize Story be Edith Larson 151 The Ice-Cream Pie.............. Florence B. Dunford. 163 There Is Still Time—Chapter 2 o..... Ccecceccccceseecceeceeceececeeeceeeecstseenenenee Margery S. Stewart 195 GENERAL FEATURES, From Near and Far 2.. C..-.. C.-ccccccocececcseccovccenscceevenssevoecenceecsarcesssssensscssensscnenensnassensecseraccssaerensnsesnonsenessenrscssrensensnenecesaces 146 Sixty Years Ago 170 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 171 Editorial: The Constitution of Relief Society....... Marianne C. Sharp 172 In Memoriam—Charlotte Owens Sackett 22........... C2. Cecceseececeececeeeceeeeeeeeceseeneeeeeneerees 174 Notes to the Field: Organizations and Reorganizations of Stake and Mission Relief Societies for 1955........... 174 Index for 1955 Relief Society Magazine Available 0.2... Eceseeeeeececeeneneeceeee 176 Announcing the Special April Short Story Issue -...............2:::--eceeeceeeece eee 176 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities - Margaret C. Pickering 200 FEATURES FOR THE HOME Springtime Is Fun-Time Helen B. Morris 177 Recipes From Brazil - Asael T. Sorensen 178 Life Is Like a Pattern Annie S. W. Gould 179 Let's Have Fish ~. W.....- a Winnifred C. Jardine 186 The Rugged Rug Hookers.... Geneve Hourihan 190 Garden Accents -2.... C.. CecceeeececcnecceeceeeceteecnceneesneeeconeneececeuetaengecceececesneerececesceeseeceeeetanereeeElizabeth Williamson 192 Multiple Hobbies Help Mary Hilda Smith to Make Others Happy 194 POETRY Kindness—Frontispiece Jane B. Wunderlich 145 Contemplation Evelyn Fjeldsted 150 Cryptic Tokens Eva W. Wangsgaard 157 Desert Yearnings x Annie Atkin Tanner 162 Temple Square Leone E. McCune 173 Comforter Catherine B. Bowles 179 First Herald. Linnie F. Robinson 182 Honeymoon Salad... Francelia Goddard 185 Where Sweets Are Maryhale Woolsey 194 Comfort. Ida Isaacson 205 Return Christie Lund Coles 207 Helping Hands.... Della Adams Leitner 207 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 40 North Main, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone EM 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address, Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 38, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of 'October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Page 147 "Words to Live By" Josie B. Bay Member, General Board of Relief Society [Address Delivered at the Annual General Relief Society Conference, September 29, 1955] ANY times I have sat in the M congregation in this building and listened to speakers from this pulpit, and many times I have thought, what a wonderful privilege to be called to speak in this great Tabernacle—never dreaming that such an experience would ever come to me. Now that the call has come, I stand before you greatly humbled, very frightened, but with great appreciation in my heart for the blessings of the Lord unto me. From this pulpit I have heard expressed: words of wisdom; words of comfort; words of caution; words of truth and inspiration; beautiful words to live by; words which have greatly influenced my life, spoken by good and wise men and women whom the Lord has called to direct us. From their remembered teachings I am caused to reflect, how great is the power of words in the lives of persons everywhere! Anna Hempstead Branch said: God wove a web of loveliness, Of clouds, stars, and birds, But made not anything at all So beautiful as words. The beauty and wisdom expressed in the words of the prophets, spoken from this pulpit or published for our reading pleasure, if applied, will not only bring happiness into our lives, but will give us strength to meet the obstacles we encounter. Page 148 To find happiness seems to be the paramount object in this life; everyone is seeking for it. A prophet of the Lord, President Heber J. Grant, in one of his written messages tells us how to achieve happiness. 'These are his words: The real secret of happiness in life and the way in which to prepare ourselves for the hereafter is service.... Service is the true key, I believe, to happiness.... When we perform any acts of kindness, they bring a feeling of satisfaction and pleasure into our hearts. It is a God-given law that in proportion to the service we give.... We. Shall grow in the grace of God and in the love of God, and we shall grow in accomplishing the purposes of our being placed here on the earth (Gospel Standards, Heber J. Grant, pp. 186-87). How well have we remembered and applied in our lives the words of President George Albert Smith in his conference address, October 1, 1948: There isn't anything that enriches our lives like an understanding of the purposes of life and the ability to live the gospel of Jesus Christ. All happiness worthy of the name comes to us when we observe the teachings of our Lord and live to be worthy to be his sons and daughters.... I want to say that the happiest people in all the world are those who obey the counsel of our Heavenly Father. How happy our lives will be if we listen to and live by the words of "WORDS TO LIVE BY" the present-day prophet, President David O. McKay. These are but a few of his many inspirational words spoken for our guidance: Choosing the right with unvarying and unwavering determination, resisting temptations from within and from without, cheerfulness in the face of difficulties and experiences, reverence for God and _respect for your fellow men, willingness to assist in the establishment of the kingdom of God — these, though you might miss some of the emoluments of the world, will bring peace and happiness to your soul, and through obedience to the principles and ordinances of the gospel, bring immortality and eternal life (Gospel Ideals, David O. McKay, page 491). What strength there is in the words of the prophets, living words which give to us inspiration, courage, and confidence. Words that awaken within us a desire to live a better life; to extend a helping hand to those in need and to serve the Lord through keeping his commandments. Unlimited is the inspirational power of the words of the Scriptures; they are creative and dynamic words which can change the life of everyone who reads them and lives by them. Comforting indeed are the words of the Savior, recorded in Matthew: Come unto me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you, and learn of me; for I am meek and lowly in heart: and ye shall find rest unto your souls. For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light (Mt. 11:28-30). Brother Bryant S. Hinckley has said: These words have solaced the troubled hearts of the world and given hope and cheer to those who are heavy laden as no 149 other words ever have done. They carry the spirit and beauty of the glorious message of the Redeemer of the world (Not By Bread Alone, Bryant S. Hinckley, page 34). The words of the Scriptures are so valuable in our lives, let us read them, study them, and live by them. Valuable, too, in building a happy life are the words of the great writers and poets — men and women who through words express the beauty and worthwhileness of life. Never shall I forget the words of Thomas Carlyle. Words taught to me when just a child. These words have stayed with me all my life and many times with the beginning of a new day I find them running through my mind: So here hath been dawning Another blue Day: Think, wilt thou let it Slip useless away? Out of Eternity This new Day is born. Into Eternity, At night, will return, Behold it afore time No eye ever did: So soon it for-ever From all eyes is hid. Here hath been dawning Another blue Day: Think, wilt thou let it Slip useless away? These words help us to realize more fully the value of time and the need to make the most of each precious moment. It was Benjamin Franklin who said: Dost thou love life? Then do not squander time for that is the stuff life is made of. In closing, may I remind you of 150 the words of Alma, words which we have all read and loved when reading The Book of Mormon. 'Truly words to live by: And now I would that ye should be humble, and be submissive and gentle; easy to be entreated; full of patience and long-suffering; being temperate in all things; being diligent in keeping the commandments of God at all times; asking for whatsoever things ye stand in need, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1956 both spiritual and temporal; always returning thanks unto God for whatsoever things ye do receive. And see that ye have faith, hope, and charity, and then ye will always abound in good works (Alma 7:23-24). May the Lord grant unto us strength to live by his word, and may there be reflected in us the beauty and truth which we gain by applying all things good into our lives. Contemplation Evelyn Fjeldsted How good life seems to be — how swift Is measured time when one must leave The things one cares so deeply for. How quietly the hours weave The warp and weft of earthly scenes— Memories, renditions of the past; And swifter than the weaver's shuttle were The endless dramas that were cast. How strangely old familiar paths Loom in silent unreality, How kindly is the night's intent To hide a sorrow's clarity. In earth's harbor one would ever stay Where thought is anchored to the known. Like ships adrift, those who embark Must sail the unexplored alone. But once to live, is this not proof That everything — that even hope Can live again? Believing this, One sees beyond the present scope. A new life is revealed when seas are crossed And reassurance brings repose. The stillness of the deepening night Brings contemplation to a close, And this is gained — this new-found thought— That death may give what life could not. — Shird Prize Story Annual Reliof Society Short Story Contest Room for Nancy Edith Larson others, Mary raised her head and looked around the breakfast table. Usually it warmed her heart to see her family together. Richard, with graying hair making him more distinguished looking than ever, was turning his attention to his bacon and eggs. Susan was dressed for her office job, and the twins Joy and Jay wore the garb of the high school crowd. Seven-yearold Dickie was scrubbed and shining as far as his ears, but his hair stood on. End, bed-tousled, and his neck and arms still bore the dirt of last night's play. Only Nancy was missing, and she might arrive with baby Larry any minute now. Arrive, expecting a welcome that wasn't there. Mary's heart twisted at the thought. "Have you moved your things back into Joy's room?" she asked Susan. "Yes, Mother," Susan answered without raising her eyes. Mary suppressed a sigh. It was only natural that Susan should be reluctant to give up the room that had been hers for just one short year. "My room?" Joy exclaimed, making no effort to hide her bitterness. "When Susan and I bunked together before, it was Susan's room." "This is only temporary, dear," Mary assured her. A DDING her "Amen" to the EDITH LARSON "Two years doesn't sound very temporary to me," Joy muttered. "Joy, that will do," her father said in the tone all of the children respected. Yet Mary knew that even he was not happy about Nancy's return. He would welcome her, of course; but just last night, in the privacy of their bedroom, he had spoken wistfully of that extra bedroom they had never been able to afford. And he had mentioned Nancy's scornful attitude toward young couples who went home to the folks at the first crisis in their marriage. Mary had pointed out to Richard that this was hardly the type of Page 15] 152 crisis Nancy had meant. Her husband Lowell was going on a mission. Both families wanted him to go, but it would be impractical to finance him and keep up a separate home for Nancy and the baby. Having Nancy rent their little house and bring the baby home was the obvious solution. It had seemed such a natural solution to Mary that she still could not understand the attitude of the other children. How would Nancy feel when she sensed their reluctance to make room for her? Sensitive Nancy, who was so quick to freeze up on the inside at the least slight. Inwardly Mary was seething—and hurt. How little one actually knew one's own children! She had always believed that she was rearing hers to face facts and make night decisions. Where had she failed? "Two years is a lifetime," Susan dropped into the silence. Poor Susan, thought Mary. She had more excuse than the others. Since Bert had convinced her that they should wait until his Navy enlistment was over before being married, time had stood still for Susan. Having Nancy here with her baby would make waiting all the harder. Susan's hunger for children of her own was a constant ache in Mary's heart, but still she wished that Susan could see Nancy's problem as clearly as her own. 6 HAVING Nancy here with the baby will make the time go faster for you," Richard suggested. "Oh, I'm sure it will be nice to have Nancy home, but I'm not looking forward to seeing her enRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1956 joy a baby when I can't have one myself." "Who's going to enjoy a little monster?" Dickie asked. "Dickie!" exclaimed his mother. "Your little nephew Larry is not a monster, and I don't want to hear you call him that again." "All babies are monsters," Dickie asserted. "Where did you get that idea, son?" Richard asked. "That's what Billy calls their baby all the time. And he's disgusted because his mother is going to have another little monster almost any day now." Dickie paused in his task of spooning oatmeal just long enough to explode this bombshell. Mary and Richard exchanged glances. When a non-Church family from the East moved in next door, they had encouraged Dickie to be friendly with the little boy his age. Now they often wondered if Dickie's training was secure enough to withstand the influence Billy seemed to have on his thinking. 'Don't let Nancy hear you talk like that, Dickie," Mary warned. "Besides, you'll change your mind when you see Larry." Though she spoke confidently, Mary wondered. Dickie had been the baby so long. How would he react when another little boy becarie the center of attention? "4s hard enough for me to concenirate when all that wailing gets started next door," Jay put in, "without having it on both sides of me." Oh, Jay, Mary thought, not you, too. I was so sure I could depend on my quiet, studious one, at least. "Nancy wrote that Larry is teeth- ROOM FOR NANCY ing, so you can depend on plenty of sound effects," Joy assured him. "Oh, I'm counting on it with the greatest of joy. If a few minor wails creep into my chemical formulas, I'm sure Mr. Chapman will understand." Mr. Chapman had taught enough years to understand almost anything, Mary knew. She wondered if he could help her understand the heavy sarcasm Jay considered a necessary form of speech. He had never used it before he started running around with the pre-engineering crowd. "Your mother and I put up with enough wailing from you, son," Richard told him. "TI guess it won't hurt you to hear a little from Lar- 2? Ry. é €Y oohoo! Are you still at breakfast?" "Nancy!" Mary was on her feet and started toward the door when Nancy herself appeared with Larry on her arm. "Hi, family. You sure look good. Anything left to eat?" She was the same old Nancy, but oh, so thin and tired-looking behind the smile. Mary took the baby, while Susan and Joy hurried to set a place for the newcomer. "We rather looked for you last night," Richard told his oldest daughter. "In fact, your mother worried a bit." "Tm sorry. As you can see by my early arrival, I wasn't too far away. But I just didn't have what it takes to drive the rest of the way last night.. If it won't put you out too much, I'd like to stay and rest up a bit before going on." 153 "Before going on!" The entire family joined in the exclamation. Nancy looked around the table. "Didn't you understand? You surely didn't think I meant to come here, did you? But that would crowd Susan out of her room. And Mother is so busy." "Then where are you going?" Richard voiced the question on the tip of every tongue. "Down to Newton, to Lowell's folks. Mother, didn't I write you that Lowell thought I ought to go home to the folks?" "Yes, of course you did. I just can't get used to the idea that one of my children has two sets of folks. I took it for granted you meant to come here." Tears glistened in Nancy's eyes. "And you've shifted around and tried to make room for us! I know you have! Oh, you dear, darling people, you don't know how I love you!" "The shifting is all done, Nancy. You and Larry are welcome to stay here." But it was only Richard who spoke the right words. Mary looked around at the faces of her children and in none could she find an endorsement of Richard's invitation. She was glad Nancy's sight was blurred by tears. "IT know we are welcome, Dad, but going to Lowell's folks is really more practical. His father and mother are alone in that big house. There will be plenty of room so that Larry and I can keep out from underfoot. He's teething and he teally gets cross sometimes. He would disturb everyone here." "But you are staying a few days, aren't you?" Susan asked as she 154 pushed back her chair. "I must be off to work or I'll be late, but I want to be sure you'll still be here when I get home tonight." "We'll be here," Nancy assured her. The next half hour was full of the usual bustle of getting the family off to work and school. Then there was Larry to bathe and put to bed for his morning nap. Mother and daughter worked together, happy in each other's company. But when the baby finally fell asleep, Mary insisted that Nancy just sit. "These are the only dishes I ever do myself and I'm used to doing them alone. Besides, you look all in, dear. I'd worry more about your helping than your help is worth." ANCY sank gratefully onto the cushions in the breakfast nook. "T am tired," she admitted. "Larry kept me awake most of the night." "T'm surprised that Lowell let you drive through with the baby. Four hundred miles! It's too much for a young girl." Nancy smiled. "This is once you can't blame Lowell, Mother. You will have to blame your pig-headed daughter. He didn't want me to drive home, but it was the only way I could have the car. Somehow, just having the car makes me feel less tied down." "At least you can get up here often. It's only forty miles. That will be a lot closer than you have been." "That's what I thought, too, Mother. It's—it's the only thought that makes living with Lowell's folks bearable." "Nancy!" "T don't mean that as a criticism RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1956 of his father and mother. 'They've always been very good to me, and they really want me to stay there. But, oh, Mother — just think! They've never had a baby in the house since Lowell himself was little. It's always so quiet there. Not a bit like home." "IT understand." Mary turned abruptly to her dishes. If she took one more look at Nancy's. Tearbrimmed eyes she would do what she knew she must not do. She would take matters into her own hands regardless of how the other children felt. But did she have the right, since there really was a more convenient place for Nancy to stay? And besides, would Nancy herself remain when she found out how her brothers and sisters felt? No, it was better to leave well enough alone. But it hurt. "There's just one thing, Mother. You remember how I always said I'd never bring my children home for grandma to take care of. Well, I guess I'm going to have to take it back. I'd feel better about Larry, if you took him while I'm in the hospital" "Hospital!" "Don't look at me so frightened, Mother. I thought you might have guessed why we gave up our house. Lowell has worried ever since we were sure Larry would be having a little brother or sister while his daddy was on his mission. He gave me no rest until I promised to stay with the folks. At least, I will be fully occupied while he is away. I won't have time to miss him so much." By the time Nancy finished ROOM FOR NANCY speaking, Mary had recovered from her shock. She crossed the kitchen hurriedly to draw her eldest into her arms. Only then did Nancy break down, revealing by her heartbreaking sobs the fear and loneliness to which her words so bravely gave the lie. Mary held her daughter to her tightly and struggled with herself. Surely she had the right to keep Nancy here where she' belonged! Here, surrounded by her happy, noisy family she would have no fear and, perhaps, she would lose some of her loneliness. But would she want to stay? When she found out that her welcome was not wholehearted, how would she feel toward her brothers and sisters? N the end, Mary kept still. Yet, throughout the day, the desire to speak grew stronger as she saw how difficult it was for Nancy to handle fretful little Larry in her present condition. 'There were so many ways in which Mary knew she could ease Nancy's burden, without openly intruding on her independence. Would Lowell's mother see them and make use of them? Probably not. She hardly knew Nancy well enough to see past that self-sufficient exterior. During the afternoon Mary had a little time to herself. Larry was again sleeping fitfully and Nancy had finally dropped off to sleep, too. Mary used the time to try to reach a decision. Should she try to influence the children or not? To do so was against all her beliefs. She had taught so earnestly that a child who has been brought up under the 155 right ideals can and should be trusted to make his own decisions. Again and again she asked herself the same question: Where have I failed that my children cannot see Nancy's great need as clearly as I can? If they cannot see for themselves that Nancy and Larry are our responsibility, what could I say that would open their eyes? Silently she prayed that she might have the patience to force no unwilling decisions. "Asleep, Mother?" It was Jay at her door asking softly in order not to waken her if she were asleep. At her response, he came and_ sat awkwardly on the side of the bed. "Joy stayed for hockey practice, Mom, but we had a little talk at noon. We wondered if we weren't being selfish. It would mean a lot to Nancy to be home here with you. Don't you think she ought to stay here?" "Yes, I do, son. But what about your studying?" "T was just talking to hear myself, I guess. Lots of the fellows beef about noise when they want to study, but honestly, when I start to concentrate, the house could fall down and I'd never hear it." Mary smiled. "You certainly never hear me when I call you. But what about Joy? She has been so happy having a room to herself." "Well, I have to share my room with Dickie. 'This way we'll be on even terms again. She wants it that way, honestly, Mom." "Susan is the one most affected," Mary reminded him. "Quite apart from giving up her room, she wouldn't find it easy to watch Nancy with little Larry, knowing 156 that it will be another three years before she can think of having children of her own." "IT know, but Joy and I wanted you to know how we feel. It just doesn't seem right for Nancy to give up Lowell for two years and not have her family try to take his place." "I'm glad you feel that way, son. We'll see." A whoop from downstairs brought Mary to her feet in a hurry. "Dickie will wake Larry and Nancy," she called back as she hurried out of the room. GURE enough, Larry was awake, but Nancy still slept the sleep of exhaustion. Mary quietly picked the baby up and went downstairs. Dickie lay on the floor watching television. "Here you are, Dickie," she said pleasantly, setting Larry on the floor beside him. "You woke him up, so you get to take care of him. I have to start dinner. Try to be quiet. Nancy is having a muchneeded nap." She almost relented at the dismayed look Dickie gave her, but her choice was between Jay who was undoubtedly studying by this time, and Dickie who never had any home work. She went to the kitchen and forced her attention to the task at hand. She felt much better since talking to Jay. Outside influences were at work on him, but they were not undermining the training he had received at home, as she had feared. But Susan's problem was different. Mary's heart had been wrung RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1956 over and over again as she was forced to stand by and watch Susan struggle with the loneliness and frustration of her long separation. Dinner was almost ready when she heard Richard and Susan come in. Richard joined Dickie and the baby in the living room, but Mary heard Susan go upstairs. "Mother." Mary turned. It was Susan — a frowning, worried Susan standing in the doorway. "Mother, would you very much mind if I asked Nancy to stay here and share a room with me?" "Mind?" No, I'd be happy to have her. But you...." "Oh, Mother, I'm so glad. I'm sure she will stay if you ask her, too. I've been worried sick all day. She looks so ill, but I kept thinking how much work it would mean for you. I'll help all I can, but you're the one who will have the real burden and you do so much for all of us already." "Having Nancy here would never seem like a burden." "Having Nancy here would be heaven for me, Mother. I get so lonely even with my nice family for moral support. And I know Nancy is going to feel the same way. It may be a comfort to her for us to be lonely together." "Mom! Mom!" Dickie's shrill cry brought everyone running. Richard sat on the davenport similing at his youngest son and only grandchild on the floor in front of the forgotten television. "Mom! Nancy! Everybody, look! I'm teaching Larry how to walk. Come on, monster. Come to Uncle." ROOM FOR NANCY Carefully Dickie set the baby on his feet, then backed away a step to crouch with outstretched arms. Grinning happily, little Larry reached out a pudgy hand. When it didn't quite reach far enough, he took a tentative step and promptly fell face forward into Dickie's arms. "See, Mom," Dickie cried, looking as always to Mother for approval. "Isn't he the smartest little monster ever?" "Dickie, you'd better watch out," Nancy spoke from behind Mary. "If you encourage him enough, you 157 might get stuck with a baby-sitting job." "T wouldn't mind. That old Billy can just hush his bragging now we have a little monster of our own," and Dickie snuggled the blond little head closer to him. As Mary turned back to the kitchen, she offered a little prayer of thanks. Hers was such a wonderful family. Surely, among them, they would be able to convince Nancy she belonged at home. When she realized how much Susan needed her, Nancy would stay. Edith Larson, Manton, Michigan, has already been represented in The Relief Society Magazine by a pioneer story "Strength" published in the July 1955 issue. Her story "Room for Nancy' marks her first appearance as a winner in the Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest. Altogether, Mrs. Larson has had six short stories, three plays, an article, and a poem published, most of them in national magazines. She is a graduate of Northwestern University, where she majored in the writing arts. The health of an only daughter sent the family West in 1948. In Fountain Green, Utah, mother and daughter were converted to The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. At present they hold membership in the Traverse City, Michigan, Branch, a part of the Great Lakes Mission. She writes: "The Relief Society Magazine means a great deal to me, especially since the Traverse City Branch is forty miles away from my home, and Relief Society meetings there are held at a time when I cannot attend. I hope that this will not always be true, for I do miss the meetings very much. However, I have found the Magazine a wonderful way to keep in touch with the organization, and I look forward eagerly to each issue." Cryptic Sohens Eva W. Wangsgaard I never turn a living garden clod But something from the past is turned as well. A broken dish, a bucket bail, can prod A host of questions on the tale they tell. Who was the woman who once called this home? What was her cottage like? — the one they razed In making room for mine. Within the loam She left me many tokens cryptic-phrased. I see her in the iron kettle turned From her old well, the stones that formed its brim, The goad her husband used when oxen churned The trail's fine dust. She lingers, young and slim, Beside the gate whose rusty hinge lies bent Upon my spade. So still! So eloquent! She, Brazilian Mission Preston R. Nibley ISSIONARY work for The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints began in Brazil in December 1927, when President Reinhold Stoof and Elder Waldo Stoddard of the South American Mission, with headquarters in Buenos Aires, journeyed northward to Brazil, "to investigate conditions for missionary work among the German colonies" in that country. The results of their investigation were favorable and, in September 1928, Elders William Heinz and Emil Schindler sailed from Buenos Aires to Joinville, Brazil, to labor among German-speaking people. Two months after their arrival they were holding "regular meetings, Sunday Schools and Bible classes." The first baptisms in Brazil took place on April 14, 1929, when Mrs. Bertha Sell and her children, Theodore, Alice, Siegfried, and Adele were baptized and confirmed at Joinville. A branch of the Church was organized in the same city on July 6, 1930. Asael T. Sorensen IGUASSU FALLS ON THE PARANA RIVER, BRAZIL Page 158 THE BRAZILIAN MISSION 159 Ewing Galloway RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL View from Pao Asucar (the Sugar Loaf), showing the city to the base of Corcovado Mountain. A mission was established in Brazil by the First Presidency in FebTuary 1935, and Elder Rulon Howells of Salt Lake City was chosen as the president. On his arrival he established headquarters in the city of Sao Paulo. Prior to that time no missionary work had been carried on among the native Brazilian people. President Howells presided until October 1938, when he was succeeded by John A. Bowers; President Bowers was succeeded im April 1942 by William W. Seegmiller; President Seegmiller was succeeded in May 1945 by Harold M. Rex; President Rex was succeeded in March 1949 by Rulon S. Howells; President Howells was succeeded in November 1953 by Asael 'T'. Sorensen, who presides at the present time. In November 1955 there were twenty-three branches of the Church in Brazil, with 1,103 members. Fifteen Relief Society organizations were reported in December 1955, with 143 members. Ida Lorene M. Sorensen is now president of the Brazilian Mission Relief Society. How We Conduct the Family Hour in Our Home Helen S. Gardner [Address delivered at Logan Stake Quarterly Conference, Logan, Utah, September 4, 1955] E have two kinds of family \\V hours in our home. First, the impromptu kind, when Eldon suddenly finds that his meeting has unexpectedly been canceled and he will be home; and, second, the kind that is planned in advance. What excitement there is when Eldon comes in and says, "I'm going to be home tonight. Let's have a home evening!" The older girls hurry and wash up the dishes, while Donald, our son, makes a fire in the fireplace, and I stir up some punch and hunt for cookies in the basement. As we sit around the blazing fire, Eldon holds Mary Jane on his lap and reads aloud to us. 'Thus we have heard many chapters from the life histories of our ancestors. These were all sturdy pioneer folk, and we have learned to be more thankful for our blessings just through hearing of the hardships they went through. Then, sometimes, I read. Already, we have covered the Book of Mormon Stories for Children, and two books of Bible stories for children. When the littlest children become too tired to sit still any longer, we sing some songs, play a game or two, and enjoy punch and cookies. But the planned, anticipated, Page 160 family hours are much more fun. First, we must choose a night when Eldon will be home. This has become increasingly difficult since he became bishop, and the regularity of our meetings has been upset, but we choose our time and hold to it even though he may be called out. The children look forward with such enthusiasm to family night that I am never allowed to forget it. We have two sets of children in our family: the older group, ages eleven to fifteen, and the younger group, ages three to seven. When it is decided that a family hour will be held, they all come tumbling boisterously into the kitchen yelling, "I speak to be the refreshment committee"; "I want to be on the entertainment committee'; "I want the program." We unscramble our committees. Each member receives his assignment. Usually, an older one and a younger one work on a committee together. The refreshment committee prefers to work secretly in order to surprise us with something unusually delicious. The entertainment committee retires to a corner to plan the games. Much whispering goes on — sometimes for days — and occasionally I am consulted for advice. HE program committee is, of course, the most important. Material is often gathered from The Children's Friend, The Improvement Era, or Sunday School lesson manuals. Betty has suggested that our next program should center around the theme of "Reverence," as suggested in Primary. We must remember to have something which will be interesting to the older group of children and appealing to the younger ones, yet not too long and tiring. Very often each member of the family is asked to participate. Prayers must be assigned. More than once I have found Alice, age five, in a corner with Mary Jane, age three, trying to teach her a little prayer. Songs and music must be decided upon. Cynthia particularly loves to lead the singing, and when she's in charge, we are practically certain that we'll be singing her favorite song, "My Country, "Tis of Thee." The musical talents of our family could be improved upon, but very often we have Patricia playing the violin while Donald plays a tune on his clarinet. And Betty can already play a melody on the piano. Then, we all love to sing. We sing Pmmary and Sunday School songs for the younger group and Mutual fun songs for the older group, and usually end up with "Come, Come, Ye Saints." Of course we close with prayer. These are some of the things we have done just this summer in participating on our Family Hour, beginning with the youngest child. Mary Jane has repeated a finger play with actions that she learned in Sunday School, and has sung the song, "Jesus, Friend of Little Children," from Primary. The littlest children are very sincere and innocent in the way they tell stories, but are sometimes amusing to their parents. Alice said she had a story from the Bible she could tell. 'There was a man named Eliyah. He was a good man and was hiding away from the bad people in a cave. He was hungry, so he prayed to Heavenly Father. Pretty soon a big sea gull came flying over and dropped him a pancake. Cynthia said she could tell a story she heard in Sunday School. She told how a man named Nehi left Jerusalem and traveled in the wilderness. He lived in a tent. One morning he found a large brass ball in front of his tent. The word Liahona is still hard to remember, and we have to keep reminding her that the man's name was Lehi, not Nehi, but she never forgets that his wife was named Sariah. Betty has repeated the Articles of Faith as far as she has learned them in Primary. Donald has finished the Articles of Faith where Betty left off and has repeated the Boy Scout Oath and Laws and given us a good demonstration of flag signaling. Patricia has given a talk on faith and other short selections. I have illustrated the stories of Adam and Eve and Noah and the ark on my flannel board which I use for Pnmary, and Eldon has ended the program with a Scriptural reading or a short talk on a religious subject. Then we have had the closing prayer. After the program, the refreshHOW WE CONDUCT THE FAMILY HOUR IN OUR HOME 161 162 ment committee takes over. With our mouths watering, we sit politely while we are served. We have had some delicious concoctions, usually something which the children have thought of and prepared themselves with a little help. HEN the entertainment committee comes forth with the games. It is a family rule to have two games for the younger children and two for the older ones. On one occasion, I helped the committee make a Book of Mormon game which consisted of questions from The Book of Mormon stories we had read. Each question was written on a card.. The person answering RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1956 ~ the question could keep the card, and the one with the most cards in the end won the game. Once Donald and I made an Articles of Faith puzzle. We wrote the Articles of Faith in big letters on cardboard and cut them up in puzzles. We took turns fitting the puzzles together. We have noticed much growth and development through participation in our Family Hour, but best of all we are learning the gospel together and having fun doing it. Family Hour is helping to build testimonies in the lives of our children and thereby is strengthening ours. <>< Desert Yea rnings Annie Atkin Tanner When summer suns in other lands torture me, I long for desert thunderstorms Which tear black clouds apart and let a prayed-for Rain, fall on red earth, That long has begged for saving streams From heaven. In the desert there are no trembling aspens Nor stately pines nor rugged junipers To grace this land I love, But there are thorny cactus plants, With blossoms pink as the glow of early morning, And deliciously smelling of fruits Grown only in the tropics. There are creamy, waxen bells, On sturdy stems of Yucca trees, Whose sword-spiked leaves guard well Their perfumed loveliness. And there is copper-colored moonlight, The song of the cactus wren, And after rain, the pungent breath Of chaparral. Oh, there is peace and restful solitude, In this chimerical world of my desert, And I long for it with a nostalgic yearning, That years can never take away! The Ice-Cream Pie Florence B. Dunford am afraid I have always been [it timid sort. "Do people like me?" seems always to be my question. And, "How much can I do for them?" And, "Do people really like you to do things for them?" 'Things like that. Matters of friendliness. A couple of years before, we had moved to this new neighborhood. At first everyone made an obvious effort to be friendly, to get acquainted. But then the Jennings on the east of us seemed to find out that Tim and I didn't really travel in their class after all. The neighbors directly across the street from us were a trifle old for me, I felt. Besides, she was a club woman and gone all day. And Dr. Walton was older even than his wife. By evening all he wanted was to settle down with TV. That left the neighbors on the west of us; he traveled over several states. His wife went with him. On the east of the doctor, across the street, lived the Morrisons. Mrs. Morrison, though she was of our faith, had four growing daughters, and an aged, ailing father. Mrs. Morrison, I knew, didn't have much time for friendliness. The neighbor I really wanted to know was a Mrs. Carter who lived in a smaller house than ours, compact and neat, but not so elaborate, on the west of the old doctor and his wife. I just didn't know what had happened between Joan Carter and myself. She was my sort, I felt. She beamed friendliness. They'd bought their home a year or so later than we'd built ours, and they had two children. We'd been among the first in the subdivision of an old apple orchard that had been turned into a homesite; the prettiest one in our small western city, people often told me. "The Carters would like to get acquainted," Tim my husband told me several times there at first. "She seems an awfully nice sort. We ought to have them over." "We will," I said. But somehow the time never came. I had old friends I was still. Interested in. There was the work on the new yard; I wanted to keep the house shining. Our daughter was away at school, summer and winter. I kept finding new interests. Gradually the Carters and we drifted into just a pleasant speaking acquaintance. This hurt me, for I wanted to be friendly. Why doesn't Joan borrow from me? I thought, the morning I saw her returning the steam iron to the neighbor at the extreme end of the block. What is it I've done or haven't done that makes her feel shy or unfriendly toward me? The time seemed to have passed when I could ask them over, casually, or for a more formal evening. Why doesn't she like me? I kept thinking. Why won't she just run in and out the way I'd like to have her do — the way I see her do with Betty Jennings on the east, who, though I didn't care so much about her, rarely visited me either. Maybe it's Tim, I decided. PerPage 163 164 haps Tim wasn't friendly enough with the husbands. Yet it was Tim who first got acquainted with the Carters. And the Jennings on the east, and the Fentons on the west, and the old doctor and the Morrisons. No, I felt sure it wasn't Tim. Something was the matter with me. People just didn't like me. But why, why? Still I had my old friends. 'They at least understood me. 'That morning in April with the apple blossoms on the old trees in bloom, the narcissi and the tulips and the flowering crab making a perfumed fairy garden in the rear, Ann Helke phoned me. "Louise Davis and I are going to have lunch and spend the afternoon shopping," she said. "Would you like to join us?" "Tim's going to stay home and work on the yard today," I answered. "I'd sort of promised myself... But, yes, I'll go," I decided. An afternoon downtown with my old friends would do me good. VEN s0, that day thinking about Tim eating his sandwich alone, spending the day alone while I loafed and gadded and enjoyed myself at lunch and during the long afternoon going from shop to shop, kept worrying me. That's silly I'd argue with myself from time to time. Tim doesn't really care. I don't waste much of my time. It just happens he is home today. And look at Ann and Louise. Some women spend half their time — threefourths of it, visiting, attending clubs, going to movies, or just plain window shopping. "T haven't a thing in the house to eat," I told Ann guiltily, when RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1956 along about six o'clock she dropped me off in front of our ranch style house. "Neither have I," she answered easily. "But I'll find something. Or maybe Jess'll take me out." Tim wasn't much at eating out, I thought, as I opened the front door. But after a day's work on the yard — Tim always went at anything twice as hard as he ought — he'd want something really substantial, along with something nice for dessert. Tim was a meat and dessert man. The things in between didn't interest him much. A quick glance through the rooms said Tim wasn't in from the yard yet. Dumping my hat and my few purchases on the bed in the far bedroom, I hurried out back. "T'm home, darling," I called. Tim turned a red, weary face to me from the far side of the garden. "That's good." "Hungry?" He tried to smile. That sandwich...." "T know," I said guiltily. "And I'll bet you haven't stopped a minute all day. I'll hurry and get dinner." That morning, standing by my kitchen sink there at the front of the house, I'd noticed a couple of strange cars in the Carter driveway. Joan's folks from the northern part of the state, I had thought. The cars were still there, I saw. Joan will be busy, I thought, and I imagined her hurrying through the small rooms (ours were so large), her hazel eyes smiling, her short dark hair smooth and neat. Joan was such a pretty woman! I hurried to the icebox to see "Famished. THE ICE-CREAM PIE what I could find for Tim's dinner. Leftover lamb roast from two days ago. A salad. I could open a can of brown beans to go with it. But what for dessert? 'Tim simply didn't consider he'd eaten without dessert! More from habit than from hope, I opened the freezing compartment. At best I expected to find nothing better than a can of frozen orange juice, a taste of half-melted sherbet.... At first, I literally couldn't believe my eyes. I blinked and looked again. On the lower shelf of the freezing compartment, basking in a luscious pale brown crumb crust, was the most delectable lime-green ice-cream pie I'd ever seen! I swallowed and looked a third time. The vision didn't change. My heart beating fast, I hurried out back again. "Tim, oh, Tim!" I called softly. "Who sent the beautiful pie?" IM, with his face deep in the bushes, his back toward me, didn't answer. I went back inside, opened the ice box again, this time just to stare. Who had sent the pie? Which of my new neighbors? I hurried to the window. The solution of Tim's dessert problem and my little guilty feeling at leaving him, wasting my afternoon, had brought with it another problem. Which one of my neighbors — the fragility of the pie indicated it must have come from close by — which one, had done this kindly, this most timely deed? Betty Jennings, there on the east, I mused. Betty called desserts "goop." Across from her, the Morrisons. Mrs. Morrison would be 165 too busy with her own brood, her ailing father, to spend the time on such a work of art as this! The old doctor's wife directly across from us! As if in answer to that Mrs. Walton's ice-blue car, with her at the wheel, coasted in to their wide driveway. On the west of us, the new people, the Fentons? But just this morning Tim had told me they were in Portland. Joan Carter, then! Joan Carter, the one I so hoped and wanted it to be! There just wasn't any other answer. While I had been downtown with my old friends, shopping and wasting my day, Joan had — along with her house guests — found the time, and the desire, to make this wonderful lime-green ice cream pie! My heart sang. All my problems, my self-doubts, I felt were answered. Joan still wanted to be friends. Whatever had happened there at first, it didn't matter now. Joan and I were friends! I'd never doubt her again! I'd never doubt myself! And in the future I'd never forget it. No matter what happened, no matter the slights and the coldness, I'd have this to go by. The knowledge of her kindness would stay in my mind and my heart forever. I began to plan the things we'd do together, Joan borrowing from me, me calling across to her, 'Tim and her husband friends. Her children, maybe, calling me Aunt Sally. The lamb roast, the fresh green salad, even the canned _ ovenbrowned beans took on a different aspect as, calling to 'Tim again that dinner was ready, I set them on the table there in our small dining room, just off the kitchen. And 166 then to please Tim's eye, to make the occasion even more special, while he was washing in the bathroom just off the patio, I lifted the ice-cream pie from its shelf. Cutting two generous wedges, I slid them carefully onto two of my Minton plates. "It's ready, dear; dinner's ready," I sang out, just as 'Tim appeared through the door of the utility room. Tim, weary as he was, didn't seem to notice. He drew back his chair, sank into it. "Whew, what a day!" I could restrain myself no longer. "You saw the pie," I said, my glance indicating the creamy, ice-cool wedges. "Wasn't it nice of Joan to send it?" I was so sure it was Joan. I could speak with such sureness. 66 GEND us the pie!" Tim exploded. At last he was seeing the creamy wedges. "Joan didn't give it to us! She's got guests. Her icebox was full. She just wanted to store it in ours." The bottom seemed to fall out of my day. "Just... Store... It?" I stammered. It was as though I were begging him to say differently. Tim nodded. "And you've cut it!" There was blame and censure in his voice, his manner. "Oh, I'm sorry! I called to you but you didn't hear me. I'll have to put it back." "Well, Pll say," Tim said. He was helping himself to the leftover roast, the canned beans. As best I could I slid the delicate pieces into place, put the pie back in the freezer, turned up the controls. But already the pieces had begun to melt. The pie would nevRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1956 er look the same again. And Id never feel the same again. "You're not eating,' 'Tim said a few minutes later. "Tm. Just not hungry, I guess." J murmured something about my afternoon downtown. My neighbor had been thinking of me. She had turned to me to store her pie and now we'd never be friends. In the morning, however, I prepared Tim's and my own bacon and eggs, new strawberries, and buttered toast, and I ate mine with relish. "What are you going to do today?" Tim asked his usual question, as, dressed in his neat tan suit, his lips touched my cheek at the door. "T've really got a busy day," I said smiling. "I'm going to make you something nice for dessert tonight. Besides that, I'm going to bake something for the neighbors." "The neighbors?" 'Tim raised his eyebrows in mock consternation. "All of them?" "Well, some of them. Mrs. Morrison; her girls would like some cookies, I'm sure. And maybe her old father... He'd like a custard. And Betty, next door. I'll bet I can find some kind of dessert she won't call 'goop.'" I hesitated a moment. "But most of all I want to bake something for Joan. Most especially, Joan." Tim's face lit up in the most beatific smile. 'Well, that's more like it," he said. And I knew suddenly that if I had been worried about myself, he had been worried about me, too. And now neither of us was worried. "That's my girl," he said. And bending over me again, he kissed me on the mouth. Getting New Subscriptions and Renewals for She Relief Society Mlagazine Lucy Horman Magazine Representative, Highland Stake (Utah) [Discussion Presented in the Magazine Department Meeting, Annual General Relief Society Conference, September 29, 1955] EMBERS of our Church are M constantly asked to perform tasks for which they have little or no training. 'This is particularly true of the Magazine representatives. 'They often come to us with misgivings. I have heard them say, "I haven't had any experience in selling, but our president combed the ward and was unable to find anyone to fill this position, so I have decided to help her out." We have learned from experience that it isn't how much they know that matters, but how willing they are to learn. A Planned Reading Program If we are to be successful, we must increase our knowledge of selling. To gain knowledge of selling, we would do well to study the technique of outstanding salesmen who make their living in this field. Gaining knowledge is dependent on the persistent effort we put forth. To increase knowledge, some _professional salesmen advise a_ planned reading program. 'Thirty minutes each day is suggested. Part of our reading should be done aloud, so we can hear our voices and improve any undesirable qualities that we may discover. Words have been called the tools with which we express our thoughts. 'Therefore, it is suggested that we improve our vocabularies by spending a few minutes each day with the dictionary. We should persist in using these new words until they become natural to us. We must also develop our ability to think clearly and express our thoughts fluently, for we want to give the impression that we know what we are talking about. The ability to say the right word at the right time is often the difference between success and failure. A Positive Attitude A positive attitude is vital to success. Any negative expression may defeat our cause. 'This brings to mind an incident of my youth. A neighbor girl came to our home and said to my mother, "Mrs. Smith, I'm selling pins. I knew you wouldn't buy any, but I thought I'd come anyway." After she had gone, mother said with a grin, "There is a young lady who is destined to rise to the heights in the field of selling!" A popular song of a few years ago suggested that we emphasize the positive and eliminate the negative, and that is what we want to do and we can do it by choosing our words carefully. A Magazine representative in my stake discovered that she was saying Page 16/7 168 the wrong thing when she asked for renewals. It had been her habit to say, "Would you like to renew your subscription to The Relief Society Magazine?" She had a discouraging number of them say "No." She thought about it for some time, and concluded that when she said, "Would you like to renew your subscription?" she was placing a choice in front of them, and they were choosing to do the very thing she didn't want them to do. Now she has changed her wording to, "It is time for you to renew your subscription to The Relief Society Magazine," and has had very few refusals since. Authorities agree that we must be persistent in our efforts to learn, and we must have the qualities that make people like us. We should analyze our personalities. Are we cheerful, enthusiastic, and considerate of the feelings of others? If not, we should develop these qualities. It is also important that we understand human behavior so we can combine our knowledge and these qualities of personality to influence people to do what we want them to do. Know the Magazine We have learned from master salesmen that we must know our product before we can _ successfully present it to others. In our case we must know The Relief Society Magazine, and only by reading the Magazine will we know its contents and its worth to other women. Magazine representatives should learn all they can about the Relief Society organization, its history, and its aims. We know it was given to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1956 us by our Heavenly Father through the Prophet Joseph Smith for our growth and development. 'The Magazine representative has a very important calling, for it is her task to place the Magazine, or the "Voice of the Relief Society," as it has been called, in every Latter-day Saint home. The Advantage of Personal Contact How shall we make these contacts? Several approaches come to my mind. The personal contact, the telephone, and at a Relief Society meeting. Again, we shall turn to the professional salesman for advice. I have talked personally with some of these men, and they agree that there is no substitute for personal contact. 'The personal contact gives an opportunity to get acquainted with the women. It gives the Magazine representative a chance to show the Magazine, explain its contents, and point out its value to the family. It also gives her the opportunity to explain the Relief Society organization which is responsible for the Magazine. It is in the unhurried atmosphere of the home visit that the Magazine representative's personality — will show to the best advantage. Using the Telephone I have been assured that no business could be run without the telephone. However, in selling, it is only useful if we understand its limitations. Its real value in selling is to clear the way for a personal interview, where the selling will be done. Insurance companies use the telephone to eliminate from their lists the names of people who are not interested in what they have to offer. Although the Magazine representative would not use the phone for the same purpose, it is helpful to us in many ways. One of our ward representatives used it to get her renewals. She said she was ill for five weeks, and could not get around the ward. So she called the women on the phone and explained the situation to them. She told them it was time to renew their subscriptions and asked them to send the money to her. She was very happy when they all renewed. This was an emergency where the telephone was put to good use. It can also be used to check with new subscribers to make sure they are receiving their Magazine. While we do not usually make appointments for interviews, it is advisable, where women work, to call them on the phone and ask for the privilege of visiting in their homes at a time that is convenient. Announcements in Relief Society Meetings Although the Relief Society meeting is not the place for making sales, it does give the Magazine representative an opportunity to speak occasionally. An enthusiastic talk, especially at the beginning of the fall season, will serve as a reminder to the women that the Magazine representative will be visiting them in their homes for new subscriptions or renewals. Parents with missionaries in the field should be encouraged to send the Magazine to them, for missionaries are often called upon to serve in this organization. When my - OWN son was serving in Australia, I sent the Magazine to him. He notified me upon receipt of his first copy. A short time passed, and in another letter he said, 'Mother, have you read the articles in The Relief Society Magazine written by Homer Durham? If you haven't, I suggest that you do so." <A few weeks later in another letter, he said, "Mother, I'm now teaching the social science class in Relief Society. These lessons are written by Homer Durham. If you have not read them, I suggest that you do so." At that time I was president of the Relief Society, so found his suggestion amusing. Renewals We must keep in mind that it is not only the responsibility of the Magazine representative to get new subscriptions, but she must take care of all renewals. These renewals, like new subscriptions, must be turned in to the general board one month in advance, as only enough Magazines are published to fill the subscriptions received. The Magazine representatives should take the renewals very seriously, as most of our women have come to depend on them for this service. It is unfortunate when a subscription runs out and an issue is missed. In many cases it causes real inconvenience to our women, and gives the impression that the Magazine representative is not interested in them. In conclusion, let us remember that the Magazine representative should carry into the homes she visits a spirit of enthusiasm, sincerity, cheerfulness, and a true consideration for the feelings of the women. We should keep in mind that it is far more important to make a friend than to make a sale. GETTING NEW SUBSCRIPTIONS AND RENEWALS 169 Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, March 1, and March 15, 1896 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE Women or Att NATIONS" THE EXPONENT IN ENGLAND: There are a great many women in the Church in England, both old and young, who would be highly delighted and benefited, could they have the opportunity of perusing your excellent publication, many, yes many, of these sisters are unable to subscribe, and are literally starving for faith promoting and encouraging literature suitable to their sex.... Can the blessed, yes thrice blessed sisters in Zion not do something... If only to have a copy of the Exponent placed on file in every conference house in the missions of the world...? —H. A. Tuckett RELIEF SOCIETY IN WAYNE STAKE: The Relief Society of Wayne Stake held Conference Nov. 29th, 1895, in the Loa Relief Society Hall.... Counselor Mary E. Hanks was pleased to meet with the sisters, said: "If we all have a prayerful heart, such things will be said that will be beneficial to all. We are living in a day and age when there are great improvements, therefore it behooves us to improve ourselves in every way possible, prepare ourselves to bring forth mighty men and women. It is a great joy when mothers see their sons promoted to higher priesthoods. We should encourage our children to read good books...." —Anna Coleman, Sec. FADED FACES Oh! The mothers of men: What a toilsome life, Is theirs from their early years. And the pitying father must look down, And prepare for such a glorious crown Where is found no sorrow or tears.... The countenance then will shine as the sun, Being glorious to behold, As robed in white 'round the throne of God, Having passed from under affliction's rod No more to grow wrinkled and old.... —Mary A. Freeze QUEEN VICTORIA: Queen Victoria has 67 living descendants. And yet they say that if women are allowed to take part in politics, the human race will die out! —Selected KINDERGARTEN EDUCATION: Fair Utah which abounds in children ought not to be behind in progressive work in this direction.... Women cannot too soon urge upon legislators and school boards the quality and excellence of the Kindergarten. Froebel the originator of this system in his trumpet-call to the mothers of Germany says, "Come let us live with the children"; and as every mother should live with her children, and many mothers are severely puzzled to know what to do with the children and how best to train and manage them, the mothers are the ones who should become kindergarten educators, and the young women of today can find no better field or profession than the kindergarten affords. —Editorial Page 170 ELLE S. SPAFFORD, general president of Relief Society, has been appointed a member of the National Board of the American Mothers Committee, the organization which selects the American Mother of the Year. The objectives of the Committee are: "1. To develop and strengthen the moral and spiritual fibre of the American home; 2. To give to the observance of Mother's Day a spiritual quality which highlights the standards of ideal Motherhood and_ recognizes the important role of the Mother in the Home, the Community, the Nation and the World." OMEN now serving in the Congress of the United States are equally divided between Democrats and Republicans, eight women representing each party. Of the total number of women who have ever served in Congress, the Democrats have sent thirty-six and the Republicans twenty-four. 'Twentyone women succeeded their husbands, and one succeeded her father. The other thirty-eight women legislators were elected "on their own." RINCESS MARGARET ROSE, of Great Britain, was named Woman of the Year by the women editors of the Associated Press newsWoman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon papers of America because she renounced her personal happiness (a marriage with Group Captain Peter Townsend) in favor of duty to church, state, and family. Grace Kelly placed first in the field of acting; Clare Boothe Luce in politics; seventy-five-year-old Helen Keller in the field of service; Babe Zaharias in sports; Anne Morrow Lindbergh in writing (Gift from the Sea); Oveta Culp Hobby in the field of education; Bernice Fitz-Gibbon in the field of advertising. IRTHDAY congratulations are extended to: Mrs. Augusta Jacobson Sward, Provo, Utah, ninety-seven; Mrs. Mary E. Giauque Hodge, Salt Lake City, Utah, ninety-five; Mrs. Lorine I. Higbee, Toquerville, Utah, ninety-four, Mrs. Lovisa G. Davis, St. Anthony, Idaho, ninety-four; Mrs. Carrie Jensen Thomas, Logan, Utah, ninety-one; and the following women who have reached their ninetieth birthdays: Mrs. Mary Swensen, Hyrum, Utah; Mrs. Brita Lundgren, Salt Lake City, Utah; Mrs. Nelsmine (Minnie) Weibel, Los Angeles, California; Mrs. Pamela 'Thompson Smith, Centerville, Utah; Miss Alice Smith, Logan, Utah; Mrs. Catherine Warren Bennett, Pocatello, Idaho. Page 17] CQ EDITORIAL SO VOL. 43 MARCH 1956 She Constitution RECENTLY a question was asked by a Church member, "Well, just why is Relief Society the greatest women's organization in the world?" The answer from a devoted Relief Society member came promptly. "There are other organizations with worthwhile purposes, it is true, but none other is instructed by the Priesthood of God, nor does any one other combine the characteristics of Relief Society. "Relief Society gives instruction in theology, and thus develops and strengthens individual testimonies of the gospel. In addition, Relief Society teaches and encourages a higher concept of wifehood, motherhood, and homemaker, at the same time offering training and refinement through a study of great literature. Relief Society makes women better citizens and community improvers through study in the social science field. All these studies as carried on, are approved by the Priesthood — thus further implementing the words of the Prophet Joseph at the organization of Relief Society: You will receive instructions through the order of the Priesthood which God has established, through the medium of those appointed to lead, guide and direct the affairs of the Church in this last dispensation... (D. H. C. IV, page 607). Page 172 of Relief S octety "Then," the speaker continued, "there is the great opportunity for service, in addition to all the formal instruction. Any member may be called upon to perform services for others by the president, or by members of the presidency. And here again,' the sister leaned forward in her intensity, "the manner in which the leaders are chosen is unique with women's organizations. 'There is never any jockeying for position. The president is chosen by the governing Priesthood, and she chooses her counselors (vice presidents they would be called in other women's organizations), with the approval of the Priesthood. The manner in which they are chosen marks them as being called of the Lord through his servants, and thus complete acceptance of their positions and the way they conduct the affairs of the Society is accorded by the membership. "Let me remind you," the sister continued, "of what the Prophet Joseph Smith said of the general presidency of Relief Society in Nauvoo. You may recall that Eliza R. Snow had been asked to draw up a constitution and a set of bylaws to give to the Prophet for his acceptance in setting up a women's organization. He, however, while commending the sisters on the excellence of the articles, said, "The EDITORIAL Lord has something better for you than a written constitution, and then he appointed the 17th of March as the time of the first mecting.' "During the organization proceedings, the Prophet told them what their Constitution would be: Let this presidency serve as a Constitution—all their decisions be considered law, and acted upon as such... The minutes of your meetings will be precedent for you to act upon — your Constitution and law (A Centenary of Relief Society, page 15). 6¢E. ROM that time this has been the proper order. Over the years, under the direction of the presiding Priesthood, decisions of the general presidency have formed the precedents under which the Society has progressed. 'True, being organized 'under the Priesthood and after a pattern of the Priesthood,' the general presidency has a board appointed to share the work and assist in the planning, conducting, and carrying out of the general objectives, but the Constitution remains the presidency of the organization and their decisions, and minutes of the board are the precedents which constitute the by-laws of the organization. "Certainly," the speaker empha- 173 sized, "this pattern formed under inspiration by a Prophet of the Lord, has guided the Society to its present heights of being the greatest woman's organization in the world. In a spirit of humility and service, and in recognition of its divine beginnings and its continued growth under subsequent and __ present Church Priesthood guidance, it is inevitably pre-eminent. Nowhere else has a woman's organization had such a beginning nor such a history. And it will always be so," this devoted Relief Society member finished. "It will spread as the Church spreads and become greater and more powerful, so long as the grand key-words, given Relief Society by the Prophet Joseph Smith, are followed: 'Said Jesus, Ye shall do the work which ye see me do.'" "Relief Society's true greatness rests upon the service it gives to the Church and to one's neighbor. And I just wish," concluded the speaker, "that the other half of the women of the Church realized the privileges and blessings which come to Relief Society members, and that all Church women would join Relief Society and assist in its God-given work." —M. C. S. O~<-° Temple Square Leone E. McCune Here in the busy city's heart High wall, enclosed, and set apart; Quiet, serene, in summer's beauty dressed, Silent and hushed in snows of winter blessed. Pipe organ music floats about the grounds; With words of prayer and praise the place resounds. And people come from far and near Its unique messages to hear. Sn lemons = Cluleiion Oensasembad: CHARLOTTE Owens Sackett, seventy-eight, died in Salt Lake City, Utah, January 24, 1956. A beloved Relief Society "Singing Mother," this devoted sister gave freely of her lovely talents and her thorough musical education in training and inspiring hundreds of Relief Society singers. In Aptil 1932, the Liberty Stake (Salt Lake City, Utah) chorus of selected voices from the various wards, and directed by Sister Sackett, furnished the music for Relief Society general conference. After this successful appearance, the chorus was sponsored by the general board, more singers were added, and Sister Sackett was appointed director of the combined choruses. This group furnished music for the general conference of the Church in April 1933, appearing under the name of "Singing Mothers" — a dear name — which has been greatly multiplied and has been given to ward and stake and mission Relief Society singers throughout the Church. The beautiful soprano voice of Sister Sackett will long be remembered, and the inspiration of her direction will be as a lasting heritage for the Singing Mothers in years to come. Woteds. 10 THE FIELD Organizations and Reorganizations of Stake g g and ITlission Relicf Societies for 1055 ORGANIZATIONS Stakes Formerly Part of Appointed President Date Appointed East Mesa Mesa and Maricopa Reta M. Reed November 20, 1955 Grand Junction Westem States Evelyn T. McKinnon October 16, 1955 Honolulu Or wie Miriam W. Knapp September 15, 1955 New Orleans Redondo Rose Park Missions Gulf States Texas-Louisiana and Southern States Mission Inglewood Stake Riverside Stake (Name changed from Texas-Louisiana Mission ) Northern Far East (Created from former South Australian Japanese Mission ) Australian Mission Southern Far East (Created from former Page 174 Japanese Mission ) Dolores Cluff Fife Magdalen W. Lake Betty Jo Reiser Phyllis D. Smith continued as president Hazel M. Robertson Adelphia Durrant Bingham Roxey Luana C, Heaton July 1, 1955 June 6, 1955 October 28, 1955 June 19, 1955 September 1, 1955 September 1, 1955 September 1, 1955 NOTES TO THE FIELD Stakes Bakersfield Bear River Big Horn Blaine Bonneville Cache Cannon East Jordan East Long Beach East Phoenix East Riverside Emery Garfield Grant Las Vegas Lehi Logan Malad Maricopa Mount Ogden Nevada Nyssa Oahu Oakland Panguitch Redondo Rigby Riverside Roosevelt Salmon River San Joaquin San Joaquin Santaquin-Tintic Seattle South Box Elder South Carolina South Sevier Spokane Wayne West Jordan Missions Australian British California Canadian Central American Central Atlantic States East Central States Eastern States REORGANIZATIONS Released President Appointed President 175 Date Appointed Arlene P. Sutton (Died May 10,'55) Ruby W. Nielson Amelia H. Robertson Fawn N. Dilworth Mary R. Young Inez B. Tingey Mabel H. Miller Grace G. Thornton Betsy McNey Lola M. Shumway Bernice S. Anderson Surelda C. Ralphs Alta S. Wiltshire Lorena Harline Alice Alldredge Lileth Peck LaVera W. Coombs Hanna S. Harris Esther Miller Cleone R. Eccles Sylvia Johnson Emma D. Chytraus Miriam W. Knapp Della W. Swensen Cleo V. Hatch Magdalen W. Lake Nita J. Jorgensen Drusilla B. Newman LaRue O. Nixon Elizabeth G. Hoggan Venice J. Ricks (Died July 20, ' Sylvia Osea se) Josephine C. Crook Birdie S. Bean Ezma L. Knudson Alice Voyles Montez O. Christiansen Edna H. Bennion LaVell King Dora B. Callicott Elizabeth W. Winn Cora L. Nielson Helena D. Belnap Donna Lou Thorne Cora Jenkins Pearl A. Heaton Eva H. Stevenson Celeste D. Millerberg LaPrele Mertz Lola L. Green Stake Disorganized Myrle B. Johansen Gwen H. Lyman Virginia Newbold Myrtle George Ruby M. Nielsen Gwen J. Miner Nellie S. Gleed Mildred B. Jarvis Ardella H. Stevens Chnistie L. Haynes Lynile Buhler Eugenia N. Logan Annabelle W. Hart Alta S. Wiltshire June Baggett Hope Beus Luella M. Buchi Minnie Angus Louise Arave Sylvia R. Stone Margaret R. Marchant Fern Horton Leora G. Clawson Edith E. Baddley Annie H. Capps Faye K. Nielson Zelda S. Conrad Thora Jackson Mae C. Johnson MISSIONS Released President Appointed President June 26, 1955 May 1, 1955 August 28, 1955 May 8, 1955 May 15, 1955 September 19, 1955 September 7, 1955 August 14, 1955 September 8, 1955 September 9, 1955 October 9, 1955 April 14, 1955 December 4, 1955 June 26, 1955 August 21, 1955 May 8, 1955 September 4, 1955 March 27, 1955 May 8, 1955 September 4, 1955 September 1, 1955 June 19, 1955 September 15, 1955 September 4, 1955 November 6, 1955 July 28, 1955 February 20, 1955 November 1, 1955 October 16, 1955 March 20, 1955 August 2, 1955 September 8, 1955 September 18, 1955 February 27, 1955 August 28, 1955 July 10, 1955 April 24, 1955 January 16, 1955 September 25, 1955 May 22, 1955 Date Appointed Leah B, Liljenquist Elizabeth B. Reiser LaPriel S. Bunker Anna H. Toone Elizabeth W. Romney Mabel M. Nalder Adriana M. Zappey Eva C. Taylor Irene Toone Erekson Irene P. Kerr Alta H. Taylor Leah H. Lewis Gladys K. Wagner Lovell W. Smith June 23, 1955 October 19, 1955 September 18, 1955 October 19, 1955 October 19, 1955 September 14, 1955 Marie Curtis Richards February 25, 1955 Florence S. Jacobsen July 19, 1955 176 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1956 Missions Released President Appointed President Date Appointed New England Hattie B. Maughan Margaret R. Jackson August 29, 1955 New Zealand Alice W. Ottley Arta Romney Ballif = March 17, 1955 Northern Far East Hazel M. Robertson Frances P. Andrus November 12, 1955 Northwestern States Mavil A. McMurrin — Effie K. Driggs September 29, 1955 Southern States Emily E. Ricks Lucile W. Bunker October 19, 1955 Southwest Indian Thelma S$. Buchanan Lavena L. Rohner June 23, 1955 Tahitian Frankie G. Orton Dorothy Pope June 2, 1955 Christensen Tongan Joan W. Coombs Sylvia R. Stone October 19, 1955 Uruguayan Afton K. Shreeve Louise Bush Parry August 12, 1955 ——- Index for 1055 Relicf Society Magazine Available COPIES of the 1955 index of The Relief Society Magazines are available and may be ordered from the General Board of Relief Society, 40 North Main Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah. The price is 15c, including postage. Relief Society officers and members who wish to have their 1955 issues of The Relief Society Magazine bound may do so through the Deseret News Press, 31 Richards Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah. The cost for binding the twelve issues in a permanent cloth binding is $2.50, including the index. If leather binding is preferred, the cost is $3.50, including the index. These prices do not include postage, and an additional amount to cover postage must accompany all orders for binding of the Magazines. See schedules of postage rates in this issue of the Magazine, page 209. If bound volumes are desired, and the Magazines cannot be supplied by the person making the request, the Magazines will be supplied for $1.50 by the Magazine Department, General Board of Relief Society, 40 North Main Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah. Only a limited number of Magazines are available for binding. It is suggested that all wards and stakes have one volume of the 1955 Magazines bound for preservation in ward and stake Relief Society libraries. -- Announcing the Special April Short Story Jssue HE April 1956 issue of The Relief Society Magazine will be the special short story number, with four outstanding stories being presented. Look for these stories in April: "A Full Hive," by Dorothy Clapp Robinson "To You, Beloved," by Lois E. Fockner "Lesson From Letty," by Arlene D. Cloward "The Day Before the Wedding," by Dorothy Boys Kilian Springtime Gs Fun-cime Helen B. Morris ADY Spring has made her debut. The frogs are no longer icebound and can be seen hopping under furry pussy-willow trees. Coats of mottled hue have been gladly donned by all the members of the vulnerable rabbit kingdom. All except the Easter rabbit, that is. His white coat is in tiptop condition and his pink eyes are shining their delight. His heyday is just around the corner. Our youngsters are joyfully sharing nature's delights, and spring will be more delightful, if we help them plan a party for Saturday afternoon, the day before Easter. Parties mean food, and food means plans. Let us help you with yours. Suppose we serve refreshments buffet style. To give the table the gay expression of spring, try this. First, cover it with a white cloth. Then, for an unusual and attractive centerpiece, fill a large glass bowl with cold water. Add to the water a few drops of lavendar food coloring. Next add four teaspoons baking soda and two teaspoons citric acid, which may be obtained at very small cost at any drugstore. (Almost any proportions will work, so long as they are in sufficient quantities. ) Now, drop a dozen or more moth balls into this solution. After a few minutes, they will begin to travel from the top to the bottom of the bowl. To add that finishing touch, float a daffodil blossom or two on top of your "fountain." Everyone will be curious and wonder if you have resorted to witchcraft. On each side of this centerpiece, near the ends of the table, place bouquets of fresh daffodils accented with a few twigs of pussy willow. Even this attraction won't satisfy sharp appetites. Let's serve ice-cream sundaes topped with pineapple, a maraschino cherry, and egg-shaped cookies decorated with bright-colored icings. Here's how to make an Easter bunny favor to place on the plate with the refreshments. Join marshmallows together with toothpicks, using one for the head and two for the body, one for each leg, and a half marshmallow for each arm. Make ears from plain white paper and color the centers pink. Draw the face with blue and red food coloring. Make red crosses down the front to represent buttons. Serve these refreshments, along with your favorite beverage, on your festive table, and you will have an Easter party to remember! Page 177 Recipes From Brazil Submitted by Asael T. Sorensen Canja (BrazILIAN CHICKEN Soup) 1 large fowl 1 sprig parsley 1 tablespoon chopped onion 1 leek salt to taste - chives 1 tablespoon butter 2 carrots Clean the chicken and cut it in pieces. Saute the onion in the butter; add the chicken and simmer without letting it get too dark. Cover with water, add salt, parsley, carrots, chives, and leek. Cook until the chicken is tender, strain the broth through a sieve; remove bones and skin from chicken and cut it in 2-inch pieces. To about three and a half pints of broth, add 1 cup of well-washed rice. Let it cook, and, when nearly done, add the pieces of chicken and some salt, if necessary. The soup should be yellow and not too thick. Remove fat, if there is too much. The rice cooks quickly. For more color, add one large tomato. SHRIMPS a BAHIANA 4 pounds shrimps 6 small tomatoes 1 tablespoon fat (preferably oil) % tablespoon flour 1 chopped onion % tablespoon butter parsley 2 small hot peppers Peel and clean the shrimps. Saute onion, tomatoes, and parsley in the fat; add shrimps and simmer. Melt the butter and flour; add I cup of water and pour this mixture over the shrimps. Boil for a few minutes. This dish is even better when the milk of one coconut is added instead of water. If you like it hot, add the two small hot peppers. Serve with rice. FeryoapA CompLeta (BraAzILiAN Disu oF BLack BEANs) _ The day before the "Feijoada" wash several times in lukewarm water: 2 pounds of salt pork 150 grams bacon 2 pounds of dried meat (carne seca) 1 salted tongue 2 pounds of seasoned Brazilian pork pork ears, tails, etc. Sausage (linguica ) (For a good "Feijoada" about 15 kinds of meat should be used.) Leave all meat covered with water overnight. Also wash 2 or more pounds of black beans, having picked out all empty shells or little stones that might be between them. Cover with water and let stand overnight. On the morning of the "Feijoada'' put all the well-drained meat and the black beans in a big kettle and cover with the water they were standing in overnight; add two pounds of fresh pork meat and two pounds of fresh beef (neck). Let everything boil slowly for several hours, adding warm water to it occasionally until the black beans are well cooked. Melt two tablespoons of fat in a frying pan, add chopped onions, parsley, some Page 178 tomatoes, 1 bay leaf, and two cloves of garlic, well mashed; take a small portion of the black beans with the skimmer-spoon and add them to this mixture. Saute everything, mash it with a rammer, and return it to the big kettle. Let it thicken, but be careful that it does not burn at the bottom of the pan. When ready to serve, carefully lift the meat out of the pan, carve it and arrange it on a big platter, the tongue in the middle, the dried and salted meat on one side, the fresh beef on the other. Serve the black beans in a soup tureen. Serve with rice, and small hot pepper sauce. Have peeled and sliced oranges on the table to go with the "Feijoada." To cook the rice: Pick the rice over and wash it. Brown 1 chopped onion, 1 clove of garlic, and from 1 to 6 tomatoes (according to size) in 3 tablespoons lard. Add the rice and stir it until it browns. Add boiling water (for 2 Ibs. Of rice about 8 cups of water) and let it boil on a slow fire for about % hour. When it is almost dry, cover the saucepan and let it boil a little longer. Take it off the fire. - ~ > Comforter Catherine B. Bowles The quilt my Grandma gave to me— Gay patchwork made of tiny squares, Each block delightful to behold; Each held a story often told; Some patches were not made quite true, Uneven stitches, here and there. The hand was shaky, wrinkled, old, But the love she stitched cannot be told. Sometimes my searching mind Seems almost like the patchwork quilt. Some parts are made of love and cheer, With darker ones of doubt and fear; Some streaked with mildew from my tears Heartache and anguish through the years. Each day has left a silent trace, So clearly mirrored in my face. But the soul my Father gave to me Will live throughout eternity. —>- Life Gs Like a Pattern Anne S. W. Gould ae is like taking a journey, the scenery is always changing. We may have to go through the desert, but it doesn't always stay desert, and even in the desert there is some loveliness, if we are on the lookout for it.' RECIPES FROM BRAZIL 179 Strange Land of the Chiricahuas Nell Murbarger ing nearly 10,000 feet above sea level, the Chiricahua Mountains spring from the surrounding aridity like a moist and verdant island. Grown to ferns and flowers and tall evergreens, this unusual retreat in southeastern Arizona is a far different place than one ordinarily expects to find in a desert region only a few minutes drive from the Mexican border. Little changed physically since those rugged days of nearly a century ago, when these canyons served as a stronghold for the Apache war lords, Cochise and Geronimo, the Chiricahuas are still largely inaccessible save by steep, dim trails, and sure-footed mountain horses. Fortunately for auto travelers, the one improved road that crosses the range gives entry to the most scenic portion of the entire mountain chain — an area that embraces so many unusual features that seventeen square miles of it were set aside by President Coolidge, in 1924, as Chiricahua National Monument. Whether a visitor's interest lies in botany, bird study, geology, photography, mountain climbing, or frontier history, this strange land has more to offer the vacationist than almost any other American area of comparable size. Regardless of its other attractions, however, its dominant feature must forever be its spectacular rock formations. Carved by time and weather into thousands of fantastic shapes, Page 180 Wins their lofty summits risthese gigantic pillars rise like sentinels above the enveloping forest, serrating the ridge-tops, overshadowing the public campground, and flanking every mile of highway and hiking trail that winds through the Monument. To some of these sculptured forms have been given such descriptive names as Chinese Boy, Donald Duck, The Anvil, Baked Potato, Old Devil Face, Praying Padre, The Bishop, 'Thor's Hammer, 'The Old Maid, Kissing Rocks, Queen Victoria, Punch and Judy, Chinese Wall, and 'The Mushroom; but tens of thousands of other sculpturings are as yet unnamed. Of all the peculiar formations in Chiricahua National Monument, none possesses greater fascination than the scores of balanced rocks, the most spectacular one of which measures twenty-five feet in height and twenty feet broad, with a weight officially estimated at 625 tons! This gigantic boulder stands perched on a stem only four feet across at its point of contact, and the slightest earth tremor would be seemingly sufficient to send it crashing earthward. 'Two hundred yards and several hundred exclamations distant, stands Pinnacle Balanced Rock — twice as high as broad, but with a base little wider than a man's shoulders! These balanced boulders, like other formations in the Monument, are a result of erosive forces; and although no man can say how many hundreds of years have been re- STRANGE LAND OF THE CHIRICAHUAS Nell Murbarger DUCK-ON-A-ROCK IN CHIRICAHUA NATIONAL MONUMENT, ARIZONA quired for the carving of each rock, it is known that the weathering effected in the span of one human lifetime is scarcely discernible to the eye. Although non-hikers can gain an impressive view of the Monument from the auto road and the lookout station at Massai Point, only persons with the stamina to hike or tide horseback for a few miles are privileged to view the "Heart of Rocks" area where the more unusual formations are centered. Fourteen miles of wide, safe trails, gently-graded and well-maintained, offer matchless sightseeing — trips ranging from three to seven miles in length. Guide service is optional. OST of the other attractions offered by the Monument may be enjoyed without any particular need for exertion. Flower lovers 181 find themselves in a leafy wonderland inhabited by more than 500 species of plants and eighty botanical families. Included in this assortment are fourteen species of ferns, seven varieties of oaks, and nine different conifers, the latter embracing such unusual types as Arizona cypress, _ alligator-barked juniper, and the Apache, Chiricahua, and Mexican pinon pine, all of which are of limited distribution in the United States. According to one botanical authority, the Chiricahuas likely contain a greater variety of plant life than is to be found in any other comparable area in the United States. The Monument also is especially rich in bird life, a few forms — due to long-established isolation — being unique to this region. The wild turkey, once plentiful here, is lately making a gallant comeback, and the 182 thrill of hearing these great birds gobbling in the trees on a frosty autumn morning is an experience never to be forgotten! Rarest joy the Monument can offer to an ornithologist is the possibility of seeing the coppery-tailed trogon, afoot-long bird with rainbow-hued plumage. Even the thick-billed parrot occasionally strays northward to the Chiricahuas from his traditional home in Mexico's forested highlands. In the animal line, the Arizona white-tailed deer abounds throughout the Monument, and does and fawns often come to drink at a spring near the public campground. Tracks of bears and mountain lions are occasionally seen in the higher elevations, and even the jaguar and handsome Mexican ocelot have been glimpsed. Smaller animals, such as squirrels and chipmunks, are plentiful. Tent campers and trailerists are served by a clean, well-maintained campground, providing abundant shade, roomy spaces, good water, tables, outdoor fireplaces, showers, and a laundry room. Limited accommodations for non-campers are available at several nearby guest RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—-MARCH 1956 ranches, where saddle horses and guides also may be obtained. Lying 120 miles east of Tucson, the Monument, from that point, is best reached via U. S. Highway 80, and State Routes 86 and 181; or north from Douglas (seventy miles ) over U. S. 666 and State Route 181. All these routes are paved and offer no steep grades of mountain driving. Just across the border from Douglas (7o miles south of the Monument) lies the Mexican city of Agua Prieta, Sonora, with its many interesting curio shops and quaint Old-World charm. American citizens, entering Mexico for one day only, need no passport or other permit, but non-citizens should discuss the matter with United States immigration authorities before crossing the line and so avoid any difficulty that might attend their re-entry into the United States. Further information concerning this fascinating Arizona vacation area, may be had by writing the Custodian, Chiricahua National Monument, Dos Cabezas, Arizona; or the Chamber of Commerce, at Tucson. First Herald Linnie F. Robinson The old, old lady held the child Close to the pane where the rain beat down; And they stared at the rivulets running swift On the dark and sodden ground. Then, looking closer, they saw some green, Scarce more than a blade of grass; The babe smiled as at a bauble seen, But a miracle to the other had come to pass. She Preparation and Serving of Food for Large Gatherings Frank D. Arnold Sanitarian R. S., Salt Lake City, Utah, Health Department HURCH dinners and picnics C have long been recognized as an important means of raising funds and promoting sociability. We, as Latter-day Saints, are frequently called upon to assist in the preparation and serving of dinners and other meals under a variety of circumstances. It may be a supper in the recreation hall, a picnic in the canyon, refreshments at a dance, or any one of a number of other events common within the activities of our Church. The preparation and serving of food to large numbers are often undertaken by the members of the Relief Society. Feeding large numbers of people presents problems never encountered in feeding a family. Even the best of cafes and restaurants must be continually alert for a breakdown in standards of cleanliness and sanitation. Precautions can usually be incorporated into food planning without addhitional expense. Whether the food is prepared in the home, in the ward kitchen, or elsewhere, certain safeguards should be taken. Proper refrigeration is a must for safe food. Many cases of food poisoning and related diseases are directly traceable to improper refrigeration. Harmful bacteria or germs grow very rapidly at room temperature. They have a special liking for foods that are commonly served at social meals—chicken and_ turkey salads, a variety of ham dishes, dairy products, creamed foods, and custard desserts. These foods should be kept at temperatures under 50 degrees F. Never let such foods stand at room temperature more than an hour. Dishes and utensils must be clean and free from germs. Every dish, every glass, and every utensil should be washed and disinfected. If possible, dishwashing should begin as soon as the first course is completed. Silver, glasses, and dishes should be separated at the serving tables or in the dishwashing area. All dishes should be scraped before being passed to dishwashers. Plenty of soap or detergent should be used. Water should be hot as the hands can stand. It should be changed frequently.; After washing, all dishes should be rinsed in hot water at 180 degrees. This is hotter than the hand can stand, therefore, a wire tray or other container should be used for immersing the dishes. A second and equally satisfactory method of killing bacteria involves the use of chemical disinfectants such as the common household bleaches and other chlorine products. 'These substances can be added in small quantities to the warm rinse water. Dishes should be free of soap before being immersed in the chemical rinse. One tablespoon of household bleach in each gallon of rinse water will be Page 183 184 sufficient. Ten gallons of water require approximately one teacup of sanitizing solution. F space and facilities permit, dishes should be allowed to air dry; otherwise, care must be taken to use plenty of dry, clean towels. Paper service may often solve your clean-up problems. Paper cups, dishes, plates, containers of all types, paper tablecloths, and napkins are obtainable in a wide variety of sizes and patterns. All food stored or displayed should be protected from dirt particles. Dishes, glasses, and utensils must also be protected from dust, insects, and other contamination between periods of use. If possible, they should be stored on covered shelves or in cupboards.. With doors. If they are stored for long periods they should be rinsed before use. Personal cleanliness is an important factor in preventing the spread of disease by food. Clean hands are essential. Pick up spoons, knives, forks and cups by their handles; dishes by their rims; and glasses by the base. Never let your fingers touch milk, water, soup, butter, ice, meat, or dessert. Hair should be covered with a hairnet, a cap, or other restraining devices. White aprons or uniforms may be a worthwhile investment for the ward kitchen. Persons who have a cold or other catching diseases should not be allowed to prepare or serve food. All foods served must be clean and wholesome. Milk should be pasteurized. Meat should be from inspected sources. Vegetables and fruit must be clean. Bakery prodRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1956 ucts should never be stale. Care must be taken that the water used is clean and pure. Foods should be thoroughly cooked. Intense heat destroys bacteria and other parasites. This is especially important with pork products. After the food is cooked, hot foods should be kept hot until served. If you use a steam table, do not let the temperature drop below 145 degrees F. Floor surfaces should be cleaned regularly. 'The good, old-fashioned broom is still best for sweeping and for chasing the dirt out of the corners. 'The use of a sweeping compound, or water lightly sprinkled on areas to be swept, will keep dust down to a minimum. Refuse and waste of all kinds should be disposed of properly. Refuse, especially garbage, which is allowed to accumulate may soon constitute a fly or rodent nuisance. The method of disposal may vary from grinding by mechanical disposals to burying in the case of some outdoor picnics. Be prompt and be thorough in waste removal. The condition inside a kitchen may often be reflected by the conditions outside and around the kitchen. All garbage containers should be covered with tight-fitting lids. HE fundamentals of clean food service should be applied wherever food is prepared, stored, or served. Apply these principles to your everyday activities to insure more healthful living for the entire family, and apply them when you are called to assist in the food service of your ward or stake. PREPARATION AND SERVING OF FOOD FOR LARGE GATHERINGS 185 TIPS AND SUGGESTIONS FOR MORE SUCCESSFUL MEATS These hints for simplifying and speeding planning, preparation, and service have been gathered from authorities in the field of large-scale food service. Many are based on engineering and efficiency studies conducted by institutions and restaurants. You will find that if you follow these suggestions all your tasks will be easier and, more than probably, your meal will be a success. A ON. Plan, buy, and delegate duties well ahead of entertainment date. Keep number of committee members to the minimum necessary to get the job done. Too many "cooks" can spoil results. Make careful Preparation and Service Schedules and be sure all your workers understand them. Be business-like. Plan menu and calculate food costs and profits carefully. Select a menu suitable to the skills of your workers and the equipment available to you. Assume 3 or 4 kitchen workers for each fifty guests. Assume that each waitress can handle § to 10 people for a sit-down meal. Arrange kitchen so you have a center for each type of work—preparing vegetables, salads, desserts, beverages, etc. Put all foods, pans, spoons, ladles, serving dishes required for the task at each center. Reduce long reaches at work centers wherever possible by bringing materials and supplies close into working area.. Try to have work surfaces of convenient heights so that neither stooping nor stretching will be necessary.. Try to have the best equipment, such as good knives, scoops, chopping boards, slicing machines, etc.. Make certain pots and pans used for cooking are large enough. Don't crowd roasting pans or fill cooking pots over three-fourths full.. Keep all perishables in refrigerator until the last moment before serving.. Do as much preparation work as possible in advance. If possible, serve through service windows or across a Dutch door to keep waitresses out of the kitchen. One method is to put a table across the door between the kitchen and dining room and have kitchen workers place food on it to be picked up by servers. Honeymoon Salad Francelia Goddard A salad whets the appetite, It's also quite nutritious. The little bride can manage this And thinks it looks delicious. She blends the golden mayonnaise With purple cabbage shredded, And love takes up where skill leaves off To please her newly-wedded., Let's Have Fish Winnifred C, Jardine Food Editor, Deseret News and Telegram OME of the best eating ever S to be had is from fish. Delicious of flavor, tender of eating, simple of cooking, fish should be included often in any meal plans. And not only is fish good to eat, but it is nutritious also. Fish is a high-quality protein, easy to digest. And most fish contains generous supplies of vitamins A and D; all fish are an excellent source of iodine. Fish should be purchased only from markets where it is kept well refrigerated, even while on display. Buy only the amount needed, and buy it as near the time of use as possible. After bringing fresh fish home, wrap it in waxed paper, and store it in the coldest part of the refrigerator until cooking time. Handle fresh fish as little as possible; handling bruises the flesh. Store frozen fish in the freezing compartment of the refrigerator until ready to prepare. Thaw frozen fish before cooking, either by keeping in the refrigerator, but out of the freezer unit for twenty-four hours, or by leaving it at room temperature for about two hours. Be sure to cook fish as soon as it is thawed. If possible, keep all fish from direct contact with ice; if it must be placed on ice, wrap fish carefully in waterproof paper. There are only a few basic ways of cooking fish — baking, broiling, Page 186 frying, and "boiling" or poaching. Around these can be made many delightful variations. 'The important thing is to cook fish until tender and thoroughly done, yet not overcooked. Fried fish should be crispy and brown, but not greasy. Baked fish should remain shapely. Extra care must be used in planning menus around fish. Rich sauces should be used with lean fish, and acid or spicy sauces with fat fish. Mild-flavored vegetables should be combined with strong-flavored fish, well-flavored vegetables with mild fish. Watch textures in fish meals. Serve something crusty and browned, such as French fries; and include something raw and crunchy, such as cabbage slaw. And remember that most fish is bland in color, therefore serve bright-colored foods along with it, such as broccoli and carrots. And now for the cooking! To Bake Whole Fish Rub fish generously inside and out with salt and pepper. Fill lightly with any simple stuffing, sew up with string, and place on rack in baking pan. If desired, lay fish on a piece of cheesecloth or oiled parchment paper, so that it may be lifted and transferred to a hot platter more easily without breaking. Bake uncovered at 450°F., allowing ten to fifteen minutes per pound. Baste occasionally with melted butter or salad oil. If de- LET'S HAVE FISH 187 Courtesy American Institute of Baking STUFFED HALIBUT STEAKS sired, protect the tail from burning by wrapping in waxed paper during baking process. How to Bake Fish Slices Arrange fish slices in greased baking pan, sprinkle with salt, pepper, and lemon juice, and dot with butter or margarine. Bake uncovered at 400°F'. For 20 to 30 minutes, or until tender. How to Broil Fish Clean fish and wipe dry. Broil small fish without splitting. Split medium-sized fish down back and remove bones. Cut large fish into fillets or steaks. Brush fish with melted butter or salad oil, sprinkle with salt and pepper, then lay on a greased broil-andserve platter, or on a greased shallow broiler pan. Turn over to broil and preheat 10 minutes. Place broiler pan 2 inches below source of heat and broil fish until golden brown and well done. Do not try to turn fish for broiling the second side — it is too easily broken. If fish is not thoroughly cooked by the time it is brown, place the rack in a low position in the oven and finish cooking slowly. How to Pan-Fry Fish Clean and wipe dry whole small fish or slices or fillets of larger ones. Roll in flour that has been seasoned with salt and pepper; cook in a small amount of shortening in a heavy frying pan until brown on both sides, turning carefully with a 188 spatula. Fish is done when it flakes from bone easily when tested with a fork. How to Oven-Fry Fish Clean pieces of fish and wipe. Dip into milk which has been salted, then into fine dry bread crumbs or finely crushed cornflakes. Arrange in well-greased shallow baking pan. Spoon a little melted butter or cooking oil over the pieces, then bake at 5oo°F. For 10 to 15 minutes, or until well browned and done. Serve immediately. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1956 How to Poach or "Boil" Fish Poached fish is cooked in liquid that is definitely below the boiling point until tender—about 10 minutes per pound. The liquid used may be water with 1 teaspoon salt and 1 tablespoon lemon juice or vinegar added for each quart, or it may be half milk and half water. When the fish is done, some of this tichly flavored broth is used for part or all of the liquid in making egg sauce or other sauce to serve with the fish. BaxkepD CREAMED Fisu FILuets 2 pounds fish fillets (cod, sole, halibut, haddock, or other) % tsp. Salt dash pepper "% tsp. Paprika juice of 1 lemon 2 tbsp. Butter or margarine 2 tbsp. Flour salt and pepper 2 tsp. Dry mustard 1 c. Light cream or top milk % c. Chopped pimiento, if desired % c. Buttered bread crumbs 1 tbsp. Minced parsley Cut fillets in serving pieces. Place in greased, shallow baking dish; sprinkle with salt, pepper, paprika, and lemon juice. Make white sauce of butter, flour, seasoning and milk; stir in pimiento. Pour over fillets. Sprinkle with crumbs and parsley. 350°F. For 35 minutes. Makes 6 servings. Bake at Crispy Friep PIKE 6 serving-size pike fillets sour milk salt biscuit mix 2 tbsp. Butter 2 tbsp. Shortening Place pike fillets in a shallow pan or dish. Pour enough sour milk over fillets to cover. Allow 1 tsp. Salt for each pound of fish. Let stand 20 to 45 minutes. Drain. Dip each fillet in dry biscuit mix. Melt butter and shortening in heavy skillet. Cook fish in shortening until well browned and slightly crisp on one side, turn, and repeat on second side. Makes 6 servings. BroitepD FILLets au GRATIN 2 packages frozen or 3 lbs. 2 fresh brocoli 2 1% to 2 lbs. Thawed quick-frozen or fresh cod or haddock fillets tsp. Lemon juice tbsp. Butter or margarine % ¢. Milk ¥% Ib. Processed American cheddar cheese, grated (2 c.) Preheat broiler 10 minutes. Cook broccoli until just tender. Arrange fillets side by side in greased shallow baking pan. Sprinkle with lemon juice and dot with butter. Broil 2 inches below heat, without turning, 8 to 10 minutes or until easily flaked with fork but still moist. Meanwhile, in double boiler, heat milk with grated cheese until smooth sauce is formed. 'Transfer fish to 12x8-inch baking dish. Arrange broccoli over fish; pour sauce over all. Place low in broiler and broil until golden. Makes 6 servings. JELLIED SaLmon Loar 2 tbsp. (2 packages) 1 ¢. Mayonnaise unflavored gelatin % tsp. Salt % ¢. Cold water % tsp. Pepper % c. Boiling water 2 tbsp. Catsup 2 c. Cooked or canned salmon 2 hard-cooked eggs, chopped 2 tbsp. Vinegar or lemon juice 12 sliced stuffed olives Soak gelatin in cold water. Add boiling water and stir until gelatin is dissolved. Combine with remaining ingredients and pour into loaf pan or individual salad molds. Chill until firm. Unmold and slice or serve on lettuce leaves. Serve with lemon wedges. Makes 6 to 8 servings. Marytanp DeEvILED CRAB 1 tbsp. Butter % tsp. Salt 1 tbsp. Flour few grains pepper % c. Light cream or top milk 1 tsp. Finely chopped onion 1 beaten egg yolk 1 tbsp. Finely chopped green pepper 1 c. Crab meat 1 tsp. Lemon juice 1 tbsp. Worcestershire sauce % c. Buttered bread crumbs "2 tsp. Prepared mustard Melt butter, stir in flour. Add cream and cook until thick, stirring constantly. Add small amount of hot liquid to egg yolk, then stir egg into remaining hot mixture. Add crab meat and seasonings. Cook 3 minutes, stirring constantly. Add onion, green pepper, and lemon juice. Fill greased shells or ramekins with hot mixture. Top with but tered crumbs and sprinkle with paprika. Bake at 4o0°F. Until crumbs are brown, about 10 minutes. Makes 4 servings. Double recipe for baking in casserole. STUFFED HauisutT STEAKS 2 halibut steaks, 1-inch thick Y% c. Melted butter 2 c. Dry bread crumbs 1 tbsp. Chopped parsley 1 tsp. Salt 1 lemon, juice and grated rind 2 tablespoons onion juice 2 cans vegetable soup Wipe steaks clean. Combine bread crumbs, salt, onion juice, butter, parsley, and lemon juice and rind. Spread the dressing between steaks, then place stuffed steaks in a greased pan. Pour undiluted vegetable soup over steaks and bake at 350°F. For about 30 minutes. DeEticious TARTAR SAUCE % C. Mayonnaise "4 tsp. Tabasco % tsp. Dry mustard 1 tsp. Vinegar generous sprinkle of garlic and 4 or 5 minced medium stuffed olives onion salts 1 minced gherkin 1 tbsp. Catsup 2 tbsp. Chopped parsley Combine all ingredients and serve with fried, broiled, or baked fish. Makes enough sauce for 3 or 4 servings. LET'S HAVE FISH 189 She Rugged Rug Hookers Geneve Hourihan O the women, yes, and men, too, who have chosen rug hooking as a hobby or a vocation, the results are just the same—a beautiful product and a money saver, because many hours are needed to complete a fair-sized rug or a picture for the wall. We attended our first class in hooking rugs over twenty years ago. This was during the depression days, when one was supposed to make something-from-nothing or make-do with what you had. We made our own frames from pieces of scrap lumber, our hooks were made from a nail driven into a handle, carved by hand out of a block of wood; the head of the nail was cut off with a hacksaw and filed to make a hook. The material used, preferably wool, was generally out of scrap bags, and believe me, they were very lean in those days. The rugs were hooked on burlap, originally a bag that had been carefully washed, starched a little, and the design drawn on with crayola, then lightly gone over with a warm iron to set the design. We cut the strips of material by hand about one-third of an inch wide. The proof of the sturdiness of these rugs is the fact that many of them are still in use. As time went by, the bad times turned to good, but not for long. The second world war came along and wool material for rug making was again hard to get. We found the salvage stores stocked old wool clothing, but we did not purchase wearable garments to cut up, unless we found a certain number of moth holes in them. No one ever looked so gleefully for moth holes, as the women did in those days. Needless to say, the rugs hooked during this trying time didn't wear too well. The known history of rug hooking in Utah goes a long way back. Many years ago in a sheep-raising community in Utah, the women of the Relief Society were at a loss for carpeting for the floor in one of the Church buildings.. They found a solution. After the shearing of the sheep, there was always wool left hanging onto the bushes and barb-wire fences. 'The women gleaned this wool. It was in such small pieces that carding was not practical, so they left it as it was, but dyed it into bright colors from dyes made from natural resources, berries, leaves, and brush—dyes which resembled those the Indians used for Navajo rugs. They hooked these small pieces of wool into a beautiful design. 'This carpeting is a lasting reminder of the wonderful spirit of true ingenuity and thnift. Rug hooking is used extensively in the veterans' hospitals as a great therapeutic for the disabled. It is a wonderful pick-up for anyone. The short intervals of spare time during a busy day of a housekeeper, can be made pleasant and useful with a rug and material close by to hook on, even though it be only for a few minutes at a time. The modern rug-making workshop of today consists of cutters or strippers, which cut strips five or more at a time and as narrow as one-eighth of an inch. The material can be bought new. In hooking flowers and other designs, one needs from six to eight shades of each color, which may be bought or dyed at home to give a spotty effect. The current trend is the reproduction of scenes, such as Currier and Ive's prints, hooked into spectacular pictures for the wall. For our first attempt at hooking a picPage 190 THE RUGGED RUG HOOKERS 191 ture, we selected one of a New England covered bridge. We hooked it in brownish-red shades, with snow-tipped evergreens, a brown horse hitched to a red sleigh, snow-capped mountain peaks in the background, a rustic fence, and the trees hooked in such a manner that the perspective looked like three dimensions, and so lifelike that people seeing it wanted to touch it. Although progress has found new methods, and attractive floral and scenic patterns on burlap are readily available, rug hooking is quite an art. There is still a great deal of satisfaction in creating your own designs, and digging into the scrap bag and coming up with a useful as well as a pretty rug. NEW ENGLAND COVERED BRIDGE HOOKED RUG MADE BY GENEVE HOURIHAN The rug was made in a pattern taken from a photograph of a New England covered bridge. Wool material cut in one-eighth inch strips was used to make the rug. It was hooked in weather-beaten red and brown shades, repeating the browns in the trees and fences. The evergreens, of course, were in green, snow-capped. The field stone underpinnings were toned in shades of gray. The picture does not show the different shades of color used to distinguish the mountains from the sky. The little houses in the distance were made in bright red, capped with snow. The little brook was done in gray and aqua shades. The sleigh was bright red, the horse brown, with a black harness. Mother and Father, in the sleigh, were dressed in gay colors, and the robe over them was bright green. Garden Accents Elizabeth Williamson OST gardens are lovely to look at, borders of well-kept flowers and shrubs, paths leading to a summerhouse or pool. But how often do your friends exclaim as they are walking down these paths, except to give the ordinary compliments of "How lovely, how pretty, so orderly!" These remarks are like a stew without seasoning, good, but not very exciting. With a few unexpected accents in your garden, you will watch your friends stop short and say "What a delightful surprise! I didn't know you had a flair for such things." With a little ingenuity and planning, accent spots can be made, and you can have much pleasure and satisfaction in designing and making them. A Miniature Pool A small pool may be made from a big rock which has a natural depression or it may be a small, bean-shaped pool made of cement. The pool may be placed in a group of azaleas, surrounded by water plants and grasses, papyrus, miniature bamboo, or a bit of ground clover and mosses. Azaleas are especially suitable because they like the shade and filtered sunlight, and the shady places in your garden need the most accents. Otherwise, they often go unnoticed. An Unusual Border In a shady border, a patch of brilliant yellow flowers may be backed by gray succulents, dusty millers, Artemisias, and wormwood. Geraniums Three huge pots of bright pink geraniums may be placed at the corner of the garage. A Bird Bath Use a small concrete or stone bird bath or statue as the center of interest in one of your borders. Put in a ground cover of Ajuga or creeping thyme and add ferns of different heights to build up to a grouping of low pines or dwarf maples. Begonias Pale pink begonias seem to belong under an old oak tree. They give a nice accent to the gray-brown texture of the tree trunk. Page 192 GARDEN ACCENTS 193 Azaleas Azaleas can be used in rows of color. Starting with white, add rows of lavender, pale magenta, deep purple, pale pink, rose, red, flame, and deep red. The effect is dramatic and is noticed instantly, whereas a mixture of colors may do nothing at all to our color perception. Ward Linton PATIO IN MEXICAN COLONIAL STYLE Note the garden accents of potted plants and hanging basket. The unusual pool matches the shape of the patio and its design as well. Multiple Hobbies Help Mary Hilda Smite to Mlake Others Happy ARY Hilda Smith, a member of the Houston Second Ward Relief Society, in the Houston (Texas) Stake, uses her many creative hobbies to make others happy and to fill her life with useful handicrafts. She makes tugs and quilts, bedspreads and tablecloths, afghans, and many articles of unusual and exquisite crochet designs. The hooked rugs at the left in the picture are of strikingly attractive design and workmanship, but they are unique for other reasons as well. Mrs. Smith sheared the she. Carded the wool, dyed the yarn, and then hooked these beautiful rugs. Many people 'who appreciate handicrafts and fine workmanship visit the Smith home to see the articles which both Mr. And Mrs. Smith have made to beautify their home. The table at the left in the picture was made by Mr. Smith from the glass bow] of a gasoline pump. He also made another table from a handmade bread tray given to Mrs. Smith's mother as a wedding gift. Mrs. Smith makes many beautiful articles for the Relief Society bazaars, and among other gifts, she donated an exquisite Dresden-plate quit. <A convert to the Church, she is an outstanding Relief Society worker and is loved and admired by all who know her. >_> Where SS: weets Are Maryhale Woolsey Plant a row of clover anywhere; In blossomtime the golden bees will find it. Or spill some sugar; ants will soon be there. Unerring instinct seems to mastermind it. Should it be wrong or strange, if children are As quick and sure to reach the cookie jar? Page 194 There Is Still Time CHAPTER 2 Margery S. Stewart Synopsis: Elizabeth Anderson is disturbed by a strange dream in which she sees herself and her friends walking on crutches which crumble away. She tells the dream to Brent, her husband, and explains to him that something is lacking in their family life, a spiritual oneness. Brent, however, is so interested in making money, that he has no wish to understand Elizabeth's plea. Returning from an early morning drive to the beach, Elizabeth sees the Los Angeles 'Temple under construction, and the building seems to symbolize her aspirations and her longing for a more complete life. LIZABETH sat down on the EL, unfinished temple steps. She had children who received the highest grades in their classes and were spiritual illiterates. A snatch from an overheard conversation ran through her mind. "What are you supposed to be, Donna? Daniel in the lion's den?" Donna emerging from her blanket, "Who was Daniel? Who was Daniel, Johnny?" Johnny, loftily, "Some guy in history who got into a den of lions, of course." Donna ecstatically, "What happened to him?" "They ate him, of course. What a dummy!" "Train up a child in the way he should go: and when he is old, he will not depart from it." But all her friends were doing such a wonderful job with their youngsters... Such lovely manners, sometimes anyway, such clean little bodies... Such attention to abstract ideas of social consciousness. Elizabeth stood up. She had picked up a stone and she weighed it in her hand. 'Then, why was it that they were having such trouble with their youngsters when they reached their teens? Jean's boy, Lynn, now... Stealing cars... When he had only to ask to have one of his own... Thrills they wanted. Betty's beautiful little daughter Ann... Just sixteen... And... Elizabeth shuddered. What could you feed a growing child to still the hunger in his heart, to put his feet in careful paths. She had waited all this time for Brent. Brent hadn't liked to go to meeting. It had held no charm for him. His quick, seeking mind had been always on a monetary goal which he pushed up from year to year as he ascended closer to his heart's desire. And I, thought Elizabeth, felt inadequate to try and train the children, so I have done nothing either. Let me be honest with myself.... 1] waited because it didn't mean enough to me.... I didn't know how to begin. I leaned on Brent... Wanted him to start me. But she knew, suddenly, that the time was long wasted and the hour bitterly short. But how could she go home to four wise young faces and say, "I'm going to start teaching you about God?" How could she teach, when she, herself, was ignorant? Haun's Mill... Nauvoo... Page 195 196 ' Carthage... The names stood up tall in her mind. Elizabeth threw the stone away from her and turned toward the car. 'They would all simply have to learn together. HE children were at breakfast when she came in. They sighed audibly with relief. "T was just about ready to call the police. What an idiotic thing to do, go tearing off when it's still dark." Brent's voice was harsh with worry. "You took my car!" Elaine lifted accusing eyes. Johnny glowered. "You went on an adventure without us." "You left me alone!" Donna wailed, "all... All alone. I could have been kidnapped." "Such a tender homecoming," Elizabeth said acidly. The morning's mood was abruptly shattered. The usual biting irritation took possession of her. "Johnny! Your hands!" Brent tossed a letter to her. "Read that if you will." He pushed his plate away. "What a day! It's starting out like all the others... Except I had no sleep." Elizabeth picked up the letter. She read it swiftly. It was from David, Brent's brother. "Does he mean he is actually telling your mother to leave his house?" Brent scowled. "After all the money I've paid him to take care of her. Now he's making money hand over fist and wants me to take her." "Brent!" He slammed down his napkin. "Tm sorry. I shouldn't have said that. You know yourself our house is too small. We've no room. MothRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1956 er and I never did get on well together. David was always her pet." Elizabeth folded the letter over and over. "Tl put Johnny downstairs in the rumpus room. Elaine, you and Jennie can share her room." Shrieks of fury rose from Elaine and cries of delight from Jennie. "Ha... Ha, smartie! You're not going to be so big any more." Elaine's tears flowed freely. "I'd rather die than have to live with her and her frogs and worms and... And crickets." Elizabeth covered her ears. "'All right! All right! I'll move Donna in with Jennie, and you can have Donna's room." More shrieks and moans resounded.: Brent pounded on the table. "Silence!" He glared at Elizabeth. "You see how it is now... Before she's even come. Think of the madhouse when she gets here. You know Mother. She's got to have her finger in every pie and her own say so about every situation. We can't do it. It's too much." Elizabeth was silent until he was finished, and the children turned to her questioningly. | "T want to do it, Brent." She was surprised at the firmness of her voice when inside she felt so weak. "I want to do something that is hard and right to do." She looked at the children. " "Honour thy father and thy mother.' Those are more than words. They are meanings on meanings." Brent stared at her open-mouthed. "You'll never make it," he said at last, but much of his force was gone. "Just take it from me, you'll never make it." THERE IS STILL TIME "But I can try?" "Sure, you can try, but.... Elizabeth turned back to the children. "We'll all have to open our hearts a little wider, as well as our house. Are you willing?" "Why... Yes." Elaine looked a little dazed. "Sure." Johnny was eager. Brent looked at his watch. To be going. You, Eliza?" She lifted her face for his kiss. "T've got some muscles to strengthen... Moral fibre... Granddad would call it." 2? "Got What's come over HERE was a little silence when he had gone. The youngsters finished their breakfasts. "T gotta go now," Johnny said. "Promised Nick I'd meet him at the playground." He squirmed out of his chair. "Wait." Elizabeth wet her lips. "Sit down a minute, Johnny. Don't go, the rest of you." "Aw, gosh!" Johnny slid back into his place. Elizabeth lifted her eyes to them. Her voice was 'low and _ gentle, "What do you know about God?" she asked. The children were embarrassed and silent. She turned to Elaine appealingly. "You should know something you went to Sunday School." "When I was six," Elaine said scornfully. "Should I remember from when I was six?" "He lives in the sky..."" Donna ventured. "Marion told me that he does." "They had a real good play about him once on TV. It was at Easter 197 time." Johnny twisted about in his chair. "Remember? I asked you about him then... Only you were too busy." "Tm sorry," Elizabeth said. "1 was wrong. I want to teach you about him now. I thought we'd start with his Son. I'll tell you about his birth... And... And we'll go on from there." "Aw, I heard it a'ready... At Christmas at school," said Jennie. "Tm going to get my guns." Elizabeth said very clearly. "You will remain in your place until I have finished speaking... And... We've said our prayers." "Prayers!" 'They stole glances at one another. "Prayers," said Elizabeth firmly. "But now I'll start with the story." She told it quietly, trying to remember every part of it, the manger, the star, the shepherds.. Mary... "About Elaine's age she was, set apart, gentle, gentle as a dove and radiant... Carrying under her heart the promise of all the generations that had been and all that were yet to come." They listened raptly, the room was very still. "|.. And Joseph was warned in a dream and fled away into Egypt with the little, new baby and Mary, his mother, and the cruel king did not find him, however thirstily he hunted." They were all silent when she finished, the deep hush still on them. Elizabeth slipped to her knees and after an awkward moment the children followed her. Her prayer was short and stumbling. Then she rose and began to gather up the dishes. The children stole 198 away. Donna came to kiss her and Elaine hesitated beside her. "Are you going to do this every day?" "Yes," said Elizabeth strongly, but her knees trembled. "IT just wondered. I think it's awfully good for Donna and Jennie and Johnnie." "Do you really? You'll help me, then?" Elaine gave one of her brief, dazzling smiles. "I certainly will. Goodbye now, I've got a date to play tennis with Bill." "Bill Barker?" Elizabeth could not keep the concern out of her voice. Defiance flared up in Elaine's lovely dark eyes. "So? What's wrong with Bill Barker?" "Darling... I've heard things." "All right. You've heard things. Point me out a perfect boy around here. You know them all. A person has to have somebody." "You'll be home around twelve?" Elaine flounced away. "Yes, [ll be here. Honestly, the way people around here keep tabs on a person." Matilda waddled in. "Here, Pll clear up the table, Miss Anderson." "No, [ll finish. I wanted you to work on the upstairs." "You want I should change the rooms around?" Elizabeth threw up her hands in defeat. "I guess there isn't much around here you don't know about, Matilda." "I can get my Jim to carry the beds around." "An excellent idea." Matilda hesitated. "Is she peaceful like? Your mother-in-law?" Elizabeth sorted the silver. She RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1956 chuckled. "Grandma Anderson weighs just one hundred pounds... All of it energy. She likes to work, and she likes to talk... And she rather likes taking charge of things." Matilda smoothed her apron. "Not of my kitchen she don't." She scowled. "I been in homes where they is too many bosses." "We love you," said Elizabeth, her heart sinking as the picture of a long line of replacements flashed before her mind, "but you're free as air, you know that." "I know that," maintained Matilda stoutly, "I just want to make sure that you knows that." [ was on a September morning that Grandma Anderson moved in. She came by plane, courtesy of David, wearing an orchid, gift of her daughter, Alice, and began talking from the top step of the stairs they moved against the plane. '... Upon my soul and body, I never was so scared! They shouldn't let these things off the ground...." Elizabeth could only catch phrases as she moved down the stairs, a tiny little woman with short curly white hair under a black sailor. She tried to hold on to her purse and gather all four grandchildren in her arms at once. Her glasses tipped askew, her hat rocked back, and her purse opened and spilled its contents. "Mother! For pity's — sakes!"' Brent got down on hands and knees to retrieve pennies and nickels and mints and pencils. "Oh, Brent, that was clumsy of me.... Well, as I was saying... Brent, you're too thin... Much too thi..." THERE IS STILL TIME She turned this way and that, peering up into their faces, her words tumbling over each other. "I hear you have a cook now, Elizabeth. Fancy that! The talk of Beaver. Johnny looks peaked, too." She took her grandson's face in her hands, looked accusingly from him to Elizabeth. "It's just a good thing that I came, that's all I have to say." She seized upon Elaine. "Prettiest thing I ever saw.... All Anderson... Every bit of her." Brent protested, laughing. "She's the spit and image of Elizabeth at her age, and you know it." Elizabeth met Brent's meaningful glance calmly. She would not be ruffled by Grandma Anderson. Perhaps, she thought, she believes I'm her enemy. Perhaps she's been conjuring pictures up in her mind all the way down here of cruel things I'll do to her. How do I know what goes on in the mind of a little old lady, who's been pushed out of one son's house?. Brent took his mother firmly by the arm, led her to the car. "We're having a dinner tonight, Mother, a lot of people whose friendship I really need. Watch it, will you?" "A big dinner!" Grandma Anderson was instantly atwitter. "Well, you know how I love company! Maybe I could bake up a pie or two... Nothing like homemade apple pie, I always say." Brent opened his mouth, his face darkening, but Elizabeth rushed into the tiny pause. "What a wonderful idea, but I was saving you to help me with the flowers. No one has a touch quite like yours." For an instant Grandma Anderson faltered, pleased and flushed. 199 "Well, I declare, I'm glad to hear someone admit it. Honestly, the way people poke flowers into vases chills my blood... 1 declare it chills my blood." "Chills my blood," Johnny repeated under his breath. Elizabeth saw his face grow bright with interest. He moved closer to walk beside his grandmother. His admiration was shared with equal fervor by Jennie. Donna had been captured from the start. "I get to sit by Grandma all the way home." They drove up to drop Brent off at his office. "Goodbye, Mother." He kissed her, turned a worried frown to Elizabeth. "Remember the Ames' are coming tonight. You know his nod means Ill get that tract of homes to build." Elizabeth tried to reassure him with a smile, unable to interrupt the steady flow from the back seat. ".... So I told your father, he was ten at the time, that if he ate the green apples he would get sick and get a whipping at one and the same time, and he did. Your father was one wild little Indian... And his report cards!" She lifted her eyes heavenward. Johnny lifted startled eyes to his father's face. "Gee whiz! You mean Dad was just like me!" Brent frowned. "Now remember, Mother, I don't want any part of my history related to the guests tonight. Give someone else a chance to talk." Grandma Anderson settled her hat more firmly on her head. "Land sakes alive, Son! If people want to talk they got to fight for the privilege same as I do." (To be continued) From The F ield _ Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for 'Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1950, page 278, and the Handbook of Instructions, page 123. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Lovell W. Smith CENTRAL ATLANTIC STATES MISSION, WEST NORTH CAROLINA DISTRICT BAZAAR, November 19, 1955 Front row, seated, left to right: Jean P. Hyder, President, Royal Pines Branch; Mamie Crisson, President, Marion Branch; Kathleen White, President, Gastonia Branch; Grace Bradley, President, Cherokee Branch; Helen Dibbens, First Counselor, West North Carolina District; Myrtle Dixon, President, West North Carolina District; Irene Dixon, Secretary-Treasurer, West North Carolina District; Ruth Wilson, President, Statesville Branch; Mary Snead; Sister Thompson, Cherokee Branch. Sister Myrtle Dixon reports: "This was the first activity for the district as a whole. Each Relief Society in the district had its own display booth and displayed many lovely articles. Especially outstanding was the display of our good Lamanite sisters from Cherokee, who were organized about a year ago. Sister Helen Dibbens, the district work meeting supervisor, was in charge of the bazaar. The Relief Society district presidency served approximately one hundred twenty-five people to a turkey dinner." Lovell W. Smith is president of the Central Atlantic States Mission Relief Society. Page 200 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 201 Photograph submitted by June Baggett REDONDO STAKE (CALIFORNIA) RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS READY TO BOARD THE TRAIN FOR RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL CONFERENCE September 27, 1955 Left to right: Kathryn Squire, Education Counselor; Nanna Ord, Magazine representative; Elna Bybee, chorister; June Baggett, President; Martha Green, Work Director Counselor; Lenna Cowdell, Secretary; Ada Nelson, work meeting leader; Norma Greene, literature class leader. Sister Baggett reports: "The theology class leader, Florence Ferguson and the social science leader did not go with this group, but did attend conference. Zenneth Johnson, organist, was unable to go because of illness. We had eleven enrolled and ten attended the conference." Photograph submitted by Eleanor T. Nielsen BEN LOMOND STAKE (UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC AT STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, IN THE NEW TABERNACLE November 1955 The chorister, Marion Hadley, stands sixteenth from the left in the front row (wearing dark dress); Lettice Rich, the organist, stands third from the right in the front row. The following wards are represented in this chorus: Ogden Twenty-ninth, Fortieth, and Forty-eighth; North Ogden First and Second Wards; and the Pleasant View Ward. Eleanor T. Nielsen, President, Ben Lomond Stake Relief Society, comments: ""This photo was taken in the new tabernacle, and we feel it an honor to have been asked to sing in such a wonderful edifice." 202 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1956 Photograph submitted by Elaine B. Curtis COTTONWOOD STAKE (UTAH), HOLLADAY SECOND WARD RELIEF SOCIETY PRESENTS QUILT TO BISHOP Left to right: Flora J. Gibbs, Work Director Counselor; Emma Jean J. Duke, President; Bishop George Richard Hill; Maxine L. Cook, quilting chairman; Peart S. Ashton, Employment Placement Counselor; LaPreal R. Martindale, Secretary-Treasurer. This lovely quilt, with more than six hundred names embroidered in its pattern, was presented to Bishop Richard Hill and his wife Melba P. Hill, at the climax of a successful bazaar. Elaine B. Curtis is president of Cottonwood Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Rhoda Thorpe HYRUM STAKE (UTAH), MILLVILLE WARD VISITING TEACHERS WHO HAVE ACHIEVED A ONE-HUNDRED PER CENT RECORD FOR TWO YEARS Front row, seated, left to right: Ramona Jessop returned missionary; Delilah Larson; Etta Jenson; Hidvie Anderson; Marion Jessop; Katie Pehrson; Donna Scott; Leah Humphreys. Second row, seated, left to right: Leone Garr; Aloma Hammond; Loretta Anderson; Hannah Iverson; Martha Hale; Mary Nielson; Viola Hill; Thelma Jessop; Helen Monson, NOTES FROM THE FIELD 203 Back row, standing, left to right: May Jessop; Jenny Hovey; Alta Jessop; Verla Olson; Elva Vogel; Dorella Bott; Florence Olson; Norma Monson; Connie Knowles; Jane Jessop; May Pehrson; Nona Shaffer. Rhoda Thorpe is president of Hyrum Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Leona P. Boyce NORTH TOOELE STAKE (UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, November 1955 Front row, seated, left to right: Evelyn Teetsell, chorister; Mable Bryan, organist; Ruth Bird, First Counselor; Leona Boyce, President, North Tooele Stake Relief Society; Maud Groscost, Second Counselor; Delpha Hall, Secretary. Photograph submitted by Marteal W. Hendricks WEST CENTRAL STATES MISSION, CASPER FIRST AND SECOND BRANCHES SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR WYOMING DISTRICT CONFERENCE, December 11,.1955 Front row, seated, left to right: Catherine Hein; Rhea White; Loretta Durbin; Beth Davis, District Relief Society President; Marteal H. Hendricks, President, West Central States Mission Relief Society; Helen Madson, chorister; Hazel Loomis, accompanist. Second row, left to nght: June Stanley; Mary Dalton; Dona Marie Lallatin; Yvonne Morgan; Lois Lowham; Sophronia Bertignole; Velma Birch; Evelyn Mangus; Jean Piorot. 204 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1956 Third row, left to right: Doris Williams; Lucille Egley; Gloria Meyers; Verda Larimore; Bernice Hunter; Beth Burnett; Leola McClellan; Geneva Drollinger; Sue Jergen. Photograph submitted by Florence C. Christiansen BLACKFOOT STAKE (IDAHO), BLACKFOOT FIRST WARD VISITING TEACHERS WHO HAVE ACHIEVED A ONE-HUNDRED PER CENT RECORD FOR FIVE YEARS AND FIVE MONTHS Front row, seated, left to right: Lottie Tanner, Counselor; Mattie Miles, President; Lena Brown, Counselor; Verda Stoddart, Secretary. Florence C. Christiansen is president of Blackfoot Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Opal W. Broadbent LYMAN STAKE (WYOMING) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, October 30, 1955 Nancy Stevens, chorister, stands at the left on the first row; Ida Taylor, organist, stands at the right on the first row. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 205 Photograph submitted by Emily S. Romish WEST POCATELLO STAKE (IDAHO), TWENTIETH WARD OFFICERS AND TEACHERS CONDUCT FOOD AND RUMMAGE SALES Front row, seated, left to right: Deaun Weed, Secretary; Elva Jenks, Education Counselor; Ruth Hinckley, President; Alice Olsen, Work Director Counselor; LaVon Bower, work meeting leader. Back row, standing, left to right: Ruth Thacker, visiting teacher message leader; Grace Lewis, Magazine representative; Barbara Hendrickson, literature class leader; Julia Robbins, social science class leader; Levon Dalton, theology class leader; Marie McCullock, chorister; Rosalie Talbot, organist. This ward organization reports a most successful activity program: ""The new Twentieth Ward Relief Society began functioning in January 1954, with fifty-four members on the initial roll. Now, at the beginning of 1956, there are seventy members enrolled. The highest attendance at one time was fifty-four women and forty-two children. We employ a baby sitter regularly. 'The organization has forty visiting teachers who have maintained one-hundred per cent records for several months. Also, the Singing Mothers, a group of sixteen, have performed beautifully. "Our activities have been numerous and joyous, to name some: several cooked food sales and rummage sales have been sufficiently successful to finance us through each year.... Through the year each woman in our ward received a card on her birthday. Our welfare dinners, storehouse assignments, quilts, and other activities have added to our experiences. At present our ward meets in a building a mile and a half from our homes, so our transportation problem has hindered our attendance. Our ward families are young couples with small children, so our efforts in this work have seemed great accomplishments and choice experiences that have united us in a true sisterhood." Emily S. Romish is president of West Pocatello Stake Relief Society. <—— Comfort Ida Isaacson The comer that you choose to weep in Seems solitary, bare; But you are not alone, my dear, For God is near, and understands despair. Easter Three Part Choruses for Women's _ Voices ae Calvary—Rodney..........---.---200000-- -22 -. Christ, the Lord, Is Ris'n Today—Erb........2.....222..22eeeeeseeeeeees 16 —_ God So Loved the World—Stainer.12 me Hosanna—Granier_...........-.----------- -20 ne Hosanna! Blessed Is He—Marryott.18 =. Hymn For Easter—Templeton.......20 sme Legende—Tschaikowsky..............-- -20 | Message of the Bells—Pohlmann...20 aoe Our Christ Has Risen—Connor.....25 oe The Palms—Faure.............-----.------- +22 a. Unfold, Ye Portals—Gounod.........14 Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank: DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY: 15 E. Ist South i Salt Lake City 11, Utah; Please send the music indicated above. 1 On Approval ( Charge 0 Money Enclosed Name: Address i City & State Daynes Made | AITIMLLITAITe Ist South Sah Lake 45 NORTH UNIVERSITY, PROVO of 2860 WASIGTON BOD. CGEM Page 206 Put on Your Gay Sunbonnet Jennie E, Graham T Grandfather's death we left the farm in the Wasatch Valley. And moved to Provo, Utah, in a very dignified part of the city. But Grandmother, bless her heart, put on her sunbonnet and went calling on the doctor's wife and the lawyer's wife. She was so quaint and sweet and soon had the neighborhood friendly. 'They watched for her sunbonnet as she hung out her clothes on a Monday morning, and, if they did not see it, they would call to see if she were ill. When she was asked to go Relief Society teaching and walk long blocks, as we did not own a car, and she was in her late sixties, I thought it rather difficult for her. But when Grandmother was ill and could not go teaching each month, young married men would come to the door and ask how she was. They came early in the morning so they could take the word back to their wives before they left for work. They said they had missed her, and 'she had made a place in their hearts with her smile and had helped them so much rearing their little families. (Grandmother had had sixteen babies of her own and had found room to take me, a wee granddaughter, into her home and heart at the death of my mother.) The men said they always made it a point to be home when she would be coming. Then I knew how wise the officers had been in choosing her for a Relief Society visiting teacher. How well I remember how worried she was on her return from one of her visiting teacher trips. One sister who lived across the street from the chapel felt she could not attend the Relief Society meeting as she washed on Mondays and ironed on Tuesdays, and it would upset her household too much. Grandmother felt the sister should go, as the lessons were on child care and, as a young mother, she could make the very best use of the material. So, after Grand- PUT ON YOUR GAY SUNBONNET mother had thought and worried about it for a few days, she solved the problem by sending me to watch the children and do the ironing while the mother attended Relief Society meeting. One spring when school was out after I had been teaching in Southern Utah, one of the other teachers said she must be all packed and ready to go home as soon as her mother came for her, as they had to be back in Provo for a very special meeting. As the family arrived, we teachers all pitched in to help load the car and get them off, and as we worked we visited. The mother said it was a Relief Society meeting which was to be held that night in the Fourth Ward of Provo, and she was to be put in as Relief Society president. But there was only one thing she wished, and that was that the dear sister who had helped her to attend Relief Society could be there, so she could thank her for the joy and happiness that she had found while working in the society. She went on to tell us that the sister had even sent someone to tend the children and do her ironing so she could go to her first meeting, as she thought she could not upset her family, as she washed on Mondays, and ironed on Tuesdays. Then she added, "And I am so ashamed now when I think of it, for I only lived across the street from the chapel." When she said her visiting teacher's name was Sister Lindsay, I told her she was speaking of my Grandmother, Sarah A. Lindsay, and that I was the granddaughter she had sent to do the ironing and watch the children on that first day. We had a good cry, and she said, "Oh, if she could only be here tonight to sce me made president of the Fourth Ward Relief Society, and I could thank her for this wonderful blessing that has come into my life, this happiness that is mine because one dear sister was willing to take her visiting teacher calling to heart and do such a good job." Oh, how we have missed that gingham sunbonnet through the years. Many of her neighbors have asked for the pattern of her sunbonnet. 207 There has never been a more faithful member of royalty wearing a golden crown who has done more sincere work for her "King" than this daughter of Zion who wore with such a sweet smile a gingham sunbonnet. —>- Return Christie Lund Coles I sought the place again, Where my youth ran, But the road so spacious then Was but a rod's span; The steeple and the old, Time-rusted bell, Were little like the tall Memory I knew well; The fingered apple tree Beside whose root My lips once tasted sweet Bore meager fruit; And yet, the poplared street By which I came Was silver in the sun, and Caught my breath the same. — Helping Hands Della Adams Leitner The little hands so helpless That clasp your own today; The little feet uncertain That trust your leading way— You feel in their dependence Responsibility To guide them and protect them Till they are strong and free. The years are swift in passing— Like reels of film they go; Time comes when aging footsteps Are tottering and slow; It may be in that distance When your own strength shall fail These hands will keep you steady Along life's sunset trail. She Home on the Hall Alyce O. Nelson I heard today that the house on the hill is being torn down and carried away. Just as fast as I could, I walked to the place that was my home. The path to the house was overgrown with weeds; the grass was trying hard to cover the spots that were dry; and yet, around the edges, the daffodils were poking their golden heads through, as they had always done this time of the year. I looked to find a certain tree, but there was only a stump. Where were the limbs and branches, especially the one that had grown just for the purpose of holding a swing? I visualized the rope, with knot tied tightly, that held us when we went high into the air. I tried to find the pansy bed and the sweet-smelling violets. They used to be by the lilac bush—but that was withered and dry. I walked to the side door, just to see if on the porch there might be a tricycle, bicycle, or a little red wagon with a reading on the side, "Big Ben." In such a wagon we used to scoot down the hill, but it was not there. Through the glass in the window, I saw my mother setting the table. She was humming a tune. It would not be long now until Father would be home from his work. I remember his face always wore a smile and he had a pat on the shoulder for me and my brother — a kiss for my mother and sister Sue. The old-fashioned parlor looked the same, and there was the fireplace; the embers from the coals beckoned me to come and sit, as we used to do in the days of long ago. So many things, I imagined, were just the same—the horsehair sofa, with a chair on each side, the platform rocker where Mother rocked us and sang sweet lullabies. In the center of the room there was a marble-topped table, an album with pictures of relatives, and an old-fashioned hanging lamp that was the pride of us all, which shed such a mellow light when it was pulled down low. I could see the walls lined with enlarged pictures, the faces sober, never a smile; Grandfather so stern, Grandmother so frail and small. Just then there was a bang and a loud noise. The wreckers shouted, "Out of the way!' But I had to hurry upstairs to see the bedrooms. The largest room belonged to Father and Mother; the little room to the right was mine; across the hall my brother slept. That room was a joy to me as I used to sneak in to see the maps which hung on the wall. The books on the table and the round ball of the earth were all mysteries to me. The prettiest room was my sister's; white Swiss curtains that blew so far with each gentle breeze that came when the windows were lifted high. Everything was dainty. I could see my sister sitting there at the dresser brushing her shining yellow hair. As I stood wondering, a workman shouted for me to get out of the way, to leave before the roof fell in. I had to hurry down the stairs, out the front door. They could tear the house down, carry it all away, but they could not take all these memories from me—for this dear old house and the place where it stood will always be "Home, Sweet Home" to me. Page 208 Mason & Hamlin y All Ob tainable At Beesley Music (0. Pioneer Piano People 70 S. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Pe a ae NEW THIS MONTH! Home Memories of President David 0. McKay Compiled by Llewellyn R. McKay This wonderful new book abounds in unusual hapPenings and incidents in the warm family life of President McKay. It gives an informal introduction to the binding love that strengthens the strong family ties, and adds another facet in understanding this eminent leader's stalwart character. $3.75 2. WHERE IS WISDOM? The rich Philosophy of President Richards is contained collection of addresses and excerpts from speeches given o Teachers, speakers, and general readers will exceptional volume from which to quote. 3. OUR LORD OF THE GOSPELS Here is a complete harmony of the Four Gospels of the and Third Nephi in the Book of Mormon. The exact and sc of the material offers a greater and mor of the Saviour and His teachings. Stephen L Richards in this outstanding N various occasions, find abundant material in this $3.50 J. Reuben Clark, Jr. King James version holarly arrangement @ extensive understanding of the life DESERET BOOK COMPANY Salt Lake City, Utah Enclosed you will find ( ) check ( ) money order ( ) charge I to my account for the encircled (numbered) books: I 1 2 3 ] Amount enclosed Se; | Name a ee | a Zone........ State... I Residents of Utah include 2% sales tax. ] 44 East South Temp! E Gentlemen: | I i = eg? Iid}. Id} 'em THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - - - - - - - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - - - First Counselor Velma N. Simonsen - - - - - Second Counselor Margaret C. Pickering - - ~ - - Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Evon W. Peterson Alberta H. Christensen Edith P. Backman Edith S. Elliott Louise W. Madsen Mildred B. Eyring Winnietred S. Florence J. Madsen Aleine M. Young Helen W. Anderson Manwaring Leone G. Layton Josie B. Bay Gladys S. Boyer Elna P. Haymond Blanche B. Stoddard Christine H. Robinson Charlotte A. Larsen Annie M. Ellsworth Mary R. Young RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - -, - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - = -, - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - = - - Belle S. Spafford Vol. 43 APRIL 1956 No. 4 Contents The Resurrection a LeGrand Richards 212 The British Missiom 220... Cece cc ceeccececceeececececeneceecosecaceeseseeeeeceseeoteceeeceeeceseeeeceeeeeseeeeeeesPreston R. Nibley 218 Relief Society Assists in Welfare Program for Marysville—Yuba City Flood 2 eee eeAlice I. Ferrin 226 A Temple Will Be Built 200... Mabel L. Anderson 235 Cancer—A Check-Up and a Chechke ooiciiiiccccicceccececcncencneeeencenenesneceneceeececeeecoeeseecesveseeeeeSandra Munsell 244 The Relief Society Magazine—''A Messenger')..........--cecceceeeeeeeeeeeeeees Emily C. Pollei 254 Trouble oo... Cceeeeseceecccncnceneeeceeceeencseneeceeeeceeeees _ sesenesecesnenes: cecsseessnesesser eeCelia Luce 256 Fear [s a Habit oo. Ieee cece cece cece cence etna ees nes eee aceceeeeeecesnsenesseeeeeeesseeneceeenenseseAnne S. W. Gould 257 Alternate 89 _........ ——_ ees ieeeWillard Luce 262 Happiness Now...... Poeccenesseeecetees ce seet =o eeWilma Boyle Bunker 265 The Aspen Grove.. Vernessa Miller Nagle 266 New Vistas 0.....-. Ccccceccccceceecesecececeoeececoeeeeseeeeeeeeceeeeeceeeeeceecueee1Jennie Brown Rawlins 277 FICTION—SPECIAL APRIL SHORT STORIES A Full Hive —EE.. Dorothy Clapp Robinson 220 To You, Beloved 00.2... Oc.... Lois E. Fockner 230 Lesson From Letty.... 2 Arlene D. Cloward 245 The Day Before the Wedding....-..12..--: esc: cccceecececceceseneceecneeeseeceneeseseeneneensenenessenesseeeesDorothy Boys Kilian 258 There Is Still Time—Chapter 3 2..2. Cceeee Margery S. Stewart 267 GENERAL FEATURES Sixty Years Ago...... Ss souessnsuecesssneeatcetecseaesenseseecessseessescescer7nsecne= 7 238 Woman's Sphere ooo. Cenceceencesceneencececeeeceeneeeeceseeececoeeeeseaeece ces ceuseensueseaeessesneeeeseeseseeseeseRamona W. Cannon 239 Editorial: A Woman and Her Garden 20.......2... Cceccceee cece eee... Vesta P. Crawford 240 Leone O. Jacobs Resigns From the General Board oon... Ecceceecccesceceeceeeeeseeeeseeneeeceeneeeeeeeenes 241 Notes to the Field: Brigham Young University Leadership Week....2...... S. Eccccecescscecseecceneceeeeeeeneees 242 Book of Mormon Reading Project............. _ 242 Hymn of the Momth oie ccceccccesecccecesccecececeeceeeeeceeeeeececsessecseeevsrecensesecsesbanelananeenaneseanes 243 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities 20.0.2... Margaret C. Pickering 272 From Near and Far -2...... Ceccseececesceeeeeeneeeeeeeeseeeeeeeeeees - _ 280 FEATURES FOR THE HOME Typical British Recipes 2... Eee eceee coc ceeececeeeceeeeeceeecesnenecececeeececeseseeeceeeeeeceseeasessnencacsecsanesensnesElaine Reiser 248 Old-Fashioned Flowers in Modern Gardens Ella Randall Lewis Pieces Quilts for Happiness -2.....2......2221: lcecesceceecececeeeeseeeeeeeeeeeereeeeeeeee bs) A Use for Old Screens.... We Elizabeth Williamson 279 Poetry To a Child Gardening—Frontispiece _20...22.... Ie. C. CseecececeeeceeeeceneceeeeeeereeeeeecetseneeneesenesMaryhale Woolsey 211 "Before Your Beauty,'' by Christie Lund Coles, 216; 'Blessed Easter,'' by Remelda Nielsen Gibson, 217; "Lift Your Eyes,'' by Mabel Law Atkinson, 225; 'Springtime Finds the Canyon," by Evelyn Fjeldsted, 234; 'Now Spring,'' by Dorothy J. Roberts, 237; "Before Night-Shadows Fall,' by Maude ©. Cook, 243; ''Heartsease,'' by Beulah Huish Sadleir, 244; "Remember Today,'' by Daphne Jemmett, 253; 'Her Gift,' by Della Adams Leitner, 256; "The Kingbird," by Ethel Jacobson, 261; 'Sacred Ground,'' by Ida Isaacson, 265; ''April-Fingered,"' by Eva Willes Wangsgaard, 271; ''Palomino,'' by Maude Rubin, 276; ''Circle,"' by Catherine E. Berry, 278; To the Relief Society Visiting Teachers,'' by Hazel Jones Owen, 279. PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 40 North Main, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 2M Flew Sing only the finest ''bucilla'' quality This group includes cross stitch, lazy daisy designs, and cute work patterns. Hemstitched for crochet... Instructions for crochet and color charts included. A. Finished hem in crossstitch and lazy daisy design. Pair 2.79 B. Cross stitch and lazy daisy hemstitched for crocheting. Pair 1.98 C. Cutwork with lazy daisy. Pair 1.98 D. Lazy Daisy hemstitched for crocheting. Pair 1.98 3 ZOMI ART NEEDLEWORK— 2 Second Floor Moil ord ' MARGOT MANNERS, ZCMI gil orders to: Salt Lake City 10, Utah | Quan. Pattern Price Cash (Jj Charge () c.0. D. Name...... Ccrccersseressnsscsanseresereseereceserensrererers cesses ee Addres....... Ccescssrsrereeecseccecsssssssccsee essere wenree son eeres City.. CcccceccseccccceesosercreesZOM@ sar, SALE. Eeerrerrees Please include 20¢ for each pair ordered. Utah residents add 2% State Sales Tax. Jo a Child Gardening Maryhale Woolsey Make smooth the bed in which the seed shall lie— This small brown plot of earth that claims your toil; Clear out the stones, and break the rough, hard clods, And finely sift the dark and humid soil. (Dream, child, of tall bright flowers, and the day You'll take to Mother-dear a fine bouquet.) Deep go the roots (and not the plant's alone!) And lightward rise the questing leaf and stem, Taking in turn, of soil and sun and rain, The contributions growth demands from them. (Watch, child; tend well—and learn, as seedlings grow To blossomed strength, much you will need to know.) Far stretch the days—to you, so endless-long! Tall shining noons and phantom dreaming nights Will try your patience, mystify your mind— And bring at last your harvest of delights. (Learn from your garden, child, how God and you Co-operate to make a dream come true!) The Cover: Big Ben and Parliament Square, Wueitton; i Photograph submitted by Elaine Reiser Frontispiece: Amaryllis, Photograph by Ward Linton Cover Design by Evan Jensen The Resurrection Elder LeGrand Richards Of the Council of The Twelve F all the blessings and _priv- () ileges the gospel of Jesus Christ has to offer its faithful members, the promised resurrection from the dead is one of the greatest, for it opens the door to an eternal association with loved ones and friends, which condition we have the capacity to understand and appreciate at least in part. Jesus was the greatest character who has ever lived upon the earth, for he was not only the Creator of this world, but of "worlds without number" (Moses 1:33), and he came into the world of his own free will and choice, and gave his life to atone for the sins of the world, so that what man lost through the transgression of Adam he might regain through Christ's great atoning sacrifice. Hence the words of the Apostle Paul: "As in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive" (I Cor. 15:22). The angels proclaimed the birth of Jesus as Israel's promised Messiah; he demonstrated in all his teachings and the miracles he performed, that he was the Son of God, and that all power was given unto him in heaven and upon earth, even the power to lay down his life and take it up again (John 10:17-18). But the final proof of all his claims came when the stone was rolled away from the door of the sepulcher, notwithstanding the presence of the Roman guard, and his body came forth after three Page 212 days, as he had said, and when the women approached the sepulcher and found the stone rolled away, and "found not the body of the Lord Jesus," they were much perplexed, and two men stood by them in shining garments and said: "Why seek ye the living among the dead? He is not here, but is Tisen." When the women reported this experience unto the apostles "their words seemed to them as idle tales, and they believed them not." (See Luke 24:1-12.) Even though Jesus had told his apostles that: "The Son of man must be delivered into the hands of sinful men, and be crucified, and the third day rise again" (Luke 24:7), they could hardly believe. How then could the world be expected to believe? "That we should live again is no more a miracle than that we live at all." Upon receiving the report from the women, Peter "ran unto the sepulchre; and stooping down, he beheld the linen clothes laid by themselves, and departed, wondering in himself at that which was come to pass" (Luke 24:12). As the apostles were gathered together: Jesus himself stood in the midst of them, and saith unto them, Peace be unto you. But they were terrified and affrighted, and supposed that they had seen a spirit. And he said unto them, Why are ye troubled? And why do thoughts arise in your hearts? Behold THE RESURRECTION my hands and my feet, that it is I myself: handle me, and see; for a spirit hath not flesh and bones, as ye see me have. And when he had thus spoken, he shewed them his hands and his feet. And while they yet believed not for joy, and wondered, he said unto them, Have ye here any meat? And they gave him a piece of a broiled fish, and of an honeycomb. And he took it, and did eat before them (Luke 24:36-43). Without his body of flesh and bone, Jesus would not have eaten the fish and honeycomb. What greater proof could he have given of his resurrection? OLLOWING his resurrection, Jesus "shewed himself alive after his passion by many infallible proofs, being seen of them forty days...." And when he had spoken these things, while they beheld, he was taken up; and a cloud received him out of their sight. And while they looked steadfastly toward heaven as he went up, behold, two men stood by them in white apparel; Which also said, Ye men of Galilee, why stand ye gazing up into heaven? This same Jesus, which is taken up from you into heaven, shall so come in like manner as ye have seen him go into heaven (Acts 1:3, 9-11). It seems incredible that, in the light of this plain and convincing evidence of his resurrection, "by many infallible proofs" lasting over a period of "forty days," that men should believe today that Jesus is a spirit or essence everywhere present, which would imply that he had died a second death, that his spirit and body were again separated, else how could he be now but a spirit? It was in this glorified, resurrected body that Jesus appeared unto 213 the Nephites in the land of America (See 3 Nephi 11), and unto Joseph Smith while he was but a boy, in the woods on his father's farm at Palmyra, New York. To further prove that the resurrection would come to all men because Jesus was victor over death and the grave, the graves of many who slept were opened following his resurrection, and they came forth. And the graves were opened; and many bodies of the saints which slept arose. And came out of the graves after his resurrection, and went into the holy city, and appeared unto many (Mt. 27:52-53). If the resurrection were to be but a spiritual resurrection, as some teach and believe, there would have been no need of the graves having been opened, and this account would not have stated: "and many bodies of the saints which: slept arose." 'Thus the bodies and spirits were again united. The Lord revealed unto the Prophet Joseph Smith that when the body and spirit are separated, they cannot receive a fulness of joy. "For man is spirit. 'The elements are eternal, and spirit and element, inseparably connected, receive a fulness of joy; And when separated, man cannot receive a fulness of joy" (D. & C. 93:33-34). There were also those who were resurrected among the Nephites in America, following Christ's resurrection (3 Nephi 23:9-13). That is why Paul tells us that Christ was the "firstfruits" of the resurrection. "But every man in his own order: Christ the firstfruits; afterward they 214 that are Christ's at his coming" (I Cor. 15:23). E should mention his second coming to which the apostle Paul refers. All through his earthly ministry, Jesus looked forward to, and taught his disciples of his second coming: his parable of the five wise and five foolish virgins. "Watch therefore, for ye know neither the day nor the hour wherein the Son of man cometh" (Mt. 25:1-13). His declaration: When the Son of man shall come in his glory, and all the holy angels with him, then shall he sit upon the throne of his glory: And before him shall be gathered all nations: and he shall separate them one from another, as a shepherd divideth his sheep from the goats (Mt. 25:31-32). His - disciples fully understood from his teachings that he would come again. When "he sat upon the Mount of Olives," they "came unto him privately, saying, Tell us, when shall these things be? And what shall be the sign of thy coming, and of the end of the world?" (Mt. 24:3). Of course, they had reference to his second coming, for he was already with them. And while Jesus gave them many signs of his coming, he informed them: But of that day and hour knoweth no man, no, not the angels of heaven, but my Father only. But as the days of Noe were, so shall also the coming of the Son of man be (Mt. 24:36-37). Then we have his final testimony RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1956 as he stood trial before the chief priests and elders: But Jesus held his peace. And the high priest answered and said unto him, I adjure thee by the living God, that thou tell us whether thou be the Christ, the Son of God. Jesus saith unto him, Thou hast said: nevertheless I say unto you, Hereafter shall ye see the Son of man sitting on the night hand of power, and coming in the clouds of heaven (Mt. 26:63-64). When John, the beloved apostle of our Lord, was banished upon the Isle of Patmos, the angel of the Lord showed him many _ things from before the foundation of the world to the winding up scenes when we would have a new heaven and a new earth, and among other things, he was shown the coming of the Savior according to his promise, and the resurrection of the worthy dead at his coming; when Satan would be bound for a thousand years:... And they lived and reigned with Christ a thousand years. But the rest of the dead lived not again until the thousand years were finished. This is the first resurrection. Blessed and holy is he that hath part in the first resurrection: on such the second death hath no power, but they shall be priests of God and of Christ, and shall reign with him a thousand years (Rev. 20:4-6). What a promised privilege to the faithful! Think of being associated with Christ in his ministry for a thousand years with our resurrected bodies, while he is overcoming all his enemies, and preparing his kingdom to be delivered unto his Father, as Paul explains: THE RESURRECTION Then cometh the end, when he shall have delivered up the kingdom to God, even the Father; when he shall have put down all rule and all authority and power. For he must reign, till he hath put all enemies under his feet. The last enemy that shall be destroyed is death (I Cor. 15:24-26). F we had the capacity to understand the magnitude of these promises, it would seem that none should falter, but that each would so live that he would be worthy to have part in the first resurrection, and that we would all do all in our power to help our loved ones and friends to live to be worthy of these blessings, remembering the words of our Savior: "... Strait is the gate, and narrow is the way, which leadeth unto life, and few there be that find it" (Mt. 7:14). Because, as the apostle Paul tells us: But the natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God: for they are foolishness unto him: neither can he know them, because they are spiritually discerned (I Cor. 2:14). It is because the natural man cannot understand the things of God that we read such statements as this: In Senator Albert J. Beveridge's book, The Young Man and the World, the Senator quotes the following statement made to him by a man whose name is known to the railroad world as one of the ablest transportation men in the United States: "I would rather be sure that when a man dies he will live again with his conscious identity, than to have all the wealth of 215 the United States, or to occupy any position of honor or power the world could possibly give." Measured by this man's appraisal, how rich and favored we are, for this is common knowledge to a Latter-day Saint. From a revelation to the Prophet Joseph Smith, we read: When the Savior shall appear we shall see him as he is. We shall see that he is a man like ourselves. And that same sociality which exists among us here will exist among us there, only it will be coupled with eternal glory, which glory we do not now enjoy (D. & C. 130:1-2). E have never seen a person who has been clothed with "eternal glory," but the Prophet Joseph Smith described such a man, Moroni, who appeared to him. After giving a detailed description, he stated: Not only was his robe exceedingly white, but his whole person was glorious beyond description, and his _ countenance truly like lightning. (See P. Of G. P., Joseph Smith 2:30-32.) When the angel of the Lord showed John the Revelator, while banished upon the Isle of Patmos, so many wonderful things, John was so impressed with his personage, for he had been endowed with "eternal glory," just as Moroni had, that he fell down to worship at the feet of the angel: Then said he unto me, See thou do it not: for I am thy fellowservant, and of thy brethren the prophets, and of them which keep the sayings of this book: worship God (Rev. 22:9). Thus this angel, and Moroni, 216 were real men of the brethren who had lived upon the earth, and had been resurrected, and were continuing in the service of the Lord, as we will all be privileged to do, if we are faithful; and the same "'sociality" which exists among us here will exist among us then. The Prophet Isaiah saw the time when we would have a new heaven and earth, and declared: For, behold, I create new heavens and a new earth: and the former shall not be remembered, nor come into mind... And they shall build houses, and inhabit them; and they shall plant vineyards, and eat the fruit of them. They shall not build, and another inhabit; they shall not plant, and another eat; for as the days of a tree are the days of my people, and mine elect shall long enjoy the work of their hands. They shall not labour in vain, nor bring forth for trouble; for they are the seed of the blessed of the Lord, and their offspring with them (Isaiah 65:17, 21-23). Note how Isaiah makes plain the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1956 fact that "they shall build houses, and inhabit them, and they shall plant vineyards and eat the fruit of them." Who shall do all this? Families, of course, just as they do now, for as Isaiah stated: "they are the seed of the blessed of the Lord, and their offspring with them." This is, therefore, a continuation of family organization after the resurrection, in this new world, a truth the Lord has made so plain through his revelations to the Prophet Joseph Smith, in this new gospel dispensation. What a glorious day it will be, therefore, when the trump of God shall sound, if we are worthy to come forth in the morning of the first resurrection, to receive and be united with our loved ones, when the graves are open and they come forth through the power of the atonement wrought for us by the Redeemer of the world (D. & C. 29:13). Be ore Your Beauty Christie Lund Coles April, I stand bereft before your beauty, Knowing my meager words can never capture The prodigious, white beauty of this plum tree, The air as delicate as unvoiced rapture; The morning like a veil of marquisette, Lifting to show a day all opal-hued; The bird-song, rhythmic as a minuet; The briefly, white-starred grasses, green-renewed; For words are for the young and the audacious, Those who believe all things are for the taking, Time sets its seal, makes one more sagacious. Silence is in me, intricate and aching. All I can bring you, world, after your sleeping, Is this sudden trembling, and this weeping. A Perry Picture CHRIST AND "THE HOLY WOMEN" From a Painting by Golz Blessed Easter Remelda Nielsen Gibson He came forth from the tomb With animated breath, And proved that in earth's room One sheds the cloak of death. Symbolic now as then Is resurrection's key— All dead will rise again To immortality! Page 217 She British Mission Preston R. Nibley HEBER C. Kimball, a member of the first Quorum of the Twelve, wrote the following in his history: On Sunday, the 4th day of June, 1837, the Prophet Joseph came to me, while I was seated in front of the stand, above the sacrament table, on the Melchisedek side of the Temple in Kirtland, and whispering to me said: "Brother Heber, the spirit of the Lord has whispered to me; 'Let my servant Heber go to England and proclaim the gospel, and open the door of salvation to that nation'"' (Life of Heber C. Kimball, by Orson F. Whitney, page 116). The above event, it might be said, marks the beginning of the British Mission. Heber C. Kimball responded to this call and made his way to England, with six of his brethren who had volunteered to accompany him. These brethren were Orson Hyde, Willard Richards, Joseph Fielding, John Goodson, Isaac Russel, and John Snyder. They arrived in Liverpool on July 20, 1837. After remaining there a few days, they proceeded to Preston, where Elder Joseph Fielding's brother, Reverend James Fielding, was located. Reverend Fielding offered the missionaries an opporJosef Muench CLOVELLY ON THE NORTH DEVON COAST, ENGLAND Page 218 THE BRITISH MISSION 219 Josef Muench ULLSWATER, IN THE LAKE DISTRICT, ENGLAND tunity to speak in his chapel, and accordingly, they held three meetings. Within ten days after their arrival in Preston, they baptized eight persons who had been members of Reverend Fielding's congregation. These first converts were: George D. Watt, Charles Miller, 'Thomas Walmesley, Ann Elizabeth Walmesley, Miles Hodgen, George Wate, Henry Billsbury, Mary Ann Brown, and Ann Dawson. The missionary work was soon extended to neighboring towns and cities in England, and before the close of the year 1837, the membership of the Church in the British Mission numbered over 300. The work has continued unabated since that time, and more than 130,000 converts have entered the waters of baptism in the century that has passed. England, Scotland, Wales, and Ireland comprise the British Mission. 'There are today eighty-four branches of the Church with 9,239 members. Elder Clifton G. Kerr is now president of the British Mission. A site for a temple has been selected and dedicated by President David O. McKay, at New Chapel, twenty-four miles south of London. Ejighty-one Relief Society organizations were reported in December 1955, with 1103 members. Irene Pack Kerr presides over the British Mission Relief Society. A Full Hive Dorothy Clapp Robinson HE closing of the front door after Henry ripped the smile from Adrianne's face. She bit her lip, hard, but her back stiffened. "He thought I believed him." No, each had made a pretense, she admitted, but each knew this for the thing it was. If anyone else had done it to her—but, Henry! No matter how kindly meant, the sting of his words would never leave her. Never. After all these years — at her age — most things she could take in her stride, but having life yanked from beneath her was not one of them. Not since Steve her husband had been so swiftly and unexpectedly snatched from her, had Adrianne known such bitter, cankering despair. She reviewed her recent talk with Henry. "Has my work suffered?" She had tried for a light note but had not made it. "You are not being let out, Adrianne.' Henry Woodward's voice had trailed to a tired note. "Do you think this is easy for me?" But she hadn't been thinking of him. "Then why are you doing it. I couldn't help breaking my ankle." "Your accident has nothing to do with the situation. Believe me. I do appreciate the unselfish service you have given the company these many years." Service, indeed. She had created her position. "I am merely asking you to adjust to a new situation," Henry was continuing. "You can refuse, that is your privilege. We are getting older, Page 220 and sharper minds and more nimble fingers are needed. I have turned the active management over to Ferris and I must—I am going along with his policy." Still she was not thinking of Henry, nor of what the change must mean to him. "You say I am not being let out but...." "Tt had to come, Adrianne. Greta Hansen is good, really good. She has a foundation for the work that you and I do not have. She is up on the new methods. She will carty the responsibility you have cartied for so long, but she will still have the benefit of your judgment and experience. That is, if you decide to stay with us." But the new situation would not last long, Adrianne thought. She was being eased out for certain. It was so unfair. She had started working for Henry Woodward when "Woodie's" had merely meant sign painting. She had helped make "Woods" one of the best advertising agencies in the state. She had put in many, many more hours and months than she had been paid for. During the depression, when Henry was fighting so hard to hold his business, she had taken her check when and as she could get it; and that was at a time when her own children were needing her more and more. Once she had even refused a larger salary from a competing company. "Getting older. How old does he think I am?" 'The question trailed into silence. Henry knew to A FULL HIVE a day how old she was. She and Alice, his wife, had been born the same day. He had given up active management under doctor's orders, but she was as good a worker as she had ever been, better in some ways. Fifteen—twelve, even ten years from now she might have expected this, but today—now! She would refuse to accept it. Work under Greta Hansen — never. She knew the merchandise and idiosyncrasies of each company they worked with. She knew the type of advertising copy they wanted—or did she? "T made a mistake by going to Verna's last spring," Adrianne spoke aloud. It had given Greta' her chance. She had brought in Whistlers, a much desired account. Perhaps, Adrianne admitted grudgingly, it had been the novelty of Greta's idea that had tipped the scales in favor of "Woods." Adrianne remembered that she had thought the idea too drastic. But even had Adrianne known, she would still have gone to help Verna. What else would a mother do when her daughter was seriously ill? Henry had urged her to go, and Alice had come to the house and packed her bags, and had tried to allay her fears. "Verna is young," Alice had said. As if youth meant everything; but Adrianne admitted that in Verna's case it had meant the power to win the battle. Maybe, Adrianne thought, I should resign and save face. UT what of finances? If she went back, her salary would probably be a mere pittance compared with what she had been get- 221 ting. Of course each of her boys had asked her to come live with him and Verna had asked, and really meant it. I'd make a wonderful baby-sitter and all-around flunky like so many grandmothers I know, Verna thought. "Oh, forgive me," she whispered hurriedly. She loved her grandchildren devotedly and buying for them was the sweetest fruit of her earnings. But how could she quit? Her savings, hoarded over the years, amounted to a pitifully inadequate sum for retirement. When the company had first begun to expand Henry had urged her to buy stock, and he had urged her many times since. She had bought some and had received some as bonuses but she had very little now. There had always been so many places for every dollar. Even with the help the boys gave as they grew up, it had been nip and tuck to keep ahead of expenses. And after the boys were married there had been crises when her help was needed, Dan's medical schooling and Bill's long sickness and there had been a million lesser crises when she hadn't really needed to help, but had. The boys were repaying what they had borrowed, but it was slow business for they had the expenses of their own growing families. She could have bought less for her grandchildren, but she was always remembering how wonderful a little help would have been at that period inher own struggle. Adrianne decided she might as well face it. She hadn't prepared for this day. There had always 222 been next year. Gone. Determined to put the situation from her mind, Adrianne: reached for the letter she had been writing when Henry had called. But it was no good. Now next year was T might have been an hour or a year later when she was pulled from her despairing thoughts by the sound of running feet. "May I come in?" 'The door had already opened and a bright head peeked through. "Oh, Jeanne." It was not hard for Adrianne to smile. Just looking at Jeanne brought a smile. She was spring in person. Her skin and voice could belong only to joyous youth. What a sweet daughter she would make. Jeanne held out a single daffodil on. A long stem. "I had to bring it to you." Adrianne's self-control could not keep her hand from trembling. Jeanne saw. "Don't feel badly, Mrs. Carson." She threw her arms around Adrianne and kissed her.: "We have all seen it coming, and are so relieved that you are not being let out like poor Olive. I heard Mr. Woodward 'being very emphatic about. That." Jeanne was too young, too naive to dissemble, and she did not know how much she was telling. "I heard Big Boss Ferris say they were adjusting your salary instead of retiring you, and you can be sure of it until —until—well," she blurted, "think how wonderful it will be when you are sixty-five. My grandmother doesn't have a cent except what we give her." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1956 The cankering came back, double strength. Jeanne's grandmother was in her late seventies, but to Jeanne all grandmothers were in the same class. "It—it—is very kind, but I per staying with my work." "Certainly, you do, darling, and that is one reason I love you. You haven't let down as most old women do. But the axe has fallen. Olive was let out and another one or two. You know Greta has your panee? Isn't that terrible?" Honor demanded that Adrianne be fair. "She will be good. She is a different generation, but she is very good and she will be fair." "Oh, I don't know about that." Suddenly tears were running down Jeanne's cheeks. She dabbed at them with her handkerchief. "I came down here to cheer you, and just look at me. Greta might be good but you are—you're real good. You've—you've...." She didn't go on and a real smile welled up from Adrianne's heartache. Even the young had their problems, and to them they were so big. She had mothered Jeanne and given her extra help when she was learning. Greta was made of sterner stuff. She was too old for Jeanne's generation, and too young for a grandmother's. "After all, Jeanne, you won't be working much longer." "That's just it." Jeanne became slightly incoherent. "You see we— that is, Joe—well, we can't be married unless Joe gets a raise or I go on working. Apartments are just out of this world. Yes, I know what you think about my working," she added hastily, "but what else A FULL HIVE can we do and it wouldn't be for long? With you there — well, you know I am a little slow especially if I am afraid. Just think, what if I should get married and then lose my job?" "Tm sure it will work out.' Go ahead and get married. You will meet the emergency if it comes." "That would be a miracle. We have figured and we have prayed and we have looked, and we can't see any way out. But don't think that is the only reason I want you back. I've loved working with you.' She rose reluctantly. "I must not be late." "That was thoughtful of you to come, Jeanne. You have missed your lunch, and you will be starved by closing time." "Think nothing of it. I might as well get accustomed to scanty rations. Besides, Joe is waiting to drive me back. I'll eat my sandwich on the way. Goodbye, darling." She stooped and gave Adnianne a soft kiss. As she went through the door she turned. "She's coming to see you after work. Don't let her get you down." O that was the purpose of Jeanne's visit. The real reason. She did not want Adrianne to be unprepared. Sweet child. At length Adrianne hobbled to where her stationery box lay, but she made no effort to finish the letter she had been writing to Bill. "What is the matter with me?" Adrianne mused. "If I can't adjust, I am really old." But she didn't think she was old. She knew she wasn't, in spite of Jeanne's gentle hints. She had several friends old- 223 er than she who were secure in their positions. Consciously she let her thoughts range back over the years. Life had demanded many adjustments of her, and some bitter ones. In her late twenties she had had to take up the life of a widow with four children to support. David her son had died at twelve. And she still chilled at the memory of the emptiness of her house when her last child had married. Four years ago Verna her daughter had moved to California, leaving her completely alone. Both boys were in the East. Now—now when she had nothing but her work, that, too, had been taken from her. It was like stealing honey bees had gathered and leaving them to face winter with an empty hive. In desperation she turned to her book shelves. One volume after another was examined and discarded. She caressed her Bible, but it, too, was put back. Then a shabby old book caught her attention, It was the life of Madame SchumannHeink. The great singer's courage and persistence had lifted Adrianne over many bad hours. She opened the book and, by some perverse chance, noticed a marked passage, "My art was the one thing that never failed me." Nonsense. 'That was all right for a woman who wrote her own ticket. Just when she needed her art it had failed her most miserably. All her years of work and study had brought her—this. She might sell, or rent her home. She and Steve had bought this place together. Through good years and lean ones she had kept up the payments. She had enlarged and mod- 224 ernized it. Now she owned it, and it was home to children and grandchildren. To part with it would be like—like.... Suddenly she dropped her head to her arm and wept as she had not wept in years. HE pealing of the telephone brought her back from her problem. Let it ring. She would not talk to any one just now. She would not be pitied. It rang again, and again, insistently. Gingerly she raised the receiver. "Yes?" "Ts this 32-435?" Long Distance. Fear shoved selfpity aside. "Yes. Yes. This is 32-435. "Is this—is this Grandmother?" The humor in the operator's voice failed to cut through the fear. Adrianne held her breath. "Here is your party. Go ahead." "Hello-hello." "Grandmother," came a plaintive voice over the wire. "Steve." With one gasp Adrianne bridged seven hundred miles and a thousand worries. "Steve. Where are you? What is wrong?" "Grandmother, where's Mama?" Adrianne fought an impulse to hysteria. "Grandmother, where's Mama?". "Isn't she there, Steve?" "No, and Grandma, may I go to Rusty's? Mama said not to go without asking." "Why don't you wait until your mother gets home?" "Why? I want to go now. May 1?" Adrianne glanced briefly at her watch. 'Today was Tuesday. "Steve, did Mama go to Relief Society?" RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1956 "T don't know, but may I go? She won't mind, if you say so." Suddenly there was nothing in the world as important as this decision. It must be the right one. But Steve wanted an answer. "How did you know my number?" she asked, playing for time. She remembered the operator had asked if this were "Grandmother." "T always knowed it." Disgust tinged his impatience. "Rusty is waiting. Can I go?". There had to be a direct answer. "Yes, Steve, if you will...." "Thanks. Goodbye." She heard the receiver drop and the banging of a screen door. She waited, hoping. It would not help to hang up and call back. Again she heard the closing of a door and someone moving about. "Who left the receiver down?" It was Verna's voice. "Verna. Verna, wait.... Verna must have heard. "Is someone on the line?" she asked. " "Yes. Yes, it is Mother. Don't hang up." 6¢\AOTHER! What happened? Is something wrong?" The very words she had used for Steven and in the same tone. All the tension of this horrible day dissolved into nothingness at the anxiety in her daughter's voice. Adrianne laughed and cried and _ strangled over words. "Mother. For goodness Tell me what happened." "Well—I thought my honey had been stolen, but the hive is full after all." There was an ominous silence, then, "If you don't tell me this instant...." sake. A FULL HIVE "Nothing is wrong, dear. Everything is right, but I didn't recognize how right until I heard Steve's voice. You see, if you want honey, you have to take the sting of the bees along with it." "Is that what you called up to say? You're not slightly out of your head, are you?" "No. I told you I am all right. Steve called me." She could hear the sigh of relief that followed her normal tone. "He wanted to go to Rusty's. How did he know my number? He apparently didn't know my last name." Verna was indignant. "They all know your number, Mother. 'That is one of the first things they learn." Then Verna chuckled. "Such a goofy conversation. He must have frightened you as much as you did me. I was beginning to wonder." In spite of its lightness, the tone was definitely one of mother to child. "Don't worry. Iam still of sound body and mind—and spirit, but I'm," Adrianne swallowed hard. "I find I am not as young as I once was. I'm—I'm stepping down a 225 grade or two at the office. The tension won't be so—that is, my work will be more or less routine. Nothing to keep me awake nights." "Mother, really? That is the best news you could have given me. We have all worried about your carrying such a load; and if you need help you...." "Tl get by. Maybe, just maybe Jeanne and Joe will move in with Te." "What a relief that would be to know you are not alone, and it will help with your expenses. 'That house is large enough for two families and privacy. But remember, Ted has finished our apartment, and it will be waiting, if and when you decide to use it." Afterward Adrianne sat thinking. She was definitely committed and she was glad. This way she could go on working for a long time yet. The book of Schumann-Heink was still on the table. "You were right," she said aloud. "Art doesn't let you down. My real art, and it isn't advertising copy, will never let me down. Steve's call proved that." ——_- Lift Your &yes Mabel Law Atkinson With eyes downcast in grief and doubt, Slowly I walked a country lane. I failed to hear the joyous shout Of springtime after April rain— A violet in the greening sod Whispered, "Lift your eyes to God." The very greenness whistled then; My ears received the robin's call; My thoughts escaped their stagnant fen To hear a laughing waterfall— My heart held room for no regrets Weaving a lei of violets. Relief Society Assists in Welfare Program for Mlarysville - Yuba City Flood Alice I. Ferrin President, Gridley Stake (California) Relief Society N Christmas Eve, many of the saints in the Gridley Stake left their radios turned on until very late, dreading what seemed imminent, and deeply concerned over the flood threat in the Marysville-Yuba City area. When the levee of the Feather River did break, our thoughts were of the many saints who were having to flee from their homes at two A. M. On December 24, 1955, before a wall of onrushing muddy water. A very few hours later the Relief Society received a call to work with the stake storehouse keeper and the stake work director in preparing a list of welfare items which would be needed for these people. Many who left their homes were able to take only the clothes they wore because of lack of time and car space. A former stake board member said, ""We barely had time to dash over and get our eightyyear-old neighber who lives alone. We could hear the roar of the water as we hastily drove south to Roseville where we have relatives. When we next saw our house, it had been washed out in the orchard." Immediately after the order for commodities had been completed, the help of the Relief Society was requested in compiling a questionnaire to be used in survey work to determine what kind and how Page 226 much assistance would be needed in the stricken area. Besides questions to determine needs, available. Services were also indicated. These (besides a labor pool) included thirty washing machines and driers made available in Gridley (nineteen miles away). Often the articles to be washed had first to be cleansed of mud with a garden hose and, in some cases, linens had mud stains even after careful and thorough washings. 'These washers were kept running for hours and hours as it was important that things be washed before the mud dried on them. Also available was a forced air furnace obtained from a dehydrating plant which was set up in the Yuba City recreation hall to dry out appliance motors, mattresses, and rugs. The following day Relief Society presidents and bishops were instructed to call for volunteer workers from each ward to go to Yuba City to assist in survey work and clean-up operations. Lists of all the families in the two Yuba City wards were compiled from ward teaching records. Each sister, from other than the Yuba City wards, was sent out with a Yuba City sister who was familiar with the area. Armed with lists of families in their "districts" and questionnaire blanks to be filled out for each family, these teams launched a systematic effort to help these people to bring order and cleanliness out of chaos and mud. The families were asked how many people they could use in cleaning, and were instructed as to washing and drying services available. 'hey were encouraged to go ~to the chapel and have a "conference" with the Relief Society presidents or bishops as to their needs for Welfare items of food, clothing, household supplies, and furniture from the source of supply at the Gridley Ward chapel. 'The stake Relief Society work director and Gridley Ward president and other tireless workers assisted the stake storehouse keeper in taking care of the bishop's orders. As fast as orders came in they were filled from the generous amount of supplies sent from the General Welfare 'RELIEF SOCIETY WOMEN INSPECTING CLOTHING FOR FAMILIES Committee in Salt Lake City and taken to Yuba City for distribution. Periodically, survey teams returned to the chapel where the questionnaire reports were given to those in charge of dispatching the brothers and sisters who were waiting the chance to help their neighbors make homes livable again. AN example of the reaction to this "labor of love" was Sister Esther Peters of the Relief Society stake presidency. She was so sure she would "be back in her home to prepare breakfast" that no one made any effort to take more than "what we stood up in." It developed that their home was in the swiftest, deepest part of the current of the tampant river and was completely covered—with the exception of the very peak of the roof. The first OF FLOOD VICTIMS RELIEF SOCIETY ASSISTS IN WELFARE PROGRAM 227 228 time Sister Peters saw her home after the devastation a veritable beehive of people were busily scraping and cleaning and scooping out mud. As she walked in they looked at her questioningly. She said, "T'm just the owner." Immediately they told her she was to look at one room only, the one which had been scrubbed clean, and she was forthwith piloted to that room. Sister Peters voiced the opinion of many many in the Gridley Stake when she said this experience had helped her to realize how significant are the functions of the Welfare Plan in the lives of all, how great the security it offers, with its wellstocked storehouse for this huge family which is the organization of our Father's children here on earth. The response to calls for cleanup crews was beyond expectations. Not only were there workers from all wards in the stake, but workers (men and women) came from wards in other stakes throughout Northern California. Finally, when there were more workers than "Jobs," those in charge sent crews out to find clean-up jobs. These crews went from house to house cleaning homes and places of business of members and non-members alike. One store was so grateful for the volunteer laborers that, in return, they were given about seventy bolts of water-and-mud-damaged yardage. This was sent to a ward to be washed and ironed. 'The Relief Society inquired the cost of having it mangled at a laundry, and they volunteered to do it all for nothing, if none of it was to be sold. As a result of this project, many RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1956 RELIEF SOCIETY WORKERS SORTING CLOTHING FOR FAMILIES families were given yardage to help out where incomes were barely adequate. People in the flooded area received more than half of the 1100 yards. In cases where sewing machines were out of order or mothers were deeply involved in rehabilitation, the sisters from other wards volunteered to sew some of the yardage into clothing. (The sisters seemed glad for a sewing assignment.) When they were asked at Relief Society to do the sewing, there were more volunteers than assignments. The stake Relief Society work director reported another phase of the sisters in "Relief" action. A call was made for good, used clothing to help the disaster stricken families, and the response was such that rooms were set up in Gridley and Yuba City wards with hanging bars and tables. 'The clothing was sorted, sized, and made available in an orderly way. Many of the families who lost everything were able to use much that was there. N every aspect of this experience— survey, cleanup, reclaiming of yardage, sewing assignments, donation, and dispersal of used clothing, and, most of all, in the Welfare commodities from Salt Lake City— the response has been more than adequate. Our love and concern for each other have increased, and we are humbly grateful for these and all blessings. The task of rehabilitation is not over and we are still engaged in it. To date records show that 161 sisters have worked 2,971 hours. Although more than six weeks have elapsed, it has been in the past week only that water has receded sufficiently to allow some people to get back to their homes. People are still conscious of need and are responding. In many homes there is still much to be done when the task of drying them out is completed. Unless damage is seen, one can't realize the waste, spoilage, and havoc which follow in the wake of such a disaster. Veneered surface of furniture warps off in two inch high waves. Dresser drawers swell and warp beyond repair. People exhibited fine _ spirits. Everywhere was cheerfulness and gratitude that things were no worse. People were heard to say how fortunate they were because their houses had not cracked off their foundations, or hadn't _ been wrenched askew, or hadn't floated off entirely—as some did. Even the tragic drowning of the bishop's counselor and his wife and two children, while it was a great shock to their immediate families, was recognized as the will of our Heavenly Father. The blessing that they were still all together was remarked. Words can't express the feeling engendered in the midst of depressing disaster at the sight of the rooms full of commodities to relieve the needs of these our sisters and brothers. Our testimony as to the value and effectiveness of the Welfare Plan have increased many times over. We are very grateful to an all-wise Heavenly Father who, through inspired leaders, has established this guarantee of security for all. INFORMATION SHEET DCIS TEN ig SV Final clean up, yards, fences, etc.? Has this home been cleaned out? Roughly by men? Completed by Relief Society? Does the family have all the basic food supplies? Do they have adequate clothing? Clothing available through Relief Society. Are they comfortably housed? Where? Do they need a house to rent? Has their clothing been washed and dried? (Suggest no ironing or starch) Has the furniture been checked and cleaned? Appliances checked? Washing Machine? Refrigerator? Deep Freeze? Carpentry repair needed? Painting needed? Foundation work needed? Everyone should contact their bishop and check in at the Church. Other suggestions and helps? Checking team 22.......22.2. Eeeececeseeseeesceeeeeeseeeeees Date RELIEF SOCIETY ASSISTS IN WELFARE PROGRAM 229 To You, Beloved Lois E.. Fockner sure of, Mama," Laurie said bitterly, "I will never work at this endless drudgery as you do—never!" "Did you get in all the clothes?" Vivian asked. She felt vaguely hurt by her daughter's thrust. In fact, as a mother she had felt on the defensive for several months. Laurie didn't approve of anything. She seemed to be disappointed in her parents and disapproved of them constantly. Why did a dear, curlyhaired little girl suddenly become a stranger when she reached fifteen? Well, Vivian felt she did the best she could as a mother, and Laurie would just have to get over it. Laurie came in with a basket of clean clothes and carried them into the old back-porch laundry. Her usually pleasant little face was petulant. In a moment she came back into the kitchen, her gray eyes still stormy and rebellious. _ Vivian smiled involuntarily. Laurie looked so like Ken when she was angry. Maybe Ken would understand this bitterness in his daughter. But she hated to disturb him. "Would you set the table, Laurie?" Vivian peeked into the oven to check the scalloped potatoes. Little Keith would be delighted. How he loved scalloped potatoes with ham leftovers. Laurie began dutifully to set the table. "I'm going to marry someone interesting — who cares about me!" She spoke vehemently. The plates clattered for emphasis. "I want to be more than just — just a Page 230 6 a HERE is one thing I am mother to a lot of babies. More than just a housekeeper." Vivian started to scold and sighed instead. It must be a phase. She wished she could feel more at ease — understanding, instead of hurt and defensive. Didn't children realize that mothers can be sensitive? She felt Laurie's critical gaze and glanced down at her faded housedress. Ken would be home soon. He would take off his coat and tie, roll up his shirt sleeves, kiss her absently, and reach for the paper. She probably should make more of an effort to be attractive, but where would she find the time? How could she make Laurie understand that some things in life become so important that they crowd other things into the background. "Laurie, you know...." Vivian groped for words. "You know, dear, it isn't drudgery. You love the babies when they come." "Oh, yes!" Laurie put her hand on her hip and arched her eyebrows. "Everyone loves the babies, but how much time does it leave you? How long has it been since you have done anything that was fun or exciting? How long has it been since you have had a really nice dress? Or your hair fixed?" "Too long," agreed Vivian, smoothing her hair self-consciously. "But Daddy seems to like my hair the way I fix it." "Daddy," said Laurie decidedly, "hardly knows you exist. He doesn't even look at you most of the time. That is what I mean...." Her voice broke, and the tears came. TO YOU, BELOVED She stopped, perplexed at her mother's look. "Pl run down to the grocery and get those things, Mama." ivian was stunned. Now she understood, and with quick mother's sympathy, she wanted to take her little girl in her arms. But Laurie was gone before she recovered her composure. Vivian watched her hurrying down the street, too tall and thin for fifteen, but showing the beginning of a lovely woman. She couldn't keep the tears back. Oh, Ken, she thought, how hard it is to grow — to make life fit into our dreams. Laurie doesn't know how we care. She doesn't think you love me anymore. Well, that was the answer. Poor little Laurie! Her mind was full of all the beautiful, romantic dreams that girls enjoy. And she couldn't reconcile love with marriage, as she saw it everyday. Vivian wiped her tears away with strong resolution. She would tell Ken this very evening, and they would have to help Laurie to understand the real depth of their love and marriage. And they would have to be more demonstrative in front of the children. They needed to know that their mother and father loved each other. It was a pattern and a security for them. The younger children began to run in noisily from their play — dirty and happy. Vivian' fought down her worrying and, ignoring her weariness, forced herself to smile and be playful with them. "All right, soldiers! Into line. Forward march! Wash your hands and faces. Hurry! Daddy will be home in a minute." 231 She stood for a moment and watched them troop merrily into the bathroom. Ken was proud of his four little sons, three little daughters, and Laurie. Every meal was a party with so many children. Then she remembered the rolls and hurriedly popped them into the oven, hoping they would be ready in time. "Oh, there is the baby!" They were always noisy, and now they had awakened him. Vivian stood still, rubbing her hand across her forehead, gathering reserve strength. Laurie was coming in the door now. Maybe she would see about the baby. And there was the front door. That would be Ken.... HREE hours later, unbelievably, quiet reigned. The children were all in bed, except Laurie, who had gone to a movie. Ken was reading the paper in his special easy chair. Vivian smiled as she watched him absently pass his hand over his thin hair. She would hurry and finish cutting out the dress for Barbara, and then she would tell him. She tried to think just how she would explain it. "Come sit down, dear," Ken said suddenly, laying aside the paper. "You never stop. No wonder you are so thin." Vivian, startled, began taking the pins out of her mouth so she could answer him. "Didn't your mother ever teach you not to put pins in your mouth?" her husband laughed. "She did," replied Vivian, "but I guess I didn't hear very well." "You are a very disobedient woman, and you were probably a disobedient child." Ken came over to 232 help her fold the material and dress pattern. "But I love you anyway." His eyes were warm and tender. Vivian kissed him impuslively. "Ken, I wish Laurie...." "What about Laurie?" "Well, she has been very upset. Critical and bad-tempered. I can't understand. It—it isn't like her, you know." "Maybe she is sick." "No, dear, I found out today. She—well, she thinks you don't love me anymore. She feels that a woman's lot with a big family is just drudgery." "There is nothing strange about that, the way you have to work. If I could afford...." Ken frowned helplessly. "Now, don't worry about that. It isn't the real problem. She doesn't feel there is any love or romance left in our marriage. It isn't the work or the babies. Laurie didn't mind them before." Ken smiled boyishly and a little embarrassed. "I never would have believed that I would be one to disillusion my own daughter." "Not as a father," Vivian hastily reassured him, "as a romantic husband. I think we are both at fault, dear. Because we have felt a little shy and reticent in front of our children, they have come to feel that we are indifferent." "Well, we will have to show Laurie her mistake," said Ken. And Vivian sighed with relief. It had been so much easier than she had expected. Because their sixteenth wedding anniversary was only two weeks away, they decided to use that happy occasion to help restore RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1956 Laurie's faith in marriage. Vivian spent many happy days in preparation and shopping for just the right fishing rod for Ken. She took the children into her confidence and there was a great deal of excited whispering after they had helped her safely bestow the treasured gift in the dark confines of the little boys' closet upstairs. 'There was a singing in her heart as she anticipated his pleasure when he unwrapped his gift. Laurie had taken some interest, but the critical and caustic remarks were still present, eroding the domestic happiness of the whole family. Viv IAN did not know what Ken had planned, but she felt a little disappointed that he had not taken the children into his confidence as she had done. He only smiled secretively and went about his affairs with a smug happiness. On the morning of the anniversary Vivian came to breakfast in a frilly brunch coat, an anniversary gift of two years ago. She had only worn it twice, when she had been ill, and she put on her new pink lipstick, carefully. Ken whistled when he saw her, and all the children laughed with pleasure, except Laurie who flushed and looked uncomfortable. When Ken was off to work and the children out to play, Vivian dressed in her newest housedress ° and cleaned the house. Laurie helped, walking about quiet and morose all morning.. By the time lunch was over and the little ones napping and the larger ones out to play again, Vivian was tired. She sat down limply in the kitchen, TO YOU, BELOVED staring at the gigantic pile of dirty dishes in the sink. Laurie came in with some flowers and arranged them tastefully in the living room. "Thank you, Laurie," Vivian said. "Those will be lovely for our anniversary dinner tonight." "Mama," Laurie began _hesitantly, "I told Bryce I didn't think I wanted to go with him anymore." At Vivian's disapproving look, she added hastily, defensively, "I didn't think it was fair, since I have decided on a very exciting career and may never marry. Unless it were someone really different, and...." She stopped, groping for words. "It seems a little early to worry about marriage," Vivian answered. "T mean, couldn't you just go out on dates — not always with Bryce, perhaps." "Don't you like Bryce, Mama?" Laurie swung around to face Vivian, wide-eyed and questioning. "T think he is the nicest boy you know," said Vivian sincerely. "But I don't imagine he is thinking about marriage—at his age." "Bryce is eighteen, Mama," Laurie said with a little toss of her golden head. "He—he thinks he would like us to get married when he is through college." "Oh." Vivian struggled to keep the smile back. "But I told Bryce last night that I felt I just wasn't the type for an ordinary marriage." She stressed the ordinary, and Vivian winced. Over her shoulder, before she disappeared upstairs, she added, "If Daddy will take you out tonight, Mama, I will baby-sit. I'm going to do the upstairs now." Vivian was momentarily de- 233 pressed, but the thought of spending an evening out, soon revived her spirits, and she attacked the mountain of dishes and pots and pans with enthusiasm. She could hardly wait to tell Ken. That evening they sat down to their elaborate dinner with hushed expectancy, for two of the boys were laboriously bringing Ken's gift down from its upstairs hiding place. At last they arrived, amid suppressed giggles and sighs. Upon its presentation, Ken was rapturous. "Say, that is just what I have wanted all year, and just in time for our camping trip next month, too." He gave Vivian an affectionate kiss, and the children were ecstatic. Even Laurie smiled. "Tam going to give your mother's gift to her after we eat dinner," laughed Ken. "It is so beautiful I am afraid she would be too excited to eat." S° the delightful anxiety lasted all through the dinner, and Laurie began to laugh and to guess with the others. Vivian sat misty-eyed through the whole meal, thankful for her husband and her eight lovely children — even loving the old house, with all its inconveniences tonight, because her grandmother had reared her children here — because it had known so much love. Ken made a great ceremony out of her gift presentation and Vivian sat down in her armchair, with all the children circled about her on the floor. It was beautifully wrapped, and had the little envelope attached that Vivian knew so well. She opened the gift first. Everyone gasped as she withdrew 234 the gleaming necklace from its velvet box. "It's exquisite!" exclaimed Laurie, her hands clasped together. Vivian's heart was too full to let her speak — to let Ken know it was too expensive, too beautiful for her. And how she loved it. She reached out to squeeze his hand and he kissed her. 'Then, carefully, with trembling fingers, she opened the little envelope. She began to read the sixteenth beautiful sonnet that Ken had written to her. "To you, beloved...." Vivian couldn't read it aloud. She read it through quietly, the tears blinding her. The younger children were still admiring the necklace. Only Laurie stood expectant, longing.... "Laurie, put this card away — with the others. There is a little blue box tied with satin nbbon in the bottom drawer of my vanity." Ken looked at her, strangely, and then with understanding warming in his eyes. "Thank you, darling," Vivian said at last. "Hurry and get ready for our date, Mama," he whispered.? RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1956 Vivian had so much help getting ready she wondered if she would ever be dressed. But, at last, she was, and the necklace made even the old black dress look lovely. As Barbara hurried downstairs to see about the baby, Vivian realized that. She had made herself into more of a drudge than was necessary. They love to make us happy, too, if we will let them, she thought, remembering how kind Laurie had been, how cheerful the others about Mommy's date. The door opened and_ closed quietly. Laurie stood against the bedroom door, tall and straight. She cleared her throat, and Vivian turned from the mirror. "I—I read them all, Mama. I hope you don't care." When Vivian smiled, she continued, with wonder in her voice and her eyes shining, "A poem for every year, Mama. Do you suppose anyone will ever love me... Like that?" Vivian reached impulsively for the hand of her growing-up daughter. They both knew that in Lautie's heart something new and beautiful had been born. _ Springtime ctinds the Canyon Evelyn Fjeldsted On the waiting fields still lie The graying, tattered sheets of snow, And springtime walks between the shreds, Where winter slept a month ago. Then exultantly spring pirouettes Through the canyon's still domain, Spreading counterpanes of green, Under tinsel nets of rain. Searching there, it finds new melodies, Deep in solitude for themes To play on keyboards, improvised To waken earth from winter dreams. A Temple Will Be Built Mabel L. Anderson to our God" — those words spoken by a prophet so long ago, came solemnly to my mind as I stood on the sacred ground of Newchapel in Surrey, England. The one "must" on my trip to the British Isles had been to see the temple site. Following the directions of an elder at the Church headquarters on Nightingale Lane in London, we boarded a comfortable British coach just a few steps from the Church door. In planning the things to see and the places to go, I had studied maps of every county and part of England. But how colorless a road map can be! Just a line to try to tell of those lovely British roads that amble through the countryside as though they, too, were enjoying the delightful and varied scenery through which they were passing, making a turn to avoid a cottage garden or to show one a particularly attractive view of rolling pastures and sylvan glades; just a dot to indicate a picturesque old town or quaint village, or an ancient castle or the spires of a grand cathedral. A few minutes ride took us through some of the busy environs of London, then out into the peaceful country, with its soft landscapes, having a pastoral charm of its own, historical as it is beautiful. Through this lovely countryside marched the invaders of Britain from before Julius Caesar's time up to the time of William the Conqueror — Romans, Danes, and Normans, and 66 H ERE we will build a temple the whole area abounds in many well-preserved monuments of those days. Not quite an hour's ride brought us to the crossroads of the LondonLingfield road, where we stopped. A few steps took us to one of the most beautiful spots it has been my privilege to see. Here, in this unspoiled English countryside, the cornerstone will soon be laid for the building of the first temple in England — that "tight little island," as Shakespeare said, "bound in with the triumphant sea," that has furnished so many stalwarts to our Church, just 118 years after the gospel was first brought there. A little pond just outside the high board fence first attracted my eye and my camera. Here, among pond lilies, a mother duck and her little ducklings were having a swim. Around the grassy fringe of the pond were flowers and shrubs, while in the background were magnificent trees and the lichened tile roof of the mansion. A gate admitted us to the grounds of the estate at Newchapel. It was such a calm and lovely spot. First, the manor house built in the dignity of Elizabethan _ half-timbered style. 'This gracious mansion, set amid rolling acres and mellow parkland, is something which will long remain in the memory of those of us who cherish our visit there. Missionaries stationed at Newchapel took us through this stately house, with its richly paneled walls and parquetry floors. Page 235 236 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1956 NEWCHAPEL, SURREY, ENGLAND As it is approached from the road We first entered a large hall which had a beautiful stairway leading to the balcony and floors above. At one side, a drawing room with a small gallery, we were told, would undoubtedly be the chapel for the branch; then through the library, dining rooms, various sitting rooms, kitchens, and butlers' pantries; upstairs to the many bedrooms, and bathrooms (some so large they even had fireplaces in them). The OldWorld charm and gracious character of this house made me think of some words of Charles Lamb: I do not know a pleasure more affecting than to range at will over the deserted apartments of some fine old family mansion. -The traces of extinct grandeur admit of a better passion than envy, and contemplations on the great and good whom we fancy in succession to have been its inhabitants, weave for us illusions incompatible with the battles of modern occupancy. And it is certainly true that the storied history of Britain is largely written on the mellow walls of its country houses, for in them many important events have taken place; within their walls have gathered many people who have walked the pages of history. And, as I wandered from room to room, I, for one, was grateful that this house would be preserved. ROM the windows of the second and third floors we had a good view of the lovely grounds that stretched far in the distance. 'Thirtyfour acres, we were told, comprise the estate. Back of the house was a large carriage house now being used as headquarters of the English geneological department of the Church. The house is surrounded by extensive and venerable lawns, parklands, and fine trees, orchards, pad- A TEMPLE WILL BE BUILT docks, and farms in the distance. Glorious masses of rhododendron in shades of rose and purple were breath-taking in their beauty. The rain had just stopped, and the shimmering silk of the leaves was such a lush and verdant green it seemed the Master Painter must have just finished the painting. Abundant, brilliant, sweet-smelling flowers made the air heady with their perfume, and gave more color to the scene. Among the clipped yew and boxwood hedges we wandered to the tennis court, near which, we were told, was the spot which had been dedicated for the building of the temple. We felt we were indeed walking on holy ground. The whole place gave one a feeling of peace and serenity that has a special appeal to those who live in this age when serenity is so rare. In the quiet walks around the grounds one could indeed feel that here he might really "be still and know that I am God." Nowhere else, that I know of, is it so easy to obtain the illusion of isolation as in those deep cool paths 237 and among the luxuriant sea of foliage of that tranquil countryside, only about thirty miles from London. Newchapel is in the southeast corner of Surrey, near to the pretty village of Lingfield, and just a few miles from the busy market town of East Grinstead, itself a blend of the old and new, with an interesting history, many old traditions, and rich in seventeenth-century-timbered houses. In the vicinity are quaint villages and modern suburbs where charming cottages flaunt gay front gardens, typically British. Across this region, many centuries ago, there existed a great forest, now gone except for bits of it remaining in the lovely small woods, and evident in the stately trees seen everywhere. How well the leaders of our Church chose the location to build a house of the Lord! Next time I go to England, I shall again take the road leading south from London to the sea, and there at Newchapel, I hope to thrill at the stately spires of a Latter-day Saint temple silhouetted against an English sky. Now Spring Dorothy J. Roberts Snow's fraying cerements have lost their strength; Now spring disturbs the linens and the leveled girth Of land revives to shrug the winter from its length. Greens, innumerable, will range the loosened earth, Will creep or burst in ray or tower, crown Or shock, into returning sun. Life will leap Forth million-formed to cry the season down That marked the world as won with snow, death, sleep. S ixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, April 1, and April 15, 1896 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE Women oF Ati NATIONS" A GOLDEN WEDDING: At the foot of a gigantic mountain lies the pastoral village of Pleasant Grove, which now numbers among its inhabitants two of our aged pioneers. One of these, Brother Hanson Walker, who with others pioneered the way to this barren waste and has assisted to make it the Utah of today, celebrated his Golden Wedding on Friday, April 10th. His children and his children's children poured in upon him and his good wife Elizabeth; they have lived happily together for fifty years.... Among the guests present was the mother of Sister Walker, Sister Margaret Foutz, who has reached the advanced age of ninety-five years and is still quite active. LEONA Leona, look forth and behold From headland, from hillside and deep, The day-king surrenders his banners of gold And twilight advances through woodland and wold And the dews are beginning to weep.... Leona, good-by; would the grief That is gathering now, ever be Too dark for your faith, you will long for relief, And remember the journey, though lonesome is brief, O'er lowland and river to me.... —James G. Clark MINERVA WHITE SNOW: The news of the unexpected demise of Sister Minerva White Snow, wife of Apostle Erastus Snow, was quite a shock to many of her friends and to her relatives in this City. Sister Snow died April 1, 1896, at Manti, where she has been living for several years past, having been called there at the time of the dedication of the Manti Temple, and has been laboring therein almost continuously.... Faithful and true in every department of life, a loving wife, an affectionate mother, a wise counselor, full of integrity and abounding in faith and good works, amiable, tender, considerate of the feelings of others, and full of charity.... —Editorial RELIEF SOCIETY IN OAKLEY, SUMMIT COUNTY: Our society was organized June 10, 1895. Our president, Sister Eliza West is very energetic and persevering; her assistants and all the members seem to be willing to do all in their power to carry the work along. The members have all donated liberally and are storing up wheat as we were counseled to do. —Ella M. Horton, Ass't. Sec. REPORT FROM THE SANDWICH ISLANDS: Sister Libbie Noall, who returned last fall from the Sandwich Islands, gave a most interesting description of her labors in the Relief Society among the native sisters on those islands. The first Relief Society organized there was in 1875.... These sisters are as willing to make sacrifices as we are at home in Zion; they are full of faith and zeal im their religion, and are naturally gifted in speaking. They learn quickly and do fancy work of various kinds. They are fond of their meetings and will walk long distances to attend religious services.... From a Report of the General Conference of Relief Society Page 238 HE League of Women Voters, a national organization, is currently stressing in its local organizations the preparation of women to take part effectively in the coming national elections. 'The stated purpose of the League, which was organized in 1920, is to "promote political responsibility through informed and active participation of citizens in government." LUCRETIA FERRE, young Latter-day Saint soprano from Salt Lake City, who has won acclaim throughout the United States and in many European cities, in December 1955 sang in the "Messiah" presented for service men in Augsburg, Germany. MADAME SIMONE COUSTEAU prefers living "with adventure" — and her husband, Jacques-Yves, explorer and inventor, on his French national scientific ship, "Calypso," to being a Paris socialite. Nine months of the year her life is "uncomfortable and_acrobatic" in their close quarters. Sometimes she cooks for twenty-three men, also acting as purser, nurse, and assistant winch-operator. From the "Calypso" scientists explore the under-water world, its marine life, geology, the water itself, and wrecks of ships sunk before the time of Christ. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon MABEL LAW ATKINSON and her daughter Frances, of Dayton, Idaho, at present living in Salt Lake City, Utah, tied for first-place honors in the 1955 short story contest sponsored by the National Thanksgiving Association. Representatives from thirty states entered the contest. Both Mrs. Atkinson and her daughter are contributors to The Relief Society Magazine. CORNELIA OTIS SKINNER, gifted American actress, in a recent interview, emphasized a beautiful speaking voice as necessary to a woman's charm. "A wonderful and pleasant way to improve your voice is to read aloud and listen to yourself. If possible, have a tape recording made, because you always sound different than you imagine." IRTHDAY congratulations are extended to: Mrs. Rachel Moore Wood, one hundred, and Mrs. Caroline W. Newman, ninety-nine, both of Salt Lake City, Utah; Mrs. Elizabeth Day, Hunter, Utah, ninety-four; Mrs. Ellen King Lyman, Logandale, Nevada, ninety-one; and the following women who _ have reached their ninetieth birthdays: Mrs. Adeline Maria Bohn Puffer, Beaver, Utah; Mrs. Lavinia Rigby Card, Mrs. Sarah Winter Bacon, and Mrs. Harriet L. Axton, all of Salt Lake City. Page 239 CQ-> EDITORIAL cm~© VOL. 43 A Woman and Fler Gar en VEN before the sunshine of spring touches the brown earth, a woman may plan her garden. Perhaps on paper she outlines the landscaping — here a dwarf cherry tree for Maytime bloom; there by the pool, the heartshaped leaves of Valentine ivy; near the doorstep a bed of blue and gold pansies. Dear to the heart of the homemaker is the plot of ground, large or small, which she may beautify as a setting for her house, the place where she may see the first tender green of grass and leaf, the opening of flower buds, the aureole of bloom. For the well-being of the body and to satisfy the reachings of the spirit, the joy of planting, the serenity of waiting, and then the glad reward, are as a cycle completed in the fulfillment of promise. The dark earth, the brown seeds, the dormant bulbs, the blue sky and the warm sun, the dreaming of summer — such are the uses of a garden. Always it seems a miracle to see the plot of earth change from darkness to the glory of life and color. Many women have found such creative joy in gardening that they regard its satisfactions as an integral part of homemaking. Mothers have found that children and gardens go well together — Page 240 small footsteps following while the mother plants and trims and tenderly cares for the seedlings — then a garden nook for the child's playtime, and the sheltered place where the family gathers on summer evenings. So a garden may be used for binding the family together and uniting them in the love of the earth and the home which have been given them for their use and their delight. Our gardens planned and planted this springtime will not be for one season alone, but they will be for many summers, a continuation of our love and care. And should we find it necessary to leave a home and a garden, should our families be faced with the need of making a new home, memories of the early garden will go with them and establish again the family pattern. It will, perhaps, be for our children, as it is with us, to rejoice in the memory of gardens. Who among us has not heard of the heritage of plants and flowers? Recall, perhaps, a pioneer garden, someone saying, "This lilac bush was planted by my grandmother from a start she carried westward from Nauvoo." Or, in a sheltered place, near the wall of an adobe house... "This spot once was radiant with pansies grown from seed which my great-aunt gathered in APRIL 1956 No. 4 EDITORIAL the gardens of Harlow, when she lived in England." Or visit a ranch home, long deserted, and someone will say, "Look, this spot of ground was once my mother's herb garden. See these leaves of hardy sage, these horehound plants reseeding themselves year after year. Always I see my mother in this place, bending over the savory herbs." It may be someone will remark: "This is precious ground, for here my courageous mother-in-law stood on her desert homestead and turned the water into furrows where pinks and marigolds and zinnias grew in an arid place." Or, perhaps in a high mountain valley, we may see the 241 yellow roses covering the fences with their bright gold. Through the years these yellow roses have been the very name and essence of beauty to women whose lives were sometimes bleak as canyon winds. Our gardens are not for today's joy alone, rather they are a continuing treasure — they are for deep remembrance — for our own temembering, and for the heritage of our children, for the lasting love of home, when, in days to come, we shall speak to others and have some influence upon their thoughts through the long-remembered fragrance of flowers and the beholding of the shining green leaves of spring. —V. P. C. ¢ Leone O Jacobs Resigns From the General Board N February 15, 1956, the general board accepted, with great reluctance, the resignation of Leone O. Jacobs from the general board after eleven years of outstanding service. At the time of her appointment, Sister Jacobs brought to the general board work a thorough knowledge of Relief Society work and procedures gained from experience in a foreign mission as well as in stakes of the Church. Sister Jacobs' work on the general board has been versatile. In addition to serving on various standing committees, she has written the visiting teacher lessons "Book of Mormon Gems of Truth" for five years. These lessons have been valuable aids for more righteous living among the sisters throughout the Church. Also of particular significance has been the work of Sister Jacobs as a general board representative on community programs in all of which she has shown great interest and taken an active part. Throughout the years of service to the general board Sister Jacobs has been fully supported by her devoted husband and children. Now as Sister Jacobs deems it wisdom to terminate her general board work, she carries with her the love and respect of every member with whom she has served, who pray that her future endeavors may also prove of great satisfaction and joy to her. Notes TO THE FIELD Brigham Young University Leadership WVrook RIGHAM Young University Leadership Week will be held June 18-22, 1956, on the Brigham Young University Campus, Provo, Utah. Relief Society members have found the leadership classes of great interest and value and are looking forward to this year's program. 'The general board wishes to call to the attention of Relief Society members the following classes which, in addition to many others, it is believed, will be of special interest to Relief Society women: Concluding Messages of The Book of Mormon "How" for the Housewife Art in Everyday Life Beautifying the Home Grounds "Fashion Fair With a Forward Flair" Wisdom and Beauty Through Literature An Hour With Shakespeare Family Business Problems Getting the Most From Family Life Teaching Aids Clinic Improvement of Teaching III (for teachers of adults) Baton Techniques Music in the Church A detailed program may be obtained by requesting a copy of "Widening Horizons" from Brigham Young University Extension Division, Provo, Utah. (Book of Mormon Reading Project EPORT forms on The Book of Mormon reading project will be sent to stake and mission Relief Society presidents in April 1956, and should be returned not later than July 15, 1956. The general board wishes to encourage all sisters to do the reading of The Book of Mormon for this year, which includes the book of Helaman through 3 Nephi, chapter 14. In order for a sister to receive credit, the reading must have been done during the year in which the lessons have been studied in Rehef Society. Page 242° NOTES TO THE FIELD 243 Hymn of the Mlonth The Church-wide congregational hymn singing project, inaugurated by the Church Music Committee, will be continued during the coming year, and all auxiliary organizations have been invited to participate. The purpose of this project is to increase the hymn repertoire of the Church members and to place emphasis on the message of the hymns. Stake choristers and organists are requested to give assistance at union meetings to ward choristers and organists in carrying out this project. An analysis and story of the hymn will be printed each month in the Church Section of the Deseret News. Following is a list of hymns approved for the twelve months July 1956 to June 1957: Month Hymn Number 1956 July They, The Builders of the Nation—Alldredge-Durham 173 August Nearer, Dear Savior to Thee—Townsend-Clayson 117 September Come, We That Love the Lord—Watts-Williams 25 October The Lord Be With Us—Anon.—Cannon 28 November Father, Vhy Children to 'Vhee Now Raise—Stephens 43 December O Little Town of Bethlehem—Brooks-Redner 165 We/ January Oh Hark! A Glorious Sound Is Heard—Robinson-Asper 134 February Jehovah, Lord of Heaven and Earth—Holden 83 March He Is Risen—Alexander-Neander 61 April God Loved Us. So He Sent His Son—Kimball-Schreiner 178 May Great King of Heaven, Our Hearts We Raise—Thomas-Robertson 53 June As Swiftly My Days Go Out on the Wing 5 <_— Before Nlight-Shadows Si all Maude O. Cook 'This day is spent—tomorrow may not be— We meet the challenge which this moment brings 'To break our shackles, conquer and be free, And turn both thought and deed to nobler things.... This moment is our own, heed, then, its call, And use it well before nightshadows fall.? Cancer--A ChechUbp and a Check Sandra Munsell Supervisor, Magazine Advertising Services, American Cancer Society HIS April, the American Cancer Society will intensify its year-round educational program by urging all Americans to fight cancer with a check-up and a check... A check-up to save their own lives, a check to save the lives of their fellows. 'To carry on its nation-wide program of scientific research, professional and public education, and service to patients, the Society seeks to raise $26,000,000. This is a particularly significant figure. If present rates continue, 26,000,000 Americans now alive will die of cancer. In a few short years we've scen the discovery of antibiotics, new wonder drugs for tuberculosis, a vaccine for polio. We will see the conquest of cancer, too, if people want it badly enough. Last year the American Cancer Society was unable to fill requests for research funds totaling almost $3,000,000. The reason—not enough money. Cancer and healthy cells seem to feed on different kinds of "food." We know how to make some cancer cells die by starving them. Will we starve out all kinds of cancer cells one day? Only more work and research will tell. Some cancer patients develop substances that fight their own tumors. When science knows more about antibodies, we may have a new cancer treatment. Only more work and research will tell. Some cancers are being halted by atomic materials. Can new radioactive isotopes affect other cancers in the same way? Only more work and research will tell. New drugs are being developed that fight specific kinds of cancer. Will any of them turn out to be cancer-killers? Only more work and research will tell. The law of averages says that cancer will kill one out of every six Americans. But the law does not have to prevail. You can help break it in two ways. By having a thorough medical checkup every year... And by sending a contribution to your unit of the American Cancer Society or to Cancer, c/o your town's Postmaster. Fight cancer with a checkup and a check. _< Hea rtsease Beulah Ifuish Sadleir When the heart is filled with gnef— Plant a flower or rake a leaf; Heaven's hope is centered where Two busy hands make silent prayer. Page 244 Lesson From Letty Arlene D. EAR DIARY: D Today I grew up. Oh, I'm only one day older in time, but years older in wisdom, and it all happened because today was my Mother's birthday. [| learned my lesson from Letty. Early this morning no one could have told me that I could learn anything from my little eight-year-old sister, as we sat on the front steps planning what to get for our Mother. I was so deeply engrossed that I scarcely even knew that she was there. It was a very beautiful day, with the sky all clear and blue and the sun glimmering through the big trees, making lacy patterns on the dewy grass. The lawn spray sent forth a pleasant, fresh shower of water and gave the earth a cool, fragrant odor as it had after a rain, and a colorful rainbow sparkled in an arch. Letty looked about with happy blue eyes, seeming to drink in the beauty of the morning. I was just a little resentful that it should be all up to me to get a present for Mother, and to do all of the worrying—financially. Oh, not that I didn't want to give her the finest things in the world, I did, and that was what made it so hard on my small funds. Finally I straightened up and smiled. "I've got it!" "What?" Letty asked eagerly. "Have you thought of what we can get for Mommie?" Suddenly I wanted to have my present from me alone. "Yes," I snapped, a little roughly. Letty held out her grimy hand with its five pennies. "Here, take my money Cloward too, then. Of us." I laughed. "Goose! That won't even pay the tax." I didn't really want to be cruel, just plain. Well, Letty's face looked as white as if I had slapped it, and I had to hurry and turn away before I changed my mind and took her five pennies after all. It was time that she grew up and realized what it was like to have to do all of the planning as I had to do. Being the oldest of five, this had always befallen me and, actually, I loved my role, and was feeling very superior for my fifteen years. "When I was your age I got Mother my own presents," I said and ran quickly into the house, leaving a very crushed and unhappy little girl, As I dressed to go into town I felt perfectly terrible, and could hardly wait to go back outside and take Letty's five pennies. She had been so sweet and happy, and I had ruined it all for her. Quickly I slipped into the new dress Mother had made for me and thought, with a flood of love, how lucky we all were to have someone like her, and I was very glad that [ had saved my baby-sitting money so that I could buy her the beautiful blue dress that she had admired in the store. It would be just perfect with her lovely, silvery hair. I ran down the stairs and heard Mother and Letty talking from the front porch. Slipping quietly out, I could see Letty's little rosy face uplifted and beaming and her eyes shining. "See, Mommie, see how the water makes a rainbow and the So it can be from both Page 245 246 little drops of water look like big pearls on the grass." Well, I thought, she certainly recovered quickly from her hurt, and it made me feel a great deal better. I should have known that nothing ever worries Letty for very long, and I was glad that it didn't, because Mother's dark eyes were smiling happily and she was gazing at the rainbow as if she had never seen one before. Some of the tired lines had vanished, and she looked so lovely and serene that it almost took my breath away. I bent and kissed her cheek. "Bye, Mom, I've got to go into town for awhile." Mother nodded, almost absently, for Letty was already leading her by the hand to where the first violets were blooming in_ profusion along the white fence, chattering gaily that they looked almost like velvet. I walked on down the path, thinking that though I hadn't been able to tell Letty I'd love to include her in my present, I could take her contribution when I arrived home. After all, there was very little that an eight-year-old could do_ before then. T was a nice day to take a walk, and a cool breeze stirred through my hair. When I reached town I bought the dress happily, thinking of the joy that it would bring to Mother's face, and then I had to stop in at Janie's to plan our party for that evening. It was close to noon by the time I arrived back home. As I came through the gate I saw Letty on her hands and knees by the flower bed, carefully weeding out the stray grass and weeds, leavRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1956 ing the violets in a bed of soft, brown earth. It enhanced their delicate beauty so that I stopped to gaze at them. Letty didn't look up but continued to work with loving gentleness, and J went on into the house and hastily hid my bundle in my room. After lunch I had to hurry back into town to buv the things for our party, and this time I left a little shamefaced, for Letty was happily preparing to send Mother off on a nice walk—perhaps even to the beauty shop to have her hair done, while she took up Mike, the baby, to tend him. "Tll take Mike with me, Letty," I volunteered, but she just hugged him and nestled her nose against him to make him giggle. "No. I want to tend him. You go ahead and go, and, Mommie," she added, calling after Mother as she went down the walk, "take just as long as you want." Mother beamed back with that same shining look in her eyes, as if she were still seeing a rainbow. The house was quiet when I returned and, peeking in at Mother's bedroom door, I saw Mike curled up fast asleep in his crib. Letty was bent over the desk in the living room, laboriously concentrating on a bowl of violets before her. I slipped up behind her and glanced over her shoulder to see that she was very painstakingly trying to copy the violets on a piece of folded drawing paper. She had smeared the lines a little with her small, grubby little palm, but the likeness was there, and she was beginning to LESSON FROM LETTY color the violets with her purple crayon. "Letty, I want to apologize. I'd like very much to have your five pennies." Letty didn't look up, but she grinned. "Oh, no, Judy. You were right. I should give Mommie my very own present and I'm going to. Thanks anyway." She continued to color the violets earnestly, trying to deepen the purple in the center, and I suddenly felt overwhelmingly humble. "May I see the inside, honey?" Letty opened the card eagerly, and I read the little verse almost throug' a screen of tears, not knowing why for sure myself. It was a simple little wish—perhaps that was the beauty of it. It said in a large but carefully printed scrawl: "Dearest Mommie, I hope that your birthday is as happy and as beautiful as your favrite flower. With love, Letty.". "Do you think she'll like it Judy?" Letty asked anxiously. I put my arms around the little shoulders that were already bending back over the card. "Darling, she'll love it." Letty smiled, her own quick smile of sunshine, and I had to hurry and turn away so that she couldn't sce my tears. As soon as I reached the hall I picked up the telephone and dialed Janie. She protested when I told her I couldn't make it to our party after all, that it was very important that I spend the evening at home, it was my Mother's birthday. I was insistent, and, finally, she laughed, "Well, to tell you the truth that's one time when I always try to stay home, too." 247 P in the little room that Letty and I shared I wrapped the gift I had for Mother with almost a feeling of shame. It wasn't nearly good enough for her, not nearly so good as the little card that Letty was coloring. That evening after dinner we handed our presents to Mother, as she sat at the head of the table. Her hair was shiny in the light of the candles on the cake that Daddy had brought her, and she looked at everything with joy and happiness, but I knew that the expression I had wanted to see would come when Letty made her presentation. She thanked me with a smile of delight, but I was quietly waiting— waiting for the best moment of all. Letty shyly came up beside Mother and laid the card in her hand and brought out a little bunch of violets fastened with a pretty yellow satin ribbon to a lace doilie that I had seen in a store for five pennies. She pinned it very carefully to Mother's collar, and stepped back, beaming. Mother read the verse, and the tears welled up in her deep eyes, but she smiled with that joy and pride and love for which I had been waiting. Letty had given Mother the very best present of all. She had given her an afternoon of leisure and enjoyment. She had given her the rainbow and the beauty of the bed of violets, but above all, she had given of herself—so sweetly and so unconsciously in her little card of love. So you see, dear Diary, I learned a lesson from Letty today. It isn't how much you give nor how much it cost, but what you give of yourself. Sypical British Recipes Submitted by Elaine Reiser IR1ish VEGETABLE TARTLETS % Ib. Short pastry (pie crust dough) 1 oz. Grated cheese salt and pepper young carrots (as desired) 1 cup shelled young peas Irish potatoes (as desired) yolk of 1 egg % pint white sauce 1 tbsp. Lemon juice Time: About 30 minutes. Temperature for pastry: 425° F. Serves 4. Scrape young carrots and dice enough to fill a breakfast cup, and the same quantity of new Irish potatoes. Boil these and the peas separately until done. Roll out the pastry, sprinkle it with very finely grated cheese. Fold and roll out again. Cover the outsides of well-greased patty pans with the dough and bake at 425° F. Make % pint of ordinary white sauce, season it well with salt and pepper, stir in the beaten yolk of an egg and stir over very gentle heat for three minutes, Then add the lemon juice. See that cooked vegetables are well drained, and mix them with this sauce. Slip the tins out of the cooked pastry cases, fill them with the vegetables and serve very hot. WeELsuH RAREBIT 6 oz. Cheese % tsp. Salt and half that of pepper % tsp. Mustard 2 tbsp. Cream or milk 1 oz. Butter or margarine 4 slices hot buttered toast Time: 5 to 10 minutes. 'Temperature: low. Serves 4. Put the butter in a small saucepan and when it has melted mix with it the pepper, salt, and mustard, the cream, and finely grated cheese. Stir over very gentle heat until it is a smooth mixture, but do not let it boil. Spread the mixture thickly on the toast and serve at once, or brown under a grill if preferred. Suet Puppinc % Ib. Suet pinch of salt % Ib. Flour; 1 tsp. Baking powder % pint milk or water "2 Oz. Margarine or dripping Time: 3 hours. Temperature: moderate, 350°. Serves 4. Shred the suet very finely. Sift the flour with the baking powder and add the suet. Mix to a rather soft dough with milk or water. Turn it into well-greased basin, cover with waxed paper, and steam for three hours. INEXPENSIVE CurisTMas PuppDING % Ib. Flour ¥% Ib. Breadcrumbs % Ib. Suet % |b. Raisins % Ib. Currants 2 oz. Candied peel 1 tsp. Mixed spice 6 oz. Molasses 1 tsp. Baking powder 2 eggs 1 tbsp. Milk 1 oz. Dripping or margarine Time: 8 hours. Temperature: moderate, 350° F. Serves 8 to 10. Grate the suet finely. Mix the flour with the baking powder and spice and sift Page 248 TYPICAL BRITISH RECIPES 249 them. Cut raisins finely. Slice or grate peel. Add fruit and suet to the flour and mix thoroughly. Whisk the eggs well, then beat them into the other ingredients. Warm the molasses, add the milk to it and beat this in. When evenly mixed, turn into wellgreased bowl, cover with waxed paper, then with a cloth and boil for eight hours. Store in a cool, dry place, with plenty of air. ScottTisH SCONES 2% c. Flour 1 tbsp. Sugar 2 tsp. Baking powder 2 eggs buttermilk to mix Time: about 10 minutes. Temperature: hot, 400° F. Mix the sugar, baking powder, and flour together, add the beaten eggs, and, by degrees, enough buttermilk (about 1% cups) to make a thin batter. It must be carefully mixed, so that it is free from lumps. Drop the batter a little at a time on a griddle, cook for about five minutes, turning them when ready. These scones are eaten piping hot with butter, and honey if desired. MInT JELLY (To serve with lamb) 4 Ib. Sharp-flavored cooking apples 1 Ib. Preserving sugar to every pint of juice 12 good sprays mint Time: about 1 hour. 'Temperature: moderate, 350° F. Wash the apples and cut them in small pieces, but do not peel or core them. Put them in a stewpan with enough water to cover and simmer until they are quite soft. Do not stir them, for to look nice this jelly should be very clear. When soft, turn into a sieve to drain and leave until they have ceased to dnp. Then put the juice into a stewpan. Bruise the mint and add it, stalks as well as leaves. Simmer for ten minutes. Then strain the juice, measure it, and put it into a preserving pan with the sugar, and boil until it jellies when tested. Add a few drops of green coloring, but be careful not to overdo it; it should be a pale green. Remove the excess foam which has boiled to the top. Pour into small, dry pots and cover when cold. GREEN TOMATO CHUTNEY 2 lb. Green tomatoes 1 Ib. Brown sugar 2 Ib. Green apples ¥, Jb. Small raisins % oz. Whole ginger 6 red chili peppers 2 oz. Garlic 1 pint vinegar Time: about 1 hour. Temperature: moderate, 350° F. Quarter the tomatoes. Peel and core the apples and cut them in pieces; peel the garlic. Mx these ingredients together and put them through a grinder. Put the mixture into a preserving pan; add the sugar, raisins, chili, peppers, vinegar and the ginger tied in a small bag of muslin. Bring slowly to the boil, then simmer until thick and soft. Remove the ginger and squeeze out as much juice as possible. Pour into hot, dry jars and cover with paraffin. Josef Muench GERANIUMS Old-Fashioned Flowers in Modern Gardens Dorthea N. Newbold Garden Editor, Deseret News and Telegram HETHER you live in an apartment, in a house on a city lot, or whether your home is located on a farm or ranch, you can have a garden. Gardening may be practiced on a large scale with hired help, or on a much smaller scale by caring for a few plants on a window sill. Gardening will bring pleasure and relaxa- 357) Page 2 tion to the gardener, for the contact with growing plants reawakens our hope and faith in the future. Working with soil and seeds brings a serenity into our busy lives. Our grandmothers must have realized and enjoyed the healing influence when working with growing plants. Though their cabins were located many hundreds of miles OLD-FASHIONED FLOWERS from cities, and possibly set down in the middle of the desert, the pioneer woman struggled to have her own garden. She not only raised vegetables to vary the daily meals she prepared, but she also cultivated annual and _ perennial flowers to satisfy her craving for beauty. Who could imagine a cabin without a row of geraniums on the window sills? Geraniums Usually those pioneer women had two types of geraniums — the type which we know as the zonal geraniums, and the scented geraniums. Generally the zonal geraniums were propagated by slips handed from one neighbor to another, rooted in a bit of soil, or it might be that one was fortunate enough to secure a few seeds and start them into growth. Every plant that grew would produce a different colored flower — and weren't those women delighted if they were so fortunate as to get an apple-blossom pink, or a rose pink! While the scented geraniums were easy to grow from slips, the blooms were not pretty — but they were a desirable house plant because their foliage was aromatic. At jellymaking time, the leaves were picked, washed carefully, and one leaf was placed in the bottom of each jelly glass. Hot jelly poured over them would bring out the aromatic oils and would give the jelly an enticing flavor. Leaves of the scented geraniums and of lavender were gathered, and dried, and spread between the household linens. Often tiny sachet bags were made for the same 251 purpose. One wonders just what those homemakers would say if they could have their choice from among the more than forty varieties of scented geraniums that are on the markets today. Zinnias 'The zinnias that our grandmothers raised were not exactly spectacular garden subjects. Zinnias have been greatly improved by plant hybridizers, and, in the process, have traveled around the world. Zinnias are natives of Mexico. Johann Gottfried Zinn, a German botanist and Doctor of Medicine, found them in the hills of Mexico in 1757. Seeds were gathered and taken back to Europe, and were grown in just a few gardens. The Dorthea Newbold SALMON BEAUTY PEONY As seen in the Luzon Crosby gardens, Orem, Utah 252 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1956 Dorthea Newbold SHAGGY CACTUS-FLOWERED ZINNIAS plants were rather weedy-looking things, blooms were a single row of petals of a magenta-purple color with a cone-like center. In Oude, India, in about 1853, the first "break" in zinnias occutred. A gardener there found the first double flower. Seeds were gathered and some were sent to Paris, where, in 1856, just one hundred years ago, the first double zinnias were exhibited. In 1861, zinnias, double and two and onehalf inches in diameter were advertised in an English gardening catalog. The next move was to the North American Continent. Here, plant hybridizers have continued their work on zinnias until now we have them in a rainbow of colors, and in just about every size from the tiny ones an inch in diameter, to huge ones that measure six inches across. Fabulous, spectacular, superior, dazzling — these words are necessary to use to describe the new beauties. Hardy Roses As civilization made the western march, the women found that some types of flowers could endure the long trip and would soon put down roots in the new home. Harrison's yellow rose, an easy to grow Juneblooming rose, is to be found in every section of our great country. It could and does endure the extremes of high or low altitudes, alkali or acid soil, extreme heat or cold. The moss roses, which every pioneer woman longed to have in her garden, have now become choice OLD-FASHIONED FLOWERS items in a collector's garden. It is quite the fashion to grow the old-fashioned roses. Some have a garden filled with the older types, others use many of the new hybrid tea roses, and then plant a few of the older kinds for background. But, wherever they are found growing, they put on an annual display in June — and they earn their spot in the garden. Lilacs Lilacs and peonies, snowballs and sweet Williams, "pinks" and hollyhocks were also found in those gardens of long ago. Lilacs, either white or purple, with their wonderful fragrance, could be set out in any type of soil or climate and would become perfectly happy and thriving plants. Today, there are hundreds of varieties for us to select from, and they, too, are just as easy to grow as was the old-type lilac vulgaris. 253 Peonies The varieties of peonies number well into the hundreds today, and fortunate was the pioneer gardener who had a start of the old "Piney." Many of those plants, set out long years ago, are still growing and blooming, for peonies are just as tugged as were some. Of the gardeners who planted them. Well-grown plants of the newest varieties will attain four feet in height — and almost that in diameter, while blooms will be ten to twelve inches ACTOSS. Our grandmothers were able to have gardens with the types of flowers that were available to them. Today, with a wide selection of plants, and hundreds of different varieties where there used to be but one, we should really have wonderful gardens — yes, and we should have a wonderful time while we are gardening. > Remember Joday Daphne Jemmett When we are caught in life's swift stream— No turning back to drift or dream, When different paths our feet will find— And miss the ones we've left behind, I'll hold this day fast in my heart To light the years when we're apart. Pll see the hills across the sea— The gray gulls dip — the winds blow free, The white sails fill before the breeze; P'll warm my heart from days like these. She Relief Society Magazine —acieet/ile Messenger " Emily C, Pollei Magazine Representative, Emigration Stake, Salt Lake City, Utah [Talk Presented in the Magazine Department Meeting at the Annual General Relief Society Conference, September 29, 1955] N speaking to you today, dear sisters, I am reminded of the words of a famous trial lawyer who was asked to explain his success with juries. He replied, "First, I tell them what I am going to tell them, then I tell them, and then _I tell them what I have told them." Such an approach should sell The Relief Society Magazine. Each one of us is here today because of a calling to serve in our Church, and I, for one, am very grateful for this privilege of being a stake Magazine representative. I had just been released from being a ward president when I was asked to be the Magazine representative on the stake board. At the first board meeting I attended, I noticed that I was made very welcome, but, really, the other departments had much to discuss and took the attention of the president. I knew then that this was really a challenging position and it was up to me to earn all of the respect I could for our Magazine department. My former ward Magazine representative encouraged me by telling me how much I had assisted her. She said every opportunity I had, I had been enthusiastic about the Magazine being brought to the attention of the members. She reminded me that after I had made my visits to new members or any inactive members, Page 254 I would call and report to her, giving her information that would help her in selling the Magazine to them, such as hobbies, interests, and any talents the prospects might possess. Effective Selling by Visual Aids Now, I know that this Relief Society Magazine selling and reselling is a tremendous job, and I am doing everything in my power to help my ward representatives so that they can do effective selling all twelve months of the year. Because of our inexperience, we must study selling techniques and present them at union meeting. A thousand words will not make us understand as will one picture. The optic nerve which carries impressions from the eye to the brain is eight times as large as the auditory nerve which carries impressions from the ear to the brain. The power of concentration is very short, and if we have attractive posters around the Relief Society room, when the mind wanders, as it sometimes does even in the best of us, these posters will attract attention and suggest a worthwhile thought. Never use very many posters at one time, as too many are confusing. All these posters we make could be made by the ward representatives in union meeting and then used interchangeably in the stake. Other suggestive ways of mentioning the Magazine are writ- THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE— ing poems and themes of lessons on the blackboard. Bulletin boards can be used or even placing information in a ward news letter helps. Aids in Selling In our stake we have used two letters which are mailed to the homes, one to appeal to the new mothers, and the other to the working mothers. We also collect a good supply of old copies of the Magazine and send one out to a nonsubscriber; two or three days later, we follow up with a visit. Another tool we use in selling those whom we contact is to carry. With us a loose-leaf notebook on our calls, with the twelve Magazine covers and indexes enclosed in cellophane folders. Also, we are watchful for suggestions to be gained through other advertising, such as from bus ads, letters, signboards, and magazines. Promotional Work First, remember to work closely with the stake Relief Society presidency; second, begin the fall season with great enthusiasm; third, outline a program for the coming year. Before starting the fall season, the stake Magazine representative, with the approval of the stake Relief Society presidency, might invite all the ward representatives, with their ward presidents, to a special meeting or social and there give definite instructions and exchange ideas, making sure that each representative realizes the full responsibility of her duties. 'Then the first union meeting could be used as a workshop to get ready for the beginning of the October meetings. It is advisable to use discretion in promotional work, giving special emphasis to the Magazine in a regular Relief Society meeting about three times a year, as highlights. Recognition of Magazine Representatives The January work meeting day might be an excellent occasion for recognizing the ward Magazine representatives. The entire program could be planned around various aspects of the Magazine, its special features and its departments. The luncheon tables might be decorated with pictures or motifs taken from the Magazine. 'The favors, also, could be worked out to represent the versatility and the usefulness of the various sections of the Magazine. Some suggestions for seasonal parties, which might be applied to a Magazine theme, are given in the article "A Party That's Different" (Relief Society Magazine, FebTuary 1953, page 101). At one of the spring union meetings, the stake president could acknowledge the stake Magazine representative for her accomplishments, then, in turn, the stake Magazine representative could express her gratitude for the support and success the ward Magazine representatives achieved. Here is an opportunity for the ward sisters to respond and give testimonies of their callings. Using the Magazine As a Theme For the Anniversary observance, or for the closing social in the spring, the theme of the party could well be planned with the Magazine as the center of interest, since its "A MESSENGER" 255 256 contents embody all phases of Relief Society work, as well as the interests and hobbies of women in their homes. 'The November 1953 Magazine lists a large number of excellent programs, plays, and _pageants which may be secured from the office of the general board for fifteen cents each. (See pages 745-.) The series "Adventures in Glass," by Alberta H. Christensen, presented in the Magazine during 1952 and 1953 contains a wealth of material which might well serve as RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1956 a theme for a most enjoyable and instructive luncheon or other program. Repetition of the words Relief Society Magazine will forever make us conscious of its worth. I am convinced that it is the mouthpiece of Relief Society, and, if I will study the words therein, it will give me knowledge and understanding to rear my family, and my family will receive inspiration and knowledge from its contents. Her Gif Della Adams Leitner She took the odds and ends of things That others throw away, And by her alchemy of skill She fashioned them till they Were something useful, something bright, From counterpane to toy; Creative knack, a talent used To share a wealth of joy. And not alone material, But time she valued, too; The moments some might waste she used And from them something new Of service, comfort, help came forth; And so her life became A fountainhead of happiness And many blessed her name. Si t ouble Celia Luce pee trouble bring blessings with it? The argument has raged all down the centuries. Yet there is surely one blessing that trouble brings. It puts small annoyances into their proper place, far into the background, and gives one a sense of proportion. It teaches one the singing happiness of just an ordinary trouble-free day, a day with one's husband and children near and well, and a small part of the world's work to do. A day free of great trouble is a gem to be turned slowly in the mind so that its every sparkle is savored and brings the deep, glorious satisfaction it should. Ella Randall Lewis Pieces Quilts for Happiness | ara Randall Lewis, eighty-nine years old, of Tempe, Arizona, pieces quilts that bring happiness to her and joy and comfort to those who are privileged to have the beautiful quilts in their homes. Many quilts pieced and quilted by Sister Lewis have been donated to the Relief Society, and she has worked on hundreds of others in company with her sisters in Relief Society meetings. "Busy fingers make happy hearts," is a philosophy of life that has meant much to Sister Lewis, for even when she is bedfast, her fingers can still ply the needle and her stitches are small and even — measured in beauty. Sister Lewis is an expert at hand and machine sewing, and at one time she owned a loom and wove many beautiful rugs. She has served for many years in various official capacities in Relief Society, contributing much time and effort towards the success of the work meeting program. She has five children, fourteen grandchildren, and twentyone great-grandchildren, Sear Ts a Habit Anne S. W. Gould F&Yer destroys most people's happiness. Away with fear, it is your worst enemy. Don't entertain it, put in its place courage, hope, and love. Fear really is a habit and a foolish one. Emerson said, "Never set sail to a fear." Page 257 The Day Before the Wedding Dorothy Boys Kilian T four o'clock Janie Marston adjusted the last pair of flowered chintz draperies on their rod, stepped down off the ladder and sighed with satisfaction. It had been a frantically full day, the one before her wedding, but what fun — arranging everything just the way she wanted it in this first home of her very own. Hers and Dean's, she amended warmly as she heard a car turn into the drive outside. This is the way it would be, always and _ forever, after tomorrow — listening for his coming in the evening, running to greet her husband. Starry-eyed, Janie forgot how tired she was, as she hurried eagerly to the back door. Looking down the steps, she stared in amazement at the big, orange crate-filled trailer attached on behind the familiar blue convertible. "Hi, darling," Dean called up as he stepped out of the car. "Just picked this stuff up at the Railway Express." He waved an arm breezily toward the load behind him. Janie glanced wildly around the tiny apartment, mentally measuring the capacity of its little cupboards, its two skimpy closets. "What on earth's in all those boxes?" she asked apprehensively as her lanky, sandy-haired young man bounded up the steps. Dean grinned. "Don't you know, little girl, that curiosity once killed a cat?" He was close to her now, and Page 258 Janie felt his arm come around her © tight. For a delicious moment she forgot everything but the dear nearness of this man who was going to be hers, hers completely. Finally, though, she lifted her head and looked over his shoulder. "But, really, Dean, what is all that stuff? I thought we'd brought everything except the wedding presents over here this morning." "It's boxes of my own things Mother just sent on from Sacramento," Dean explained. "She's had 'em stored in the attic ever since I left home." He chuckled. "T'll bet she's glad to be able to palm 'em off on you." "Things?" Janie echoed blankly. "Honey, you may not know it, but you're marrying a pack rat," Dean called back cheerfully as he disappeared down the stairs to the trailer. As Janie watched in_ bewilderment, he came staggering back up with a huge cardboard carton. Setting it down with a thud that made the floor lamp dance, he said, "I know right where to put this load. Thought of it when the landlady was showing us the apartment." He reached down and took hold of the handles of a large flat drawer in the bottom of the studio couch. "She said that place was for blanket storage," Janie reminded him gently. She didn't know exactly what was in that box, but it certainly wasn't bedding. "Blankets?" Dean muttered THE DAY BEFORE THE WEDDING vaguely. "Oh, yes, we'll put 'em somewhere. But, look what a great place this will be for our prize specimens!" He swept open the drawer and began depositing in it the contents of the box. "Rocks!" Janie breathed. EAN sat back on his heels and smiled. "I suppose you might call them that, if you didn't know anything about them," he conceded tolerantly. "Actually, they're the cream of my mineral collection." "And all those other boxes?" Janie's eyebrows were rising higher by the second. "Oh, other hobby stuff. Boy, it'll be fun to get back to em," Dean answered enthusiastically. Janie stared at this man whom she had thought she knew so well. "T didn't realize you had all these interests," she said slowly. "The truth is," Dean laughed, shutting the rock drawer with a slam, "since I came here to Bakersfield six months ago, I've been so busy trying to add you to my collection that I haven't had time for any of my hobbies." Janie frowned. So she was just his newest hobby, was she? "If you're worrying about where to put the blankets," Dean. Said, "T've got just the solution." He ran out of the room. A couple of minutes later there was a great thumping and bumping on the stairs and he reappeared, dragging his wardrobe trunk into the apartment. "We can put this in the bedroom closet and use it for a storage chest," he puffed. "Matter of fact, I don't think there'll be room for it in the garage 259 anyway, after I get my work bench installed." "That huge thing won't fit in there," Janie wailed. "Sure it will,' Dean said confidently.. ""Let's see." He strode into the bedroom and wrenched open the closet door. "It'll fit if you put this thing somewhere else," he announced, backing out with a bulging full-length garment bag. "But those are my winter coats!" "Well, chuck 'em in the trunk, along with a lot of other things." "This bag has already been mothproofed," Janie protested, with the vehemence of a person who's beginning to feel pushed around. For a moment Dean looked baffled. 'Then he plopped the bag on the couch and put his arms around her. "This housekeeping business is pretty complicated, isn't it?' he teased fondly. "But, honey, together, we can lick any problem in the world." He gave her a quick hug and started out of the room. "I'm going down to get the rest of the boxes," he called back. "Why don't you take the coats back to your mother's for awhile? It'll be months before you'll need 'em." "Men!" Janie groaned. For the first time since about the age of twelve, she felt a sweeping exasperation for the whole male sex. HEN Dean came back into the room she took a deep breath. "Let's finish up the kitchen," she said doggedly, moving over toward a carton of pans. "Can you carry this last box of stuff out there?" "Sure thing," Dan agreed. He picked up the box with one hand and pushed open the swinging door 260 " with the other. "Say," he exclaimed as he stared around the bright, yellow-walled room. "I can keep my photo-developing gear in this top cupboard. With running water and all," he turned on the tap, "the kitchen will do for a dark room!" Janie smiled, a frigid, set smile which should have frozen the dripping water into an icicle. "There's always the chance," she said acidly, "that I might open a can of Hypo for supper some night." "No, you won't," Dean answered seriously, "Because I'm going to show you what all the stuff is, and how to use it. It'll be fun having an assistant." He lifted an eyebrow and grinned at her. "Interesting possibilities here — two people like us in a dark room together...." He started towards her. "Oh, go away!" Janie burst out crossly. She could feel the tears coming into her eyes. Dean was still standing close to her, a puzzled expression on his face. "Janie..." he began uncertainly. "T don't want to know how to develop pictures," Janie almost shouted. "I don't even know whether I want to...." She stopped, horrified at what she'd been about to say. Now she was sure she was going to cry. It would have been such a comfort to lay her head against Dean's solid shoulder and have it out. But, no, she couldn't very well do that when he was the cause of it.... "T'm all mixed up," she finished lamely. "Just leave me alone." "All right, Janie," Dean said quietly. "I know you're tired. [ll RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1956 go clean up the living room." He went out, letting the door swing shut after him with a definite ph-lupp. Through her tears, Janie stared. Up at the high cupboard. "It'll be fun having an assistant," she echoed under her breath. She saw herself mixing his Hypo for him, dusting his rocks, spending lonely hours upstairs while he banged around at his work bench in the garage below. Perhaps he's getting married just so he'll have a place to park his junk, she thought wildly. Right then and there she knew she had to have it out with him. She gave the swinging door a violent push. It gave an inch or two and then refused to budge. She pushed harder, to no avail. "Dean," she called in a panic. "This door — it won't open." "Wait a minute,'' Dean answered soothingly from the other side. "Guess I put one too many under the rug here." She heard a shuffling noise. "Now try it," he told her. ANIE gave a determined push and practically fell into the living room. Dean was down on his hands and knees rolling up a brightly colored sheet of heavy paper. "One too many what?" Janie exploded. "Maps," Dean said briefly. "This one's of Central Europe, with boundaries as they were in 1870. Temporarily, we can store them flat under the rugs." "Of all the crazy things.... "Mom had wall-to-wall carpeting all over the house,'"' Dean went on " THE DAY BEFORE THE WEDDING disgustedly. "So I had to keep my maps folded up. But here in our own place," his face brightened, "we'll keep things the way they should be kept." He crawled over to the other side of the rug. "Maybe I can get this one under this side," he muttered. Things the way they should be kept! Janie, breathing hard, looked over at the blanket drawer full of rocks, through the open bedroom door at the big black trunk jammed into the closet, and then down at the bulging rug. Suddenly, staring at the floor, her eyes focused on the front. Page of an old newspaper in which one of the maps had been wrapped. "Playboy Sued for Divorce," the headlines screamed. Feeling, at this moment, an uncomfortably personal interest in marital problems, she leaned over to read the finer type. "Out every night," the article went on. "Returning home in the wee hours. No interests at home, although he gave his wife his complete and devoted attention at first...." 261 Janie stopped reading and slowly straightened up. She looked over at Dean, still busily fussing with that map. She tried to visualize him bored with life, going out on the town for excitement. The picture just wouldn't come into focus. All she could see was her husband happily puttering around with some prints in a blacked-out kitchen — and, yes, Janie, herself, handing him the Hypo. She laughed shakily. Dean looked over at her. "It does seem kind of silly, stuffing the maps under here," he conceded. "But it won't be for long, honey. We have a lot of cozy evenings coming up; we'll get around to framing them soon. All right?" He smiled beseechingly. All at once Janie felt the panic in her being washed away by a warm, enveloping wave of tolerance and tenderness. She walked quickly across the room to Dean and dropped down beside him. "Yes, darling,' she said happily, as his arms opened to receive her, "everything's all right." —— She Kingbird Ethel Jacobson His court is the orchard on the hill, His throne is a peach-tree bough; A ruby winks from the sable crown That graces his royal brow. In robes of velvet, ermine-trimmed, He watches with lively eye Over his feathered colony, Watches the wide blue sky That no marauding hawk or crow May swoop with threatening wing While a small bird sits on a peach-tree bough, A guardian and a king! Willard Luce MONTEZUMA WELL, ARIZONA _ Alternate 89 Willard Luce and Prescott, Arizona, Alternate 89 presents interesting scenery, including colorful Oak Creek Canyon, three important Indian ruins — Montezuma Well, Montezuma Castle, and Tuzigoot— the mining town of Jerome, and Granite Dells. Alternate 89 has certain disadvantages, as much of it is through low country, which is blistering hot in summer; and a lot of it is mountainous, with steep grades and sharp Page 262 R ima res between Flagstaff curves, making it a slow road. Flagstaff is in high, big-timber country, and the first thirteen and a half miles of alternate 89 wind through huge growths of Ponderosa, Douglas fir, and quaking aspen. Then the road comes to Lookout Point, 2000 feet above Oak Creek. On both sides, the walls of Oak Creek Canyon are timber covered with the white and red of the Coconino sandstone showing through the deep green of the timber. Far below, Oak Creek and the highway ALTERNATE 89 become lost beneath the dense covering of pine, sycamore, and aspen. Sedona, located at the mouth of Oak Creek Canyon, is a tourist and movie production center. Here the sandstone formations are more individualistic, more easily photographed and more spectacular. Seventeen miles from Sedona a paved road leaves Alternate 89, taking you to the two sections of Montezuma Castle National Monument. Montezuma Well looks like a miniature volcanic crater with a small lake inside. Around the ledge between the top of the crater and the water, are several cliff dwellings. Pg Willard Luce TUZIGOOT NATIONAL MONUMENT NEAR 263 Montezuma Well is actually a spring which pours out 1,000 gallons of water every minute. 'Today, even as 800 years ago, the water is used for irrigation. By the museum, ancient irrigation ditches are coated with lime. Montezuma Castle is well preserved and beautifully located high up on the cream and _ buff-colored limestone ledge facing Beaver Creek. Back on Alternate 89, your next stop will be at 'Tuzigoot, a pueblolike fort of 110 rooms. 'Tuzigoot faces the Verde River from a hill a few miles south of Clarkdale. Six miles and 1100 feet up MinCLARKDALE, ARIZONA 264 Willard Luce GOVERNOR'S HOUSE, PIONEER SQUARE, PRESCOTT, ARIZONA Prescott was the first territorial capital of Arizona. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1956 The Governor's House was built in 1864. To the right is a corner of the Sharlot Hall Museum. In the foreground are Indian and pioneer grindstones and millstones. Gus Mountain from Clarkdale is Jerome, now advertised as Arizona's newest ghost town. A quarter of a century ago it boasted a population of 15,000; today there are only a few hundred people left. Since 1925 Jerome has been slipping down Mingus Mountain at the rate of about four and a half inches per year. Huge cracks have appeared in the earth, and small buildings have been condemned and torn down. From Jerome, Alternate 89 climbs on up through the different zones of plant life, until it finally reaches big timber again, coming to an elevation of 7,029. From here the highway drops once more. It crosses Chino Valley and rejoins U. S. 89 at Granite Dells. The Dells is a jumble of granite boulders and mounds, scrambled up in a haphazard manner to form a gigantic rock garden. Huge shade trees line Granite Creek and the man-made pools which are used for boating, fishing, and swimming. Beneath the trees are picnicking tables. You are now back on U. S. 80. Whichever way you are going, it is interesting to drive the six miles southward to Prescott, first territorial capital of Arizona. ALTERNATE 89 Here at Pioneer Square is the old Governor's House, a long structure built in 1864, now a museum housing a collection of household utensils, firearms, and furniture. Back of the Governor's House is the Sharlot Hall Museum, which houses a library of pioneer printed material. 265 Two log cabins stand on Pioneer Square, one a replica of a pioneer home, the other, a reproduction of the first cabin in Prescott. Well, there it is, Alternate So, an interest filled ninety-two miles— plus a little extra for side trips. Happiness Now Wilma Boyle Bunker Fe many of us are guilty of postponing our happiness until the future. Too many of us say, ""Tomorrow I will do some of the things I would like to do today." If we are ever to enjoy life, now is the time, not tomorrow, not next year, nor in some future life.... Today should be our most wonderful day. We can find time to read; we can study music; we can take the children on a picnic or try out a new recipe; we can try to learn to mold a clay ballerina or write a sonnet. Are we so practical that we forget to dream? Are we so absorbed in making a living or running a home or saving a dollar that we cease to invest in our dreams? It is important that we plan for the days to come, that we prepare as best we can for the future, but if we wait to enjoy life until we think everything is in order, we may find it is too late. Time has struck off yesterday; tomorrow as yet does not exist; we are sure only of today, so let us find our happiness now, this day, this hour, Sacred Ground Ida Isaacson Sacred, gull-laden land, With breath of mint and grass. What shall I leave thee, When I pass? My footfall is so light, Will no trace or print be found? Tell those who follow after That I loved this sacred ground. Vernessa M. Nagle ASPENS, NEAR THE SAN FRANCISCO PEAKS, ARIZONA She Aspen Grove Vernessa Miller Nagle AN aspen grove in spring symbolizes the eternal pattern of rebirth. As bare, angular limbs show green under dark bark, the prophecy of life renewed is manifest. Dignity in adaptation is signified in an aspen grove in summer. Here is yielding, yet purposeful adjustment, a reaching for the heights. Pliant leaves catching the breeze, never still on the quietest of summer days, symbolize life's constant unrest, as they become attuned with a throbbing world. Life's fruition is seen in the blending of riotous coloring of an aspen grove in fall. Flaming beauty represents achievement crowned in glory. Lavish with their gifts, aspen trees of burnished hues toss riotous grandeur in a gesture of accomplishment. Stripped of rampant beauty, there remains dignity of age in a winter aspen grove. Beauty is found in silver filigree. Here is resignation without compromise. Unbowed, with roots secure, life's benediction comes in the peace and quiet of winter's sunset hour. Page 266 There Is Still Time CHAPTER 3 Margery S. Stewart Synopsis: Elizabeth Anderson is disturbed by a strange dream in which she sees herself and her friends walking on crutches. She tells the dream to Brent, her husband, and explains to him that something is. Lacking in their family — a spiritual oneness. Brent, however, is so interested in making money that he does not wish to understand Elizabeth's plea. Brent receives a letter from his brother David requesting that Brent take their mother into his home. Elizabeth | surprises her husband and children by insisting that Grandmother Anderson is welcome to come and live with them, 'but after the Grandmother arrives, Elizabeth realizes that living with her will not be easy. RANDMA Anderson was not G to be awed by the size of the house, nor the swimming pool. "Seems to me some people could make better use of their money," she sniffed. She met Matilda head up, flags flying. Elizabeth shuddered at the covert measuring glance that passed between the two. Grandma Anderson sniffed the air. "Apple pie as I live and breathe." She took a deeper breath, and triumph lighted her face. "Too much cinnamon." Elizabeth flung herself into the breach. "Just the way I like apple pie." "There's them as like apple pie spicy, and there's them as likes apple pie baby like," said Matilda gently. "Next time I'll bake one special, just for you." Elizabeth shot her a glance of gratitude and turned Grandma Anderson to the stairs. In the room that was to be hers, Grandma Anderson was abruptly silent. She touched the satin headboard of the bed with gentle hands, "Pretty, isn't it?" She sat down in the little padded rocking chair and closed her eyes. "You have your own private balcony," Elizabeth said. She flung open the French doors. "You can watch it get morning from your bed.", Grandma Anderson's eyes flew open. "Spend the morning in bed! Not I, let me tell you. I've spent my whole life getting up at five, and I don't expect to change for anyone." "Brent likes to sleep until seven," Elizabeth interpolated gently. "Picked up that lazy habit since his marriage. Believe me, when he was home with me, he was up at five just like the rest of us. I remember how he hated it... One time...." "Seven," repeated Elizabeth firmly. "Now, this is your castle. No one can'come in at all, except with your permission." ".-, So I told him then, 'Son,' I said, 'as long as you are under my roof....'" She stopped short, digested her own words, gave Elizabeth a sudden, rueful, understanding smile. "Seven, it is." Elizabeth smiled back. '""Would you like to rest until lunch time, Page 267 268 and then we'll get after those flowers?" "Mind you don't cut them now. Seems to me I remember once you cut flowers and didn't put them right into water...." "Tl wait," said Elizabeth meekly, and closed the door. She thought of the evening ahead and apprehension gripped her. HE dinner had been arranged for twelve people. Grandma Anderson's coming made it thirteen. Brent fussed and worried about this until Elizabeth solved the situation by having Elaine join them. Elaine was sulky about it, dreading the boredom of older people. Grandma Anderson came down just as the guests were arriving. She looked small and frail and quaint in the voile dress with its crocheted collar and the big broach at her throat. She beamed on each new guest and shook hands heartily. "Pleased to meet you, Mr. Ames." She peered up into his flushed, heavy face. "You certainly remind me of a man back home... Olaf Swenson, the butcher...." "Mother!" Brent's voice was sharp. He glared at Elizabeth. Elizabeth pretended not to notice. She hurried the women away to dispose of their wraps. When she returned, Grandma Anderson was happily regaling the still purple Mr. Ames with the hardships of life in a small town in the early nineteen hundreds. Mr. Ames fidgeted. Brent looked ill. Elizabeth heard her own voice getting edgy as she tried to smooth over one illtimed remark after another of Brent's mother. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1956 The evening finally ended. Upstairs in their bedroom, Brent jerked off his tie savagely. "That settles it. That definitely settles it. A rest home. I'll go find one tomorrow." "No." Elizabeth leaned her elbows on her dressing table, rested her face in her palms. "You didn't see her eyes this morning when she saw her room, like a child's on Christmas. We can't do it." She brushed her hair furiously. "I shared her opinion of Mr. Ames." She turned to Brent. "I like your mother, Brent. She's like a nice cold wind from Beaver blowing away a lot of dust." Brent threw down his shirt. "She isn't your mother. She's mine." "She's ours. She is my responsibility just as much as she is yours. Oh, Brent, it's just because we haven't learned how to handle the situation. If we're wise we'll settle it without sending her away. That's defeat." "We can't ask anyone here." "Tl think of some way, one or two nights a week, she might prefer a movie with the twins or Elaine." "She'll want to go with us everywhere." "Tl take her with me and the children." "Matilda will quit." "Let her." Elizabeth looked at Brent. He was in the wrong and he knew it, and he was trying furiously to push her into a corner. Helplessness swept her. Their lives seemed to get more tangled and complicated every day. "What's changing you?" Brent demanded. "You never used to be like this." THERE IS STILL TIME She went to the window, looked out into the night. "Remember the fun we had when we were youngsters, going to Church all the time. You used to be a whiz in basketball. Remember?" Brent came to stand beside her. "Donna told me about the Bible reading and the prayers. I think that's fine, Eliza. A very good idea." She rubbed her face against his shoulder. "It's making such a difference. We used to have. Of course, some mornings they seem bored to tears, but again on another day they want to talk about things for hours." She smiled at him. "Are you ready to join us, Brent? It would make us very happy, me especially." Brent turned away. "I had Church rammed down my throat when I was a kid." "We won't ram anything into you, Brent." He shrugged restlessly. "I've got too much on my mind. It's all right for you and the kids. Help yourselves. But count me out." He smiled warmly. "Don't get me wrong. I believe in things. Let's leave it at that." Against her own better judgment, Elizabeth pressed him. "It's so late, Brent. We've wasted so much time. It takes time, believe me, to grow into the kind of person he would have us be." He flung back the covers and slipped into bed. "I'm worn out. We'll continue this discussion next Michaelmas, how about it?" He turned on his stomach. "T'll look for a rest home in the morning." Elizabeth turned back to the window, snapping off the lamp on her There's more unity than 269 way. The gentle darkness fell around her, hiding her face, her closed eyes, and the tense moving of her lips. Please, let there be some way to keep Grandma Anderson. She needs more than room, more than food, she needs her own around her, to be a part of living. LIZABETH was awakened at two in the morning by the sound of moaning from Grandma Anderson's room. She rose and ran across the hall. "It's my chest," Grandma Anderson panted. "Hurts something awful... Something I ate... That apple pie... Too spicy." "Shh." Elizabeth tried to stop the steady flow of words. She was terrified by the whiteness of Grandma Anderson's face and the blueness of her lips and eyelids. She hurried downstairs and called the doctor, brought up warm water and soda, woke Brent. The doctor came after an interminable wait. Elizabeth watched tensely as he listened, probed, listened again, his face calm, but his movements hurried as he pressed a needle into Grandma Anderson's arm. After a long time he snapped his bag shut, picked it up and motioned Elizabeth and Brent out of the room. 'They followed him downstairs. "She's a very old, little lady," he said, bluntly, "with a heart that should have failed her a long time ago. Keep her happy, keep her mind occupied." He looked at Elizabeth searchingly. "Right now she's going to need nursing, careful, cheerful nursing. Nurses are rather 270 scarce, but perhaps I can find one for you." "T can do it," Elizabeth said firmly. "The children will help me. Pll do the best job I can." After Brent had seen the doctor to the door he came back to stand before Elizabeth. "Call me any name you like," he said heavily, "T'll admit I'd fit into any of them." "You just didn't understand, Brent. You just didn't think." He came to her, buried his face in her hair. "Sometimes I feel that I'm a thousand miles from my base. Help me find my way back." "You'll find it, Brent. We all will, if we try hard enough." He tightened his grip on her. "It's going to be rough on you. She'll make an exacting invalid." "So it's rough," Elizabeth smiled ruefully. "I'm beginning to believe that a smooth passage isn't always the best... Many storms make a good sailor." "You made that up," he accused her. She laughed, "Perhaps I'm going to grow old like other ladies I've seen and bring out my conclusions like mints out of a pocketbook." "Pop them into people's minds?" He held her closer. "You're funny and sweet, and I don't know which is the mostest, as Donna would say." She rested against him for a moment, glad for his stocky strength. "Td better run up and start working at my job." Grandma Anderson opened heavy eyes, the drugs were taking effect. "T knew it. The minute I laid eyes on this little room I knew I'd never get to stay. First I thought you'd RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1956 send me away, like David's wife... But I never figured on this." Elizabeth sat in the little rocker. "You're going to have this little room until you can't stand the sight of it. It's your room, as long as you - want it. You're part of our family like Donna is part, or Johnny, or Jennie." "Part of your family?" Grandma Anderson closed her eyes on a deep breath. "I haven't felt part of a family since my husband Jim died." Her mouth twisted. "Not that some of it isn't my fault. I have the finest family...." T was a long, bitter battle. There were nights when Elizabeth, sitting in the rocker in the small hours of the night, felt death, like fog creep icily through the room. Grandma Anderson was impatient and querulous. "I just don't see why the doctor can't do something for me. No doctor like Doctor Davidson in Beaver. Is it time for my medicine? I declare, if I don't remind you every minute, you'll up and forget." "It won't be time for your medicine for another hour, try to sleep." "In this bed! It's too soft one minute... Too hard the next, not enough room. Slept all my life in a double bed...." On and on it went. Elaine was the one who became almost a right hand to Elizabeth. Elaine, who, tender and _ gentle, helped to bathe the wasted, frail body, who brought pretty trays to tempt Grandma Anderson's appetite, who came in at odd hours of the night to insist that Elizabeth get sleep. THERE JS STILL TIME Elizabeth dared not unburden the strain and the weariness on Brent. He had lost the bid for the tract he had set his heart on building. He was morose, easily infuriated. She endured alone. The one bright moment in the day was the hour after breakfast when Brent had gone and the children, ready for school, knelt with her in prayer. 'There was intensity in their petitions. They had all fallen deeply in love with Grandma Anderson. Sometimes Elizabeth read a psalm that fell like balm on all their hearts. Sometimes she read from Proverbs, and they eyed each other uneasily as the piercing truths touched a tender spot. They began to go to Sunday School. Elizabeth found herself looking forward to Sunday mornings, to the joy that would sweep over her when she saw her children in their places, to the nostalgia when she heard her children sing- 271 ing the songs she had loved as a child. Sacrament services began to be a part of their lives. 'The children made friends easily. Elaine was soon the center of admiring boys and girls, but Elizabeth felt herself utterly alone. She missed Brent so much on these Sunday evenings that she felt he might well be in Singapore or Egypt, for the gulf between them and the pain of it. But he would have none of it. "I don't have the time, Elizabeth. I'm having rough going with that bid I lost and a few other things." "But we have enough." "There's never enough. 'There's always a quota to exceed or keep even with, if a man wants to get ahead." She fled from his pride to the childish murmurings of Donna or to the twins' world of Indians, cowboys, and ships from outer space. (To be continued) i, pril Fin gered Eva Willes Wangsgaard For centuries, the spindrift and the sand Possessed the beach, worn bare beneath the sky, Parched by incessant sun, a desert land Alone with breakers and the curlew's cry. Then, someone, April-fingered, found a moss That clung to creeping sand and held it still Inured to drought and restless waves that toss Their spume in anger at the weather's will. Now beauty lies in robes that dawn might wear; Pink-petaled loveliness erased the dun. First green and then a million blooms were there And iridescent wings reflecting sun, Margarct C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1950, page 278, and the Handbook of Instructions, page 123. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Rita H. Stone SAMOAN MISSION, PESEGA DISTRICT, MOTOOTUA AND NAVU BRANCHES BAZAAR Rita H. Stone, President, Samoan Mission Relief Society, stands beside one of the booths of this successful bazaar. Sister Stone reports: "The women had made hot pads, children's clothing, and pillows; they had block-printed native designs on materials to be used for dresses and shirts, and had also made luncheon cloths and napkins and various other articles. The booth in the picture was made from a few sticks and poles decorated with leaves trom the coconut trees. It was very unique and picturesque. I am very happy with the progress made in our Relief Societies. Our Singing Mothers groups are growing also." Page 272 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 273 Photograph submitted by Ruth Stapley PHOENIX STAKE (ARIZONA) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, January 15, 1956 Rowena Root, the chorister, stands in front at the nght (in dark dress); Joanna Reismann, the organist, stands near the organ, at the left; just above, and at Sister Reismann's left, is Permella Hoggard, First Counselor; at Sister Hoggard's left is Ruth Stapley, President, Phoenix Stake Relief Society. Sixty-five Singing Mothers sang in this chorus for two sessions of the stake conference. Photograph submitted by Amanda Hancock YOUNG STAKE (NEW MEXICO AND COLORADO) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC AT STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE November 20, 1955 Grace B. Wilson, chorister, stands at the right in the second row; at Sister Wilson's right is Beth Christensen, stake organist. Pianist for the occasion, Joan Elliot, stands at the left on the second row. Helen M. Stock, President, Young Stake Relief Society, reports that although the members of this chorus live in widely scattered localities, and their practicing was limited to one session, their singing was most beautiful. 274 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1956 Photograph submitted by Verma B. James EAST PHOENIX STAKE (ARIZONA) VISITING TEACHERS CONVENTION _ November 16, 1955 Stake officers and teachers seated on the floor, left to right: fourth from the left (in dark jumper and white blouse), Betty Rice, organist; Carol Gleove, social science class leader; Carma Merrill, Second Counselor; Maggie Barra, work meeting leader; Hazel Nelson, theology class leader; Verma James, Secretary; Lola Green, President; Reba Bryce, First Counselor. Second row, seated, third from the left: Cora Mack, Magazine representative. These visiting teachers represent seven wards. 'lo honor them, an inspirational program and testimonial was held, and the oldest visiting teacher was recognized and presented with a gift. Photograph submitted by Orena E. Hoover UTAH STAKE, PARK WARD RELIEF SOCIETY HONORS FORMER PRESIDENTS, December 1955 Left to right: Mildred M. Egan, present President; former presidents: Reva Thomas; Eva Weitzeil; Vera Hunter; Josephine Clark; Ada Dalebout. "The Park Ward celebrated its tenth anniversary in December 1955, and at this time the Relief Society held a delightful party honoring the past presidents. Each president and counselor related an interesting or amusing incident which happened during the time she was in office. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 275 "Park Ward was the first ward in the stake to contribute its share to the building fund for the new Relief Society Building.... They obtained their funds by serving banquets to various organizations, among them, the National Governors Convention in 1947 at Aspen Grove, where governors from all the states enjoyed a lovely dinner in the open air, near majestic Mount Timpanogos. 'They expressed their appreciation for a delicious meal so efficiently served to nearly three hundred people in just twenty minutes, enabling them to keep their schedule on their tour. It was a memorable occasion for all. The Relief Society continued their dinner projects and furnished the Relief Society room and kitchen of the beautiful new chapel which they are now enjoying." Orena E. Hoover is president of Utah Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Aliene N. Bloxham HUMBOLDT STAKE (NEVADA), BATTLE MOUNTAIN BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY ORGANIZED, January 29, 1956 Front row, seated, left to right: Thelma Welch, Secretary; Marva Elquist, Second Counselor; Louise Sellers, President; Joan Swackhammer, First Counselor. Second row, seated, left to right: Marvelle Edgar; Lillian Potter; Dorothy Sargent; Zelma Keel. Back row, standing, left to right: Alice Hyde; Leola Edgar; Mary Littledyke, Second Counselor, Humboldt Stake Relief Society; Alta Sorensen, First Counselor, Humboldt Stake Relief Society; Aliene N. Bloxham, President, Humboldt Stake Relief Society; Elder Emerson H. Potter, President, Battle Mountain Branch. Sister Bloxham reports satisfaction and happiness in the organization of this branch Relief Society: 'I am happy to report the newly organized Relief Society of the Battle Mountain Branch. We were fortunate in having all our stake presidency there. The stake Relief Society executives were there also, except for the secretary. The spirit of th Lord was surely with us, and we felt the power of the Priesthood. There are between thirty and thirty-five women living in the area and we are in hopes of having them as members of our Relief Society." 276 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1956 Photograph submitted by Betty Jo C. Reiser ROSE PARK STAKE (SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH) PRESENTS DRAMA "RIDERS TO THE SEA" The cast, left to nght: Bartley—Dan Monson; Nora—Marion Huston; Maurya— Ione Tippetts; Cathleen—Beverly Berntsen. President Betty Jo C. Reiser, reports: "John Millington Synge's 'Riders to the Sea,' a part of the December literature lesson, rated special treatment in the new Rose Park Stake, with a full production under the direction of Verda Mae Christensen, stake literature class leader. It rated special praises, too, from the two hundred Relief Society women from the five Rose Park wards attending. Sister Christensen had her first experience in directing a play cast primarily of adult women — loyal Relief Society women — and reports it was a most wonderful group. Sister Ione Tippetts, who played Maurya, has seven children under thirteen years of age. Sister Marion Huston, who played Nora, has six children in the same age group. Other members of the cast each has three children. And it was the busy pre-Christmas season. Yet the play left nothing to be desired in the way of finesse, dramatic strength, and theatrical polish. The Lord has truly blessed the sisters in Rose Park Stake to be able to accomplish such things while they are rearing their families, at a time when they feel they most need the blessings of Relief Society work. Sister Christensen was assisted by the ward literature class leaders: Doris Shutt, Dorothy Evans, Mildred Keyes, and Margaret England." ~_> Palomino Maude Rubin With Chloe, the buckskin mare, progress was slow.... She hated the word, "Giddap!"—Much preferred "Whoa!" Sedately she trotted or ambled or paced— Never excited; no, she never raced! A yen for green pastures would often assail her. But her daughter, a blonde, gets there in a trailer! Tew Vistas Jennie Brown Rawlins "Here, you ride him, Auntie," invited my young niece, who was proudly showing off her new pony. "No, no, dear," I remonstrated quickly. "Auntie doesn't care about riding horses any more." Then, remembering the days when riding a pony over the smooth, rolling hills had been the epitome of joy to me, I experienced a feeling of nostalgic sadness. I recalled that there were several other hobbies and pastimes that used to fill me with deep-souled delight that I no longer enjoyed. There were dishes that used to tickle my palate that somehow seemed now to have lost their savor. I kept thinking of a line from a poem: "My straw no longer bends in colored water." It's true, I said to myself, as we grow older we no longer greet life with such youthful exuberance. Our senses are not as perceptive to the keen enjoyment of things. There followed a series of events that proved how wrong I was. During the summer months I was invited to join a group that was planning to attend a course at the college. With slight feelings of guilt about robbing my family (the youngest of whom was twelve) of so much of my time, I hesitated, until reminded that it would be a wonderful opportunity for them to learn to accept responsibility. The instructor had a dynamic personality, and was full of fresh, new ideas, and, without being asked, answered many of the questions that I had been pondering in my heart. It was like a gift that you appreciate all the more because you have experienced a need for it. I do not remember ever having enjoyed a course so much in my younger days. That winter we went on a trip and tevisited some of the places I had visited as a gitl. This time it was not the zoo and amusement parks that intrigued me so much as the museums and art galleries— Whother: Day Whisic FOR THREE PART LADIES VOICES ° =. FOR MY MOTHER—Moalotte...........20 Das MOTHER—Rubinstein.....................20. M-O-T-H-E-R—Morse cece 25 - MOTHER MACHREE—Ball.............15 _— MOTHER O' MINE—Tours...........20 a. PRAYER FOR MY MOTHER— A): (- 15 =. SONGS MY MOTHER TAUGHT ME—Dvorak _.........-..-.-..:---2:-2-0--000 10.. THAT'S WHAT GOD MADE MOTHERS FOR—Wood................. 25 a THAT WONDERFUL MOTHER OF MINE—Goodwin.....................20 Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank i DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY; 15 E. Ist South; Salt Lake City 11, Utah: Please send the music indicated above. C) On Approval OC Charge (10 Money Enclosed Address i City & State | Baynes Mise | LidanAUASALAIAUI) 15 E. Ist South gal 145 WomTs UNIVERSITY, PROVO of 2060 waste dike, Gabe Page 277 278 >» BRAND 9 NAMES? Bh ROEBUCK AND CO. TO WISE BUYING COLDSPOTKENMoRE REGU. S. PAT. OFF. REG. U. S. PAT. OFF, CRAFTSMAN S,; All Sold Only By Sears, Roebuck and Co. HISTORIC TRAIN Write for information about the HISTORIC TRAIN that will include the great PAGEANT AT THE HILL CUMORAH. EUROPE Another famous FESTIVAL TOUR. Sails for Europe from Montreal on July 16, 1956, via the Empress of Canada. For Complete Details, Write or Phone: Vida Fox Clawson 966 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1956 places I had considered stodgy and dull in my youth. I began studying my Relief Society lessons more carefully, taking renewed pleasure in them as I did so. I even did some extracurricular reading in the field of literature. 'The characters in David Copperfield and Wuthering Heights became more humanly appealing when seen through the spectrum of experience, and poems that I had recited parrot-like in school suddenly blossomed with exciting shades of meaning. A neighbor of mine is starting an heirloom quilt—a thing she admits she would not have had the patience to undertake when she was twenty. Another neighbor gets great satisfaction out of gathering genealogical data—a project for which she says she has had little time or inclination until recently. I must not fail to mention the soulpermeating joy that comes from service to others, and from becoming acquainted with the beautiful truths of the gospel— a joy that maturity but enhances. Yes, new vistas are continually opening up before us. How foolish we are if we keep our eyes glued only to the old. Eae Circle Catherine E. Berry The blue-gray twilight stretches now Across the hills of night, And windows of each little house Are blossoming with light. Tired husbands open waiting gates, And children straggle home, The homing instinct conquering The primal urge to roam. Beneath each small and sturdy roof Are gathering the clan, The need for food and light and warmth, Instinctive in each man, Has pushed the night beyond the door, Beyond each window pane, And drawn the circle in and made It safe, complete, again. REGISTERED TRADE MARK QE. U. S. PAT. OFF. So the Reliof Society Visiting Seachers Hazel Jones Owen Perhaps you think the task is small Which you've been called to do, But what's important is the fact So much depends on you. A tiny little mustard seed Has power truly great; It takes a little thing like love To banish fear and hate. It takes perfected detail To make a masterpiece in art; Small things in a mighty building Must play a major part. The little tasks, the kindly deeds, The world may not applaud.... But it's the scope of all the little things That shows the greatness of our God! Wi Use for Old Screens Elizabeth Williamson pes! Throw away old window screens —they make an effective protection for new plants against sun, wind, and birds. ORGANISTS You will receive full information about new organ music and materials as it is issued, and also suggestions of outstanding interest, by filling in the coupon below and mailing it to GLEN BROS. MUSIC CO. 74 So. Main = Salt Lake City, Utah Type of Organ Where Installed... Elec eee eee It's awaiting You... E 14:5 there is still a tremendous amount of outstanding instruction and use awaiting you in this and other copies of the Relief Society Magazine. Your editions may be handsomely bound at the West's finest bindery and printing plant for $2.50 cloth bound and $3.50 leather bound per volume plus postage for mail orders. All mail orders must be paid in advance. Follow these postage rates if you send your order by mail: Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Up to 150 miles 35 150 to 300 miles....: 300 to 600 miles.... 600 to 1000 miles.... 1000 to 1400 miles.... Ie 1400 to 1800 miles...............-:0------+ 76 Over 1800 miles W000.87 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press ee ee, le) Page 279 From lear and Sar The Magazine is always a great pleasure to me, from its beautiful and _ artistic cover design to the very last page, with its delightful messages "From Near and Far."" The inspiring address by President J. Reuben Clark Jr. In the December issue brought joy and peace to my soul and added desire in my heart to live the teachings of our glorious gospel. That discussion of "Children in the Scriptures" is of such value and interest and gives us the Lord's instructions regarding children. These universal laws that are as applicable now as when they were first written are given with such an interesting insight into our lives today. I was particularly impressed with the words of the great prophet Alma when he said: "... Little children do have words given to them many times, which confound the wise and the learned." It is my prayer that every subscriber to the Magazine will read this inspirational message and profit from its teachings. The frontispiece picture "New England Winter" and the winter scene "Brook in Winter' are marvelous examples of photographic art. I am thmilled with their loveliness. —Mrs. Emma M. Gardner Sacramento, California I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for The Relief Society Magazine and its wonderful articles. I am the branch president in the West Hartlepool Branch. Several months ago I found it necessary to take the position of teacher in Relief Society, and, without this wonderful Magazine to help me, I am sure I would have been lost. My mother is president of the Richards Ward Relief Society in Sugar House Stake, and she has arranged to have The Relief Society Magazine sent to me. I have been reading it every month for sixteen months, and I have really enjoyed it. The sisters of the British Mission will agree with me when I say that The Relief Society Magazine is the best Magazine of its kind in the whole world. —FElder Marvin Lee Howard West Hartlepool Branch British Mission Page 280 I enjoy reading the Magazine very much, At present I am finding very fine reading in the January number. How lovely and very much worthwhile are the _ prize-winning poems and the story! I recall, in reading them, the thrill our family received when we saw mother's picture and poem "Barren Woman's Cry" in the Magazine (January 1952) and learned she had placed third. She had kept the news from us, and we were completely surprised. I am happy to see poems by Agnes Just Reid, also. She lives near here and is a very nice person. I teach one of her grandchildren. —Joyce Atkinson Firth, Idaho I want to thank you kindly for publishing the article which I sent you "Reba Turner — Lady of Charity' (January 1956). Sister Turner is happy about it, and she has received many telephone calls and letters from sisters in other wards whom she doesn't know — which is very wonderful, and she is most deserving of the honor. The ward Relief Society at Loa has framed the article and placed it on the wall in the lovely Relief Society room in the stake tabernacle. Everyone is happy for Sister Turner. I love the Relief Society work and enjoy the Magazine each month. —Nell Ekker Loa, Utah Please renew my Relief Society Magazine. I surely love to read it. I am almost blind, but I take my time and take great pleasure in looking at the lovely faces. I love my Church. I am eighty years old and crippled, but my _ sisters come and take me to Church — it is a lovely home of the Lord. Happy New Year to all the sisters in Relief Society. I go whenever I am able, and hope some day I may meet you all. —Ollie D. Young Chico, California CHIeTS CLAUDE RICHARDS Stimulating material that sustains interest in Temple Work is contained in this new book. The material is of unusual value since it includes quotations from General Authorities of the Church, from its foundation to the present time, as well as information from other leaders of prominence. The information offered provides a sound education in the history of Temple Work, the reason behind it, and _ the necessity for it. One sees, through the author's eyes, how much joy and satisfaction there is in the search for ancestors and in linking them in an unending chain back to Father Adam. $2.75 ro--c-- DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah Gentlemen: HOME MEMORE OF PRESIDENT David 0. Mekay Compiled by DR. LLEWELYN R. McKAY This new book on the personality of President David O. McKay contains rich treasures in reading. Mate information on this great leader's family background, on his years of devoted service as a teacher. Day-by-day notes on his world tour with Hugh J. Cannon, gives glimpses of his family life and his home in Huntsville; it expresses his love for others, especially for children and animals. Writings by this great man, several of the poems he has written, tributes paid him, and many stories and quotations taken from his personal life. Cherished Experiences It gives intiIt contains There are selections from talks and $3.75 FROM THE WRITINGS OF PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY Compiled by CLARE MIDDLEMISS These '"'cherished experiences" are taken from President McKay's life, both ''at home and abroad.'' More than any other L. D. S. President, he has traveled to distant outposts of the earth—to many countries in Europe, South Africa, South America, and South Seas, and little-known countries in the Orient. To people everywhere, he has brought faith, hope, and a strong testimony of the truth of the Restored Gospel. Share with him all these rich, wonderful experiences by reading this inspiring book! $3.00 ——_— oi oe = Enclosed you will find ( ) check ( ) money order (_ ) charge the encircled (numbered) 1 2 3 Name Address -.........: cccceecceeeceoeeeeeceeenceceeeneeeeceeeecereeceteseeees Ci ty ee Zone........ State...... Sseeeeeseeeeeecee Residents of Utah include 2% sales tax. I | I | I | | I I I | I eee ee i ia i to my account the following amount $ books: for | There'll be some changes made.... Your Beneficial Agent There'll be more than just diaper changes when this youngster comes home. A new addition to the family always means new responsibilities, new financial obligations. A new baby, an increase in your income, the purchase of a new home—these and many other changes signal the time to take a fresh look at your life insurance coverage. How long since you took a critical look at your own life insurance program? For helpful advice, without obligation, consult your friendly Beneficial Life Insurance counselor. BENEFICIAL bwsuuane 'inn' _ OMY has had special training and years of experience that will help him evaluate your life insurance program in terms of your present needs. For competent counsel, call him soon. {David O. McKay, Pres. Salt Lake City, Utah She Shings in You AC See Dorothy J]. Roberts A silvered link to the past, You hold In quiet testament The essence, gathered within yout life, Of its crystal, of its gold, Its long, sweet labor, its frugal joys, Its hand-sewn treasures, Its country grace, Its warmth that mellowed the fields and heart, And lit your face. These are the things in you I see: The past, distilled, Its goodness, its sweetness spilled Into the depths of me. The Cover: Casa Loma, Toronto, Canada Photograph submitted by Leah H. Lewis Frontispiece: Saxifrage Blossoms Photograph by Ward Linton Cover Design by Evan Jensen From lear and Sar How grateful I feel as I take a moment off to write you this letter. It is just a few heartfelt thanks for the spiritual uplift which has come to me from the Magazine, which I have been acquainted with throughout my life. My mother has been a faithful member of Relief Society, and the marvelous Magazine has never failed to appear in our home.... I have always had a personal interest in it because of articles and stories written by my aunt (Fay Ollerton Tarlock). 'This past summer I was called to the Rarotonga District of the Samoan Mission. Later my companion and I were called to open the island of Atiu, of the Cook Islands group. Out here we are six hundred miles from our president... And we often need to turn to what written material we have, and The Improvement Era and The Relief Society Magazine. Bereft of news from home and advice from the supervising elders, the spiritual gain from these magazines is of great importance. —Elder Carl A. Ollerton Rarotonga, Cook Islands I receive The Relief Society Magazine and enjoy it very much, as I enjoy Relief Socicty itsclf. Just finished reading the article on planning a Family Hour (March 1956) by Helen Gardner, and was happy to obtain some new ideas. My thanks for the help and pleasure I get from the Magazine. —Kathryn Tanner Woodland Hills, California I feel I would like to write to say how much I appreciate your wonderful little book. A very dear cousin of my mothcrs — Mrs. A. S. Keetch of Logan, Utah, makes it her Christmas gift, and she has sent it for a number of years. After my mother has read it, she passes it on to me and, although not members of your Church, we find a great deal of pleasure and joy in its many interesting articles. —R. Caldwell Loughborough Leicestershire England Page 282 I do enjoy The Relief Society Magazine. 'The stories are wonderful, and I am so glad for the lessons as they have helped very much here in our small branch in the Central States Mission. We have one hundred per cent of our workers taking the Magazine and all of them think it is wonderful. It is a very nice way to preach the gospel to those who know so little about 'he Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. —Marv J. Hatch Hot Springs, Arkansas I think The Relief Society Magazine is the best magazme offered by the 'Church, and by the world, for that matter. —Evangeline Baddley McKinnon, Wyoming I have not seen my sister Willa Wagner since I was three years old, and then I noticed her picture with the Dublan Ward group, Juarez Stake, in the Magazine for February 1956, page 121, and wrote this poem as the thoughts came to me: There was such joy in my heart today; As I leafed through the Magazine, My eves scanned the stories and went on away To the articles, poetry, lessons.... O'er the pages I scanned on my way to the back, But I stopped — it was something fanuliar— My birthplace was written so large and so black, I have not often seen it so written. My dear gospel sisters, all thirty-one stood, As I read the names written below— There was in the picture one that's my own blood— I've not seen her in twenty-six years I hadn't so much as a picture yet seen, Of my dear sister so far away— I thank our old standby, the Magazine, For giving this privilege to me. —Lela Graves Anaheim, California THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - - - - - - - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - - - First Counselor Velma N. Simonsen - - - - - Second Counselor Margaret C. Pickering - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Evon W. Peterson Alberta H. Christensen Edith P. Backman Edith S. Elliott Louise W. Madsen Mildred B. Eyring Winniefred S. Florence J. Madsen Aleine M. Young Helen W. Anderson Manwaring Leone G. Layton Josie B. Bay Gladys 8S. Boyer. Elna P. Haymond Blanche B. Stoddard Christine H. Robinson Charlotte A. Larsen Annie M. Ellsworth Mary R. Young RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawtord General Manager - - - Belle S. Spafford Vol.. 43 MAY 1956 No. 5 C ontents SPECIAL FEATURES Dedication of the Los Angeles Temple Rewards for Activity in the Church 285 Thorpe B. Isaacson 286 The Canadian Mission —.....0.2.222-2..2-21.-+- a eePreston R. Nibley 290 Contest Announcements — 1956 uu... Ceceecceccceeeccecccorsceeceeeeceesseceeecensnceescseceenerarcesesanensensescesersasanseacenesereaes292 Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest —2020.02202.0.2... -. A _ 292 Relief pocisty Short Story Contest. Renee cece concn; En 293 Poetry Is for People 0...2......2c00c1eceee ee Eva Willes Wangsgaard 294 Cheerfulness Is Always Right.20....0.--2cccc. C-ccecsccecceec ccc ecce cence eee eeeeeeseeeeeeetareeseneneeenesneeesAnnie S. W. Gould 297 So You Want to Write a Story! 2. Ececcc cee cececee eee ee cee ceaeeceeeeeceeeeeeeeeaeeeeeesaFrances C. Yost 298 My Legacy AMargaret S. Fife 340 Repentance ee _........... Kate Richards 341] Silver Spoons a: a... Seseceseeecaessen teMarilla C. Cook 342 FICTION Who Sings the Lullaby on... Ccccececeeceeceseeceeceeecce sec ceeceeecceeeecceeeeeee asus cessseuuseneesseceneneeseceeeesserasssRosa Lee Lloyd 302 The Perfect Gift 22... 0c cee ee cece ceeeeeteceeccenteeeeceeceseeeeeeeeeeeeee. Ee... Mabe! Law Atkinson 318 There Is Still Time — Chapter 4 oooc.. Cccccceccceeic cece ceecce cence ennee cece eeeeeenseneneeneeeeeaMargery S. Stewart 320 Weirerin INksyeae revel FRC ee ae Sixty Years Ago 2... Cccceececeecceceeeeeeceeeeeetee eee. Woman's Sphere ooo. N. Eeceeccceeceeceeeeeeeceeeeeeeees ee eee Editorial: The Gift for Mother's Davy 222.0.....2ccceecccecetecee eens e ect eee eeeMarianne C. Sharp Notes to the Field: Program for the November Fast Sunday Evening Meeting o2....... Eseeeeeececeseeee 313 A Centenary of Relief Society Out of Primt 220... Cccccceecececcec cee cc ee eecceneeeeecetenecteeeeeees roe Review Outline for May 1956 Literature Lesson..... New Serial 'Heart's Bounty'' to Begin in June..... Magazine Subscriptions for 1955.00.00... A nr —_Marianne C. Sharp The Magazine Honor Roll for 1955 ae ).. 330 Notes From the Field: Relief Society ACHVitIES oocccccccccccececcceeeccsseesesseeeeesene_Margaret oe "Pickering 334 FEATURES FOR THE HOME Recipes From the Canadian Mission 222. CeceececceceeceecceeeececceeeneeeeeeeceneceeceneeereeeeeeesLeah H. Lewis 316 Mary Ann Hyde Mortenson Makes Wedding Cakes of Intricate Design 02.0.0.0.2.202.202.2-cececeeeeeeeee eee 317 A Rug in Dutch Butter Mold Designs 2.........0.2.. Ccetecs cececeeeceseceeececetseeneecesesteeeeeeeeeeElizabeth Williamson 339 The Things in You I See—Frontispiece Dorothy J. Roberts 281 (Gril XE STEIN peGene Romolo 289 Song From the Rim of Silence Elsie McKinnon Strachan 301 Love's Foliage merceerrteerrrerro reeMaude Rubin 309 Hidden Valley eee cccececceccececescceeceee cee caeceeecceeeeeeeveceseecennscsueseesssesceeseceessaceneceseconeccesseseacaseneesEthel Jacobson 309 Never in Tritemess 22o... O.. Eeececceeceeee cece cence eee vente even eee eee ee nese eeceeeeneeeeeeeseenstecenenseececeeeseecenseeeeseIris W. Schow 316 For My Mother 2.2... CceeeccecceecccceceececeecenceceeceecceececeseseceesneseceeeeeeeseseeeseeeeeseneneneeeeeceeeneeeChristie Lund Coles 341 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 40 North Main, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Page 284 THE LOS ANGELES TEMPLE, CALIFORNIA Hal Rumel ICI) saaiocy 4 we m8. = oR j Gi cs ay ow [ei (BY el fT lee ies Hamer 7 pe ners apo, Dedication of the Los Angeles Semple THe Los Angeles Temple, rising in beauty on a sloping hill adorned with olive trees, palms, flowers, and a reflecting pool, is the twelfth temple built during the dispensation of the fulness of times. Contrasting the conditions surrounding the building of the first temple—the Kirtland Temple—which was dedicated in March 1836, and that of this twelfth one, offer striking differences which reflect the history of the Church which the Lord foretold as "the rising up and the coming forth of my church out of the wilderness—clear as the moon, and fair as the sun, and terrible as an army with banners" (D. & C. 5:14). 'The Los Angeles 'Temple, previous to its dedication, was visited by 662,401 persons. All were welcomed and preserved a reverential silence as they viewed this edifice erected to the Lord by his restored Church to bring salvation and exaltation to both the living and dead that the earth might not be utterly wasted at the Lord's second coming. President McKay personally offered the inspiring dedicatory prayer at each of the eight sessions of the dedication. Each service was an impressive and moving experience and a spiritual feast to those privileged to attend the different sessions, estimated to be a total of about 40,000 persons. The monetary contributions of the saints of Southern California exceeded one million and six hundred thousand dollars. The general Church membership, however, through their tithes and offerings partook of the blessings and shared in the joy of accomplishment. Page 285 Rewards for Activity in the Church Bishop Thorpe B. Isaacson Of the Presiding Bishopric T has been well stated that the things of greatest value in life are those that multiply when divided. 'The rewards of greatest worth are the ones that endure and bring not only immediate satisfaction but eternal joys. Of material wealth, it is necessary to get and keep in order to have, but the accumulation of the riches of heaven comes about through unselfish giving and serving. In sharing our thoughts with others they thereby become our own. Our testimonies grow stronger as we express them in word or in action. Our feeling of appreciation grows through our expressions of appreciation. Jesus taught that service and obedience to the laws of truth are the keys to happiness and that happiness is the desire of all men. We should read frequently the inspired words of Nephi, "Adam fell that men might be; and men are, that they might have joy" (2 Nephi 2:25). Happiness can be found only where it exists, and those who would have it must pay its price. Many seek blindly for eternal satisfactions along the byways of sin where they do not exist. Some expect the rewards of heaven and life without the willingness to pay the inevitable price. Others are satisfied with cheap substitutes that furnish momentary pleasure but have no lasting values. To leave the blazoned trail of life in search of shortcuts Page 286 that do not exist is to transgress the laws of God and cut ourselves off from the very rewards for which we yearn. "There is a law, irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundations of this world, upon which all blessings are predicated— "And when we obtain any blessing from God, it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated" (D. & C. 130:20-21). There are some in the world whose eyes are closed to the true values and purposes of life. 'Their whole time is dedicated to the quest for wealth, pleasure, or power. They think of the dollar and its pleasure potential as the end of life rather than to think of wealth as a means to the greater end of happiness through service to others. They seek wealth for wealth's sake rather than to think of its possession as a power potential for building the kingdom of God and for serving our fellow man. Activity in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is service of the highest order. Its assured rewards are satisfaction and happiness here and exaltation in the kingdom of our Father. Activity in the Church, to be effective, must be characterized by unselfish devotion. 'The Lord in revelation makes this very clear. And no one can assist in this work except he shall be humble and full of love, having faith, hope and charity, being temperate in all things, whatsoever shall be entrusted to his care (D. & C. 12:8). REWARDS FOR ACTIVITY IN THE CHURCH The chief concern of the earnest Church worker is for the welfare and happiness of others. Each assignment filled is a source of satisfaction. Each new task is. A joyous adventure. 'To him activity in the Church is, in-a measure, its own reward. The immediate feelings of accomplishment from the service rendered are well worth the effort expended. 'The promised future rewards are extra bonuses or surplus dividends. The law of compensation is at work in the world. We reap as we sow. Obedience to law invariably brings immediate or deferred blessings. 'Transgression of the laws just as surely results in suffering and sorTOW. Salvation comes no cheaper to one than to another. We cannot hope for blessings equal to those earned by the pioneers with their many hardships and trials without diligence and obedience to fundamental principles equal to theirs. We may not be called to die for the gospel, nor to leave our homes, our families, or our friends. We may never be required to go cold or hungry or to face the dangers of the plains as they chose to do. We must, however, be willing to pay the price and prove our willingness through service and sacrifice of a different nature, if we would have divine rewards equal to theirs. HE Church is the organization set up by the Lord through which he brings salvation to his children. Through the Church, opportunities for service are offered to all who will accept. The reward for such service is salvation which comes in direct proportion to the 287 quantity and quality of the service rendered. There are three distinct divisions of Church activity. Each division offers many opportunities for service, and ultimate salvation depends upon our active participation in each of them. We might classify these three fields of Church activity as that which we do for our own advancement, that which we do for the spiritual and temporal welfare of our fellow men, and the service we render for those who are in the world of departed spirits. There are personal obligations that each individual has for his own welfare. He should seek truth through study and prayer. He should repent of weaknesses and transgressions. He should submit himself for baptism of water and of the spirit. He should listen and heed the promptings of the Holy Ghost. He should build a strong body by strict obedience to the laws of physical health that have been revealed from God. He should enlarge his mental capacities through study. He should expand his ability to enjoy the association of others. He should partake freely and frequently of that which gives growth to the spirit. There are fundamental obligations of obedience that each individual must adhere to if he would have the blessings of the gospel. Jesus, in directing his disciples to preach | the gospel to every creature, said: "He that believeth and is baptized shall be saved; but he that believeth not shall be damned" {Mark 16:16). Recently a Senior Member of the Aaronic Priesthood who had been long inactive in the Church ex- 288 pressed to a group of friends the wonderful joy that had come into his life through again becoming active in the Church. Tears welled up in his eyes and his voice faltered as he told of his past life and the mistakes he had made. For years he had not kept the Word of Wisdom. 'There had been no prayer nor religious interest in his home. There had been frequent marital misunderstandings. 'There had been lack of family loyalty. 'There had been no real objective in life. Each day was just another day, without purpose. "And now," he said, "through study and secret prayer, I have received a conviction, an inner assurance that God is our Father, that we live beyond the grave, and that I may have my wife and family for eternity. This testimony is worth more to me than the riches of the world. It has given me inner peace and comfort that I could get in no other way. My health is better because I now live the Lord's laws of health. As a family we now love and enjoy each other as we never did before. We study, pray, and grow together. Life has taken on new meaning and purpose. I feel now that I am guided by an inner light. I pay my tithing and enjoy doing it. All this and more, too, because I washed the windows of my soul so that the light of faith could shine in. I repented of my sins so that I could have a remission of them through my baptism of water and the Holy Ghost which were performed for me many years ago." As he bore his testimony, there seemed to be a heavenly glow upon RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1956 e his face. "Just think," he said, "the promises and blessings that obedience to the simple principles of the gospel have brought into my life. Imagine, Mary and the children, mine forever, and it all depends on? Me. The rewards of individual obedience are many and wonderful. S members of the Church we have an obligation to look to the physical and spiritual needs of others. Ours is a missionary Church. Those who have been on missions know of the rewards that come as the result of missionary service. Satisfaction is a sure reward that comes to those who teach the gospel to others and who alleviate the pains and lighten the burdens of their neighbors. Two women, one afternoon, stood in the bedroom of a very humble home. In the bed was a frail little mother. At her side was a sick child. 'Two other children played on the floor at the side of the bed. The women had just cleaned up the house and had served a nourishing meal to the little family. A box of groceries had been put on the table. The faces of the women reflected sympathy and love. Their eyes were filled with happy tears as they saw the look of appreciation on the face of the sick mother. 'This scene or similar ones are enacted many times every day throughout the Church, and words cannot describe the joy that comes from such service. Yea, they are rewarded who teach and serve their fellow men. The third obligation of Church membership is to do work for those who are dead. From the revela- REWARDS FOR ACTIVITY IN THE CHURCH tions of the Lord we can well understand the dependence that they who are in the spirit world place upon us who are mortal beings. Many of them are anxious to be baptized and receive the Holy Ghost. This they cannot do for themselves. They are dependent upon those still living to do this work for them. Many of them, no doubt, love those who were their mates in mortal life but whose marriage contracts and vows came to an end when death parted them. In order to have them for eternity, their endowments and sealings must be performed vicariously for them. Their dependence upon mortals is an opportunity for great service. To be baptized, ordained, endowed, or sealed for one who is dead is a privilege and a blessing. 'To contemplate the joy that such service insures for the ones in whose favor it is given is a source of satisfaction. These immediate rewards are worthwhile in and of themselves, but 289 when we meet the benefactors of our vicarious ministrations face to face and receive their personal expressions of appreciation for the service we have rendered, we will indeed feel rewarded for our efforts. Yes, many and great are the blessings that come from activity in the Church. 'To be active is to have the abundant life. And all saints who remember to keep and do these sayings, walking in obedience to the commandments, shall receive health in their navel and marrow to their bones; And shall find wisdom and great treasures of knowledge, even hidden treasures; And shall run and not be weary, and shall walk and not faint. And I, the Lord, give unto them a promise, that the destroying angel shall pass by them, as the children of Israel, and not slay them (D. & C. 89:18-21). Remember well the promised rewards for activity in the Church. Forget not the Lord's supreme award for faithfulness: "'... All that my Father hath shall be given unto him" (D. & C, 84:38). Gift of Spring Gene Romolo The prisoning, icy fastness of the winter Touched by the potent, magic wand of spring Has vanished. There is not left, of it, a splinter. Golden gossamer envelops everything. Through the great expanse of earth is flowering New life that wells with each recurring year, And sentient husbandmen, with zeal are sowing Ripe seeds from which rich harvests will appear. Spring brings the gift of faith for our receiving.... The fault is ours if we go unbelieving. Se Conctiah 1 ae Preston R. Nibley ASTERN Canada is one of the earliest missionary fields of the Church. The first missionaries to cross the border from the United States were Joseph Young, Phineas Young, Eleazer Miller, and Elial Strong, who, in the summer of 1832, established a branch of the Church at Ernestown, Ontario. In December 1832, Joseph Young and his brother Brigham (who became the great pioneer President) established a second branch in Ontario, located at West Loboro. In 1836, Parley P. Pratt, by special appointment, began missionary work in and near Toronto, Canada. There he made several notable converts, including John 'Taylor, who later became the third President of the Church, Joseph and Mary Isabella Horne, Joseph Fielding and his sisters Mary and Mercy. Mary Fielding later married Hyrum Smith and became the mother of President Joseph Fielding Smith. The Prophet Joseph Smith, accompanied by Thomas B. Marsh, visited the branches of the Church, in and near Toronto, in the spring of 1837. Elder John 'Taylor took them in his carriage to visit the various branches. Of this experience he wrote: "This was as great a treat to me Courtesy New Brunswick Travel Bureau ARTS BUILDING AT THE UNIVERSITY OF NEW BRUNSWICK Oldest University Building in Use in Canada Page 290 THE CANADIAN MISSION 291 Photograph submitted by J. Melvin Toone HORSESHOE FALLS ON THE CANADIAN SIDE OF THE NIAGARA RIVER as I ever enjoyed. I had daily opportunity of listening to the rich store of intelligence that flowed continually from the Prophet Joseph." After the removal of the Latter-day Saints to the West in the fall of 1847, most of the members i Canada emigrated to Utah. Missionary work there was carried on by the Eastern States Mission until April 1919, when the Canadian Mission was organized, with Nephi Jensen of Salt Lake City as the first. President. A house was secured at 36 Ferndale Avenue, Toronto, which for many yeats served as the mission headquarters. 'In 1930 there were 1,232 members of the Church in the Canadian Mission. In December 1955 this number had increased to 3,309, located in 34 branches. J. Earl Lewis is the present president of the Canadian Mission. 'There were twenty-two Relief Society organizations reported in December 1955- Leah Henrichsen Lewis presides overt the Relief Society of the Canadian Mission. Contest Announcements—1956 CONTESTS CLOSE AUGUST 15, 1956 HE Elza R. Snow Poem Contest and the Relief Society Short Story Contest are conducted annually by the general board of Relief Society to stimulate creative writing among Latter-day Saint women and to encourage high standards of work. Latter-day Saint women who qualify under the rules of the respective contests are invited to enter their work in either or both contests. The general board would be pleased to receive entries from the outlying stakes and missions of the Church as well as from those in and near Utah. Since the two contests are entirely separate, requiring different writing skills, the winning of an award in one of them in no way precludes winning in the other. It is suggested that authors who plan to enter the contests study carefully the articles on story writing and poetry which appear in this Magazine and similar articles in the May issue, 1955, and in the June issues for the preceding nine years. Elica R. Snow Poem Contest HE Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest Relief Society general board and emopens with this announcement and closes August 15, 1956. Prizes will be awarded as follows: First prize -.........2.22...-..$25 Second prize................$20 Third prize..................$15 Prize poems will be published in the January 1957 issue of The Relief Society Magazine (the birth month of Eliza R. Snow). Prize-winning poems become the property of the Relief Society general board and may not be published by others except upon written permission from the general board. 'The general board reserves the right to publish any of the other poems submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rates. Rules for the contest: 1. This contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women, exclusive of members of the Page 292 ployees of the Relief Socicty general board. 2. Only one poem may be submitted by each contestant. 3. The poem must not exceed fifty lines and should be typewritten, if possible; where this cannot be done, it should be legibly written. Only one side of the paper is to be used. (A duplicate copy of the pocm should be retained by contestants to insure against loss.) 4. The shect on which the poem is written is to be without signature or other identifying marks. 5. No explanatory material or picture is to accompany the poem. 6. Each poem is to be accompanied by a stamped envelope on which is written the contestant's name and address. Nom de plumes are not to be used. 7. A signed statement is to accompany the poem submitted, certifying: a. 'That the author is a member of 'The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. B. That the poem (state title) is the contestant's original work. C. That it has never been published. D. That it is not in the hands of an editor or other person with a view to publication. CONTEST ANNOUNCEMENTS—1956 e. That it will not be published nor submitted elsewhere for publication until the contest is decided. 8. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. G. The judges shall consist of one member of the general board, one person from the English department of an educational institution, and one person who is a recognized writer. In case of complete disagreement among judges, all poems selected for a place by the various judges will be submitted to a specially selected committee for final decision. 293 In evaluating the poems, consideration will be given to the following points: a. Message or theme b. Form and pattern c. Rhythm and meter d. Accomplishment of the putpose of the poem e. Climax 10. Entries must be postmarked not later than August 15, 1950. 11. All entries are to be addressed to Relief Society Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest, 40 North Main, Salt Lake City 16, Utah. Reliof Society Short Story Contest HE Relief Society Short Story Contest for 1956 opens with this announcement and closes August 15, 1956. The prizes this year will be as follows: First prize..............-.---$50 Second prize................$40 Third prize............-..-.-$30 The three prize-winning stories will be published consecutively in the first three issues of The Relief Society Magazine for 1956. Prizewinning stories become the property of the Relief Society general board and may not be published by others except upon written permission from the general board. The general board reserves the right to publish any of the other stories entered in the contest, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rates. Rules for the contest: 1. This contest is open to Latter-day Saint women—exclusive of members of the Relief Society general board and employees of the general board—who have had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication. 2. Only one story may be submitted by each contestant. 3. The story must not exceed 3,000 words in length and must be typewritten. (A duplicate copy of the story should be retained by contestants to insure against loss. ) 4. The contestant's name is not to appear anywhere on the manuscript, but a stamped envelope on which is written the contestant's name and address is to be enclosed with the story. Nom de plumes are not to be used. 5. A signed statement is to accompany the story submitted certifying: a. That the author is a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. B. That the author has had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication. (This statement must give name and date of publication in which' the contestant's work has appeared, or, if not yet published, evidence of acceptance for publication. ) c. That the story submitted (state the title and number of words) is the contestant's original work. D. That it has never been published, that it is not in the hands of an editor or other person with a view to publication, and that it will not be published nor submitted else- 294 where for publication until the contest is decided. 6. No explanatory material or picture is to accompany the story. 7. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait for two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. 8. The judges shall consist of one member of the general board, one person from the English department of an educational institution, and one person who is a recognized writer. In case of complete disagreement among the judges, all stories seRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1956 lected for a place by the various judges will be submitted to a specially selected committee for final decision. In evaluating the stories, consideration will be given to the following points: a. Characters and their presentation b. Plot development c. Message of the story d, Writing style g. Entries must be postmarked not later than August 15, 1 10. All entries are to be addressed to Relief Society Short Story Contest, 40 North Main, Salt Lake City 16, Utah. Poetry Is for People Eva Willes Wangsgaard OETS are lovers of life. 'The difference between poets and other lovers is that they are in love with all life, not just a single manifestation of it. They all have their creative periods and their fallow periods. All people are poets at times; nobody is a poet all the time. Poetry is made of sympathy, compassion, understanding, observation, insight, vision, and technique. The more of these attributes any poem encompasses, the more "major" it is. A poem that has but one or two is minor or is only verse. How much you see, how much you know, how high and wide your vision, compassion, and understanding extend is beyond my powers to increase. 'Ihey are integral parts of the soul, and the soul's growth is an individual responsibility. [ can help you to see the necessity of increasing observation, and observation covers more than sight. It is a matter of using all the senses and compassion as well. It can be trained, encouraged, and extended. Also, I can help make you aware of technique. The rest relies upon how much of a poet you really are. Training and Practice Poetry technique is more exacting today than ever before. Competition is keener. Readers are more demanding. But you should be your own most demanding reader. A poem is so intricate a thing that the best help a student can receive is that given on a poem by poem basis with a competent and sympathetic teacher.. Thus faults are underlined, line by line, word by word, letter by letter. A student is taught to understand the effects of vowel sounds, and the various effects of consonant combinations. He is given practice on verse forms, verse devices, climaxes, titles, and endings. Each student then has his attention drawn to the specific faults and can concentrate on each POETRY IS FOR PEOPLE instead of wondering dazedly what ails the poem, why it doesn't "come off." He studies with deep concentration, not only of mind but of emotion and memory, until the loveliest, the truest way to express the feeling and idea come through. I had one sonnet I worked on for four years, again and again, before I realized that the difficulty lay with one image which was too active and was therefore foreign to the mood of the poem if not to the thought. When I sacrificed that image, of which I was so fond, and substituted one that fitted the "fruits" I had begun with, I had a successful sonnet that won a national prize. A really fine poem uses all a_ poet's faculties, thinking, feeling, till the idea, the emotion, and the finished poem are one integrated whole. The Creative Process Sometimes the process is so automatic that the poet is not aware of the effort. Sometimes it is a slow and arduous task. Sometimes it eludes the creator entirely and waiting is the only answer. But, always, the poem must be more important at the moment than its creator's ego, so that he will devote himself to its perfection without resentment. Remember that whatever any teacher may say of the creative process, it may not necessarily be true of all poets at work, nor is it true every time with any one. It is an intangible thing almost impossible to tether and control, but it must be channeled to get the best results. Obviously, what we say is wasted if it does not reach the reader. Reaching the reader is the chief function of technique. It polishes 295 the idea, cuts it to perfection for the best reflection of its lights and life, and makes it real in a modern setting. The Language of Poetry The chief ingredient of a poem is utter honesty. Good technique will abide no shams, no hollowness, no antiquated, outgrown phrases. It speaks in the language of its day. Since we would not use expressions like o'er, ere, 'twill, or any other affectation from grandmother's day in speech, our poems will appear false and queer if such appear therein, as queer as you would look if you went shopping i in grandmothers leg-o-mutton sleeves and velvet bonnet. The Author and the Poem Your poem must be vital. It must be warm with life, catch a moment of drama, and hold up to view some new interpretation of truth or wider vision. It must have something of the universal so that others can identify the experience with their own and relive it with you, and it must have something that is wholly you. You come through your poem in many ways. It tells the reader whether you are a positive or negative thinker, what interests you, whether you are compassionate or indifferent. 'The imagery and subject matter reflect your background, your interests, your experiences, and your knowledge. Usually, for instance, it would seem false for a poet to describe a Utah scene that contains a nightingale or a skylark. The birds that fit the region add a note of authenticity to your scene and to what you want it to say. 'The 296 wider the poet's knowledge of all the sources from which he draws his images, the truer they are and the more effective. He has put a bit of the flavor of his own region into it and created something new. A Poet's Preparation Therefore, a poet extends his reading. A budding writer once asked Mary Ellen Chase what was the best preparation for writing, and Mary Ellen answered, "Reading." When asked what should be read, Miss Chase answered, "Geography, history, and the Bible." I would add to that a good background in botany to sharpen the eye to nature's wonders and their relationship to human behavior. Or, at least, one should be intimately acquainted with a garden, the fields, and the woods, and their plant and animal life. Sources of Poetry Where do ideas come from? From everywhere. Anything that moves you is likely to move others. Some of my poet friends keep notebooks into which they jot down some idea for some future poem. But when I walk or read I am a great reservoir into which all these streams flow. If I see a possibility for a poem, it is a poem idea, immediately and explosively. The range of human reaction is so wide it is virtually impossible to tell anyone else how to write. In reading the poetry of others, one should be on guard against reflecting the author instead of oneself. Poems that spring from reading may come from being reminded of an experience of one's own, or from a passionate disagreement with RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1956 the author's interpretation or conclusion. 'The conception must be one's own. Poetry is a labor of devotion. 'The creator should enjoy the creation so much that no amount of criticism, study, revision, or rejection will discourage him for long, and no other pay is really necessary to his happiness. For poetry is like mothering, we give as a mother gives, mostly unaware of whether it pays or not. If we fill the needs of the readers our poetry will find its place. If we have something that is beyond the reader's present needs, we must still be true to ourselves and our talent and give to it all we have. In this way we may eventually serve others as well as ourselves, and we do not bury or neglect our talents. Composing Poetry Here are a few practical suggestions. Say you want to reproduce a scene in poetry. Paint it as a painter would, with highlight, center of interest, and a single emotional effect, as peace, silence; a single color contrasted with its opposite — a golden poplar against a blue sky, the mellow smell of apples, the pungency of marigolds, the tang of chrysanthemums, the plum's deep purple fragrance. Then turn it to say something: Oh, surely, some gold stays when there's so much! Some gold the heart can hammer to a shield To fend off spears that grosser days may wield. Or, again, you may take a single image and hang the whole poem on it, like "Autumn is a scarlet bird." Then you have its colors. You can vary their tones on his POETRY IS FOR PEOPLE crest and head, and you can let him escape as the beauty of autumn does. "Free" Verse A word about "free verse." Some people find this form easier to write. Some also find it easier to read. But remember that freedom means only the right to discipline oneself. Poetry must be disciplined. It is untrue that the "free verse' writer's thoughts are too profound to fit into conventional form. Surely, the average "free-versifier" does not think more profoundly than Milton. He just hasn't mastered his tools as well. The natural discipline of having to say what must be said within the given bounds of a certain form helps the poet to discipline himself. So let us conclude that in writing poetry we sharpen our senses, our understanding, our insight, and our knowledge. We write sincerely of things we know and of ideas about which we feel deeply. We write with economy of words, because by so doing we deepen the concentrate of the poem itself as the carbon was compressed under great pressure to become a diamond. We write in the language 297 of our day, because it is the only language we know and the one that our readers expect and have a right to find. We study poetic technique until it is second nature for us to use it when we need it—as the child who has heard only fine English speaks well without consideration of grammar. We catch the reader's interest with an intriguing title and opening phrase, hold it with a greater or lesser amount of drama of idea, or scene, interpret it by implication, and conclude on a high note. Then we satisfy ourselves, our readers, and look back upon the poem with pride long after the heat of composition has cooled. Poetry is a soul-satisfying hobby and to some of us it may be a mission. References Buett, Rosert K.: Verse Writing Simplified, $1.50 CosLEentz, STANTON A.: An Editor Looks at Poetry, $2 Hamitton, ANN: Poetry, $2.50 HILtyer, Robert: Verse, $2 ZILLMAN, LAWRENCE: Poem, $2.75 The above books may be ordered from Writer's Digest, 22 East 12th St., Cincinnati 10, Ohio. Seven Principles of First Principles of Wuhting Your Cheerfulness Gs Always Right Anne S. W. Gould E have absolutely no right to annoy others by our various moods. Let the prevailing mood be cheerful and serene; keep your other moods to yourself, or better still, get rid of them. So You Want to Write a Story! Frances C. Yost 66 Hee long does it take to write a story?" a dear sister asked me, after reading one of mine published in our beloved Relief Society Magazine. I pondered her question for a moment, for I had never kept track of the hours that go into the making of a story. Then, with a bit of a twinkle in my eye and a bushel full of sincerity, I replied: "It takes a lifetime of living; a few days of research; a day or two at the typewriter; a few weeks of polishing and perfecting, and sometimes years to jell... And sell." True, it is downright hard work to write stories. Louisa M. Alcott said: "Writing is harder work than digging ditches." 'Those who have tried their hand at writing for publication will agree with her. Someone with more wit than I, has said: "Writing is ninety-nine per cent perspiration, and one per cent inspiration." Writing, however, is rewarding, not only because of a cash reward, at times, but because of a feeling of creating something, akin to the joy of an inventor. A published story is a little like a finished crochet cover. When it is completed, the beauty of a crochet piece can be shared with every person who enters your home. But the creating of a story is more far reaching. Your story can go into many homes, yes, thousands of homes, and be enjoyed. When I write a story, I try to write the kind of story which will Page 298 be welcomed into a fine, clean, wholesome home — a story a mother would be proud to read to her growing family. A journalism teacher once told me this, which I pass along for what it is worth: "A writer has to decide early in his career, if he is going to write for money, or if he is going to write because he has something worthy of the telling." The latter is much, much more important, and, if writing is well done, monetary recompense will usually follow. Professor Quivey of the University of Utah, who gave me my start in fiction, said: "Write about what you know." 'That is good advice for any form of writing, be it columns, newspaper reporting, articles, or poetry. But it is even more important in fiction, or short story writing. Let us chart our course for writing a short story. First we need a fresh idea, a plot so new that a reader can never recall anything just like it before. 'Then we need to create characters to act out the plot. We need to make scenes which are as realistic as the seasons themselves, where the characters can live and breathe. 'Then, last, we must turn our characters loose to work, to scheme, to live the plot to the inevitable ending. Plotting for a Plot To define a plot, we can say it is a theme for our story. In other words, it is a problem, and the so- SO YOU WANT TO WRITE A STORY! Lution of that problem. There must be trouble brewed and _ trouble solved to the satisfaction of the characters in the story, as well as to the readers, to say nothing of the writer and editor. So, to start a story, we must have a fresh, wholesome plot. It is best to get the thread of the story from real life. Perhaps it may be an incident from your own life, or from someone in your family, your ancestors, or the little couple down the street. It may be the teenagers you teach in English class. Whatever it may be, it must have a problem, and a logical solution to that problem. 'To write a story that lives, the plot must indeed have life. So take your plot, or thread of your story, from real life, never from something which you have read. There is a law, and there are penalties against literary borrowing, called plagiarism. Creating Characters Now that you have the plot, or thread of your story, well in mind, the second part is to pick the characters for the story. The main character, who has the trouble and who will solve the problem, and those characters with whom he comes in contact in the events of the trouble and the solution. Make the characters live. 'They cannot be puppets whose strings you will pull on a stage. Your characters must be flesh and blood; they must be created by you, your very brain children. If you put your next door neighbor in a story, be very guarded, as she may recognize herself. You must make your characters truly 299 your own, of your own creation. Those characters must live and breathe their parts. If your main character weeps, the writer must feel the sting and the misery that the character feels. Characters must be described. I like to describe my characters as they appear, and through the eyes of the viewpoint character in the story. For example, if the heroine sees the hero come upon the scene, let her tell in her own words how he looks, not you, the narrator. It is well to remember in characterizing, that people will do the logical thing, the thing which is in harmony with their personalities, their backgrounds, and their training. If your character is stingy, don't expect him to turn tail in a short story and be a spendthrift. He might change in a lifelong novel, but not in a short story. If a character is a hothead, then let him solve his problem in a hotheaded manner. Coolness and calmness will not come as a halo to envelop him even in the story you write. Things happen logically, even in_ stories, or the story doesn't jell and become a satisfying and integrated portrayal of life. Dividing a Story Into Scenes Now that you have the thread of your story, or should we say, plot; and you have your characters, at least the main one; you are ready to turn your thoughts to dividing your story into scenes. As the playwright divides his play into acts, so should you dramatize your story in short, well-developed sections. The first scene should reveal the trouble, and the closer to the begin- 300 ning of the story it appears, the better. Dramatize, don't tell, what is wrong. Don't tell what happens, let it happen. Make the reader's heart sympathize for the characters in distress. The second scene will vary with every story. It may be a, brief flashback, a reversion which might go back into the childhood of the leading character. The flashback should have bearing on the trouble, as well as develop the plot and suspense. Some stories are told entirely in the flashback, except for the beginning and the ending, but this technique is difficult to master and is usually not so effective as direct narration. Whatever the scenes are, they should be worked out systematically, dramatically, and filled to the limit with interest and feeling. 'The question might arise as to how many scenes to have in a story. The answer is: as few as the story requires for its completion. Three to five scenes may be sufficient in a three thousand word story. The last, and of course the most important scene, is the finale, which, ideally, may solve the problem to the satisfaction or acceptance of the leading character, the writer, the editor, and the reader. That is all there is to writing a story, except the things which make a story live and breathe. Making a Story Live and Breathe It would be foolish to say that an effective short story could be written by planning a plot, creating characters, dividing the story into scenes, and then writing it. It would be just as foolish to say a story can RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1956 be written by blind and witless tapping on typewriter keys. There is no exact recipe for writing a story. It depends almost entirely upon the writer's temperament, the way her mind works, and the experiences through which she has passed. It is a matter of personality, background, ability, and training rather than one of definite directions. I can, however, suggest a fivepoint check, to test a finished story. If you can answer yes to each question, there is a chance you have an effective story: 1. Have you put the leading character in a dilemma from which there is no way out without effort, sacrifice, or a strategic decision? 2. Have you made the character take the wrong path, or make mistakes, until she is brought up with a jolt to the realization she must do something about her problem? 3. Has she gone through dark moments when everything looked confusing, and it seemed impossible for her to find a solution to her predicament? 4. Has she, just before the climax, encountered still another difficulty, the biggest one possible? 5- Then, in the climax, did the events work out logically, whether or not the forecast is for complete happiness, or a lighted path toward future accomplishment? If you cannot answer yes to these considerations, it may be advisable to revise your story or plan a new one. Who Should Write No person should tell another, "You should not write." Who are SO YOU WANT TO WRITE A STORY! We to judge another's untried potential talent? There may be a talent hidden in a person that only failures will bring to the surface. If there is no talent, time and discouragement will prove it to the aspiring writer. At any rate, the story within you, can only be written by you. No one else can write it. You can tell your story to a writer, but when it is written it is the author's story, not yours. No one else can put your heartbeat there. So, the story within you, burning to be written, must be written by you. The road to writing is marked with stones of discouragement. She who chooses to write must Spartanize herself, toughen her spirit to take those stones of discouragement in her stride, as she climbs ever upward and onward. She must teach her ego to compromise between what she wants to write and what may be acceptable and desired by her publishing medium. It has been said: "A writer must learn to live mentally and emotionally to the greatest depths and heights, then translate the product of living into manuscripts that add to the living of others." Last, a woman who chooses writing as a hobby, along with her ca- 301 reer as a wife and mother, should decide early to keep writing strictly as a hobby, and never envy women who have decided to follow it as a full-time career. She should never write when her conscience' tells her she is neglecting her family duties. She must believe that writing brings satisfying and worthwhile results only when she follows the ideals of her womanhood and apportions her time, talent, and energy into channels of lasting achievement. BIBLIOGRAPHY Blackiston, Elliott: Short Story Writing for Profit, Writer's Digest, 22 East 12th Street, Cincinnati 10, Ohio, $2.50. Campbell, Walter S.: Writing Advice and Devices, Writer's Digest, 22 East 12th Street, Cincinnati 10, Ohio, $1.50. Egri, Lajos: Your Key to Successful Writing, Holt and Co. Inc., 257 4th Avenue, New York 10, New York, $3.00, Grace, William J.: How to Be Creative With Words, Fordham University Press, 22 Park Place, New York 7, New York, $4.50. Hamilton, Ann: How to Revise Your Own Stories, Writer's Digest, 22 East 12th Street, Cincinnati 10, Ohio, $1.50. Mowery, William Byron: Professional Short Story Writing, Thomas Y. Crowell Co., 432 4th Avenue, New York 16, New York, $3.50. Short Stories for Study, Harvard University Press, 44 Francis Avenue, Cambridge 38, Massachusetts, $4.75. Song From the Rim of Silence Elsie McKinnon Strachan The rancher quells his radio, The red barn, wrapped in starry hush, Is outlined by the moon's ripe glow, And silence leans where shadows brush From pasture land to terraced hill; But none requests the mockingbird Be still. Who Sings the Lullaby Rosa Lee Lloyd ICILY Burke Adams sat at Cc her polished mahogany desk and sighed _—_contentedly. Everything in her life was just the way she wanted it. At last. She was back in the business world as Mr. Holvorson's private secretary; her three children, Stuffy, just fifteen months, Susan, past three, and Linda almost five, were in the capable hands of her friend Nan Jeffery; and Hank her husband, bless his big, obliging heart, was almost contented with the setup. At least, she thought, ignoring her apprehension, he didn't scold about it anymore. Her beautiful fingers with the long crimson nails went through the morning reports. She hadn't told Hank she had promised Mr. Halvorson, when he took her back last month, that she would work for him permanently. She lifted her head, listening. Mr. Cromer from San Francisco was in Mr. Halvorson's private office. Cicily hoped they had everything settled before noon. It was Saturday, and she wanted to go to the beach with Hank and the children. Cicily looked around at the elegant office. 'This was where she belonged. This was where she reigned like a well-dressed queen and she was well dressed, she thought. Her clothes were expensive, of course, but Kale Halvorson insisted that his secretary look expensive, Page 302 and he expected her to be gay as well as efficient. "And my secretary must be available at all times," he had told her. "We don't punch time clocks in this office." Cicily lifted her dark head proudly and mentally patted herself on the back. She hadn't acquired all this without a struggle; arguments with Hank, disappointments about getting home to dinner and calling off holiday arrangements with the children—like this week end when Hank wanted to go to the beach, but she might have to work with Mr. Cromer. She wasn't sure yet. She and Hank had argued about it, but, as usual, she had won him over. The corners of her mouth turned up. 'There weren't many young women of twenty-six who had everything; the love of a good-looking husband, a coach at Westhill's College; the love of three joyous children; a beautiful home in the Fairmont Park district; a friend like Nan to tend the children; and a job that meant success, compliments, and more money. And she had Aunt Flo, her mother's sister, who had always been a real mother to her, as her mother was away so much. Cicily reached for the memoranda pad and made a note: Call Aunt Flo tomorrow, Mother's Day. Always when she thought of motherhood, Aunt Flo came softly into her mind, like the wistful fragrance of violets growing beside the old WHO SINGS THE LULLABY house in Clayview of Aunt F'o's, where she had spent her childhood when her mother left her to go to New York to work as a designer. Aunt Flo had been widowed at twenty-five, when she had four stalwart sons. She had always been home when Cicily and the boys came home from school and, by some remarkable coincidence, she was usually just taking a pan of gingerbread from the oven or whipping the cream for apple tarts. Cicily bit her lip. She was getting sentimental. She had done her own part as a mother — three children in six years. Now she could sit back and gather her laurels. She was where she really belonged, right here in Kale Halvorson's office. She looked at the door as Mr. Halvorson came out with Mr. Cromer, a big, gray-haired man with peaked eyebrows. "Sorry you can't stay over," Mr. Halvorson was saying, and his voice told her he had closed the deal satisfactorily. 'That meant Mr. Cromer would be leaving town. Cecily was thinking joyously that it was the last appointment for the day; she could leave early and take the children to the beach. She wouldn't call Hank, she'd make it a surprise! N_ hour later, Cicily hurried down the pathway toward her home. She whistled. She hummed. She tossed her work to the wind until Monday morning — she could be a little mother to her heart's content. They'd all roll on the beach and build castles in the sand, and when the children were asleep she and Hank would dance at the Pavilion, Her heart lifted at the 303 thought of this long week end with Hank and the children. She put her finger on the doorbell, listening for the customary gallop of little feet, the delighted hubbub of little voices, the swoop of love that would envelop her. But the door didn't open even at the third long ring. Cicily leaned against the door frame. Disappointment seeped through her. The grocery store? Nan liked to select the groceries personally on Saturday. But would she take the whole family with her while she did the marketing? And Hank? Had he gone golfing? He had been restless lately. She remembered his brooding eyes during their argument last night. Oh, well, they'd be back soon, she thought, regaining her poise as she opened the door with her passkey. She went through the hallway. Why was it so dark in here at this time of day? And then she noticed the drapes at the windows were drawn together the way she left them when they were going to the beach for the afternoon. Cicily spun around in the middle of the living room and raced to the kitchen. The picnic basket was gone from the top of the cupboard! No, she thought, Hank wouldn't do a thing like this! He wouldn't just pile Nan and the children into the car and drive out to the nice cool lake. He would have phoned her. But maybe he had tried to phone her, and she had already left the office. He would think she had gone with Mr. Halvorson and Mr. Cromer. She walked with a dull ache back 304 to the living room and sat down on the settee. She kicked off her shoes and curled up kitten-fashion. The place was like an empty shell. Her arms ached to cuddle Stuffy's little body, to feel Susan's hands tug at her, to hear Linda say: "Mumsy! Youre home! Oh, goody!" Linda's voice always bubbled, but when she said this there was something more, a sort of reverence. Cicily leaned back and closed her eyes. She could see them riding along in the cream-colored convertible. Hank liked to ride with the top down on a bright day like this. Stuffy would be standing up in the front seat, no doubt, squeezed up tightly against his dad, one chubby arm around his neck and the other arm around Nan. Linda and Susan in their ruffly little blouses and tiny jeans and those cute little blue outing caps she had bought for them last week, would sit in the rear seat with the huge wicker picnic basket. HE wondered what Nan had worn, but Nan would still be Nan no matter what she had worn. Her husband's plane had crashed last winter. He was making a slow recovery in the hospital and that was why Nan was able to take over for Cicily. Nan wanted a home and children of her own and was praying for the day Rod could come home. Cicily went nervously through the house, hoping Hank had left a note for her, but there wasn't a message of any kind. They had simply gone away. She tried to think what Aunt Flo would do in a situation like this. That had always been a halfRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1956 humorous, but very workable motto with Cicily, when she had a problem. What would Aunt Flo do? Aunt Flo would get busy. She would do something. But what, Cicily wondered. The house was spotlessly clean and her clothes and the children's were in order. What was there to do? Mr. Halvorson didn't need her today, Hank and the children didn't need her. Her heart turned over and was suddenly very quiet. She sat down limply on her bed and stared out of the window. Hank and the children didn't need her. They were out on a picnic having fun; Hank would build a fire on the beach and they would put weiners on sticks and toast them until they were crunchy brown. If Stuffy got tired, Nan would cuddle him in her arms and sing to him until he went to sleep. The long afternoon dragged by. Hour by hour. Cicily read the morning paper, she turned the dial of the radio aimlessly. Nothing interested her. At four o'clock she poured a glass of milk and opened the cookie jar. It was filled with cookies shaped like witches and brownies with creamy white frosting for eyes and mouths. She could almost hear the children squeal with joy when they saw them. Nan had probably made them for tomorrow. Aunt Flo had made cookies like this when Cicily was a little girl. She took her milk into the livingroom and looked around for something to read. There were children's books piled on the table near the chair where Nan always sat, Cicily looked at the one on WHO SINGS THE LULLABY top: "Bo-Bo and the Starry-Eyed Kitten." "Bo-Bo," she repeated. 'That was the word Stuffy had said last night when she came home from the dinner Mr. Halvorson had given at the Brokers Club. She had gone into Nan's room to kiss Stuffy goodnight. He had been standing up in his crib, his fat little hands holding to the wooden bars as he bobbed up and down, gleefully. "Bo-Bo! Bo-Bo! Bo-Bo!" he had chanted. Nan had been undressing Susan, and Linda was taking off her shoes. "Oh, listen!' Linda had said, suddenly, clapping her hands. "Stuffty can say Bo-Bo. Isn't that wonderful, Mumsy? Nanny reads it to us!" Cicily had thought nothing about it at the time. But now, it wasn't the word Bo-Bo that pinched her heart, but the way Linda had said "Nanny." It was natural, she assured herself, for children to nickname the one who was with them all the time — the one who read them little stories, patted their little bruises, made them sugar cookies shaped like brownies and witches. She put the book down with a thump. She was getting silly. This silent house was enough to make anyone nervous. HE telephone rang. She reached for it eagerly. It might be Hank. But it wasn't. It was Kale Halvorson. "Glad you were in," he said briskly. His voice had the tight, heldin tone that meant something big was in the making. 305 "The Severage option comes up tomorrow at a private meeting in Denver," he went on. "I just got a wire. Looks like the smartest thing we can do is be on the spot. We'll leave here by plane tomor-? TOW. He sounded as impersonal as though he were relating their plans into a dictaphone. Cicily's heart rebelled against it. She couldn't go away on Sunday, and it was Mother's Day, too. Hank would be very angry. "Tll have a cab pick you up at two o'clock tomorrow," Mr. Halvorson concluded. Cicily felt anger mounting in her. This was ridiculous. Halvorson acted as though he owned her; as though she didn't have a life of her own; as though Mother's Day wasn't the most important day in the year. Hank and the children had been planning on it for weeks— it was her day! But she walked like a robot into her bedroom and took her suitcase from the shelf in the closet. Of course she had to go. There was no argument about it. You didn't argue with the boss, and Mr. Halvorson was the boss. He was the one who had given her that generous bonus last month. Her reverie was interrupted by the sound of stomping on the stairs. She raised her head to listen. Yes, the children were racing down the hallway, and those heavy steps behind them would be Hank, carrying Stuffy. Oh, joy! She was glad they were back. She opened the front door, stooped and gathered Linda and Susan in her arms. They smelled of sea-weed, and their little 306 faces were still rough with salt, but their arms were tight around her. "She's home!" Linda squealed. "Look, Daddy! Mumsy's home!" Cicily lifted her eyes. Hank was beaming down at her. "How come?" he grinned. "I thought you were snagging a customer for Halvorson?" "Not today, darling. Or tonight. Where's Nan?" "We dropped her off at the hospital." They all crowded through the doorway together and Cicily reached for Stuffy, sleeping against Hank's shoulder. "TI put him in bed," she murmured. "Little man has had a busy day." "Tl say he has," Hank laughed, following her to his bed. "Know something, Mrs. Adams? Your son is growing up. Nan taught him to float today!" "Not really! Tee water! "Not anymore. She kept her hand under his back, and he looked up at her with those great big eyes of his like a scared puppy. But she kept on. After a while, she took her hand away and the little tyke made it alone. He was looking at her all the time and she was smiling at him, encouraging him. He knew he was doing something big. Gosh, he was cute! Nan is a natural mother!" Long after they were in bed, Cicily lay awake watching the sky through the east windows. 'The man in the moon wasn't smiling tonight. He had a sad face, she thought. Her eyes went to Hank sleeping He's been afraid of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1956 beside her. Someday she was going to buy a bed made to order so Hank's feet wouldn't hang over the end that way. His face was solemn in sleep. Solemn and quiet. She liked to see him grin. A grin was natural for Hank. But his face had settled in that solemn resigned way after she had told him about going to Denver with Mr. Halvorson tomorrow. CICILY watched the moonlight highlight his strong, even features, the square chin, the ruffled brown hair. She loved him terribly. And he loved her — she knew that. Had he finally grown tired of fighting to keep her home with him and the children? Or did his casual acceptance of her position with Mr. Halvorson mean that he didn't miss her quite so much and that the children didn't miss her — quite so much? She heard Stuffy whimper in the room across the hall. She waited. Sometimes he did that and then went back to sleep. But the whimper broke into a wail, a terrified wail. Cicily got up and hurried to his bed in Nan's room. He was standing up, his chubby hands around the wooden bars, shaking them frantically. "Baby!" Cicily crooned, putting her arms around him. "Baby boy! Mumsy's here. Right here." The wail grew louder. She lifted him in her arms, but he stiffened his body against her, and she could hardly hold him. Hank came in groggy with sleep. Cicily hurried to the kitchen for a glass of milk; he hadn't eaten since the picnic, but he pushed the WHO SINGS THE LULLABY glass away with both hands. He looked past Hank's shoulder to the door and wailed dismally. "What in the world? Hank, shall I call a doctor?" Cicily asked. "He's not sick," Hank said, impatiently. A sleepy-eyed Linda came to the door. "He wants Nanny," she said, philosophically. "He always yells like that after his nap till Nanny comes." Cicily caught Hank's sour look. "Nonsense!" she said. "Here, give him to me." But Stuffy wouldn't relax against her. He refused to be cuddled. They heard the front door open, quick footsteps coming down the hall, and then Nan stood in the doorway. She hesitated, looking from Cicily to Hank, then to Stuffy struggling in his arms. Stuffy saw her, too. He stretched his arms toward her, and Cicily noticed, with a little sick feeling, that his eyes had—that special look that a child gives to the one he loves best. Hank put him in Nan's arms and walked out of the room. Cicily had never seen his face so grim before. Stuffy's wail turned into a long satisfied sigh, as he cuddled against Nan's breast. "See, Mumsy," Linda pointed to them. "I told you, Mumsy." ANK was quiet coming home from church. The children laughed and babbled in the back seat of the car, and Linda began to chant: "We've got a secret — we've got a secret...." Susan chimed in with her flutey little voice, and Stuffy beat his 307 hands together trying to follow the thythm. Cicily gave Hank an eye-corner glance. His big chin squared off grimly. The Mother's Day program must have stirred him. He had loved his mother dearly, but she had been dead almost three years now. Hank hadn't looked like this last Mother's Day or the year before that, or anytime that Cicily could remember. "Better telephone your Mother," he said and his voice had an edge to it. "T sent her a gift," Cicily explained. "I don't think [ll call— it's expensive. New York is a long way. Anyhow, she might be out for the week end. But I do want to call Aunt Flo." A warm joy went through her at the thought of talking to Aunt Flo. Hank's mouth folded in. Cicily guessed he was holding back some bitter remark. She wondered what was going on in his big curly brown head? "We've got a_ secret!" Linda chanted again. "We've got a secret!" He swung the car into the driveway. The children climbed out and ran ahead of them. Even Stuffy crawled up the steps on his hands and knees. The minute Cicily entered the house she noticed the table was set in the dining room. Nan had used the heirloom lace cloth and the sterling silver and the bouquet of talisman roses Hank had sent were in the center of the table. And then she saw the cake on the big silver tray at her place. It was creamy white, three layers high, 308 and across the top a pale pink icing formed the word "Mother." Nan must have worked like crazy to make that cake while they were gone! Linda, Susan, and Stuffy stared at it. They were dumb with wonder. But only for a moment. "Nanny made it!" Linda shrieked, clapping her hands and racing back to the door. "Daddy! Hurry! See what Nanny made!" Now it was Hank's turn to stare at it, big-eyed. "Some cake!" he breathed. His mouth softened around the edges. "No wonder the children were excited. I don't blame them! Come on, let's wash our hands while Mumsy fixes dinner." Cicily picked up a note on the tray beside the cake. "Dear Cicily," it began: "There's potato salad and sliced ham in the refrigerator. I'm going up to the hospital. I'll try to be back before you leave. Nan" HE crushed the note in her hand and took her hat off, thoughtfully, as she went to her room. She hurried to the kitchen, tying on her apron as she went. She was glad Nan wasn't here. She would have Hank and the children all to herself for this little while before the cab came for her. Her eyes flew to the clock. Twelve-thirty. They would have to hurry — it would take extra time when the children gave her their presents. That was always a big event. She sighed gratefully. Hank had taught them to appreciate her. And she wanted to call Aunt Flo. That was one treat she had RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1956 promised herself for today — a little visit with Aunt Flo on the telephone no matter what it cost. She swung around from the tefrigerator with a bowl of salad in her hands. She stood very still. A little bell tinkled in her mind. She was poised on a pinpoint of time, aware of its signal. Why did she want to call Aunt Flo instead of her own mother? Why? Why? But the answer was already in her mind before she asked the question. Because it was Aunt Flo who had been a real mother to her. It was Aunt Flo she remembered with that deep, warm, nostalgic longing that children have for a true mother. It was Aunt Flo who had stayed by her bed when she had the measles and the mumps and sang all those crazy little songs to her that would always be a part of her very self. Another woman had borne her, but it wasn't merely that biological fact that made a mother; it was the years of sacrifice, the years of being there when you were needed, the years of rearing your children the way Aunt Flo had done.. There was a stinging behind her eyes. She could hear Hank and the children laughing and talking in the bathroom. Bless his big fatherly heart. But last night even Hank couldn't pacify Stuffy when he had awakened, frightened. He had cried for Nan because she had become close and dear to him this last month when Cicily had been away so much. In another month Nan would mean more to them than Cicily did. And if Nan had to leave, someone else would take her WHO SINGS THE LULLABY place, and she might not be so unselfish as Nan. She bent her head in her hands. What would Aunt Flo do, she wondered achingly, if she were in her shoes? If she had a job she loved, what would Aunt Flo do? She put the salad on the table and walked determinedly back to her bedroom. Aunt Flo's picture was on her dressing table. She lifted it and let the sunlight from the window shine on the wide whimsical face. Aunt Flo's mouth was still young at the corners. Cicily could never look at her picture without a surge of gratitude, a flow of love. She hoped her children would love her the way she loved Aunt Flo. A conversation she had with her before Stuffy was born came back 309 again: "I'm glad you're having lots of babies, Cicily. You're prettier now than at any other time. And a woman can't ask for much more than to be a queen in her own home. Don't let someone else rear your children, Cicily, unless it's an absolute necessity. Remember anything worth having has to be earned." Cicily put the picture back on the dressing table. "Thanks, Aunt Flo," she murmured. "I know what to do, now." She walked with a queenly tilt to her head and dialed Mr. Halvorson's number. He might as well know he must get another secretary, because from now on she was staying home with Hank and their children. This was where she belonged. —-- Love $ Foliage Maude Rubin Slow hands guiding the needle Pull the bright threads through, Caress the fabric gently Just as they used to do When rose-sprigged silk was a dance-dress, When brocade blues were ties Chosen for Jim's Christmas present Because they matched his eyes. Long thoughts follow the needle, Sew memories into the quilt— Brief tears freshen love's foliage That grief nor time can wilt. Hidden Valley Ethel Jacobson Amid forbidding peaks, the hidden valley lies Battlemented, sheltered from interlopers' eyes. But silently the mole burrows in its sod And the waxwing flashes where its willows nod. The lizard blinks and suns on a windless ledge; The deer come at dusk to the spring's ferny edge. And bluer than the harebell are heaven's arching skies Mirrored in a stream, where a hidden valley lies, Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, May 1, and May 15, 1896 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE Women or Aut NATIONS" FOOD FOR THOUGHT: When we contemplate what we are and what we should be, we find that the mind needs food as well as the body: and needs plain substantial food, which will both refresh and strengthen it. Where can it be found if not in the holy scriptures. Here we find the thoughts, the feelings, and the trials of people who lived in this fallen world many ages since.... Is this not food for thought; especially when you see an alwise ruler leading, guiding and controlling every event to benefit and preserve the precious child, until his father saw him again....? —Zion's Convert EVENING THOUGHTS The twilight gently deepens The stars shine one by one; The sun's last fading rays, Proclaim the day is done.... Oh! Does the sun's last setting And the shadows that come with the night Remind us that we are but mortal Not always to walk by sight? —Lydia D. Alder LAW: Law is the first grand principle by which man is protected temporally and spiritually. If we transgress the laws of nature, sickness is liable to be the result. If we transgress the laws of God, we meet his displeasure or disapproval.... Our spirit has then lost luster, hope is deferred, the law has been broken, and discouragement is the result, because His teachable spirit has departed.... —Dr. Elvira Stevens Barney NOTE TO STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS: The Presidents of the stake organizations of Relief Society in all the stakes of Zion are urgently requested to prepare a complete list of their stake officers... With Post Office address of each person and forward to this office for publication. These lists will be carefully arranged and printed in the Deseret News.... —Editorial THE BOOK OF MORMON: Did any one ever read This Book of Mormon with an inquiring mind to know why it was kept expressly for this period of time, for this generation?... Now when we contemplate these things we see our Father's designs and purposes come in their own time and place; all for a wise purpose known only to Himself, yet being His children we learn them by experience: While he knows the results before they are seen by us.... This then is an important era of time, great events will transpire in these days... Would it not be well then to be humble since we claim God to be our Father: and remember this life is a school where there are so many lessons to learn.... The Book of Mormon shows this in terms so plain that you cannot be mistaken. —M. E. K. Page 310 NITED States Treasurer, Mrs. Ivy Baker Priest, was one of thirteen women honored in Washington, D. C., as outstanding in their special fields — hers, government. The award was a silver Winged Victory on a mahogany base. The selection was made by an all-men's group, the Golden Slipper Square Club. Senator Margaret Chase Smith and free-lance writer Inez Robb (a native of Idaho) were also among those honored. RS. ANGELYN WARNICK WADLEY, of Providence, Utah, was recently honored by the Utah State Agricultural College, along with six men, as being illustrious graduates of the school. Former director of home economics education for the State Department of Public Instruction, Mrs. Wadley was cited as being a "religious leader and advocate and practicer of full family living." Mrs. Wadley has been a contributor to The Relief Society Magazine and other Church magazines. Very severely handicapped as a result of poliomyelitis, she carries on at home with five children and teaches a class in Mutual, with indomitable faith and will power. INNIE MADDERN FISKE, (1865-1932), "First Lady of the American Theatre," at the turn Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon of the century, is the subject of a new biography Mrs. Fiske and the American Theatre, by Archie Binns and Olive Kooken. Mrs. Fiske was particularly famous for her roles in the plays of Henrik Ibsen (1828- 1906), the great Norwegian dramatist. Mrs. Fiske often repeated: "Actors on a stage should behave somewhat like people." HE General Federation of Women's Clubs is now working with its 1,000,000 members to lead a campaign against "'salacious and indecent" magazines, including the "gossip-blackmail" type. They recommend the adoption of a national code of ethics by magazine publishers. IRTHDAY congratulations are extended to: Mrs. Ursula Bandley Gee, Provo, Utah, ninety-eight; Mrs. Elizabeth Jane Terry Blair, Salt Lake City, ninety-five; Mrs. Mary Jane Lamb Robinson, Sandy, Utah, ninety-four; Mrs. Matilda S. Butler, Salt Lake City, ninety-three; Mrs. Annie E. Chambers Anderson, Salt Lake City, ninety-two; and the following women who have reached their ninetieth birthdays: Mrs. Robenia Marshall Ellis, Bountiful, Utah; Mrs. Hannah Okerlund Jakeman, Salt Lake City; Mrs. Martha Platt, Burley, Idaho; Mrs. Maria Thompson, Ephraim, Utah. Page 31] OD EDITORIAL cO VOL. 43 She Gift for Mlother s Day WITH the general observance of appreciation for mothers shown on Mother's Day, there comes to a Latter-day Saint mother the realization of the supreme gift which each of her children may give to her and for which her heart yearns. It may also be a time of soul-searching to a mother as she asks herself if she has done her part in obtaining this most precious gift from her children. She recalls the early, crowded years when her children were young and when their insistent demands for attention and the necessity of caring for their bodily wants—washing, ironing, mending, cooking, cleaning, straightening time and again, sewing, and nursing their ailments—seemed to leave her little time for nurturing their spiritual bodies. But now experience has taught her that the very persistence of their need for her constant attention provided her with the priceless opportunity of watching the character development of each of her children at its very inception. Her watchful presence permitted her to guide and correct improper tendencies before they became wrong habits rooted in the daily living pattern. Moreover the mother now realizes that the utter trust and dependence of her children upon her when they were young, has Page 312 helped to build their love and confidence in her today, so that they continue to seek her counsel and guidance in the problems of their maturity. She may also recall on this Mothet's Day how her patience was often tried, when her children brought home their friends to play—a play that almost demanded policing, at times, to keep the peace. The activities changed over the years, however, candy-pulls, games, hobbies, and dancing, each in turn, strengthened choice friendships and centered the children's attention on home. Unobstrusively mother watched, suggested, and planned that her children's lives might blossom and mature in the eternal bonds of marriage. And so on this Mother's Day, material gifts are treasured only as they reveal thoughtfulness and manifestation of love. The most precious gift which children can give to their mother is the knowledge that they are walking the straight and narrow path to immortality and eternal life. For mother to have an assurance that her family pattern will continue throughout eternity, with all of its component parts welded together and complete, is the supreme gift which brings peace to a mother's soul. —M. C. S. MAY 1956 NO. 5 Notes TO THE FIELD Program for the Nlovember Fast Sunday Evening Mleeting HE special program for Sunday, November 4, 1956, will be mailed to Relief Society stake presidents early in May. We urge stake presidents to distribute these programs to the wards immediately upon receipt of them. Many organizations have asked for information regarding the music for the Singing Mothers in order that they may learn the numbers during the summer months. Two numbers are to be sung by the Singing Mothers, one to be an appropriate number selected by the local society itself, and the other one is: "Teach Me, O Lord," by Hamblen, three-part chorus, $. S. A., No. Go21, published by Chapell and Company, Inc., RKO Building, Rockefeller Center, New York; price 20 cents per copy. If your local dealer is unable to supply this number, it may be ordered from the following stores: Beesley Music Company, 70 South Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. Daynes Music Company, 15 East First South Street, Salt Lake City. Glen Brothers Music Company, 74 South Main Street, Salt Lake City 'A Centenary of Relief Society " Out of Print Centenary of Relief Society was published for the one-hundredth anniversary of Relief Society in 1942 and contains much valuable historical information concerning the activities of the society during its first one hundred years. It is now out of print, and the general board does not contemplate reprinting it, so we suggest that each organization, stake and ward, preserve one copy for reference. Those stakes or wards which already have them in their libraries should see to it that they are properly bound to preserve them and that the name of the organization is either printed on the cover or written on the flyleaf on the inside so as to indiPage 313 314 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1956 cate clearly that it is the property of the society. Those organizations which do not already have a copy in their libraries should try to obtain one from someone in their stake or ward and have it bound. We recommend this same plan be followed in the missions. We suggest that these books be bound in one of the new synthetic materials, such as fabricoid, as this binding is considered much more durable than leather. The Deseret News Press, Salt Lake City, will bind the Centenary in blue fabricoid with a 24-carat gold seal and lettering on it, according to our specifications, so that they may all be bound alike, and stamp the name of the society on the cover in gold for $3.75 per copy postpaid. Thirty days should be allowed for binding the books which should be sent direct to the Deseret News Press, 31 Richards Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah. We recommend that stakes and wards that have not already done so, make this an early project so that every organization may preserve a copy of the Centenary. Eview Outline for ay 1956 Literature Lesson Pocvicw Obeliae dor WilaqetnodGcmtaned HE following outline presented at the October 1955 general Relief Society conference in the literature department is published herewith, relating to the review lesson of the current course on English literature. It is felt that this outline may be of interest and help to the sisters for reference and use in the May 1956 literature lesson. Op ENGLIsH PERIOD 449-1066 Writers History? Beowulf 750 A. D. Roman Invasion 55 B. C. - 410 A. D. Bede 673-735 Angles and Saxons 428 A. D. Christianity established 597 A. D. Danes 850-897 A. D. Mippte ENGLISH (Meptevat) Periop 1066-1485 Chaucer 1340-1400 Norman Invasion 1066 (Canterbury Tales) (William the Conqueror) Sir Thomas Malory Feudalism (Morte Darthur) 1469 Great ns} Chivalry Religion THE RENAISSANCE PERIOD 1485-1625 (From accession of Tudors to the death of James I) Shakespeare 1564-1616. Influences Bacon 1561-1626 Religious freedom English Bible (King James) 1611 Literacy Naval supremacy World trade Flowering of English spirit aw ys THE PuriTAN INTERLUDE 1625-1660 (From death of James I to restoration of Charles IT) Milton 1608-1674 Motivating Ideals Bunyan 1628-1688 1. Right Donne 2. Truth Herrick 3. Godliness Herbert Tue Neo-CrassicaL Pertop 1660-1784 Dryden Characteristics Steele Skepticism ~ Addison Order Swift Reason Goldsmith Wit Johnson Restraint Pope Tue Romantic Periop 1760-1832 Whiters Characteristics Thomson Wordsworth Individuality Collins Coleridge Freedom Gray Scott Beauty Cowper Byron Love Burns Shelley Nature Blake Keats Lamb Austen Hazlitt Tue Vicrorian PEriop 1832-1880 Tennyson The Rossettis Influences Dickens Arnold Nationalism Macaulay Humorists: Imperialism Browning Lewis Carrol Manufacturing The Brontes Calverley Commerce Eliot Lear Scientific programs Carlyle Dodgson Ruskin Gilbert Tue Break WitTH VICTORIANISM 1880-1914 Stevenson Housman Fading traditions Kipling; Henley New patterns Synge Masefield Hardy —> New Nace, "Heart s Bounty " to Begin in June A new serial "Heart's Bounty" by Deone R. Sutherland will begin in the June issue of The Relief Society Magazine. The story is a pioneer romance in which Annie Gniffith finds her life's work and learns that the way of duty and the path of happiness are the same road. Mrs. Sutherland is well known to readers of the Magazine for her lovely short stories and her serials: "Dear Conquest'? And "Green Willows." She presents her characters with warmth and understanding and vividly portrays a realistic background. Much enjoyment will be found in following the gleaming threads as Annie Griffith weaves them into her life pattern in ""Heart's Bounty." NOTES TO THE FIELD 315 Recipes from the Canadian ITlission Submitted by Leah H. Lewis Butter Tarts 2 cups brown sugar 1 tbsp. Milk 3 Or 4 eggs 1 tbsp. Vanilla 2 tbsp. Melted butter currants Mix: thoroughly. Make regular pie crust and put in tart pans or cupcake pans, sprinkle a few currants in bottom and pour over above mixture. Bake at 350° for 30 minutes. SHort Breap 1 Ib. Butter 4 to 5 cups flour 24 cup sugar Cream sugar and butter thoroughly and add flour gradually until mixture cracks in hand. Roll out on flourboard and cut with cookie cutter. Bake at 250° very slowly until light brown, 30 to 40 minutes. A Quick CAKE Y, cup soft butter % cup milk 1% cups flour ¥% tsp. Cinnamon 114 cups brown sugar % tsp. Grated nutmeg 3 teaspoons baking powder 1 cup seedless raisins 2 eggs Put the above ingredients in a bowl and beat all together for three minutes. Bake in a pan 35 to 4o minutes. If you follow directions, this makes a very satisfactory cake, but it will not be so if you add the ingredients separately. One-half pound of dates (cut in pieces) may be used in place of raisins. > Tlever in Sriteness Iris W. Schow The robin sings again the same glad song; The rose repeats her miracle of bloom; The lily breathes upon the summer air Once more her incomparable perfume. The mountains of the moon, unworn away, Still form the same fair face which all admire; The blackbird wears forever on his wing His ancient blazing flash of crimson fire. And, confident of being understood, We come as we once came in childhood days; For in the spirit, Mother dear, we bring Our timeless words of gratitude and praise. Page 316 Mary Ann Hyde Mortenson Makes Wedding Cakes of Intricate Design 'NAARY Ann Hyde Mortenson, eighty-three, of Ogden, Utah, specializes in making wedding cakes of intricate and exquisite design. She designs her own decorative patterns. Many of the wedding cakes are made with a fruit-cake base and are baked in four large layers in graduated sizes. The designs include scrolls, loops, ribbon bows, flowers, ferns, leaves, bells, and other decorative motifs. Cake making, however, is only one of Sister Mortenson's many talents. She is an expert quilter, and she joins the women at work meeting and never quits until the quilt is completed. She makes unique braided woven rugs, and her sunburst pattern rug is remarkably beautiful. Sister Mortenson also takes great pride in her flower garden and her hybrid roses are known throughout the valley. She sends bouquets and trays of food to the sick and homebound and gives them hope and encouragement. Sister Mortenson was born in Kaysville, Utah, and during her early married life, while serving as Relief Society president, she gleaned grain in the fields to help finance the organization. For many years she was a social science class leader, and she served as a visiting teacher for thirty-five years. The Relief Society Magazine has been in her home since the first issue. Sister Mortenson has three children, six grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren. Page 317 She Per ect Gift Mabel Law Atkinson PRING had come late to Eden S Valley. Not a rose was blooming; not one gave promise of unfolding for Mother's Day. "But I must have roses for Mother this year!' It was ten-yearold Tony who spoke, as he examined bud after bud and found each one so tightly curled that he knew it would be useless to try to force any into blooming as he had done a year ago. A smile erased the anxious expression on his face as he remembered his mother exclaiming delightedly, "Roses for my day! I was sure I would be disappointed this year, for no buds were opening this morning. How ever did you do it, 'Tony? And my favorite roses too—Grus on Teplitz and Madam Butterfly!" A warm feeling enveloped 'Tony as he recalled telling his mother how two days before he had cut the buds just beginning to loosen, and had kept their stems in warm water until they had opened enough to show their beauty. How he loved to recall her next words, "Thank you, my dear. You are a good boy, Tony, and I love you very much." She had kissed him then and continued, "Roses are the perfect gift for a mother on her day." He could still feel her arms about him now as he remembered her illness a short time later, an illness which had lasted for months. He must give her the roses she loved this year; but how could he do so with Sunday but three days away? Again he carefully examined Page 318 every bud, but it was an unrewarding task. Tears threatened to fall, but he hastily wiped them away with his sleeve as he said thoughtfully, "I must give her the perfect gift." Tony left the rose garden and sat on the porch steps in the late afternoon sunshine to think his problem through. He decided not to ask his father for extra money to buy roses from the florist, knowing he had all he could do to pay the bills caused by his mother's illness. There were no lawns to cut, for the weather had been too cold for the grass to grow; nor were there yards to rake as that task had been accomplished on clean-up day. What should he do? "It doesn't look as if any of our roses will be blooming for Mother this year, does it, Son?" It was his father who spoke. He had come upon Tony and, seeing the worried look in his eyes, had divined the reason. Tony shook his head, but did not answer lest his tears overflow. 6SLJERE'S a dollar, Son. I think perhaps it will buy three blooms. I'd give more if I could. We must not forget Mother on her day, especially this year." He was unaware he was repeating almost the very words Tony had used. His tears brimming over now, Tony smiled in relief and gratitude and said, "Thanks, Dad! I'll pay it back out of my allowance." "No, Son, you see I want Mother THE PERFECT GIFT to have the flowers she loves as much as you do. And, besides, you've earned it by your added thoughtfulness since she became ill." Tony skipped to the gate. He hurried to the flower shop, for it would soon be closing time. The owner, who knew him well, asked kindly, "What can I do for you, Tony boy?" "Td like to get a dollar's worth of roses, red and white ones, if you have them." "And what lovely lady's name shall I put on the card this year?" Very simply 'Tony answered, "Just write, "Io Mother from Tony." He paused a moment then continued, "And be sure and write, 'I love you, Mother.' " "That I will, my boy! That I will!" he said huskily, then added, "would you like me to keep them here for you till morning so they will be nice and fresh? You can come as early as you like." Tony gave him the dollar as he answered, "Oh, yes, that will be the best way. I'll be here very early to get them." The next morning a half hour before sunrise, Tony arose and dressed quietly, tiptoed past his parent's room, went outside and, in his eagerness, ran almost all the way to the florist's. The kindly proprietor smiled to see the anticipation in his eyes, and pointed to a lovely bouquet of roses in a con- 319 tainer covered with silvery-green foil. Tony gasped as he saw them. "Those are not mine, are they? My dollar would only buy about three, Dad said, and here are," he paused as he counted, "nine! Five red and four white ones, with pale yellow and pink centers just like our Madam Butterflies she loves. Are you sure these are mine?" "Yes, my boy. I want you to give them to your mother. I've seen the red and white ones in her garden so I thought she would like these. And Tony boy, if ever your roses don't bloom in time for Mother's Day, come to me and I will give you some to present to your mother." Before Tony could speak, he continued, "There will always be deliveries to make the day before Mother's Day, and you could help me to pay for your roses if you would feel better doing so. Just remember, my boy, and God bless?? You. Tony's eyes were shining as his lips spoke his gratitude. Taking his precious roses, he left the shop. When he came to the little white gate of his home, he did not stop, but walked on by, and went on and on to the outskirts of town. When he reached his destination and entered the gates, the silent beauty of the place made him feel a deep peace. Just as the rising sun flooded the earth with light, he placed his roses—the perfect gift— on his mother's grave. & There Is Still Time CHAPTER 4 Margery S. Stewart Synopsis: Elizabeth Anderson is disturbed by a strange dream in which she sees herself and her friends walking on crutches. She tells the dream to Brent, her husband, and explains to him that something is lacking in their lives. Brent, however, is so much interested in making money, that he does not want to understand Elizabeth's plea. Grandmother Anderson comes to live with the family, and, during her illness, Elizabeth and the children begin to appreciate the blessings of sacrifice and service. Elizabeth succeeds in persuading the children to go with her to Sunday School and sacrament meeting, and she feels that, as a family, they are making progress, although she is heartsick at Brent's indifference. OMETIMES her friends came S with flowers and jelly and murmured polite phrases of regret, but Karen Jones, beautiful as a camellia, was frank in her disapproval. "How you stand it, is beyond me...." She looked with wonder at the lines and hollows in Elizabeth's face. "Honestly, you'll look like your own mother in another month." She touched her own glowing, pearl perfection with a long, graceful sweep of painted nails. "Do you know it took me two solid hours this morning of massage and eye pads to get rid of the Jamison's party. Honestly, you should have seen my eyes." Elizabeth looked gently at the extraordinary beauty of Karen's blue-green eyes, her brilliant red hair. "I can't imagine you with a flaw, Karen, I really can't. You're my despair, really. When I get all dressed up for a party, I think of Page 320 you and just wilt. I suppose most of your other friends do, too." Karen smoothed her wide, yellow skirts. "Beauty is its own excuse for being." She laughed, "Wish I could remember who wrote it, someone is always quoting it to me, and they never know either. But, frankly, Elizabeth, you've got to stop this Florence Nightingale business and come out in the sun again." Elizabeth passed fruit juice and cake. "I will. She's much, much better." She smiled. "Someone told me they were going to ask you to help out on the Red Cross drive. Did Mary tell you?" Karen shook her head. "No, and she can save her breath. I've found the most marvelous new reducing salon, and they are going to keep me tied, simply tied there for three months. Do you know, Elizabeth, I've gained three inches around my hips." Elizabeth watched the dismay smooth away on Karen's forehead. It must be fun to walk into a place looking like her and have every head turn. I had a dream about her once... Let me see.... Oh, yes, that awful one about the crutches. ".... You haven't heard a word I've said. I've been telling you about the luncheon Mary is having. She said she'd call you. Do come, darling. It will do you so much good." She was gone in a flutter of skirts and a fragrance lingering and lavish. THERE IS STILL TIME From overhead came the impatient thumping of the cane by Grandma Anderson's bed. Elizabeth ran to answer it. But, at last, to everyone's delight, Grandma Anderson was permitted to be up and around. She fluttered about the house like a winged bird, chirping constantly. "Did you know, Elizabeth, that Lin only worked three hours on the garden yesterday. You pay him for five." "T told him he could leave early. He was expecting a brother from Tokyo." "Hmph. A long way for very little. 'They'd both be much better off saving their money. Did you know Matilda threw out that sack of crusts from your party? She never did put it into a bread pudding like I told her." Elizabeth put down her mending and rubbed her forehead. Her head ached. Her mind ached from scrabbling a thousand times a day for excuses, reasons, blandishments. "Grandma, why don't you make Donna a dress? You're such a good seamstress." "Dress! Land sakes alive! 'That young one has more dresses than she'll ever wear out." "Why don't you make a quilt, then? One of your specials." Grandma Anderson considered. "Well, I might, not that anyone around here would appreciate it." BuLIZABETH rose and fled. She took Elaine's car and drove aimlessly toward town. It's: my nerves, they really took a beating in that long illness. It's the let down of a big job done and three women trying to do the work of one. Matilda runs that house with one hand 321 tied behind her, that leaves Grandma Anderson and me to haggle about the little tasks and to pick on everything the youngsters do. She took a deep breath. Now somebody very wise would make this predicament profitable — for everyone. But I'm not very clever. I only know I'm happiest when I'm doing a big job... Like nursing Grandma Anderson, or the twins when they had measles, or having a dinner for twenty. She stopped at the Farmer's Market, sat in the sun and ate a lemon cream tart. It was delicious. She wandered about the booths, bought a breadboard from Sweden and sandals from Mexico. Still reluctant to turn homeward she found a movie. 'The usher waved her to a place beside a girl in her early twenties. A pretty blonde girl, but sleepy. Elizabeth found herself stealing worried glances at her neighbor. Suddenly the girl's head jerked up. She opened her eyes. She looked at Elizabeth and smiled in embarrassment. "We've been so short of help at the hospital that ''ve been working through for a week. I'm bushed. But I did want to see this movie." "Are you a nurse?" The girl nodded. "Wish I were five of them. We could use them all on my division." "Why the shortage?" The girl shrugged. "New hospitals every week or so, it seems, more sick people than I've ever seen before, and fewer people to want to do the grubby things that nursing demands." She wriggled into her jacket, still yawning. "I guess 322 I should try to stay and see it through again, but I just can't make it" Elizabeth ached for her. She knew from experience that utter fatigue of body and mind and the stubborn will that persisted in driving the aching bones to newer tasks. She moved her knees to let the girl by, but the movie had lost its charm. She felt the drama on the screen was vapid in comparison to the real life drama of the weary girl making her way toward the exit. HEY had not even missed her. Brent had been called out of town, Elaine had gone to a dinner dance the Mutual was giving, and Grandma had taken the twins and Donna to Primary and then down the corner to get some ice cream. Matilda served a warmed-over dinner. "It just did you a world of good to get out of here, Mrs. Anderson, you just ought to do it more." Elizabeth pushed aside her dinner and leaned her face in her palms. She was tired to the bone. Matilda grumbled as she took away the plate. "Appetite like a bird. Why don't you go out and play, Mrs. Anderson, play golf again, or go to some of those parties they're always invitin' you to?" Grandma Anderson came home with three flushed and excited children. Johnny ran ahead. "Did you know that Grandma _ played with a real live buffalo calf when she was little?" Jennie shrieked louder. "She saw a mountain lion once when they were camping." Elizabeth looked at Grandma RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1956 Anderson. She was radiant, flushed with responsibility and pride. "Land sakes alive. 'These poor little children haven't been to an ice-cream parlor for years." "We have ice cream all the time at home." "Fiddle-dee-dee! Dish." Jennie jumped up and down. "Grandma says she would take us to Griffith Park, if you'd let us... On the bus." She made it sound like six golden horses all aglitter in the sun. Elizabeth blinked. Buses and ice cream parlors... All the beloved things of her childhood were just as much of a treat to her spoiled trio, and Grandma _ Anderson seemed to thrive under the admiration of her grandchildren. She needs a job to do, the same as I do, Elizabeth realized. Now how are we going to bring this all about? Elizabeth did try golf, but the game was not enough to absorb her energies. She tried other things, charity drives, luncheons. Karen Jones gave the most fabulous luncheons. Elizabeth often felt that she was walking into a dream, walking into Karen's living room with its white rugs and draperies, its apricot and green couches and chairs, the exquisite Chinese tapestry she had above the beautiful fireplace. Today, Karen was wearing peacock blue. It intensified the red of her hair and the blue of her eyes. The luncheon was mainly fruit. Karen's newest craze was diet, and she went on interminably relaying the latest taboos from the new doctor she had found, Cold stuff in a THERE IS STILL TIME Elizabeth listened idly, enjoying the food, the surroundings, and the beauty of the women around her, feeling happy in her own new brown suit of raw silk and the absurd little brown velvet hat. It was fun to watch the other women wait like birds upon a branch for a pause in Karen's steady flow of words. She stopped for breath and Katherine James and Delores Moser both started in talking. Neither would surrender, so the guests good naturedly listened to both and then concentrated on the most interesting. ELORES was describing the hilarious adventures of herself and her husband in Mexico over the week-end. "... On our way back we stumbled over Maria." "Not Maria Lindsey?" everyone's attention. "The same," said Delores triumphantly. "And you'll never guess where we found her or what she was doing." "Never!" "Tell us. Don't be like that." Elizabeth felt her own interest quickening. Mara had been most friendly at one time, coming to call, inviting Elizabeth and Brent over for dinner when they had first come to the neighborhood. Elizabeth remembered how impressed she had been with the Lindsey's beautiful patio and pool. Then, suddenly, the Lindsey's had moved away... There had been no further word. "She's a waitress! At Don Caro's! Can you imagine!" They stared at Delores. Really!" "A hostess, rather," Delores hurriedly modified the statement. "But She had "Not 323 imagine our embarrassment... Our absolute chagrin to meet her like that. Made me _ feel horrible. Maria's face went as white as this cloth when she saw us. Looked absolutely sick. Do you know that Don lost every penny... Simply every cent?" Karen pushed back her long, beautiful hair. "I don't suppose there's a chance they'll ever make it again... Get back up here with us?" Delores shook her head firmly. "Nota chance. They did give such lovely parties, too. Right to the end. Well, that's the way it goes.... On the way home I bought the most beautiful vases... Antiques and priceless...." Elizabeth clenched her fists under the table. Was that all there was, then, to friendship? Once they had all eaten at Maria's table and rested in her chairs, dived in her pool. Now she was pushed out of their minds by a pair of antique vases. It seemed to Elizabeth as if the floor shifted beneath her, the same helpless feeling she had known once in a dream. Oh, yes, that dream about the big party and the crutches that crumbled under her. After the luncheon was over she drove aimlessly about, not wanting to go home until she was calm again. She still had the agonizing sensation of unsure earth beneath - her. She passed a hospital and looked idly at its gray forbidding walls, remembering the little nurse in the movie and the call for help in that morning's paper for nurses and aides. Suddenly, on impulse, she parked 324 the car. She went up the wide path to the stone steps. "Idiot!" she said to herself, but her feet went resolutely, almost without her volition up the stairs and down the long halls to the small sign that read, 'Nurses' Office." She was small, gray, and pleasant, the woman at the desk. She looked impersonally and yet inquiringly at Elizabeth's beautiful clothes. "I wonder... Could you use an aide... Perhaps in the children's ward?" The woman looked at Elizabeth's brown leather bag, at her shoes that matched exactly, and the brown velvet hat. ""You've had experience?" Elizabeth tried to sound very brisk. "My own children... And for two months I nursed my mother-in-law. Doctor Eberhardt told me I did a wonderful job...." She stopped, blushed. "I only said that to show I had had some experience. I understood you are quite shorthanded, I thought... Until it became easier to get help." The woman smiled. "Could you come tomorrow?" Elizabeth swallowed, nodded. "At seven? It's seven to three you know. You'll be in surgery. Would you mind that?" "No... I'm sure I wouldn't." The woman looked again at Elizabeth's slim heels. "Better wear low, white shoes. There's a lot of walking in this job." She handed some papers across her desk. "If you'll just fill these out." DINNER that evening was a joyous affair. Jennie simply couldn't believe that her mother had gone out as simply as to a RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1956 corner drugstore and came away with a job. "But you're so old... Imean... I thought...." "IT am just brushing forty," Elizabeth said haughtily, but with a smile within. "And I wish you would stop reminding me of it, as if age were something I could escape, if I were a little more clever." "All those heavenly medics," sighed Elaine. "So young, so utterly handsome." "TI try not to be rushed off my feet," murmured Elizabeth. "Mother!" Brent looked up. "I don't like it," he said abruptly, "I don't like it at all." "But it's such a simple little job, darling, and not for long, just until there's not such a shortage of help." Grandma Anderson waved her | fork at him. "You let her go. With me here to look after the children, there's not a thing in the world to worry about." "And Ill be home before they are," Elizabeth interpolated quickly, "no one will ever know the difference." Brent laughed. "Very well, if you insist. I give you just two weeks and you'll quit of your own accord." Elizabeth sighed with _ relief. There were no more hurdles as far as she could see. "I'm heading for bed, five in the morning will come mighty soon." Elizabeth had dreamed all night of bending over tossing patients, tenderly bathing foreheads, and smoothing brows. The reality was abrupt and brutal. She was sent to the fifth floor with a typewritten THERE IS STILL TIME note clutched in her tense hand. The elevator was automatic. It closed its doors upon her and left her alone in a long gray hall. Elizabeth looked about her. Directly opposite was an operating room where nurses were changing sheets on an operating table. They wore masks and their hair was covered by caps. Everyone seemed in an ordered hurry. One of the nurses, hastening down the hall, stopped. "You must be Mrs. Anderson?" Elizabeth nodded, held out the typewritten note. The nurse read it quickly. She smiled briefly. "Come with me, please." She led Elizabeth to a room marked "Nurses Only." It was a small room with a cot and a few deep chairs and a table on which reposed stacks of uniforms. The nurse burrowed through them, stopped to give Elizabeth a measuring glance. "T wear fourteen." "Thirty-four. Here we are." She tossed the uniform to Elizabeth. "We'll have to hurry. We're really short-handed today." HE uniform had a deep V-neckline and string that pulled tight to form a waistline of sorts. Elizabeth looked down at herself ruefully. "I look like a sack." The nurse laughed, "It's not by Dior, nor is this cap by Dache." It wasn't. It fitted coldly around Elizabeth's face, hiding every vestige of hair. The nurse nodded approval. "Now come back upstairs, and we'll find you a mask. You must re- 325 member to pull it up when you bring the patient into the operating room." Elizabeth nodded. She pushed a handkerchief into her pocket and hurried along after the nurse, who led her back upstairs. She paused before a huge blackboard. The blackboard was a maze of initials, names, and medical terms and hours. "7:30, J. C. Metcalfe, 412," Elizabeth read, "D. C." And below it, "8:00 R. D. Malouf, Biopsy left breast, 355." The nurse handed Elizabeth a paper. It duplicated the names and information on the board. Twentythree names Elizabeth counted. She looked up inquiringly. ""T'wentythree operations?" The nurse nodded. "Your job is to get them up to us. You can start with J. C. Metcalfe, Room 412, which is on the fourth floor. Tell the nurse at the desk which patient you want. Be sure to read the tag on the patient's wrist, compare it with the name on your paper. We can't operate on the same patient twice in one day. 'Too expensive." Elizabeth smiled and looked up quickly, but the laughter had already fled from the nutse's eyes. "Bring the patient to Small Major." She indicated the four operating rooms that opened from the circular hall. She counted them for Elizabeth, naming each one. "First minor to your left, second minor next to it, first major on your right, second major next to it, and third major right across from the elevator." The cart moved at the touch of Elizabeth's finger. She placed the folded sheet on it, and moved to- (Continued on page 343) Magazine Subscriptions for 1955 Counselor Marianne C. Sharp HE general board expresses great appreciation to all Relief Society Magazine representatives throughout the Church who, realizing the importance of their work, have placed during the past year, 138,096 Relief Society Magazines in the homes. The Magazine is mailed to fifty countries outside the United States, which is particularly significant at this time when so many Latter-day Saint citizens of the United States are living, for one reason or another, in foreign countries. 'Truly, The Relief Society Magazine is found in homes circling the globe. The callings of stake and ward Magazine representatives are of great importance for the carrying on of Relief Society. Ward Magazine representatives visit the homes in their wards, contacting the sisters in a spirit of unselfish helpfulness. Stake Magazine _ representatives plan, encourage, advise, and assist ward Magazine representatives to attain their goals. Both callings are important in placing in individual Relief Society members' hands and in those of the officers, knowledge of the historical happenings of Relief Society, instructions to officers, the lesson work, accounts of Relief Society happenings throughout the world, inspirational articles from Church leaders, as well as reading material of general interest to Latter-day Saint women. For this reason all Relief Society organizations Page 326 | are asked to take a subscription in the name of the society so that the issues may be bound at the end of ~ each year and preserved in the Relief Society library. The honor roll for 1955 reveals many interesting features. For the ninth year the South Los Angeles Stake leads the Church in per cent of subscriptions in relation to the number of Relief Society members, with a percentage of 262. It also has the largest number of subscriptions 2,857. 'There are 204 stakes on the honor roll as compared with 200 last year. There are thirtythree stakes in which every ward within the stake achieved 100 per cent or over, whereas there were twenty-four in 1954. 'There are 1,739 wards and branches in stakes on the honor roll, an increase of 102. 'Three missions achieved over 100 per cent and fourteen missions are on the honor roll. The mission branches totaled 486 on the honor roll. The overall increase in the number of Relief Society subscriptions in 1955, is 8,218: 138,096 in 1955 and 129,878 in 1954. The faithful performance of any calling brings joy to a Relief Society member and the general board congratulates all stake and ward Magazine representatives who so faithfully and satisfactorily performed their duties and responsibilities in 1955. MAGAZINE SUBSCRIPTIONS FOR 1955 Honors for Highest Ratings Stake South Los Angeles (California) 262% Magazine Representative—Edna C. Stoutsenberger Ward South Gate Ward, South Los Angeles Stake (California) 372% Magazine Representative—Amelia Dellenbach Branch San Manuel Branch, Southern Arizona Stake (Arizona) 314% Magazine Representative—Jennie Brown Mission Gulf States — 104% Mission Relief Society President — Phyllis D. Smith Mission District West Texas District, Gulf States Mission — 138% Magazine Representative — LaPriel D. White Mission Branch Douglas Branch — 275% Wyoming District, West Central States Mission Magazine Representative — Hazel I. Johnson Ten Highest Percentages in Stakes 327 South Los Angeles..........2.2.2.2-2::::: s: eeeesceeee262.... Dna C. Stoutsenberger Glendale -20....2..2... E-ceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeees 152.... Elsie Weber NYSSA_.....-eneeececeseeeseececessesneneeneessencensearensecseneeneess145.... Vonda Huntington TATOO)... Occcee copper se ccncen sce an ne neces te reeneere-onwarece142.... Flora Buggert San JOAQuin -.... Eee eee eeceeeeeeceeeeeeeceeneeneeeeeeee141.... Retta J. Watkins Rexburg.........2..2.22-2--2e2eseeeeceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee 137-... Martha J. Erickson Oquitth oe. Eee ee cence eee eee eee eee 128.... Enid O. Heise Santa Monica............2.2:.0c20: sceeeseeeeeeeeeeeee eee 128.... Charlene W. Bell Long Beach. ©.... Eeceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeseeeeeeeeeees 127.... Ethel Spongberg a 125.... Merle Young Missions Achieving Ten Highest Percentages Gulf States....0.......... Scsssssetcen aster scenesceceaseeeusese 104.... Phyllis D. Smith Central States..........2.-esecccceeceeeceeeeeeneeeeeeeeeeee 102.... May E. J. Dyer Western States -......22.... Eee eeewoe eo == 101.... Mildred P. Elggren Northern Califormia....2..2.22...2-.- eects 99----Amelia P. Gardner West Central States... Eee eee g8.... Marteal W. Hendricks Califormia.......... Sescsececescececeeceeceeeseeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeae 98.... LaPriel S. Bunker CEC i a as 94.---Leah H. Lewis Northwestern States -..........2. Eessseseeeeeeeeeeeee+ 89... Mavil A. McMurrin North Central States....2.2.21. Eteceeeeeeeeeeeeeees 88.... Dora H. England Western Canadian.........2..2.--.-eseeeeeeseceeeeeneeees 83.... Elizabeth H. Zimmerman Ten Stakes With Highest Number of Subscriptions No. No. Subscriptions Subscriptions South Los Angeles 2857 Ensign 922 San Fernando 1240 Big Horm 899 Glendale 1196 East Los Angeles 898 Pasadena 1078 Sevier 877 Palmyra 1065 % Burley 868 328 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1956 Ten Missions With Highest Number of Subscriptions West Central States Central States Western States Southern States California No. Subscriptions 1375 1311 1102 1001 866 Eastern States Northwestern States Northern States Gulf States Western Canadian No. Subscriptions 755 694 645 493 440 Stakes in Which All the Wards Achieved 100% or Over Burley Ruth Peterson Leona Budge East Long Beach.... Margaret Bryan East Los Angeles.... Zelma Beck East Sharon..........-... Ensign..........2.:2coc0000 Grant Inglewood............--.-J Long Beach North Davis............ North Pocatello Nyssa........--.2: s2-s-0e00+= Orange County........ Pasadena Pocatello.................. Fay Edna M. Hansen Mabel E. Wood Elsie Weber Clara M. Love Evelyn L. Larsen anet C. Medina Ethel Spongberg Helen Willey Barber Tura Hadley Vonda Huntington L. Peterson Nell Ellsworth Elva W. Nielson Rexburg St. Joseph............ San Joaquin Santa Monica...... Shelley South Box Elder South Idaho Falls South Los Angeles Tacoma................ West Pocatello.... West Pocatello.... Wilford...................-Flora Buggert..--Margaret M. Smith.... Martha J. Erickson.... Martha V. Gattiker.... Nira P. Lee..--Helen Yaple..--Retta J. Watkins.... Charlene W. Bell.... Merle Young.... Naomi P. Larkin...-Renee J. Nielsen Stoutsen-.--Edna C. Berger.... Afton B. Dickson...-lone G. Slayden...-Cleo L. Thatcher.... Dorothy R. Larson Nission Percentages on Glonor Roll Gulf States Central States Western States Northern California South Los Angeles Glendale Nyssa Provo San Joaquin Rexburg Oquirth Santa Monica Long Beach Shelley Burley Orange County East Long Beach Minidoka South Idaho Falls Inglewood Humboldt 104 102 101 99 West Central California Canadian Northwestern 9 North Central States 88 States 98 Western Canadian 98 Northern States 94 Eastern States Stakes by Percentages 262 152 145 142 141 137 128 128 127 125 124 123 122 121 120 119 117 Southern States New England San Fernando 117 New York Idaho Falls 116 West Utah Boise 115 North Idaho Falls North Davis 114 South Box Elder Redondo 113 Columbia River Wilford 112 Sevier Los Angeles 112 Grant Sacramento 111 Las Vegas Union 111 Cassia Bonneville 111 Tacoma East Los Angeles 110 Granite Pasadena 110 East Sharon Gnidley 110 Emigration North Jordan 110 West Pocatello St. Joseph 109 Blackfoot Bountiful 109 South Ogden North Sacramento 113 North Pocatello MAGAZINE SUBSCRIPTIONS FOR 1955 San Juan Bakersfield Spokane Highland St. Johns North Box Elder Monument Park Bear River Malad Pocatello Rigby South Salt Lake Tooele Liberty Mt. Graham Big Horn Mill Creek San Francisco Moapa Portneuf West Boise Palmyra Wells Ensign Ogden Zion Park Cottonwood Portland Taylor Uvada Phoenix Oakland Gooding Timpanogos Mt. Rubidoux Sugar House Yellowstone Teton Taylorsville East Mesa Nampa San Bernardino Weiser New Orleans San Jose Wasatch Riverside North Sevier East Mill Creek North Rexburg Mt. Jordan Uintah Butte Denver American Falls South Bear River Park 105 104 104 104 104 104 104 103 103 103 103 103 102 102 102 102 101 101 101 101 101 101 101 100 100 St. George Southern Arizona Bannock Emery San Diego North Tooele Woodruft Utah East Phoenix Kanab Seattle Detroit Grantsville Ben Lomond Deseret Twin Falls North Carbon Mt. Logan Kolob South Summit South Blackfoot Star Valley Rose Park Chicago Montpelier East Rigby Berkeley Carbon Sharon West Jordan Nebo University Fresno Oneida Salmon River Cache East Provo Murray Wayne North Weber South Davis Reno Davis Lake View Bear Lake Benson Moon Lake East Jordan El Paso East Cache Weber Cedar Washington Lehi Grand Coulee Riverdale Parowan Idaho North Sanpete Houston Santa Rosa Alpine Florida Logan Smithfield Panguitch Pioneer Beaver Mesa Raft River Salt Lake Cannon Layton Millard Orem Santa Barbara San Luis Snowflake Lorin Farr Santaquin-Tintic Duchesne East Ogden Young Richland Calgary Klamath Juab Alberta Nevada Hillside Maricopa Farr West Roosevelt Honolulu Dallas Summit Mt. Ogden Willamette Garfield Palo Alto Hyrum Lethbridge Temple View South Sevier Lyman Gunnison Blaine Juarez Lost River Morgan South Carolina South Sanpete Moroni Oahu Relief Society Alberta Alpine American Falls Bakersfield Bannock Bear Lake Bear River Beaver Ben Lomond Benson Berkeley Big Horn Blackfoot Boise Bonneville Bountiful Burley Butte Cache Calgary Cannon Carbon Cassia Cedar Chicago Columbia River EnrollSubscriptions Pet. Ment Ne. 653 886 354 381 378 525 487 519 436 609 708 885 534 436 707 666 698 840 621 373 423 709 155 610 448 491 511 728 332 397 853 446 503 419% 391 516 615 899 563 503 793 725 868 821 534 293 340 615 165 511 391 527 STAKES ON HONOR ROLL-1955 78 82 94 104 93 85 103 81 90 85 87 102 105 115 iid 109 124 94 86 i 80 87 106 84 87 107 Magazine Representative Ethel C. Pitcher Della M. Spafford Enid W. Thornton Elizabeth W. Winn Ida Sorenson Millie Sprouse Lottie R. Potter Sylvia Davis Elnora S. Empey Ruth J. White Bertha Anderson Louise Hawley Vera Fullmer Della Palmer Means Ruth Peterson Myrtle B. Hatch Leona Budge Harriet Millecam Alice D. Griffin Lenore Heninger Mildred W. Shortt Gertrude W. Edwards Rowena J. Warr Venice W. Prince Florence G. Andrew Pearl Batman Relief Society Grant Grantsville Gridley Highland Hillside Honolulu Houston Humboldt Idaho Idaho Falls Inglewood Juab Kanab Klamath Kolob Lake View Las Vegas Layton Lehi Liberty Logan Long Beach Lorin Farr Los Angeles Malad Maricopa EnrollSubscriptions ment No. 720 A58 AT7 831 866 316 A471 175 AIT 547 500 518 423 408 885 590 172 497 611 795 538 615 523 574 566 647 770 411 524 864 672 238 388 205 344 637 596 406 381 320 783% 502 823 398 509 814 440 780 415 641 584 499 Pet. 107 90 110 104 78 75 82 117 82 116 119 78 90 78 89 85 107 80 83 102 82 MY 79 '142 103 vil Magazine Representative Evelyn L. Larsen Ruth Rydalch Lucy McGuskie Lucy Horman Sara S. Nicholson Louise Kaanapu Edna P. Barrett Charlotte S. Ferguson Jennie S, Gilbert Josie Scoresby Janet C. Medina Alligee L. Anderson Nellie Heaton Edith Van Hise Alice Davis Allie K. Freestone Lila H. Leavitt Dorsey Hodgson Rosa Ashton Katherine H. McOmie Ruby W. Amussen Ethel Spongberg Maude P. Close Velma Shurley Elizabeth B. Facer Beverly A. Harris 330 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1956 Cottonwood Dallas Davis. Denver Deseret Detroit Duchesne East Cache East Jordan East Long Beach East Los Angeles East Mesa East Mill Creek East Ogden East Phoenix East Provo 'East Rigby East Sharon El] Paso Emery Emigration Ensign Farr West Florida Franklin Fresno Glendale Gooding Grand Coulee Granite 852 100 378 75 617 85 691 94 We Bo Fs we 79 624% 84 713) 85 697 122 898 110 565 = 97 814 95 505 79 467 91 495 86 52587 317 106 285 = 84 672 93 471 106 922 100 435 76 364 82 703 @ 361 86 1196 152 491 99 Seam «6 Bo 676 106 Audrie M. Kennington Opal Burch Effie B. Miller Bernice H. Brown Alpha Nielson Nora J. Souter Ora N. Holgate Ines B. Bergeson Vera Cowley Margaret Bryan Zelma Beck Elva M. Brown Barbara L. Beesley Karene N. Straw Cora L. Mack Sarah H. Passey Dale Burtenshaw Edna M. Hansen Lola Wiley Dorthella Williams Emily C. Pollei Mabel E. Wood Bertha R. England Renie E. Tompkins Phyllis W. Kingsford Charlotte Mercer Elsie Weber Mary Roy Florence E. Young Clara M. Love Mesa Millard Mill Creek Minidoka Moapa Montpelier Monument Park Moon Lake Mt. Graham Mt. Jordan Mt. Logan Mt. Rubidoux Murray Nampa Nebo Nevada New Orleans New York North Box Elder North Carbon North Davis North Idaho Falls North Jordan North Pocatello North Rexburg North Sacramento North Sanpete North Sevier North Tooele North Weber 772 612 483 A457 279 688 707 217 616 667 632 510 888 635 706 389 270 273 586 449 740 775 557 430 632 389 632 394 A457 584 623 490 48812 663 282 600 732 184 630 631 561 502 761k 613 610 303 258 oui 608 399 843 840 610% 463 599 439 521 374 450 499 81 80 101 eal 101 87 104 85 102 95 89 98 86 97 86 78 96 109 104 89 114 108 110 108 95 113 82 95 92 85 Lola C. White Ethel P. Baker Cora H. Shelley Myrtle C. Lloyd Lillian C. Lewis Hilda Parker Beryl Newsome Clara B. Young Lucy Barney Bertha S. Powell Mary M. Larsen Hilda R. Peel Clara M. Duffin Mollie Miller Vida H. Moore Alpha Lambert Evelyn G. Talbert Delpha P. Wall Christine N. Bott Mary A. Bryner Helen Willey Barber Winona Telford Louisa Bradley Tura Hadley Arvilla Parkinson Kate O. Lindsay Ruby T. Hansen Rhea Mickelsen Mary M. McKellar Esther H. Hutler STAKES ON HONOR ROLL 331 Relief Society Nyssa Oakland Ogden Oneida Oquirrh Orange County Orem Palmyra Panguitch Park Parowan Pasadena Phoenix Pioneer Pocatello Portland Portneuf Provo Raft River Redondo Reno Rexburg Richland Rigby Riverdale Riverside EnrollSubscriptions Pct. Ment No. 445 645 756 747 608 609 678 584 493 633% 353 434 677 539 1055 1065% 476 386 804 752 366 302 978 1078 649 644 571 463 476 489 544 542 441 444 459 651 196 158 535 604 597 509 611 840 568 447 713 731 512 423 752 715 STAKES ON HONOR ROLL-1955 145 99 100 86 128 123 80 101 81 94 83 110 oo 81 103 100 101 142 81 113 85 137 yi) 103 83 95 Magazine Representative Vonda Huntington Agnes M. Nelson Chloe F. Summerill Mada Larsen Enid O. Heise Fay L. Peterson Alice Harris Juanita J. Howard Billie Allen Pearl Rohde Bertha W. Mitchell Nell Ellsworth Rose Openshaw Emma O. Frenette Elva W. Nielson Gertie Lewis Ada L. Parris Flora Buggert Alice O. Neddo Margaret M. Smith Pearl S. Robison Martha J. Erickson Edna Reynolds Ruey A. Ball Edith Stacy Isabelle F. Sugden Relief Society South Idaho Falls South Los Angeles South Ogden South Salt Lake South Summit Southern Arizona Spokane Star Valley Sugar House Summit Tacoma Taylor Taylorsville Teton Timpanogos Tooele Twin Falls Uintah Union University Utah Uvada Wasatch Washington Wayne EnrollSubscriptions ment No. 647 589 845 425 595 A64 751 838 348 516 660 489 491 631 416 727 803 A459 663 534 287 671 621 326 778 1092 2857 621 866% 376% 556 483 662 822 260 549 657 473 477% 622 426 649 759 509 572% 487 285 639 518 280 Pet. 120 262 105 103 89 93 104 88 98 75 106 100 oF wi 99 102 89 95 111 86 91 99 95 83 86 Magazine Representative Renee J. Nielsen Edna C. Stoutsenberger Laura M. Shearer Hedy T. Davies Susie D. Andrus Maud B. Post Zelda S. Conrad Vera H. Roberts Katie B. Fairbanks Thelma P. Brown Afton B. Dickson H. Della Blumel Afton L. Smith Ruby F. Christiansen Ethel Fenton Jewel Halgren Hazel W. Stevens Elsie M. Palmer Lillie Waldrop Etta B. Cowles Bertha Memmott Edna Sprague Rena M. Casper Mary E. Stimpson LaVird W. Ball 552 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1956 Roosevelt Rose Park Sacramento St. George St. Johns St. Joseph Salmon River Salt Lake San Bernardino San Diego San Fernando San Francisco San Joaquin San Jose San Juan San Luis Santa Barbara Santa Monica Santa Rosa Santaquin-Tintic Seattle Sevier Sharon Shelley Smithfield Snowflake South Bear River South Blackfoot South Box Elder South Davis 551 382 396 798 400 544 186 867 432 834 1063 433 499 390 435 505 397 A447 522 414 717 818 446 635 664 7538 583 558 622 572 415% 334 441 746 415 594 160 699% 416 777 1240 438 702 372 455 401 316 574 430 327 644 877 386 794 540 598 546 493 674 488 75 87 111 93 104 109 86 81 96 93 117 101 141 95 105 79 80 128 82 79 90 107 87 125 81 79 94 88 108 85 Barta Jenkins Betty Jo C. Reiser Martha V. Gattiker Agnes S. Pickett Glenda G. Pulsipher Nira P. Lee Eunice E. Hartvigson Frances L. Kooyman Mildred Knudsen Fawn Hetzel Helen Yaple Gertrude P. Terry Retta J. Watkins Katherine M. Shaw Vivian W. Redd Opal McDaniel Edith G. Swonger Charlene W. Bell Mary Ellen Rollins Sylvia Steck Chelta D. Brown Louise B. Sampson Dezzie Lamb Merle Young Phyllis N. Allsop Irene Bates Leah Deakin Ruth Dance Naomi P. Larkin Elsie M. Logsdon Weber Weiser Wells West Boise West Jordan West Pocatello West Utah Wilford Woodruff Yellowstone Young Zion Park California Canadian Central States Eastern States Gulf States New England North Central States Northern California Northern States Northwestern States Southern States 777 A455 842 436 928 fished 590 673 537 786 449 401 653 436 847 439 803 843 641 752 495 770 354 401 84 96 101 101 87 106 109 112 92 98 79 100 MISSIONS 888 453 964 A474 495 A478 284 814 782 866 427 1287 1311 755 493 372 422 280 645 694 1312 1001 West Central States 1896 1375 Western Canadian Western States 527 440 1093 1102 98 94 102 78 104 75 88 99 79 89 76 98 83 101 Florence Wright Mary A. Larsen Edith H. Koelliker June Garrett Vivian M. Ray Ione G. Slayden Cleo L. Thatcher Dorothy R. Larson Naomi B. Harris Edna Heward Wilma H. Seidel Lillian E. Roundy LaPriel S. Bunker Leah H. Lewis May E. J. Dyer Florence S. Jacobsen Phyllis D. Smith Margaret R. Jackson Dora H. England Amelia P. Gardner Nettie P. Smoot Mavil A. McMurrin Lucile Bunker Marteal W. Hendricks Elizabeth H. Zimmerman Mildred P. Elggren STAKES ON HONOR ROLL 333 (FROM THE FIELD | | Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1950, page 278, and the Handbook of Instructions, page 123. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Reba O. Carling MONUMENT PARK STAKE (UTAII) OBSERVES ANNIVERSARY DAY WITH A GIFT TO THE RELIEF SOCIETY BUILDING Front row, seated, left to right: Leola Hatch, President, Monument Park Eighth Ward Relief Socicty; Reba O. Carling, President, Monument Park Stake Relief Society; Belle S. Spafford, General President of Relicf Society; Gladys Iedgepeth, President, Monument Park First Ward Relief Society; Myrtle Horne, President, Monument Park Second Ward Relief Society. Back row, standing, left to right: Dorcus Seymore, President, Monument Park Seventh Ward Relief Society; Emma Longson, President, Monument Park Fifth Ward; Helen Lach, Counselor, Monument Park Ninth Ward; Alice Christiansen, President, Monument Park Fourth Ward; Hazel Jorgensen, President, Monument Park Third Ward; Echo Bean, President, Monument Park Sixth Ward. Page 334 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 335 President Reba O. Carling reports: "The week of our 114th anniversary has been the most outstanding and important week in the history of the Monument Park Stake Relief Society. Each ward reviewed the history of our organization in dramatization, music, and inspirational talks. Former general president of Relief Society, Amy Brown Lyman, gave intimate glances into the lives of our Nauvoo Relief Society women. Other features were added, and, in all, there was a mixture of laughter, smiles, and tears, as our appreciation for Relief Society was expressed. "The week's activity was climaxed by a stake social honoring Relief Society, its former presidents, and especially our present President Belle S. Spafford. Emphasis was given on the responsibility of our present presidency in planning and building our new Relief Society home, as it stands in the shadow of the temple, a monument to the women of the Church. Robin Bennion sang "How Lovely Are 'Thy Dwellings,' before the delightful talk by Velma N. Simonsen, Second Counselor in the General Presidency of Relief Society. Spicing her remarks with bits of humor, Sister Simonsen presented the background of the building and the sacrifices made by the sisters who have looked forward to the time when Relief Society would have a home of its own. "With organ background music, each ward president and the stake president presented Sister Spafford with a red rose as each wished her a happy anniversary. To climax this, a surprise was in store — concealed in an envelope and attached to each rose was a birthday greeting and a check for $50, amounting, in all, to $500 for the new building. "Seventy Singing Mothers, under the direction of Phylis Hansen, and accompanied by Bernice Engman, sang 'Bless This House' and 'King of Glory.' "President Carling stated that the sisters did not want to spend the money unwisely and get a duplicate of some other gift, or something that might not be in keeping with the decorating. She asked that the money be used as seemed most fitting to beautify the building. "President Spafford expressed her love for the sisters and her appreciation for the money, which would be a help in decorating the building." Photograph submitted by Amanda B. Hancock NORTH WEBER STAKE (UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, January 15, 1956 Standing in the front row, eleventh from the left, Amanda B. Hancock, President, North Weber Stake Relief Society; at Sister Hancock's right: First Counselor Cecile Barnes and Second Counselor Gladys P. Wayment. At Sister Hancock's left: Drucilla Lee, chorister; Voletta B. Blanch, organist; Dora Hull, Secretary. Elizabeth S. Stewart, who played the accompaniment on the organ, was absent when the picture was taken. An original and beautiful arrangement of patriotic songs was conducted by Voletta Blanch; other numbers were conducted by Drucilla Lee. Each of the nine wards of the stake was represented. One hundred nine Singing Mothers participated. 336 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1956 Photograph submitted by Myrle B. Johansen EMERY STAKE (UTAH), HUNTINGTON SECOND WARD VISITING TEACHERS ACHIEVE A ONE HUNDRED PER CENT RECORD FOR SIX YEARS Front row, seated, left to right: Laura Brown; Hetty Anderson; Margaret Grange; Rose Grange; Gertrude Gordon; Flora Manchester; Zelma Brady. Second row, standing, left to right: Ivy Brasher; Hannah Johnson; Jennie Wakefield; Mabel Guymon; May Klecker; Morell Nelson, former ward president; Opal Anderson, former ward president; Mary Green. Third row, standing, left to right: Flora Jensen; Mary Brown; Ida Colby; Margaret Young; Maud Anderson; Addie Richards; Rachel Staker; Catherine Gordon. Fourth row, standing, left to right: Della Brasher; Mildred Johnson; Revella Sitterud; Lucille Kinder; Hilda Wilson; Mabel Young. Back row, standing, left to right: June Green; Edith Collard; Ruth O. Brasher; Libby Gordon; Marie Cowley; Merle Grange; Ione Nielson, President; Rena Grange. Myrle B. Johansen is president of Emery Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by LaPrele Mertz EAST LONG BEACH STAKE (CALIFORNIA) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, January 1956 Front row, seated left to right: Fern Marcroft; Lois Patterson; Arva Eggleston; Ruby Choate; Colleen Henshall; Vonda Cottle; Virginia Leenders. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 337 Second row, left to right: Leola Crenshaw; Helen Burt; Buelah Wolffenstein; Carol Daniels; President Joseph Fielding Smith of the Council of the Twelve; Elder J. Leonard Love of the Church Welfare Committee; Elder Max A. Bryan, President, Long Beach Stake; Florence Halford; Ellen Nicholson; Doris Bascom; Evelyn Brown. Third row, left to nght: Shirley Howarth; Geraldine Hobbs; Frances Fults; Marjorie Hetrick, organist; Verda Mecham; Aleth Nix; Yvonne Holtsclaw; Jackie Ridley. Fourth row, left to right: Florence Evans; May Robins; Zola Malone; Elizabeth Smith; Mabel Rice; Janet 'Tincher, chorister; Geraldine Warner; Alice Robinson; Susie Ellsmore; Rosalie Leavitt. Fifth row, left to right: Cleone Millett; Ruth Snowball; [la Wheatfield; Macel Handy; Venna Black; Mary Chase, assistant organist; Dorothy Cartwright; Helen Sims; Lillian Bergstrom; Martha Huntley; LaPrele Mertz, President, Long Beach Stake Relief Society; Margaret Bryan. Photograph submitted by Florence S. Jacobsen EASTERN STATES MISSION, DOVER (PENNSYLVANIA) BRANCH BAZAAR Left to right: Betty Page; Beverly Crawford, First Counselor; Shirley Grange, Secretary; DeEtta Henderson, President. Florence S. Jacobsen, President, Eastern States Mission Relief Society, reports: "Dover Branch Relief Society was organized October 3, 1954, with three members. A new member has been added recently. What a joy this group is. They begin meeting promptly at 7:30, conduct the Relief Society lessons, and close promptly at g:00 o'clock. They have a Singing Mothers chorus, carry out the Sunday evening services as outlined by the Relief Society, in March and November, sending out handmade programs and invitations, have one hundred per cent subscriptions to the Magazine, have a full program of bazaars and money-making projects, and carry on visiting teaching, having divided the branch into two districts, Their happiness and enthusiasm are like a tonic," 338 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1956 Photograph submitted by Mary G. Shirley NORTH REXBURG STAKE (IDAHO), REXBURG FIRST WARD VISITING TEACHERS ACHIEVE A ONE HUNDRED PER CENT RECORD FOR FOUR YEARS Front row, seated, left to right: Edith Hansen; Grace Smith, Second Counselor; Olive Webster; Zell Groves; Nell Porter; Dorothy Winter; Myrtle Richman, Secretary; Sara Scow; Laura Zollinger. Second row, standing, left to right: Mable Reno; Ella Potter; May Covington; Gladys Huskinson; Myrtle Garner, President, Rexburg First Ward Relief Society; Arvella Wheelwright; Ruby Webster; Myrle Parkinson; Hazel Brown; Sophia Saurey. Back row, standing, left to right: Ada Sharp; Vieon Cole; Ruth Moedl; Letha Covington, First Counselor; Laura Jenson; Mabel Chantrill; Nellie Roylance; Tacy Winter. Myrtle Garner is president of Rexburg First Ward Relief Society and Mabel Chantrill is visiting teacher supervisor. Mary G. Shirley is president of North Rexburg Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Emeline W. Marley PORTNEUF STAKE (IDAHO), DOWNEY WARD SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT CANTATA "CAROLS OF CHRISTMAS," December 1955 Front row, seated, left to nght: Erma Cherry; Iva Lou Jensen; Ruth Jones; Helen Jensen; Hazel Nielsen; Venna Criddle; Lavessa Carson; Ona Whitaker, director, NOTES FROM THE FIELD 339 Second row, left to right: Cheryl Moses; Lola Savage; Marjean Criddle; Delores Bloxham; Carol Davis; Oveda Alder; Kathleen Criddle; Nola Fallows. Back row, left to right: Laurine Hancock; Doreen Curtis; Lila Barnes, Secretary, Downey Ward Relief Society; Joy Bybee; Colleen Baker; Marlyn Barnes; Myrna Larson, Flora Gambles; Jackie Salvesen; Betty Glad, accompanist. Fern Hartvigsen, President, Downey Ward Relief Society, reports: ""This group of Singing Mothers was organized shortly after the Downey Ward was divided three years ago and have held regular practices and have been of much service to the ward and to Relief Society. Sister Whitaker, the director, has endeavorel to keep this group balanced and has also used the singing as an incentive to bring the women out to sacrament meetings and to Relief Society, and, in some cases, to get them interested in Church activities again." Sister Hartvigsen's counselors are Orissa Salvesen and Nellie Christensen. Emeline W. Marley is president of Portneuf Stake Relief Society. Fe Rug in Dutch Butter Mlold Design Elizabeth Williamson = design has been adapted from an old butter mold for a hooked rug design. It is very effective in Colonial, Early American, or Pennsylvania Dutch style homes. The colors chosen should harmonize with the walls and furniture. The use of three colors is suggested, with the background the darkest, or the use of one color with three different tones is also very effective, for instance, navy blue background, medium blue shadings, and very light blue highlights. Lee] Whasic Tor Hie Gh uch Pranist oot Ashfords Piano Voluntaries— Vols. 1 and 2................ Exreco! Ea. $1.25 veces Celestial Echoes.....................-.... 1.00 ae Chapel Echoes _...................--...... 85 a. Chapel Musings.....................-.....85 _, Chappell's Sacred Song Favorites __.........0. Coccececcecccececee scenes 1.25 a, Concert Transcriptions of Favorite Hymns................--..------ 1.00 an Church Pianist—Vols. 1, 2, 3.. Ea. 1.25 oe Famous Sacred Songs................ 1.25 ee, More Concert Transcriptions of Favorite Hymns.....................-2....5 1.00 ae Peery's Piano Voluntaries........ 1.25 a Piano Voluntaries...................... 1.00 a Sabbath Day Music.................... 1.25 — Sacred Music For Piano Solo...... 1.50 oe Sacred Piano Solos.................... 1.00 _ Sacred Melodies With Variations...............--..22--------------- 1.25: Sacred Piano Transcriptions...... 1.00 a Sunday Piano Music (Boston)...... 1.25 — Sunday Piano Music (Presser)... 1.00 en Tranquil Hours.................-..-..----- 1.50 Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank: DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY: 15 E. Ist South i Salt Lake City 11, Utah: Please send the music indicated above. OD On Approval 1 Charge (1 Money Enclosed Name: Address City & State Daynes Masic | TTT rt. 15 E. Ist South 145 NORTH UNIVERSITY, provo 2260 WASIUTGTON ETD OKA Page 340 My Legacy Margaret S. Life Y Grandmother's ring —a_ plain, wide band of gold, of beauty, is unmarred by imperfection, as are my memories of her who wore it. It is a bit of precious metal for one beloved, upon her wedding day, treasure that is mine—a golden circle that brings tears into my eyes, and dreams of hands I watched in childhood. A flour-dusted ring and rolling pin, and cherries picked and stoned, and pies fresh baked for tired sons, whose weary teams plodded up the tree-lined lane. A flash of gold, as quick, firm hands cracked nuts and stirred a rich, black-walnut cake. A brilliant glint caught by the morning sun, as pridefully she set her roses, and gathered babies' breath to hang through winter until next Memorial Day. The muted cluck of laying hens, as strong brown hands with a golden ring took new-laid eggs from rows of straw-filled nests. The flash of gold, as warm, sweet-smelling milk filled wide, round pans which then were taken to cooling rooms below. The burnished band again among the thorns, then sugared berries in their juice, and thick, yellow cream. A golden band, nearly covered, as it pushed deep down in quick and snapping dough. Then spreading fresh jam on warm, thick-crusted bread with rising rolls high in the warming oven. A _ twinkling ring, as tiny stitches formed my wedding quilts. 'Tears on her ring, hands clasped in prayer for one dear grandchild's life. A ring on hands well used, wisely firm in discipline, gentle in devotion—on hands wor rough in service—hands_ schooled in helping when a friend had need. A ring bestowed in youth, with love and faith, and prayer, worn thin with age—a symbol of a dream fulfilled—of home, and strength, and wisdom from years lived to their fullness. "Fach day must something new be learned, or count that day as lost...." A priceless thing to learn from one dearly loved, a product of a mind kept keen through living well. All these, and more, are gifts that live with me — my memories of one choice among the chosen. <A_ precious legacy have I, as on my hand I wear a new simple band of gold — a ring that binds me fast to days long gone, days rich with life, and each one blessed with touches of her hand. Sor My Mother Christie Lund Coles White-winged your hair Above your time-seamed face, Quiet your hands That once made bridal lace; Deep, deep the stream Of all your memories, Of youth and love And summer ecstasies; Deep, too, my love And tinged by rushing fear, For the moment when You will not be here. Can my tears tell, On this your special day, What my heart feels... What my lips cannot say? Repentance Kate Richards It is sinful to deny support to the repentant one, and has a tendency to delay the day of his full repentance. Have faith in his efforts; it will help to make them sincere. \\ Ahead! To a summer of learning To your future Summer Quarter STARTS JUNE 4TH L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE Branch of Brigham Young University GOOD LIGHT BRINGS Buy from Your Dealer Be Modern... Live Electrically UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. Page 341 70 North Main EMpire 3-2765 THE WORLD'S FINEST PIANOS Mason & Hamlin The Stradivari of Pianos EVERETT Finest Toned Spinet Piano Built Cable-Nelson Finest Low Priced Piano Built a ee You may obtain your music ''Teach Me, O Lord" for the November Fast Sunday Meeting at Beesley Music Company. Please order early! Beesley Music Co. Pioneer Piano People 70 §. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH It's awaiting VO. « e YES there is still a tremendous amount of outstanding instruction and use awaiting you in this and other copies of the Relief Society Magazine. Your editions may be handsomely bound at the West's finest bindery and printing plant for $2.50 cloth bound and $3.50 leather bound per volume plus postage for mail orders. All mail orders must be paid in advance. Follow these postage rates if you send your order by mail: Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Up to 150 miles 35 150 to 300 miles: 300 to 600 miles 600 to 1000 miles... 1000 to 1400 miles... 1400 to 1800 miles... P Over 1800 miles............0---....---.-----.87 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire a. Fee) Page 342 waa Spoons Marilla C. Cook I hold in my hand a silver teaspoon engraved in an exquisite grape design. The history of this spoon is a sweet memory of a spring day long ago. It was Relief Society day and Mother had gone to meeting as usual. We youngsters were waiting when we saw her horse and buggy coming home, down the lane. We greeted her with loving warmth. Even as she directed my brother to take the horse to the barn, we noticed an extra glow of happiness in her sweet face. When we were all in the house Mother took a package wrapped in tissue paper from her old black purse, opened it carefully, and there was a set of silver teaspoons with the lovely grape design. The only silver we had known up to this time were the precious keepsake pieces Mother had brought from England. Cries of, ""Where did you get them?" burst from all of us. Mother told us, "You remember I took a white cake to Relief Society today. I knew there was to be a social, but I had no idea that I, the secretary, was to be the guest of honor. She told us all about the party and how Sister Fridal, the president, had made a speech and given her so much praise for her faithful service that Mother had become quite embarrassed. 'Then Sister Fridal had presented her with the beautiful spoons. I remember thinking how wonderful it was that Mother should be so honored and she only a secretary. Dear Sister F'ndal and my mother were called from us years ago, but there is a reminder for me in this silver spoon. I, too, have a wonderful Relief Society secretary. Now I recognize the value of those hours spent in patient figuring and copying. Tomorrow is her birthday, and we are going to honor her in our meeting. We will give her a colorful flowering plant because in her beautiful modern home she has plenty of silver spoons. There Is Still Time (Contimued from page 325) ward the elevator door. Nervousness chilled her. The nurse smiled encouragement. "Don't be afraid." She arranged the straps that would hold the patient in. "There should be someone to help you, but there just isn't. The girl left unexpectedly... Not much pay for a nurse's aide. You're heaven-sent, you know." She came with Elizabeth to the elevator, rang the bell. "Don't be afraid," she said again. "The patients are pretty heavily sedated. You'll have no trouble. Room 412, remember." Elizabeth nodded. Her throat felt rough. 'The elevator door moved open silently. She stepped in quickly. 'The cart moved at her finger's touch. Room 412 was easy to find. The floor nurse helped her. The floor nurse was a tall, weary woman who did not look well at all. She was impatient with Elizabeth's newness. "Why on earth they can't find someone who knows for a change." She moved the cart beside the bed. "We've come to take you upstairs, Mrs. Metcalfe. Oh, come now, crying won't help matters at all." The patient, Elizabeth saw with compassion, was just a girl, not quite out of her childhood. She lifted a tear-stained face. "But if someone were only here. If Bill were only here, but he's in New Yous! #2 "The nurse patted the cart impatiently. "Hurry, Mrs. Metcalfe." (To be concluded) HISTORIC TRAIN Write for information about the HISTORIC TRAIN that will include the great PAGEANT AT THE HILL CUMORAH. EUROPE Another famous FESTIVAL TOUR. Sails for Europe from Montreal on July 17, 1956 via the Empress of Canada. For Complete Details, Write or Phone: Vida Fox Clawson 966 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah CRAFT SUPPLIES ALuminum Tray Etching Basketry Copper and Brass Tooling Flowermaking Shellcraft, Glass Etching and many others We can suggest many new, low-cost group projects Free Instructions and Patterns Price List on request ZIM'S HOBBIES 240 East 2nd So. Salt Lake City, Utah Page 34 5 >) Typical Leadership Week Workshop. If OU can better serve Your Ward - Stake -Church Attend Leadership Week June 18 - 22 ® Many classes of special, although unofficial, aids for Relief Society workers are scheduled. ® For detailed class schedule write B. Y. U. Leadership Week, Provo, Utah. Be sure to ask for a list of classes of special interest to Relief Society women. ® Registration fee: $1.00 for the entire week's activities. Extension Division BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY PROVO — UTAH The Faith of Our Pioneer Fathers Bryant S. Hinckley This collection of twenty-two faith-promoting stories recalls noble actions and achievements of stalwart pioneers in early days. Each story is illustrated. Many of the experiences related are in print for the first time. $3.00 2. THE TEMPLE LETTERS Claude Richards This stimulating book offers a sound and authoritative history on the purpose of Temple Work. Valuable information, taken from the writings of past and present General Authorities and other prominent L. D. S. Leaders, is presented in an interesting manner. Add this important new book to your family Church library. $2.75 3.0UR PROPHETS AND PRINCIPLES Members of the First Presidency and Quorum of the Twelve discuss the thirteen Articles of Faith. President David O. McKay discusses these articles in action in a brief treatise, "We Believe." Also included in this volume are biographical sketches of the ancient Apostles and testimonies by L. D. S. Church Presidents on the Divine Mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith. Published by The Instructor magazine. 44 East South Temple DESERET BOOK COMPANY | I ' 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah -- | Gentlemen: I Address! Enclosed you will find ( ) check (_ ) money \ order ( ) charge to my account the followCity.......... \ } ing amount $ wu... For the Re! Encircled (numbered) books: 1 2 3 1 The faily Oy eur oncer Fatiiers Pi SHiwas He Oe ee teceae Ot Fatte 208 FeorwEre wro wand tesa tiv' Zone State IDA F-Ll-210-42013 His Future Depends on You This young scientist, who could well be your own son, is an important part of the new Industrial Revolution known as "automation." His knowledge can mean that much of the tedious work of the world will be done automatically, by machinery. It can also mean more goods at less cost, and more time to enjoy them. It took careful planning and financing to put this young engineer in front of that complicated control panel. The training for a career in electronics, atomic physics, and dozens of other new fields with unlimited opportunities is long and costly. You can open the door to success in the complex world of tomorrow for your sons and daughters: send today for the free Beneficial booklet "Planned Futures." BENEFICIAL LIFE Company Salt Lake City, Utah BENEFICIAL LIFE INS. CO. Beneficial Building Salt Lake City, Utah x Please send me a copy of your free booklet, 'Planned Futures.' No obligation, of course. JOIN THE LDS Books Club Make a RELIEF SOCIETY Social Science Reference Book for 1956-57 HISTORY OF JOSEPH SMITH by his Mother, Lucy Mack Smith your first selection This book, dictated by the Prophet's Mother in 1845, is one of the most interesting and important books dealing with the early history of the Prophet and the Church that has ever been written. Advantages to You SAVINGS of about 20% thru free bonus book, CONVENIENCE How the Plan Works 1. Join by ordering the book described above, and/or one or more of the alternates listed in the coupon. Fill out coupon and mail with your check or money order. 2. Each month members receive in the mail reviews of several books, carefully selected, with one named as the book of the month. To receive it you do nothing. It will be sent postpaid, with a statement. Otherwise, return the postcard provided for an alternate choice (or none at all). Books delivered to your door. METHODICAL way of adding to your library. BEST NEW LDS BOOKS as they come from the press. OLDER LDS CLASSICS such as the one above. CAREFUL SELECTION of ALL books recommended. 8. After you have bought four books, a fifth will be sent you FREE. You select this book from a choice list to be provided. 4. You need order only four books during the year, but you may order as many as you desire. If you do not wish to mutilate this page, send information required on a separate sheet. LD S$ BOOKS CLUB, 161 East Utopia Avenue, Salt Lake City 15, Utah Gentlemen: Please enroll me as a member of the L D S BOOKS CLUB and send me the current selection, History of Joseph Smith, or/and the alternate(s) indicated below. | understand that | will receive a free bonus book with each four selections | buy. NAME CITY AND STATE......00000000.. Amount of Check or Money Order enclosed $..... ~ Please send C. O. D. [J (Utah residents add 2% sales tax.) Please Send: LL] Home Memories of President David O. McKay. Eeeeeee.. Ne $3.75 ( On the Way to Immortality and Eternal Life, by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr.....$3.50 [ Book of Mormon Stories for Young Latter-day Saints, by Emma Marr Petersen....$3.00 C) History of Joseph Smith—by his Mother Lucy Mack Smith (J Doctrines of Salvation, Vol. Il, by President Joseph Fielding Smith...$3.00 $3.00 Mail orders to: MARGOT MANNERS, ZCMI Salt Lake City 10, Utah Please send me the new Mrs. America Square Angel food pan Quantity Price [)Cash (J Charge (lc.0. D. [NIETO «cop cncn co sno SCHOO CIE XDOOOCICECICODOXLHOGO OSOGBO OOOO Address 2...... Cccseseseoes Per rrr eee rete CIPI EOS CEES Oe) City Oa ean en ence cnemes ce ccecsenesees Zone Sacccccecoes State ee cone Please enclose 12¢ postage with each pan ordered. Utah residents add 2% State Tax, e@ makes bigger. Cakes @ easier to decorate and cut @ large enough to hold a full package of cake mix Prize winning cake beauty every time you bake. You are assured of more attractive cakes because they're easier to decorate. This new Mrs. America Square angel food pan is made of Alcoa Aluminum for lasting durability. ZCMI HOUSEWARES— Downstairs Store J Tleed a Tranquil Hour Wanda G. Nielson I need a while beside a mountain stream— No moment—but a long and tranquil hour, Time to see the cliff with crannied flower, The spruce and aspen, and the sun's pure beam; Till mountain, sky, and water make a balanced whole, And the picture has etched itself into my soul. I need to watch the eager, plunging fall; The churn of foam and water deep below; The dashing against rocks, the quiet pools; the flow, Full-bodied, swift, along the gray cliff's wall; Till leaping, pausing, gliding, is one dramatic whole, And the rhythm has rolled itself into my soul. I need to hear the thunder in the roar Of falls, the laughter of ripples thinly flowing, The bass-viol undertones of volume growing, And the soft lap-lapping along the mossy shore; Till the booming, babbling, gurgling, makes one symphonic whole, And the music has sung itself into my soul. I need a tranquil hour in which to see A mountain stream, and find serenity. The Cover: Stela "E" Quirigua (an Ancient Mayan City), Guatemala, Central America. Such monuments at Quirigua are supposed to be time markers. These monoliths are sculptured on two sides with human figures, and the other two sides are covered with columns of hieroglyphics recording time. Photograph courtesy United Fruit Company — Compania Agricola de Guatemala Submitted by Gladys K. Wagner Frontispiece Photograph: The Grand Teton, Wyoming, Photograph by Hal Rumel Cover Design by Evan Jensen From lear and Sar I was so impressed with the article "Words to Live By," in the February issue, by Josie B. Bay. I was feeling very depressed the day I read the article, and it made me understand a lot of things, and it enlightened my mind so very much. It seems that each article I read solves a problem for me, so truly I can say that receiving a copy of the Magazine is a blessing for me, and I am so thankful that I have the opportunity to receive such a Magazine. Also, thanks for the article "How We Conduct the Family Hour in Our Home" by Helen S. Gardner (March 1956). I have never held Family Hour in our home yet, but now that my baby is a year old, I want to begin, so that he will grow up to know what it is and also to get me in practice so that we will never forget to have it. —Mrs. LaVoyce Evans Hooks, 'Texas I so much enjoy reading the letters, lovely poems, and stories in The Relief Society Magazine. Thanks always to my daughter-in-law Mrs. Alene Summers for sending me the subscription. Her kindness has been greatly appreciated. —Mrs. L. C. Summers Klamath Falls, Oregon I am not a member of the Church, but have received so much comfort, encouragement, and enjoyment from The Relief Society Magazine that I want to be sure of receiving all copies. Please renew my subscription. —Sarah A. Foster Washington, Illinois Just a few words of thanks for The Relief Society Magazine. I really enjoy reading it and learn so much from it. I neglect my work when I get my copy the first of each month till I have read it. I am eighty-three years young. —Elizabeth Clendennen San Angelo, Texas Page 348 The Relief Society Magazine has been a great stimulant for so many women in their interest to learn and work for this great plan of salvation. 'Through faithful diligence and growing strength, we are combined with two other groups, and by keeping in complete harmony with the Priesthood, we have been able to build a new chapel at Naturita, Colorado. We all hope the circulation of the Magazine will continue to grow and reach more homes, enabling more people to learn and enjoy its true purpose. —Mrs. Delta N. Williams Uravan, Colorado We are pleased to know that the sisters in the mission are taking a greater interest in the Magazine and hope that there will be a still greater number who will subscribe during the coming year. It was worth the price of the Magazine to read the article "Children in the Scriptures" by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. In the December 1955 issue. —Nora C. Duncan President South African Mission Relief Society I read The Relief Society Magazine thoroughly. It has enlarged and strengthened my testimony to a large degree. The study of this inspirational little Magazine has made me seek to study the gospel in many fields. May God bless you in your work, —Elene Wiltbank Whetten Colonia Juarez Chih., Mexico I thoroughly enjoy my Relief Society Magazine and am impatient each month for its arrival. I especially enjoy the poetry. Besides my art work, poetry is to me like beautiful music. The effect it has on my inner being is one of the necessities of my life. —Adell R. Palmer South Jordan, Utah THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - - - - - - - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - - - First Counselor Velma N. Simonsen - - - - - Second Counselor Margaret C. Pickering - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Evon W. Peterson Alberta H. Christensen Edith P. Backman Edith S. Elliott Louise W. Madsen Mildred B. Eyring Winniefred S. Florence J. Madsen Aleine M. Young Helen W. Anderson Manwaring Leone G. Layton Josie B. Bay Gladys S. Boyer Elna P. Haymond Blanche B. Stoddard Christine H. Robinson Charlotte A. Larsen Annie M. Ellsworth Mary R. Young RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Edito - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawtord General Manager - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spatford Vol. 43 JUNE 1956 No. 6 Conten ts SPECIAL FEATURES "A Thing of Beauty'' — Restoration of the Heber C. Kimball Home in Nauvoo Christine H. Robinson 350 The Central American Mission 2oi...... Ececccceccceeseeeeseeceeceeseeceeoeeeeeeeeeeceeeeeeee Preston R. Nibley 362 Our Homes and the Flag; a Blanche B. Stoddard 364 Appreciation for the Singing Mothers 20....... Cceececcccesseseceseseceeeeseee David ©. McKay 366 Virtue Is Its Own Reward 377 Diamonds and People Celia Luce 376 Cliff Homes of the Ancients........... Nell Murbarger 384 The Testimony Plant Nancy M. Armstrong 414 FICTION Heart's Bounty — Chapter 1 Deone R. Sutherland 367 When Mother's Reputation Was at Stake Nedra Stone Nickell 381 There Is Still Time — Chapter 5 (Conclusion)....... -Margery 8S. Stewart 391 GENERAL FEATURES From Near and Far 348 Woman's Sphere oo... Ecececceceeeseceeccncenecocaneecesoseceensenecuseeeee Ramona W. Cannon 373 Editorial: The 126th Annual Church Conference.. Marianne C. Sharp 374 Notes to the Field: Summer Work Meetings.. 376 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities Margaret C. Pickering 398 FEATURES FOR THE HOME Recipes From Central America Gladys K. Wagner 378 Make Children's Clothes Economically and Professionally Ivie Huish Jones 387 Emily Chadwick Zaugg Makes Many Quilts > a... 397 Early American Hooked Rug Design - < Elizabeth Williamson 415 LESSON DEPARTMENT — PREVIEWS FOR 1956-57 Theology — Characters and Teachings of The Book of Mormon.......0..000..... Leland H. Monson 403 Visiting Teacher Messages — Book of Mormon Gems of Truth ootLeone O. Jacobs 405 Work Meeting — Food Preparation and Service Rhea H. Gardner 407 Literature — Shakespeare in Our Lives Briant S. Jacobs 408 Music for Lessons on Shakespeare 410 Social Science — Latter-day Saint Family Life John Farr Larson 410 Notes on the Authors of the Lessons 412 POETRY I Need a Tranquil Hour — Frontispiece Wanda G. Nielson 347 The Rod, by Dorothy J. Roberts, 361; Dream Mirage, by Grace Wilson, 371; My Faith in God, by Alice Lyman Welling, 380; Long-Lost Friends, by Maude Rubin, 380; My Garden, by Catherine E. Berry, 386; Mortar for the Miles, by Verla R. Hull, 390; On a Sleepless Summer Night, by Beulah Huish Sadleir, 390; To a Friend, by Marvel Crookston, 397; The Manti Temple, by Gertrude Baek 402; Sleeping Love, by Gertrude Kovan, 413; An Orchard, by Christie Lund Coles, page. PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 40 North Main, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 8, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejccted manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Sixty Years AQ oui. Ceeecccccsccccecsececeeceeeseecesseeccececcnseseceecsncepnececengesecsenscesececeseenscasees 372 "A Thing of Beauty"' Restoration of the Heber C. Kimball Home in Nauvoo Christine H. Robinson Member, General Board of Relief Society A thing of beauty is a joy forever; Its loveliness increases; it will never Pass into nothingness; but will keep A bower quiet for us, and a sleep Full of sweet dreams.... HESE immortal words, penned T by John Keats in 1817, might well have been written about the once beautiful and prosperous city of Nauvoo. Even though time and decay have had a ravishing effect upon the life of this historic community, still, "it will never pass into nothingness; but will keep a bower quiet for us, and a sleep full of sweet dreams." The history and character of nations and individuals are revealed primarily in three ways. We learn about them through historical writings, through traditions and customs, and through the material things which they leave to their posterity. Among these material things are the homes in which they lived. Throughout the ages the home and its furnishings provide a key to a people's way of life, and to the degree of civilization attained. The home, probably more than anything else that an individual builds, sets forth in concrete form his basic ideals, character, and personality. In the recorded history of our early pioneer leaders, we read that they were a fearless people, possessed with the faith and courage of the prophets of old. We read that Page 350 they were a sensitive people of refinement and good taste who sought after cultural things and the happy life, believing in the principle that, "Man is that he might have joy." In building their homes in Nauvoo, these stalwart pioneers revealed that they possessed these characteristics. Although most of their beautiful homes have long since been destroyed, yet, from the few that still remain, we can see bountiful evidence of their faith, courage, refinement, and good taste. THE Heber C. Kimball home, one of the few pioneer residences which today still stand in Nauvoo, is a remarkable example of how the builder puts the stamp of his character and personality in the thing he builds. This beautiful home is a testimony and a monument to the courage, industry, and enterprise of this great Latter-day Saint leader. The Heber C. Kimball home is probably one of the few homes ever built into which an individual poured loving care and skill while knowing that he would have the privilege of living in it for only a short time. It is recorded that when this great leader first entered Nauvoo—or Commerce as it was "A THING OF BEAUTY" then called—he made this prophetic remark: "It is a very pretty place but not a long abiding home of the saints." Notwithstanding this conviction, Heber C. Kimball immediately applied his great skill and power to help build the small village of Commerce into the beautiful city of Nauvoo it was soon to become. After finding shelter for his family, he purchased five acres of dense woodland and in one day cut sufficient logs to build his family a small, temporary home. He moved his family into this home in late August 1839. Almost immediately thereafter, on the 18th of September, accompanied by his good friend Brigham Young, he left for his second mission to England. After almost two years in the mission field he returned home to Nauvoo. In a letter to the editor of the Millennial Star, Brother Kimball wrote: We landed in Nauvoo on the ist of July.... When we got in sight of Nauvoo we were surprised to see what improvements had been made since we left home. There were not more than thirty buildings in the city when we left about two years ago, but at this time there are twelve hundred, and hundreds of others are in progress which will be finished soon. You will recollect that when we built our houses in the woods there was not a house within a mile of us. Now the place, wild as it was at that time, is converted into a thickly populated village.... The whole country for many miles is cultivated with corn, wheat, potatoes, and all kinds of produce; it looks as though the blessings of God rested upon the crops of this region, and it is noticed by the inhabitants that come from other parts of the country, or counties around this place. The blessings of God rest on_ this people..., There is every effort made 351 to complete the House of the Lord; they devote every tenth day for that purpose.... It is going to be very magnificent.... Our enemies began to threaten us, for you know they cannot bear to see us prosper. T was at this time, soon after his return from his second British mission, that Heber C. Kimball started the construction of his impressive home which, in that day, surely would have been judged magnificent. In due course the home was completed and now bears a stone tablet upon which is inscribed, "H. C. K. — 1845." The home is situated on a gentle slope about one-half mile from the Mississippi River and approximately the same distance from the temple site. It is built on a corner plot and, as was typical of the residences in that day, is bordered on two sides with a white picket fence. Among the few remaining residences still standing in Nauvoo, there is no such thing as a typical Nauvoo house. Each structure has its own individuality and personality. Yet, each of the important homes expresses the existing architectural style of the day — namely Modified Georgian, or Federal, as it is often called. The Heber C. Kimball home, although it has its own unique style, is a fine example of Modified Georgian architecture. It, like many of the homes in Nauvoo, is constructed of mellow, tawny red bricks which were made locally in Nauvoo's oven kilns. In planning its architecture, Brother Kimball must have been inspired by the beautiful homes he had _ recently seen in England. The woodwork details inside of the house, over the 352 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1956 are er HE. RIMEEM whe Courtesy Dr. J. LeRoy Kimball AN EARLY PICTURE OF THE HEBER C. KIMBALL HOME doors and windows, are similar to those used in England during the Regency period — a period which coincided with the Modified Georgian and Federal period in America. On the other hand, the mantle over the fireplace and the irregularly sized floor boards in the Kimball home, are typical Early American in style. Unlike many of the other Nauvoo houses still standing which were rectangular in design, the Kimball home, as shown in the illustration, was built in two parts. The larger or main part of the house is constructed with one great end wall, handsomely windowed and double chimneyed. Stretching across the entire front of this main part is a beautifully proportioned white framed porch with an upstairs balcony. 'This architectural treatment, apparently not used on any other houses in Nauvoo, was then popular in the South, particularly in New Orleans, which Heber C. Kimball had visited. The left wing, or smaller section of the house is slightly recessed with a small white frame portico over the door. Dentil molding, so popular in Georgian architecture, is used as a brick cornice on the house. These dentils are also used as decorative molding on the frame portico. All the windows in the house are framed with louvered green shutters. Early pictures of the house might give the impression that the windows are shutterless. Careful inspection, of these pictures, however, reveals that the shutters were closed and locked for protection — thus preserving much of the old "A THING OF BEAUTY" original glass in the windows. 'The entire architectural structure of the home is one of asymmetrical beauty and simplicity of line. The main entrance of the house is through an arched doorway opening into a narrow hall which divides the two main structural sections. This main hall stretches the entire depth of the house to a handsome back door, topped with a small paned glass transom. On the night, near the front of this hall, is a natrow, steep stairway leading to the floor above. 'There are six rooms downstairs, including a small room and pantry. The second floor has a. Corresponding number of rooms with two additional attic rooms in the main section of the house. Additional details of the interior of the house are described later in this article. Distributed by Kron Pharmacy, Nauvoo, Illinois THE roof is sagging, and the porch over HEBER C. KIMBALL HOME IN 353 Heber C. Kimball — The Man Heber C. Kimball was born on June 14, 1801, at Sheldon, Vermont, just ten miles from the shores of beautiful Lake Champlain. He was the fourth child in a family of seven. When he was ten years of age the family moved to West Bloomfield, New York, where his father engaged in farming, blacksmithing, and building. In this latter occupation, Heber's father built an academy, two commercial buildings, and several private houses. It is apparent that while his father was engaged in this occupation young Heber learned, early in life, much about the building trade. As a young man of nineteen, Heber moved in with his older brother Charles, who owned and operated a pottery business in Mendon, New York. Heber soon became skilled LATER YEARS Decay has set in, many shutters are missing, as well as most of the front fence; the east entrance has been changed. 354 at molding pottery and, at twentyone, purchased his brother's business, in which he greatly prospered for the next ten years. It was when Heber was twentyone years of age that he first met Vilate Murray. She was a refined, intelligent girl of seventeen, who lived in the neighboring town of Victor, New York. One day, while riding on horseback through this small village, Heber became thirsty. Stopping by a house where a gentleman was at work in the garden, he asked for a drink of water. The gentleman called to his youngest daughter Vilate, and asked her to bring a glass of water to the young man. Heber was impressed with the pretty, modest, and courteous young woman and lingered over his glass of water. In fact, he was so impressed that a few days later he stopped by for another drink. This time the father started to draw the water from the well, at which young Heber blushingly admitted that he had hoped to be served by Vilate. When Vilate brought the water, she did so amid the teasing, smiles, and taunts of her brothers and sisters. More visits followed and the two were married November 7, 1822. Vilate, like many other strongcharactered women who accepted Mormonism, was a loyal and loving helpmate to her husband, supporting and aiding him in all his worthy endeavors. She was also a generous and public-spirited woman who joined with other sisters of the Church in knitting and spinning material to clothe the men who worked on the Kirtland Temple RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1956 and, later, on the temple in Nauvoo. In each community in which She lived, Vilate sought out the poor and timid, and brought them sustenance for their bodies and comfort to their souls. She was ever "disposed to do good and meet every obligation that devolved upon her." Certainly with her artistic and refined temperament, Vilate must have exercised a remarkable influence upon the life of her husband and, undoubtedly, employed her talents and tastes in helping to plan and furnish the Kimball homes. While living in Mendon, Heber became acquainted with a young carpenter and cabinet maker by the name of Brigham Young. He found in this new acquaintance, who was also a native of Vermont, a man of kindred interests, background, and ideals. 'These two soon became fast friends. Thus started a cherished friendship and close association which lasted for the next forty-three years. Brigham Young and Heber C. Kimball learned about the gospel at approximately the same time. With deep sincerity, they accepted its principles and were baptized and confirmed members of 'The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in April 1832 — just one day apart. When Brigham Young's first wife passed away, the Kimballs took his two small daughters into their home and cared for them. The two families moved to Kirtland, Ohio, at the same time, where Brigham Young, "being a carpenter, joiner, as well as a painter and glazier," built the Kimball home in this new community. "A THING OF BEAUTY" One of the significant characteristics of Brother Kimball, as_revealed in his journals, is that he was a home builder. As he moved from one community to another, one of his first acts was to purchase land, build a home, and "situate himself to live comfortably." 'This he did in Mendon, Kirtland, Nauvoo, and Salt Lake City. Brother Kimball loved his home and his family. He possessed an artistic temperament, was sociable, sensitive, and refined in his tastes. He was an earnest and humble man blessed with that rare combination of great dignity and a rich sense of humor. He was a man of courage and an indefatigable worker. He possessed a sublime faith in his Creator and in the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith and the certain destiny of the restored Church. The Nauvoo home of Heber C. Kimball reflects all of these characteristics. Built at a time when the saints were already being harassed by the mobs, this stately home not only exemplifies refinement and good taste, but also, courage, faith, and determination in the face of great adversity. 'Through it we see the character of this man and his spiritual and temporal stability. Nauvoo — The City Nauvoo was no ordinary city. This city was not like those on the eastern seaboard of the United States, where buildings of different types, styles, and ages had all grown up in a_ heterogeneous fashion. Neither did Nauvoo resemble any of the frontier communities of the 355 day, with their small humble buildings all huddled protectively together. Nauvoo was a planned city. It was a city which grew in seven short years from a half-dozen nondescript structures, to a magnificent community almost twice the size of the then sprawling city of Chicago. In 1842, The Times and Seasons described the city as follows: For three or four miles up the river and about the same distance back in the country, Nauvoo presents a city of gardens, ornamented with dwellings of those who have made a covenant by sacrifice, and are guided by revelation.... It will be no more than probably correct, if we allow the city to contain between 700 and 800 houses, with a population of 14 or 15,000 people. Many of the houses recently built are of brick... Displaying that skill, economy and industry which have always characterized intelligent minds and laudable intentions.... We can, therefore, of a truth declare, that within the same length of time, and with the same amount of means, no society on the face of the globe has a better right to the claim of improvement by their own' industry, or have offered to their surrounding neighbors a plainer pattern of mechanical skill, domestic economy, practical temperance, every-day virtue, and eternal religion, than the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Two steam mills have been put in operation this season, and many other buildings for mechanical labor.... While the Temple of God and the Nauvoo House, which when finished, will hardly be surpassed in the western world, are rising up as monuments of the enterprise, industry and reverence of the commandments of God. Contrast this picture of thriving Nauvoo with the unhealthful section of swamp land, mostly covered with trees and brush, which was the 356 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1956 THE HEBER C. KIMBALL HOME AS IT STANDS TODAY (With much of the restoration work completed. The plaque on the tree designates the Heber C. Kimball home. ) old village of Commerce. This was the place Joseph Smith selected where the saints could build a city away from the wrath and persecutions of those who would thwart the establishment of his divinely inspired latter-day work. It was here the saints had purchased a large tract of land and had decided to call the new city, which would be built there, Nauvoo, a word of Hebrew origin which means, "'a beautiful place." When the first few saints moved into the area they were poor in worldly goods, but rich in faith and courage. These attributes, coupled with thrift, industry, and the rich blessings of the Lord, soon brought them prosperity. Converts, not only from the eastern parts of the United States, but also from Canada and Great Britain, flocked into the rapidly growing city. Many of these new converts were skilled artisans who brought to the community the cultural ideas and the practical knowhow so essential to a developing pioneer community. The abilities and characteristics of these devoted immigrants an- "A THING OF BEAUTY" swer the oft-repeated questions of how in Nauvoo so much could have been done so well in so little time. By 1843 there were in Nauvoo many skilled and capable craftsmen. 'There were carpenters and cabinet makers, masons and_ brick layers, tinsmiths and iron workers, silk and cotton weavers, as well as many other artisans, professional people, and common laborers. It was this combination of training and skills, coupled with industry and the ardent faith of new-found religious convictions, that built Nauvoo and made it almost overnight into one of the most remarkable cities of all time. All the results of this industry, all this prosperity, all this accomplishment, however, were not long to endure. Heber C. Kimball's prophetic prediction that Nauvoo would be "not a long abiding home of the Saints," was soon to be fulfilled. The Prophet Joseph Smith's murder at the hands of the mob in Carthage, in June 1844, was soon followed by violent threats against the people of the city of Nauvoo. Late in 1845 the mobs demanded that Nauvoo be vacated by the following spring. The people's courage and skill now must be turned in a different direction. 'Their faith and determination led them to follow their Prophet's instruction to complete their beautiful temple, while, at the same time, they worked feverishly to build and accumulate the necessary wagons and equipment for their western exodus. Those were heartbreaking days. The only material things they could carry with them were what could be 357 packed into the few wagons at their disposal. As an indication of the kind of home furnishings they were forced to leave behind, a reporter, writing in the Carthage Republican, said: Scattered about were numerous adjuncts of refined and comfortable living, elegant furniture, paintings, here and there a piano or a harp, finely upholstered sofas and chairs, and many tasteful and convenient things which well-to-do persons would surround themselves with in wellordered homes (Nauvoo the Beautiful, by E. Cecil McGavin, page 232). Many of the attractive homes they sold to their enemies for small sums of money. Others were merely locked up and left to be sold later for taxes by the State of Illinois. No records have been discovered to indicate what happened to the Heber C. Kimball home during the years between 1846 and 1854. Deeds, however, have been found which reveal that during the nearly one hundred years since 1854, the house changed hands many times. Each new owner made certain changes in the house in accordance with his own ideas and way of life. At one time, because of neglect and deterioration, the house was about to be torn down but, because of its pleasing lines and because of its "certain something," it was preserved. In 1954 this historical residence, rich in tradition, found its way back into the family which built and hallowed it with love and sacrifice. On the sixth day of March at 10:55 AM., Dr. J. LeRoy Kimball, a greatgrandson of Heber C. And Vilate Kimball, purchased the home from Mrs. Katherine E. Jones, who had 358 ff A ROOM IN THE KIMBALL HOME (Before the restoration. Note the broken plaster and exposed brick. ) owned the property for twenty years. Dr. Kimball had one objective when he made this purchase. He had a burning desire to preserve the home and to restore it as nearly as possible to its original charm and beauty. The Restoration The responsibility of restoring an old home is a fascinating and exhilarating challenge. It also involves hard work, requiring countless hours of concentrated study and research. There is only one way that a work of restoration should be done — that is to do it right. There are no magic short cuts. To restore a home does not mean merely to repair it and make it livable. More is involved than just putting on a new roof, replastering broken walls, and adding a new coat of paint. Much more is required than simply refurnishing the house with any "old" furniture or new RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1956 modern pieces that may happen to be readily available. The restoration of a home means to return it, as nearly as possible, to its original form and condition. It means also to redecorate and refurnish it as closely as possible to the way it was decorated and furnished by its original builders and inhabitants. To accomplish this, one must first learn what the house was like when it was built. Due to subsequent alterations and changes, this is not always easy. 'The personality and living habits of the original owners must be determined as accurately as possible. The living habits of the community also must be studied and a knowledge obtained of the architecture and furnishings characteristic of the decorating period during which the house was constructed and furnished. Gathering this information is involved and laborious. It requires the examination of old deeds, documents, letters, and journals. It necessitates the study of old pictures and photographs, and the reading of histories of the individual and the times in which he lived. Finally, it requires a thorough understanding of architectural and decorating periods. Armed with this knowledge and information, one is then ready to start work on the actual restoration —most often a long and painstaking task. In restoring the Heber C. Kimball home we have dedicated ourselves to rediscover and retain all of its early charm and appeal. We want to make the home as authentic as possible but, at the same time, "& THING OF BEAUTY" 359 Hal Rumel ANTIQUE FURNISHINGS TO BE PLACED IN THE KIMBALL HOME These furnishings are to be placed in the Kimball home, although not in the grouping illustrated above. The picture on the wall at the right is of Heber C. Kimball. The chairs are Windsor, popular in America about 1740-1850. 'These particular chairs are English. The Victorian lamp stood for many years in an old Nauvoo home. The footstool was used by Heber C. Kimball in his Salt Lake City home. 360 not a home designed merely for display or as a museum piece, but rather as one which was once lived in and loved. In restoring the outside of the house it was necessary to find a supply of old bricks which could be used to replace those which had fallen out of the walls or which were in bad condition. Much of the brick dentil molding, too, was missing, and this had to be replaced with brick of the same size, color, and vintage. 'To accomplish this, old brick was obtained from another old house in Nauvoo which was being torn down. The front porch needed repair and had to be restored to its original design as depicted in early photographs. The portico over the east entrance was completely missing, as were the back porch and the front picket fence. All of these have been rebuilt as nearly like the originals as possible. The entire west end of the building sagged badly and needed to be shored up with heavy beams anchored to the inside of the basement foundation. The roof was completely replaced. Shutters, missing from several windows, were replaced and matched exactly with those which had been preserved. Most of the windowpanes, due to the protective shutters, were still in good condition. Broken panes, however, were replaced with old glass garnered from other old buildings in Nauvoo. NTERIOR restoration presented some interesting problems. No photographs or accurate descriptions of the interior were available. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1956 Consequently, we were forced to rely on what was left of the original woodwork and upon a study of the interior designs of the day. For example, many of the old homes of that period were equipped with inside as well as outside shutters. After stripping off some of the old paint, and after careful examination of the window frames, we concluded that the Kimball home certainly must have had inside shutters. We also reasoned that these shutters probably would not have been destroyed. Consequently, we conducted a thorough search of the entire premises and were rewarded with the discovery of the missing shutters hidden in a recess under the attic eaves. The discovery of a buried treasure could not have been more exciting. These shutters fit perfectly the four windows of the two front rooms and, much to our surprise, they were made of glass, rather than wood, which was more common at the time. These old glass shutters were still in a perfect state of preservation, with the exception of one broken pane. The attic search also yielded two original paneled doors which had been removed and discarded. The unique old cupboard on the side of the fireplace had been modermnized. This now has been restored to its original state. Floors in most of the rooms were in bad condition. These have been repaired, using old, irregular size floor boards taken from an old barn. In the process of redecorating, a century of old paint, as well as many accumulated layers of wallpaper have had to be removed. 'These are being replaced with paint and wall- "A THING OF BEAUTY" paper of a color and design characteristic of the decorating of the period. The problem of finding the right furniture and furnishings for the Kimball home is complicated and challenging. Many pieces of furniture actually used in the Kimball home in Salt Lake City are available. Some of these will be placed in the Nauvoo home, primarily to illustrate his and his family's taste and also for sentimental reasons. However, the real furniture problem consists in finding old pieces which likely would have been in the Nauvoo home in 1845. 'This has led us to a nation-wide search which has discovered such items in Nauvoo, St. Louis, New Orleans, New York, California, and Salt Lake City. As a matter of fact, one or two special items connected with Brother Kimball's missionary activities have been brought from England. Although the restoration of the Heber C. Kimball Nauvoo home is not completed and will yet take con- 361 siderable time, the project has been and is a most fascinating and rewarding experience. The work of the restoration has led us into a richer understanding of the lives and ideals of our stalwart pioneers. It has reacquainted us with the faith, courage, and sacrifices so embedded into the creative period of our Church and has persuaded us that these virtues and this heritage have not been lost. They become the stepping stones to a greater effort and adventure and have become the foundation upon which our current great blessings in these mountain valleys have been built. Our study of the Heber C. Kimball home of Nauvoo reimpresses us with the fact that "a thing of beauty is a joy forever," and as Keats continues: Nor do we merely feel these essences For one short hour.... That whether there be shine, or gloom o'ercast, They always must be with us, or we die. She Rod Dorothy J]. Roberts Who can guess how kind the rod Wielded in the hand of God; Who can measure, yet, the grace He writes upon each questing face? Who can know? All those who trust And rise up, stricken, from the dust; Who give their lives in darkest hour Back into his tender power, Courtesy Nacional de Turismo, Ciudad de Guatemala Submitted by Gladys K. Wagner LAKE ATITLAN AND VOLCANO "SANTIAGO," GUATEMALA She Centaal Jemericam 1) iisaue Preston R. Nibley N the summer of 1942, John Forres O'Donnal, a member of the Church, who was employed by the United States Government, was sent to Honduras, and later to Guatemala, to assist in establishing experimental rubber plantations in those countries. Four years later, in September 1946, President Arwell Pierce of the Mexican Mission, accompanied by his wife, made a tour of Central America, for the purpose of investigating the possibilities of missionary work in that region. He made a report of his trip to the First Presidency, and in the summer of 1947, Guatemala, Honduras, E] Salvador, Nicaragua, Costa Rica, and Panama were added to the Mexican Mission. In August 1947, President Pierce, accompanied by four missionaries, journeyed to Guatemala. These elders were Seth G. Mattice, Earl E. Hansen, Robert B. Miller, and David D. Lingard. On the morning of Page 362 THE CENTRAL AMERICAN MISSION ) 363 September 7th, the four elders, with President Pierce and Elder O'Donnal, climbed to the summit of a hill overlooking Guatemala City, and President Pierce dedicated the city and its environs to the preaching of the gospel and the establishment of the Church organizations. Missionary work was begun immediately and has continued to the present time. The first baptism was performed when Brother O'Donnal baptized his wife and small daughter on November 13, 1948. A separate mission, the Central American, was formed in October 1952 and Gordon M. Romney was installed as president. 'The new mission comprised the countries of Guatemala, Honduras, British Honduras, Fl] Salvador, Nicaragua, Costa Rica, the Republic of Panama, and the Panama Canal Zone. President Romney presided until October 1955, when he was succeeded by Edgar L. Wagner, who presides at the present time. On January 1, 1956, there were 854 members of the Church in the Central American Mission, located in twenty-three branches. Fourteen Relief Society branches were reported, with 185 members. Gladys K. Wagner presides over the Central American Mission Relief Society. Courtesy Pablo Sittler, Foto Europa, Guatemala Submitted by Gladys K. Wagner TEMPLOS MAYA DE ZACULEHU (MAYAN TEMPLES OF ZACULEHU) GUATEMALA (Reconstructed) Our Homes and the Flag Blanche B. Stoddard Member, General Board of Relief Society F all the people in the United () States, Latter-day Saints should love and revere the flag. In no other nation in the world could the gospel have been restored. We say our Constitution. Was God-given—good men were raised up to form it. The Prophet said it is a glorious standard founded in the wisdom of God. He called it a heavenly banner. "It is to all those who are privileged with the sweets of liberty, like the cooling shades and refreshing waters of a great rock in a thirsty and weary land" (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, page 147). 'The Constitution of the United States is the supreme human law of conduct and of government for its citizens from birth till death. Relief Society mothers know the value and beauty of the Constitution. 'The Flag is its symbol; therefore, it should mean more to them than ever before, after having studied our social science lessons of the past three years. 'Teaching proper reverence and respect for the Flag to our children will be a real application of those lessons into our lives and homes. Do we own Flags in our homes to display on appropriate occasions? What are some of these occasions? They include New Year's Day, Lincoln's and Washington's birthdays, Mother's Day, Memorial Day, Flag Day, Independence Day, LaPage 364 bor Day, Veterans Day, Thanksgiving Day, and other local or national public or historical occasions of a military, civil, or religious nature. It seems to me that years ago we saw the Flag displayed often, and now it is displayed seldom, and then receives only casual attention. We are accused, as Americans, of knowing very little about our Flag, and of being very careless in observance of the laws of respect due it. During street parades, thousands fail to stand at attention and salute their Flag as it passes by. When the Flag flashes on our television or movie screens, few pay attention. When the Flag is passing, those walking should halt; or, if sitting, they should stand, men with hats placed over their hearts, women with right hands over their hearts, until the Flag has passed. This salute should be rendered for every American Flag that passes. The "Stars and Stripes," or "Old Glory" as we know it today, was first adopted June 14, 1777, by order of the Continental Congress. Legend has it that Betsy Ross was a patriotic Philadelphian seamstress and a friend of George Washington. He, with others appointed to a committee by Congress, visited her in June 1776, requesting her to make a Flag. George Washington sketched a rough design, and with bits of red and white and blue cloth which she had in her little shop, she followed OUR HOMES AND THE FLAG his directions. 'The Flag she so diligently cut and stitched was accepted by Congress. To Americans, there is no other Flag as beautiful as the "Stars and Stripes."" My husband spent four years on a mission to South Africa during World War I. He had experienced many homesick hours for his native land. On the way home, while anchored in the harbor of Port Said, halfway around the world, he saw for the first time in those four years, the "Stars and Stripes" flying over one of our warships. He said that never before nor since, has he experienced such a thrill of pride and joy. The same "Stars and Stripes," flying over Fort McHenry in September 1814, inspired Francis Scott Key to write the immortal words of "The Star-Spangled Banner," which, by an Act of Congress, was designated as our National Anthem in 1931. 'The Flag is a fitting symbol of all that Washington meant it to represent—the Flag of a free people who have never been defeated in war—a Flag under which men from every clime can be shielded against oppression and be given the opportunity to succeed in any honest endeavor. THE real name of our Flag is "The Flag of the United States of America." Under this Flag, government by the people first grew. Many brave men struggled for liberty and laid the groundwork that made such a Flag possible. This is the Scouters' definition of the Flag: "Blue represents justice, like the eternal blue of the star-filled heaven; White is for purity, cleanness of purpose of word or deed; and Red is the red life-blood of 365 brave men and women, ready to live or die worthily for their country." Flag Day, as it is now observed on June 14, was instituted by B. J. Cigrand, a schoolteacher of Fredonia, Wisconsin. He, with his pupils, on June 14, 1885, held the first recorded celebration of the Flag's birthday. But more important than the past history of our Flag or how it was born, is the way we show our respect for it today. Does it mean as much to us now as it did to Americans in 1777? Is it a part of our homes and our lives? Let us think seriously, proudly, and reverently of what our Flag does mean to us. "Old Glory" is not a piece of material but a symbol —not a symbol of a royal family, a dictator, nor of a special class or race. It is a symbol of freedom and opportunity to every man, woman, and child in America, and to oppressed people all over the world. These lines are part of the enduring bronze inscription on the base of the Statue of Liberty: Give me your tired, your poor, Your huddled masses yearning to breathe free, The wretched refuse of your teeming shore, Send these, the homeless, tempest tossed, to me: I lift my lamp beside the golden door. —Emma Lazarus Repeat often the "Pledge" to our Flag: I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the United States of America, and to the Republic for which it stands; one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. SN'T this "Pledge," written originally by Francis Bellamy, October 21, 1892, and since modified a 366 little, a good pledge for every Ametican? The national Flag represents the living country and is itself considered as a living thing. 'Therefore, a Flag Code has been established. Your Boy Scout sons know it and are taught to observe it; but if they see no respect in the home nor among their elders for this emblem, their Scout training regarding it will not avail them much. Mothers of America, what can we do to engender reverence for this Flag? I am sure there are many things. First of all, own one in your family, teach its history and its symbolism, and display it at every appropriate opportunity. Discuss it often in the Family Hour. Enumerate the blessings of living under it—blessings of the right to worship in one's own way; the right to free speech and press; the right to vote; the right to protection; the right of trial by jury; the right of habeas corpus; the right to "privacy in out RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1956 homes"; the right to own private property; the right to go into business and competition to make an honest living... So many privileges denied to a majority of the peoples of the world. In the family group, study the Flag Code and the "don'ts" in handling and displaying the Flag. Children should not play with it, nor should they decorate their bicycles and cars with it; instead, they should use red, white, and blue bunting. Old, worn-out Flags should be destroyed and not desecrated. There is much to teach regarding it. Your Boy Scout son would be thrilled and proud to teach his family regarding the Flag, and thus it would become more sacred to him. | Let Latter-day Saint mothers in other nations likewise teach their children to honor the respective flags of their countries, and let every mother in the United States fly "Our Flag" on this Flag Day, June 14, 1956. —> Appreciation for the Singing Mlothers Expressed by President David O. McKay (At the closing session of the 126th General Conference of the Church) E have said "thank you" to the members of the Choirs, but let me mention them again.... We appreciate what they did.... Our Singing Mothers. I cannot mention the name "mother" without being overcome with emotion. 'Those mothers who furnished that singing were the mothers of 1600 children! Even their title, "Singing Mothers," tells a story of sacrifice, a story of love, a story of home. No wonder they could sing the songs of Zion so inspirationally under the masterful leadership of Sister Florence Jepperson Madsen. Heart's Bounty CHAPTER 1 Deone R. Sutherland NNIE stood by the wagon and horses saying a last goodbye to her mother and brothers and their little mountain cabin. Her father strapped her box in the back of the wagon. "You hold up your head, Annie Griffith," her mother said. "You don't have to go, if you don't want to. But a mountain's no place for a girl to get higher education, and Brother and Sister Williams' offer to have you taught nght along with their daughter Marie, until your father's mission is over, cutting stone for the temple, is a wonderful opportunity, and an answer to our prayers." "T know." Annie lifted her eyes to the mountains where the brush was turning orange and _ brown through all the heavy green. "The Griffiths owned property in the old country, and don't you forget it, Annie. And we own property here, too. In another three or four years, when the temple's finished, well be back on our own farm, and you'll be home again, a young lady." Her eyes turned to her husband, who tightened a rope and felt the tautness of it. "You be careful, Mister Griffith." "There's no need to be saying that," smiled Annie's father, as he took his wife in his arms, and then kissed each of the wriggling boys. "Here now," he said sternly, "you kiss your sister Annie. She'll be all grown, with her hair up and everything, likely, before you have her home to live again." They grudgingly let Annie peck their cheeks. "Fourteen now, she is," said her mother, sighing. She smoothed Annie's hair with her long fingers, and then turned her to the wagon. Annie climbed up on the seat. "You're a pretty girl, Annie," her father said, climbing in beside her. "But don't you go giving yourself airs, ever." "T won't, Papa." She kissed his cheek and threw kisses to her mother and the boys while a bird sang wildly overhead. Her father started the team and the grind of the wheels shut out most other sounds on the long, hard trip to Salt Lake. The first night they slept in the back of the wagon. Annie watched the stars through the trees, while trying to feel out the homesickness she knew was couched somewhere, like not quite daring to touch a sore tooth with your tongue. Her father reached over and put his hand across her eyes. She soon went to sleep. The next night they stopped at a friend's house in a tiny, mudspattered village. She and her father made their beds on the floor. She was too exhausted more than to glance at the log and sod ceiling before she fell asleep. On the fourth day they drove inPage 367 368 to the city of Salt Lake. Annie stared at the big houses and the stores. There were so many of them! Her father had to ask directions twice about the Williams' house. | "Ts it there, Papa?" Annie stared at the big stone house with the iron fence running around the yard. "It has some kind of little tower, even, Father." "Some kind of foolishness, at any rate. The Williams are wonderful people for all that." He climbed heavily down from the wagon. Annie stepped out on the carriage block and saw a lace curtain move at one of the windows. She turned and stared at the wagon. "Tl take you in before I start loosening your box." NNIE followed her father through the iron gate up the path to the house. He swung the knocker once and the door opened almost immediately. "Ts it the Griffiths?" <A_ tall, brown-haired woman smiled at them. "I'm Mrs. Williams' sister. She'll be down immediately. I've already told her you've come, Brother Griffith. Annie dear, this is my niece Marie. You're going to share Marie's room as well as her studies. You'll be great playmates, I'm sure. Oh, yes, 'm Aunt Agnes Foster." "Thank you, Sister Foster.'"" Mr. Griffith followed her into the parlor and sat on the only wooden chair in the room. "I'm too dusty to be sitting on satin and embroidery like that," he said. Annie hung back by the door. Marie whirled around on a piano stool and tapped a key, while her RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1956 yellow curls swung forward over her shoulder. "Marie, dear," her aunt reproved her. "Ah, a piano." Annie's father's eyes lit up. "Now, we're a people who love music. Annie sings like a nightingale. You'll love a rarity like that, Annie." Marie and Sister Foster looked at Annie. Annie felt the blood rush to her face. Sister Williams came in the door. "Have they been teasing you already, Annie dear?" She put an arm around Annie's shoulder. "I'm not very well." She shook hands with Annie's father. "I spend more time than I should having to rest." "T hope Annie'll be something of a help and not too much of a both-?? Er. "Oh, yes, yes, we'll love having a sister for Marie. Marie's always lonely. Well, you can all clean up and rest before dinner. Brother Williams will be so interested in a full report—in hearing about everything. You planned to _ start back...?" "In the morning." Mr. Griffith started to the door. "Tl bring in Annie's box; then there's lots I've to do this day. I've a long list of supplies to buy. I can rest enough later tonight." "Well, anyway, Marie can take Annie up and help her unpack and show her everything." Sister Williams waved the girls to the stairway. "Haven't you ever seen a mirror before?" asked Marie. She put her head down beside Annie's, and they stared at their reflections. "Not one so big." Annie plaited HEART'S BOUNTY her hair slowly while Marie watched. "T like curls better, though I daresay your hair is very becoming." Marie smiled at her quickly. "You do have the loveliest eyes. Whoever heard of blue eyes with hair that black?" "T have my mother's eyes," said Annie proudly. "I think your curls are just beautiful. My hair would never go like that." "Well, you could loosen it at the sides like this, so it could curl just a little. Isn't that better?'' Marie leaned back and looked critically at Annie. "We'd better hurry," Annie said. "We won't be any help at all, if we don't." "Don't worry," laughed Marie. "You're still too new. 'They won't make us do too much yet awhile." But the girls hurried downstairs through the dining room, the kitchen, and the pantry. They were soon put to work. Y the time Annie finished eating dinner she could hardly keep her eyes open, though she tried to keep them fastened on her father as long as possible. It couldn't be true that this was the last meal with him for a good many months, perhaps a year. Already the mere thought of her mother and brothers tightened her throat and brought tears stinging to her eyes. She was more exhausted than she realized from the long wagon trip. Sister Williams stood up after a short visit in the parlor. "I really think we should get the girls to bed early tonight. Annie's had such a long trip, she can hardly stay awake." Annie kissed her father goodnight 369 after they had family prayers. He patted her shoulder with his rough hand and assured her he'd wake her in the morning before he started out. She was to wait to say goodbye then, and she was not to think of a thing tonight but sleep. Marie went grumbling up the stairs with Annie, protesting that she wasn't a bit sleepy. Annie washed and changed into her nightgown by candlelight. The feather tick enveloped her at once, and she was asleep in the warm softness before she'd even had a chance to temark on how lovely the moonlight was through their tall, narrow bedroom window. Annie awoke with a terrible feeling of not knowing for a moment where she was. 'Then her father's face came close to her ear. "Wake up, Annie, and dress. I must be off, and you may come downstairs and say goodbye. The wagon's loaded, honey. Are you awake?" There was no need for the question, for Annie's eyes were like two saucers. She slid out of bed, and was into her dress in no time at all. Buttoning her shoes took forever, it seemed to Annie, because her hands had begun to tremble a little, and her fingers seemed all thumbs. Now that she was up and awake, she could hear voices downstairs. She pulled back the lace curtain at the window. Yes, her father's wagon was loaded and ready. 'They were hitching the team up now. Brother Williams tightened the ropes holding the supplies on the wagon. She didn't know the other young man helping lIfer father. Her father was tall, but that boy seemed almost taller. 370 Annie had no time to comb her hair and rebraid it. She wet her fingers and pushed at the sides. She was ashamed to do that; certainly her mother would hardly be proud of that. But she had no more time, she thought desperately. They should have awakened her earlier. She could have helped load the wagon, and she would have had more time to be with her father. She ran down the stairs and tugged at the front door. Sister Williams called to her, and she had to go back for a shaw] Sister Williams was holding. He'd be gone before she even got outside, she thought in anguish. "It's an unkindness to keep you, Annie, but I don't want you to catch your death before you've been with us a day." Sister Williams smiled at her while Annie made her pounding heart subside. 'Then Sister Williams pointed to the door, and Annie flew out to her father. 'The horses were standing hitched to the wagon, ready to go. "Have you had breakfast, Father?" Annie cried. ER father turned and picked her 'up in his arms. "You can be sure I have," he said kindly. "Now, no tears and no fretting. This is a kind of mission you're going on, little girl. Here's an opportunity for you to learn a great many things, to be a help to the Williams family. The Griffiths will be most proud to have a school mistress in the family. Your mother's taught you all she can, and we know what a smart child you are already, and that you'll take to your books with no RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1956 trouble. Keep the things we've taught you fast in your head and heart, and live by your head and heart. Say your prayers and you'll have nothing but sunshine in your days. 'There's no kinder people than the Williams', my big girl." Annie blinked back the tears and promised her father to do her best. Her father went back and shook Brother and Sister Williams' hands. "Annie, Annie, I've forgotten all my manners. 'This young man who has helped me so well with the wagon is Brother Parker Josephson, who lives just next door. See, you're getting acquainted with new friends already." The man greeted her, but Annie had no eyes for anyone except her father. 'Though her chin trembled, Annie held fast to her smile until her father had gee-upped the horses. The wagon rumbled down the street. Annie watched it until it turned off from sight. "Oh, Papa," she cried and moved away from Sister Williams' arms as if to run after the vanished wagon. Parker Josephson caught her. He wiped away the tears, talking in soothing tones about how soon her father would have to come in for supplies again. Annie stiffened in embarrassment. Parker let her go, leading her back to the Williams' front door. "We're going to be the best of friends because Marie and I are good friends. I've dried more tears for Marie than you just shed many times. She cries at the drop of a hat, or, at least, every time she falls down or skins her nose or...." Annie smiled a little. She HEART'S BOUNTY couldn't imagine dainty, perfect Marie skinning her nose. Parker smoothed her hair. "I won't tell a soul you forgot to comb your hair, if you march right upstairs and wash your face and comb and brush all that beautiful black hair properly." "T will,' Annie promised. Sister Williams held the door open. Marie ran out onto the porch, her hair a golden tangle. "Don't go, Parker, stay and play with us." "At this time in the morning?" Parker laughed. "Got to be off to work." He waved goodbye again to the girls. Annie and Marie went upstairs together. "I'm sorry I didn't wake up in time to say goodbye to your father, Annie. You should have poked me." "That's all might," Annie said. "T didn't wake up too early myself." "Isn't Parker the nicest person you've ever met?" Marie bounced on her bed. "Yes, except for our families, of course." Annie began to brush her hair. 371 "Well, I meant except for them." Marie fluffed her hair. "I'm going to marry Parker when I grow up. He says I can. I don't care how many years older he is...." Sister Williams paused at their door. "Marie, is that a good example to set for Annie? Do your hair and start the beds, dear, and hurry downstairs. Your breakfast is late now." "When do we have lessons?" Annie whispered to Marie on the way down. "You'll see all too soon. We have to work and work and study and study. We hardly ever get to play." Annie decided Marie didn't look too overworked. She would wait and judge for herself. Then she promised herself, I will be happy here. She would please her father and mother, and she would work very hard. "Well," said Brother Williams kindly, "Annie, you've a smile for us already, I see. That's a good beginning." (To be continued) —- Dream Mirage Grace Barker Wilson I woke last night and thought I heard the wind Blow through the tops of pine trees on the hill I used to climb when I was young. A thinned Far cry of hoot owls brought remembered chill Along my spine. Soft twitter of the wrens That nested near my window in the eaves, Seemed reassuring. As I lay there tense, I smelled the damp of rain on orchard leaves. So real it seemed I pulled the curtain back. White moonlight flooded all the desert land; On wide horizons shadows hovered black; No tree, no hill, no bird, just wind and sand. Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, June 1, and June 15, 1896 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE Women oF ALL Nations" ADDRESS TO THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF CENTERVILLE (UTAH): I think language will fail me, but still enough can be said to encourage the sisters in their noble work. In the language of scripture, to feed the hungry, clothe the naked, to nurse and administer to the sick embraces the highest point of the moral law that can be expected of humanity; the fact of which, is so well acknowledged by all sects, all creeds, and all people whether Christian or barbarian... And woman has done her work so well that it really appears to be one of the greatest essentials of human happiness... No wonder that the Prophet Joseph Smith was inspired to organize the Relief Society, as he saw how much more good could be done in a united capacity.... —John Wayman UTAH WOMAN'S PRESS CLUB: We do not limit our membership, one of the primary objects of our organization being to encourage young writers and cultivate all their literary possibilities.... Although many of the results would not perhaps shine with Shakespearean brilliancy yet we have listened to many choice thoughts that would otherwise never have had birth.... Our subjects for consideration and discussion have been historical, biographical, scientific, poetical, and political... —Dr. Ellis R. Shipp JUNE O, how we long to climb those hills, And quaff from out the sparkling rills, The honeyed nectar of our youth; For there it flows in limpid streams, Of which our fancy only dreams, Springing from wells of living truth.... —E. B. W. THE WORLD IN COMMOTION: Looking at the events transpiring around the world today, one must necessarily feel that with all the boasted knowledge of this century of civilization, the hidden paths of wisdom are obscure, and only found by a few, who look upward for light and search after eternal truth, as the prophets of old, and who were despised and scoffed at, but whose words were revered by later generations, and if one would profit by such lessons he must beseech the Lord in all humility for guidance.... —KEditorial GRANDMOTHERS: I hope you will all agree with the little girl who said she thought grandmothers were "a good plan." It ought to be so, for one generation is lifted on the shoulders of the one that goes before it.... I have felt lifted up and inspired by the good deeds of my ancestors.... —Julia Ward Howe ARMENIAN WOMEN: The Armenian women as a tule are fine looking with intelligent faces and womanly bearing... As they increase in years their intelligence and good looks become more manifest. —Phoebe C. Young Page 372 ELLE S. SPAFFORD, General President of Relief Society, took part on two panels at the National Association of Practical Nurse Education meetings, in Chicago in May, and attended meetings of the American Mothers Committee, Inc., of which she is a board member, in New York City. UELLA ADAMS DALTON, Parowan, Utah, has been selected as Utah's Mother of the Year. Mrs. Dalton, mother of nine children, has been a teacher, missionary, seamstress, writer, actress, and housewife. Mrs. Estella Brown Harmon, Afton, Wyoming, also a Latter-day Saint, and mother of eleven children, was awarded this distinction by her State. Mrs. Dalton and Mrs. Harmon will attend the meeting of the "Mothers" in New York City, where the American Mother of the Year will be selected. ARGARET TRUMAN, gifted daughter of former President Harry S. Truman and Elizabeth Wallace Truman, was married in April at Independence, Missouri, to Clifton E. Daniel, Jr., a New York newspaper man, formerly of Zebulon, North Carolina. Mrs. Daniel expects to continue with her career, but will not let it interfere with her husband's. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon ANTHA RAMA RAU, distinguished Indian novelist, daughter of Sir Benegal Rama Rau, formet Ambassador to Washington, has written a new novel Remember the House, which "does much to make the hybrid faces of India plainer to the Western eye." RACE KELLEY, American actress, became Princess of Monaco in April rites celebrated with European pageantry and festivities. Her husband, Prince Rainier III, is one of the few remaining hereditary rulers, and his gem-like principality on the Mediterranean is considered one of the world's loveliest vacation resorts. IRTHDAY congratulations are extended to: Mrs. Cynthia L. McClellan Bailey, Salt Lake City, one hundred; Mrs. Unity Knowles Chappell, Nephi, Utah, ninety-nine; Mrs. Catherine Melissa Hulet Dalley, Joseph, Utah, ninety-six; Mrs. Mrs. Elizabeth J. Day, Hunter, Utah, ninety-four; Mrs. Elnora Sorensen Hammond, Moreland, Idaho, ninety-three; Mrs. Elizabeth Mohr Felix, Logan, Utah, ninetyone; Mrs. Josephine Dickerson West, Pleasant Grove, Utah, ninety-one; Mrs. Charlotte Fawcett Beard, Henefer, Utah, ninety; Mrs. Minnie Hill Miller, Salt Lake City, ninety; Mrs. Emma _ Stembridge Staker, Marion, Utah, ninety. Page 373 C-—> EDITORIAL c~©2 VOL. 43 She 126th Annual Church Conference HE 126th Annual Conference of the Church convened in Salt Lake City on April 6-8, 1956. It was a period of refreshment to tens of thousands of Latter-day Saints who heard the proceedings by radio and saw them by television originating with KSL and KSL-TV. The fifth session, the Priesthood meeting, had an attendance, made possible through closed circuits, of over 30,000 bearers of the Priesthood in western states and Hawaii. The coverage of conference proceedings increases materially each six months. President David O. McKay, beloved prophet who was marking his fiftieth year in service since becoming an apostle, presided and conducted all seven sessions of the conference. All members of the General Authorities were present and participated, except for Elder Ezra Taft Benson whose duties as Secretary of Agriculture kept him at Washington, D. C. President Joseph Fielding Smith delivered the Church of the Air Address over CBS on the "Significance of the Atonement." After stating some outstanding accomplishments of the Church since the October 1955 conference, President McKay urged and counseled the saints: I feel constrained... At this opening session to make an appeal for more stability, more harmony and happiness in home life.... To the young people of the Church, particularly, I should like to say first that Page 374 a happy home begins not at the marriage altar, but during the brilliant, fiery days of youth. The first contributing factor to a happy home is the sublime virtue of loyalty, one of the noblest attributes of the human soul.... It means fidelity to parents.... Next to loyalty to parents, I should like to urge loyalty to self.... Keep true to the best, and never let an hour of indulgence scar your life for eternity. Next under that heading of loyalty, I urge LOYALTY TO YOUR FUTURE COMPANION.. Next to loyalty as contributive to a happy home, I should like to urge CONTINUED COURTSHIP, and apply this to grown people. Too many couples have come to the altar of marriage looking upon the marriage ceremony as the end of courtship instead of the beginning of an eternal courtship.... The next contributing factor to your happy marriage I would name is SELFCONTROL.... Marriage offers an opportunity to share in the love and care of children, and that is the true purpose of marriage... In conclusion, for the proper solution of the great problems of marriage we may turn with safety to Jesus, our Guide. He declared, as I read in the beginning, that marriage is ordained of God and that only under the most exceptional conditions should it be set aside.... It will not dissolve when sealed by the authority of the Holy Priesthood throughout all eternity. The marriage ceremony, when thus sealed, produces happiness and joy unsurpassed by an other experience in the world.... RESIDENT Stephen L_ Richards "in the spirit of the brotherhood and the love which the gospel of our Lord inspires," declared: Repentance was always, and is, a part JUNE 1956 NO. 6 EDITORIAL of the law and the Gospel plan, and the mercy which the Savior brought is essential to the doctrine of repentance and to the administration of the laws of God. The fine balance between the two is preserved for us in the great principle that mercy shall not rob justice (Alma 42:25), mor justice mercy.... Every single commandment, stern as it may appear to some, is in reality an avenue to the glorious realm of peace and happiness. But repentance is an outstanding principle of mercy and love and kindness, attesting the concern and love of the Father for his children, for in the final analysis, he gave his Beloved Son, not alone to redeem us from the effect of transgressions which lay heavy upon the whole race of men, but also to give to us the inexpressibly glorious opportunity of repenting of our own individual transgressions, so that we might again come back into his presence clean and forgiven, through the precious gift of repentance.... Just as repentance is a divine principle, so is forgiveness.... If we were more liberal in our forgiveness, we would be more encouraging to repentance. Someone has said that the supreme charity of the world is in obedience to the divine injunction, "Judge not...." Let no brother or sister in the whole family of God feel that he or she has gone beyond the point where error and sin may be left behind and true repentance enlighten the soul with hope and faith.... What the world needs is a repentant world, and you may be assured there is no enduring happiness in anything but goodness.... PRESIDENT J. Reuben Clark, Jr. "with deep humility," addressed himself to the saints: It is a trite expression that we live in an age of materialism, a materialism which has enthroned worldly things and in a materialism that has cast a shadow even over our spirituality. As I see it, one of the great reasons for this is the shadow which we have cast over Jesus as the Christ... They deny to him that he was and is the Christ. 375 Of all of the innumerable testimonies regarding his personality, I should like to call your attention only to two or three. The first is the great prayer which he offered on the night before his crucifixion "And this is life eternal, that they might know thee the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom thou has sent." And the testimony of Peter before the Sanhedtin, when challenged as to the name by which he had performed the miracle at the Gate Beautiful of the Temple, he replied: "by the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth... For there is none other name under heaven' given among men, whereby we must be saved" (Acts 4:10-12).... And that testimony embodied in that great declaration of the Father himself to Moses, because it is the epitome, the summary of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. "For behold, this is my work and my glory—to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man...." His Gospel can be lived, can be enjoyed by the poorest of us, the poorest of us may enjoy the blessings of the Gospel, the blessings of the Priesthood which accompany it. We need neither worldly position nor wealth in order to enjoy all that he has to give. His is the salvation and exaltation, if we follow him, of all of us. There is nothing requiring more than a broken heart and a contrite spirit, and all that flows therefrom.... It is a glorious privilege to live in a day when the gospel has been restored and the saints are permitted, twice a year, to gather and hear the word of the Lord to them. Of all people on the face of the earth most blessed are those who know that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, that Joseph Smith was a prophet of the Lord, and that President McKay is the prophet chosen by the Lord for this day. This knowledge is available to all who would seek it and brings the blessings of heaven. —M. C. S. Notes TO THE FIELD Summer Work Meetings T is the desire of the general board that a work meeting be held each month, as heretofore, during the summer period, June through September 1956. Diamonds and People Celia Luce I held a diamond in the sunlight. It sent sparkles of rainbow hues in every direction. It took ordinary sunlight and reflected it back in a thousand beams of beauty. I know people who are like diamonds. They take ordinary life and give to it a sparkle of beauty. They do more than just what is expected, and are always finding ways to make life glow with happiness for those around them. 'They add color and sparkle to everyday life, changing it from a drab existence to a glorious adventure. Many of us are like a mirror, instead of a diamond. We give back to the world just what is expected of us, mirroring back what the world insists on. We too seldom add the sparkle of thoughtfulness. We could reflect back the golden shine of the glowing sun, if we chose. But that is too much trouble. We do well what is expected of us, but no more. Some of us are like a black cloth. It absorbs most of the light and gives back very little to the world. It is selfish. It is no coincidence that black is the color of trouble, grief, and death. May God help us all to find the diamond sparkle. Page 376 VIRTUE is its oan reward There is more to marriage than music and moonlight; there is trust... And sharing. And being loved and deserving to be. There is companionship through years of growing up and growing old together. And to each partner in an honest marriage there will come a time when nothing will be more npaem than personal purity. And it will not be just at some passing hour — but day after day, year after year — as long as you look at your loved ones — as long as you can feel, in reality or in memory, the small hand of a son or daughter as it closes around your finger. You — each of you — should take no less to marriage than personal purity. You have a right to expect it of the companion you choose — you have a sacred obligation to keep it and to offer it in return. The rewards of virtuous living are rich and enduring, but the price of sin runs high. The reward of virtue is a quiet conscience — the right to answer every question without reservation — the right to look everv man squarely in the eye, and every boy and girl and woman also — without an accusing conscience. It is the right to pass on to your children and your children's children a clean record, a clean heritage, a good name. You cannot cheat. You cannot avoid consequences. So be virtuous. BE HONEST WITH YOURSELF is its own reward = "Rad these ate is rewards: ' Peace of mind mm 'tai Be Eos A "a conscience 4 The confidence of family § friends The strength of personal purity The trust of your children The sense of purpose in life here earl with these you love $ of peace —_ and limitless: progress hereafter } ' All this is yours for. The Be true to your friends, your family your Father in Heaven | in other words -- Be Honest With Yourself Commencing with this inspiring message to its young men and young women, the Church takes a significant step forward in its crusade to teach and encourage high moral and ethical conduct among its members. The key to this new series of inspirational sermonettes is largely one of "self interest" in the true sense. Its central theme is "Be Honest with Yourself." When our young people — and those who are not so young — learn the age-old lesson that virtue, like honesty, temperance, and clean, healthful, happy living are right because they are good for the individual and for society, the world will be a better place. Page 377 7 oe An assurance of everlasting life Recipes From Central America Submitted by Gladys K. Wagner GuATEMALA has many dishes in common with its neighbor, Mexico.: However, st uses fewer spices and seasonings. It, as most all Central American countries, also has a variety of dishes that might seem strange to North American tastes, such as: baked iguana (a kind of lizard), armadillo, and an abundance of turtle eggsHonDURAS resembles Mexico rather strongly, but with American and European variations. Most/of the local food is based on the Mexican staple dishes: beans, rice, tortillas, etc. _ Fi SALVADOR'S big meal 3s at noon and usually consists of a seemingly endless variety of courses, with beans and rice forming the staples, much as potatoes in our own North American trrenus. * NICARAGUA, banana country atmosphere, is much like Salvador. "Heavenly Bananas" is likely -to "become yout family's favorite recipe. Local "tamales" are calle "nacatamales"" and are of the chicken and pork filled variety. Many times these also include shrimp, turkey, olives, and fish. Costa Rica dines unhurriedly, as a rule, with meals and refreshments seldom more than three hours apart. "Blote'" (green com boiled in the husks) ls 4 welcome change from the ever-present rice. 4 ' Panama, the crossroads of the world, has food that is cosmopolitan — Spanish, French, American, slightly international and occasionally Panamanian. The one favorite dish is "Sancocho," the renowned soup-stew of all the Latin countries. FriJOLES — (Black Beans) Used throughout Central America Soak 1 cup of black beans overnight; next morning, boil with 1 onion and a piece of salt pork until they are donc. Put through a sieve, food chopper, OT mash thoroughly, until they form 4 heavy paste. Add a piece of garlic, salt, and peppet, fry the beans until dry, using a small amount of oil for frying. Mapuro EN GLORIA (Heavenly Bananas) 4 tbsp. Butter 4 tbsp. Sugat 6 firm bananas 1 tsp. Cinnamon y¥, Yb. Cream cheese 1 c. Heavy cream Melt the butter in a skillet. Peel the bananas and slice each one lengthwise. Brown quickly in the butter ovet high heat. Place half of the banana slices on the bottom of 4 buttered pie plate. Cream the cheese until it is Very soft. Add the sugat and cinnamon, beating until light and smooth. Spread half of the mixture on the bananas. Place the remaining banana slices on top; then spread with the remainder of the cream cheese mixture. Pour the heavy cream over the top. Bake in a 375° Ove? For 20 minutes OT until almost all the cream ls absorbed and the top ls slightly browned. Do not allow all the cream to be absorbed, or the bananas will be too dry. If desired, some whipped cream may be served on the bananas. Page 378 RECIPES FROM CENTRAL AMERICA 379 SANCOCHO Meat and Ve etable Stew g 2 onions, chopped 2 Ibs. Pork cut into 1-Inch cubes 3 cloves garlic minced 1 Ib. Beef cut into 1-inch cubes 4 tbsp. Chopped parsley 2 oz. Ham cut into small cubes 3 coriander seeds 1 tomato, chopped 1 bay leaf 3 potatoes, peeled and cubed 3 tbsp. Lemon or lime juice 1% c. Cubed squash or pumpkin 1 tbsp. Salt 2 green bananas, sliced % inch thick 1 tbsp. Pepper 1 Spanish-style sausage (Cherizo ) Place the onions, garlic, parsley, coriander seeds, and bay leaf in a bowl. Pound until very fine in texture. Add the lemon juice, salt and Pepper, and mix to a smooth Paste. Place the pork, beef, and ham in a saucepan and add water to cover. Add the onion mixture and stir well. Cover and cook over low heat for 1% hours. Add the potatoes, squash, and sausage and cook for 20 minutes. Add the banana slices and cook 25 minutes. Season. Serve in deep soup plates. Ejores Envur. Ros En JvEvo (String Beans with Egg) 2 Ibs. Fresh string beans > cggs separated 1% tsp. Salt fat for deep-fat frying Wash the string beans and cut off the ends, but leave them whole. Cook with water and salt until almost tender. Drain. Divide the beans into 6 bunches, and tic 'each bunch together with white sewing thread. Beat the cgg yolks well. In another bowl beat the egg whites until stiff but not dry and fold them into the yolks gently but thoroughly. Dip the bunches of string beans into the gg mix, coating them on all sides. Heat fat in a deep saucepan to 375 degrees. Drop the beans into the fat. Fry until light brown, about 2 minutes. Drain. GaLLo EN Cuca (Rooster in "Chicha"' ) 1 large rooster, cut for frying 2 pieces garlic 2 Ibs. Chopped ripe tomatoes 6 tbsp. Fat 4 onions, chopped "2 tsp. Black pepper 2 Ib. Dried prunes salt to taste Ingredients for making '"'Chicha'' 1 c. Brown sugar 1 C. Warm water 1 C. Vinegar " tsp. Dry yeast To prepare "chicha," mix vinegar and water with brown sugar and yeast in glass or similar container and allow to stand at room temperature for 4 to 6 hours, When "chicha'' is ready, fry in frying pan the Pieces of rooster in fat hill brown; then place meat with fat in pressure cooker. Add tomatocs, onions, garlic, salt, and Pepper, and cook in open Pressure cooker for 15 minutes, stirring constantly. Add the Prepared "chicha," close the pressure cooker and cook at 15 pounds pressure for 25 minutes. Open cooker and add dried prunes and cook in open pressure cooker to consume half the water (approximately half hour). Serve with "Chapin Rice." Cnarin RICE 2 ¢. Rice 4 c. Hot water 2 pieces garlic % ¢. Raw peas 2 tsp. Salt Fry rice in lard with tomatoes, onion, and garlic for 10 minutes; add other vegetables and fry additional 5 minutes, stirring to keep from burning. To this add the hot water and mix together with salt. Cover and leave cooking on low flame for 30 minutes. Do not remove lid or stir until done. When cooked, fluff by gently turning rice with spatula. Serve with "Gallo en Chicha." The rice can be prepared without carrots, peas, string beans, and pimiento chili, for serving with fried beans or other foods. (These last two recipes "Gallo en Chicha" and "Chapin Rice" were submitted by Sister Carmen O'Donnal of Mazatenango, Guatemala. ) — My Faith in God Alice Lyman Welling I know he lives who knows me best, And how in eagerness I try To bear my share of bitterness Without complaint, or tear or sigh. My faith in God makes gray skies blue; It lifts the clouds above my head And bids them move, that rays of light Reveal a faith, alive, not dead. So with this gift so precious, rare, May I not fail with service pure, But minister to souls who faint That my salvation will be sure. Long-Lost Friends Maude Rubin With house all neat, no garden to tend— Fresh cookies baked, dressed-up, I mend.... But I sew alone till that day's end— Without one friend. Next day I decide to plant some roses.... When I'm wet and muddy from leaky hoses, Freckled and sunburned (at least, my nose is! ) Here come my friends! 380 2 ripe tomatoes, cut in pieces 1 onion, cut in pieces 3 heaping tbsp. Pork lard RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1956 1 carrot, cut in strips 1 pimiento chili, chopped % c. Raw string beans, cut When Mothers Reputation Was at Stake Nedra Stone Nickell Y mother was loved by all who knew her as a good neighbor. Forty or fifty years ago, in a pioneering community, this title was not easily achieved. It meant being on hand at times of birth, sickness, death, accident, and distress with whatever quality of soul and skill the occasion demanded. It meant giving of one's time and substance freely, neither of which was plentiful. Mother was a dark, slight, quick woman, with no wasted motion. Without conveniences, she was an excellent cook and _ housekeeper, tended a profitable garden, raised chickens and turkeys, was a "greenthumber" with shrubs and flowers, canned, preserved, and _ pickled, made cheese, soap, quilts, and rag rugs, sewed and darned, and cared for her husband and four children— all of which was a part of her being a good neighbor, for she shared the results of her labor, even father and us, when the situation required us. To Mother, the most prized possessions were a good name and a generous heart. These ideals were drilled into her children throughout the years. Honesty, dependability, virtue—prerequisite to a good name —were not so hard to assimilate, with her and Father's constant example, but the generous heart proved sometimes quite a problem, and not one of us ever reached Mother's status in this respect. "Give the best that you have, even all that you have, if another needs it more than you," was the motto by which she lived. When a neighbor's cow died, leaving the children without milk, they were presented with the very best cow we owned. I remember thinking, Now, why couldn't it have been old Dolly, the one who gives me so much trouble when I herd them on the hills, or old Nell, whom Father hates to milk because she's a little short on the action end, as he says. But, no, that would never have suited Mother. It had to be the best. Then there were the times when I was called upon to share my store of dolls and other playthings with some less fortunate child. Mother's method of presenting a case was always convincing, which enabled me to give some things quite freely, but that best was one I never could surmount in my childhood. Saturday was Mother's big baking day. Generous quantities of edibles were prepared to tide us over Sunday, so that we could all go to Church and still serve a bounteous meal to the playmates and friends of various ages whom we invited home to dinner through the years. BOUT a mile and a half from our homestead an old Danish widower, named Dan Olsen, lived with his young son. Coincidently or arranged, every Saturday he journeyPage 381 382 ed to town to replenish his supplies. On his return he always dropped in. I watched eagerly for his one-horse buckboard to appear, for he never failed to bring me a nickel sack of candy, in those days a just reward for any childish effort. When ready to leave, he was heavily laden with warm, fresh bread, and pie, cake, cookies, or whatever was the order of the day. When his son, who was then twelve years old, broke his leg, Mother insisted on bringing the boy to our already overcrowded home to nurse him until it healed. He was given the best bed in the house, where he lay for a month. I remember hearing Mother and Father up with him night after night soothing his pain. It was three months before he was able to return to his father. About two years following this incident, Mr. Olsen sudderily stopped coming to our home. Candy hungry, each Saturday I watched anxiously for his buckboard, but each Saturday he passed by with his head turned the other way. Of course, Mother was very upset. The second time this happened she called to him as he passed, but he never stopped or seemed to hear her. Then she began inquiring of the neighbors, if they knew the reason for his strange behavior. 'The report was that he had stopped speaking to everyone. He just didn't like people anymore and repulsed all attempts at friendliness. Soon after this we learned that he had named his cows after the women of the community. Naturally, we children managed to see the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1956 one he called "Cora," after Mother. She was red with vicious-looking horns and a stubby tail. Father thought this was a good joke and gently kidded Mother about it. We youngsters saw some humor in the situation, also, but we didn't dare say anything because to Mother it wasn't funny — it just did something to her good name, and when the subject was mentioned, a tear or two would sometimes fall. However, her generous heart was undaunted. Every week, through the spring, summer, and fall of my seventh year, laden with food, 1 trudged the mile and a half to Mr. Olsen's home. T times, the food arrived in a somewhat doubtful state. Being a farmer's daughter and a child of nature, | found much to allure me from a quick delivery. There were flowers to pick on the _ hillside, birds' nests to search for in the sagebrush, and a pleasant time could be spent sitting with bare feet in the dust of the road, sniffing the various, glorious smells of the countryside — the damp, sweet odor of earth and new green shoots of willows along the ditchbank,. The wafted perfume of lilac and plum blossoms, the tantalizing scent of new-mown hay. 'Then, too, I was reluctant to reach my destination; among the children of the community there was the rumor that the old man was: crazy and might do us harm — and I was just plain scared. Eventually, however, it had to be done, so I would timidly approach the house, set the food on the porch, call Mr. Olsen's name until he came to the door, then run as fast as I could until I was out of breath. He was a small, quick man, with reddish unruly hair and a generous moustache of the same hue, and I always pictured him pursuing me with these flowing in the wind, but I hadn't the courage to look back to alleviate my fears. LATE that fall word came to us that Mr. Olsen was ill. Mother's indignation melted at once, and she ordered my brother to hitch the horse to the buggy. "T must go to him, even if he doesn't like me," she said, busily tying on a clean apron and gathering her supplies, while giving my sister instructions for taking charge at home. "I can't leave an old man alone with only a boy to care for him; it just isn't neighborly." So, laden with home remedies and more food, she and I set forth. When we reached our desiination, Mother's steps were firm and resolute as she marched without hesitance to the door. Mune were timid and dragging, as I followed behind, my arms holding, with reluctance, a home-pressed cheese and a dressed stewing hen. We found Mr. Olsen ill with a bad cold. He was too sick to object to Mother's miuinistrations, which she assumed at once, making him clean and comfortable and applying the remedies of pioneer life. While he slept and the chicken cooked, she cleaned the house — with some help from me, ironed shirts, and then sat down to sew on needed buttons. Mr. Olsen awakened in the late afternoon, feeling much better. He looked at Mother strangely for a few minutes, while a tear slid slowly down his roughened face and nestled in his graying moustache. "You are a good, kind woman," he said. "I am a mean and foolish old man. I quit for speaking to my neighbors because they are too good to me and I do nutting in return.. That is not the vay to show I am grateful. I vas so wrong. I vill do better." Mother smiled at him. "You were a foolish one," she said, as she arranged the tempting tray of food before him. "Don't you know it makes us happy to help you?" She hesitated, at a loss for words. "But, tell me...." Her face flushed a little, "How could you call a cow Cora?" The old man grinned and said nothing for a moment, while his moustache moved rhythmically up and down. "Oh, those cows!" he chuckled. "May, she is the bossy vun, alvays throwing her head and chasing the others. Dottie, she is the so stubborn, selfish vun — she holds up her milk; half of the time she only gives me half of her milk. But that Cora...." A fond light crept into his eyes, "She is the good and generous vun. All that she has is mine." I glanced up at Mother. She wore her "all's right with the world" expression. Her good name was intact. She and the cow were kindred spirits. Apparent, also, was a decided twinkle in her eye, which was a probable indication that she could now laugh with Father over this one. I, too, was feeling happy, with visions of little sacks of candy again. WHEN MOTHER'S REPUTATION WAS AT STAKE 383 Cliff Flomes of the Ancients Nell Murbarger ruined cities of the Old World undoubtedly represent the ne plus ultra of archeological significance, but nowhere in the world are there known cliff dwellings of larger extent, or more elaborately constructed, than those found in our own Western United States. Preeminent among those cliffside dwellings are the ancient apartment houses now preserved in Mesa Verde National Park, in southwestern Colorado. Discovered to science in 1888 and granted national park status fifty years ago, the seventh to be established among our twenty-eight national parks, Mesa Verde has since played host to hundreds of thousands of persons who have gazed upon her fine, old ruins in amazement, and have carried away with them a greater realization of America's antiquity than they had ever before known. On this well-forested tableland, nearly a mile and a half above sea level, and 2000 feet above the surrounding Mancos Valley, men were living possibly as long ago as the beginning of the Christian era! As long as 1200 years ago, these Mesa Verde dwellers were tilling fields of corn, squash, and beans; were fashioning handsome baskets and decorated pottery, and weaving fine cotton cloth. And nearly 1,000 years ago, these same ancient dwellers began construction of the inPage 384 Vara a civilizations and credible series of stone-masonry apartment houses of which the largest and finest was magnificent Cliff Palace, 300 feet in length, with 202 dwelling rooms situated on eight floor levels, plus twenty-three kivas, or ceremonial chambers! In addition to unknown numbers of these great cliff cities, which were built inside open-faced caves in the nearly sheer walls of the canyons, the ancient inhabitants of Mesa Verde had built plateau villages, as well. No one knows how many ruins of both types are situated within the park boundaries, but the number of major cliff ruins has been loosely estimated between 300 and 400; and as each of these ruins formerly sheltered from a few to several hundred Indian inhabitants, the aggregate population of the area must have been considerable. After the ancient Mesa Verdens had resided in their pit houses on the plateau, and in their great cave palaces for 1,000 years or more, evil days fell upon their colony. 'The year 1276, or near that time, according to archeological calculations, saw the beginning of a twenty - four-year drought cycle. With not enough rain falling to maintain life in their fields, to supply drinking water to wild game, or to develop the nutritious kernels in pine seeds and acorns, hunger came to stalk the land; and as springs and other water sources disappeared, the people of Mesa Verde began CLIFF HOMES OF THE ANCIENTS Nell Murbarger drifting away to' the Rio Grande Valley and the highlands of present day New Mexico and Arizona. Serted by her hands to maintain them, the great cliff palaces fel] eventually into par- 385 CLIFF PALACE RUIN, MESA VERDE NATIONAL PARK, COLORADO O admi stonemasons, speaks well] for the intelligence and native ability of the men. In addition standing cliff daily throughout the summer season to Tanger-escorted visitors, Many other interesting TUINS are visible from two rim drives, which may be 386 travelled either in one's own automobile, or in hotel-operated conveyances available at nominal cost. The park's admission fee of one dollar covers use of all park roads, free camping or picnicking privileges in a large, pine-shaded campground with wood, water, and other conveniences; and free admittance to both park museums. 'These include a museum of natural history, and an archeological and ethnological museum featuring dioramas and exhibits which provide the most important single aid to understanding the human pre-history of the region. Visitors to the park will find it to their advantage to spend some time in the latter museum, both before visiting the ruins and again afterward. To auto travelers, Mesa Verde is readily accessible over paved highways from every part of the country — the recommended routes from Salt Lake City and vicinity being US. 50 and U. S. 160; and from RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1956 Denver and the East, U. S. 50 and 160, or over U. S. 85-87 and 160. The side road to the park leaves USS. 160 about midway between Cortez and Mancos, Colorado, from which point park headquarters lie nineteen miles distant, at an elevation of 6,965 feet. From the highest point in the park (8,575 feet) it is possible to view 14,000 square miles of the famous "Four Corners Country." Visitors not desiring to camp, will find motel cabins and housekeeping tents available for rent during the summer season (generally from about May 15th to November ist.) During this same period park facilities include stores selling general supplies and souvenirs, a restaurant, gasoline station, and stables where riding horses may be rented. Inquiries concerning rates, reservations, and other information, should be addressed to Mesa Verde Company, Mesa Verde National Park, Colorado. My Garden Catherine E. Berry My garden wears upon its face The bloom of poppies, Queen Anne's lace To frame its locks of iris blue, And zinnias of every hue To star its flowered Sunday gown, With marigolds to make a crown. And Canterbury bells will ring Whenever winds of twilight sing, Pale moonflowers open in the night When four-o'clocks have closed up tight; And when the dawn has tinged the skies My garden opens rosebud eyes. Make Childrens Clothes Economically and Professionally Ivie Huish Jones NOWING exactly how much material to buy to make a certain article of clothing is an art worthy of cultivation. Planning ahead, and taking into consideration some of the fundamental principles of proper cutting technique, is a means of helping to keep within the family clothing budget. Manufacturers know that their profit lies in careful cutting to fit the pattern to the goods instead of the goods to the pattern, thus producing little or no waste. From the president of a large manufacturing company, I learned, at an early age, one of the most valuable lessons of my life on cutting garments. Opening a room filled with scraps, he fairly shouted: "Here is my proft. If you can cut the garments I want without all this waste, the job is yours." Designing patterns so that the scraps from one piece fit exactly onto another, is the secret. When yardage is limited, even in home sewing, accurate cutting is imperative. If the garment is to be reproduced several times, as is usually the case with Relief Society sewing, make the pattern of heavy paper or light-weight cardboard and make the pattern exact. Guessing at the size or allowing too much material for the seams, then fitting later, is wasteful of both time and material. Estimate Needed Yardage Taking advantage of sales, remnants, and samples can prove real economy or it can be a wasteful expenditure of clothing money. We find many widths of material today. It is well to determine how much material to buy of the different widths. Most commercial patterns give these estimates, but they may be based on less accurate cutting. Using the corner of a table as a starting point, or a bed if the table is too small, measure the width of the material to be purchased and place one yardstick down at that width. Then place the second yardstick down, marking half the width of the material, pretending that the material is folded double. Whenever possible it is well to cut all pieces double as this prevents such calamaties as cutting both sleeves for one arm or both pants fronts for one leg. Now adjust the pattern in that space and then measure the length to buy of the different widths of material. If the pattern requires one yard and four inches, why buy a yard and threefourths? Combining Short Length Materials The patterns shown here were used by Relief Society sisters for materials purchased on one of those "take it or leave it" sales. 'There were six hundred samples of good quality rayon and cotton gabardine, forty-five inches wide and eighteen inches long, in every color of the rainbow. 'These were folded crosswise, simplifying the cutting. No two were exactly alike in both texPage 387 388 ture and shade, but this only added interest, for it made necessary the combining of colors which often adds attractiveness, especially to children's clothing. Combinations of rich gray with blues, soft tans with browns, pink hues with rose or red, or the many different shades of green, were pleasing. Cutting the boy's shorts out of eighteen inches of material was interesting, for it was like balancing a budget. 'There was just so much cloth, no more, no less. 'The one half yard made a pair of shorts up to sizes six to eight. With fortyfive-inch material, one could choose between three different — styles: shorts with a bib and suspenders; TWO-PIECE SUIT The model is Robert E. Jensen four years old RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1956 shorts with set-in pockets and a belt; or shorts with trimmings to match a loose sport coat. For marking around the pattern onto the cloth, leftover pieces of soap may be used in place of tailor's chalk. After marking around the pattern carefully, pin each piece of the pattern on the material to prevent the material from slipping while cutting and also to keep the different pieces together. Cut carefully on the marks. Tailoring Making men's and boys' clothes is an easy task and satisfactory, too, if the technique of good tailoring is adhered to. Every seamstress knows something about tailoring so the entire process need not be given here. A few short-cuts, however, might prove helpful. In general, the real secret of good tailoring is: accurate cutting; straight sewing; handling and turning as little as possible; and pressing as you sew. There is nothing complicated about making a pair of boy's shorts and they may be given a tailored look even when using cotton materials. Have the fronts plain or pleated, never gathered, and have pressed in creases. Sew and press each leg separately and you will be pleased with your tailoring job. By all means fell the side seams of washable materials. Press after each operation, using light-weight brown paper, such as thin paper sacks or paper bags from the cleaners. Place the paper over the part to be pressed, and then moisten the paper with a wet sponge. Be sure that the iron is not too hot. Sew up the legs on the machine, and hem MAKE CHILDREN'S CLOTHES ECONOMICALLY | 389 \ ' ' PLACE FOR BUTTONHOLES AND BUTTONS OR SNAPS BACK OF COAT SIZE 6 BACK OF TROUSERS PATCH SIZE 6 c a 3 a) fk FRONT OF COAT H < SIZE 6 ' g 1 1 4 i} 4 ' i t 1 ' \ FRONT OF TROUSERS 4 ' SIZE 6 uz i ra SLEEVE ' 6zZ0 POCKET Se - ' au<2 1 the bottom by hand, using the lock hemming stitch which is so desirable for children's clothes because it does not unravel. For convenience and effectiveness in giving the final pressing, use two small magazines about the size of The Relief Society Magazine. Leave one magazine flat and roll the other, covering each with brown wrapping paper. Inside seams of sleeves and legs should be pressed over the rolled up magazine while the flat one should be inserted into the leg while the hem is being pressed. This presses the upper side without wrinkling the under side or leaving the marks of the hem. Men and boys could use this idea to advantage when pressing the cuffs on their trousers. Before sewing the two legs together, give them the final pressing touch. Placing the under leg seam exact with the side seam, makes the creases fall into position and look like father's trousers. Press well, using the dampened paper. Sew the two legs together and flat fell. Also keep that tailored look by giving special attention to the waistband or waist hem. Turn the hem at the top of the shorts one inch and pin or baste. Stitch on the top edge, not onefourth inch away but on the edge. Cut a piece of one-half inch cotton tape, not bias—or a straight strip of material, two inches longer than from crease to crease in the front of the shorts. Attach to this tape sufficient good quality elastic, onehalf inch wide, to make a circle to fit the child's waist. Pin the tape carefully on the under side of the hem between the creases, being sure to place the middle of the tape at the center seam. On the sewing machine, stitch the tape or straight piece material down firmly to the under side of the hem only. This keeps the waistline straight FOLD OF MATERIAL MATERIAL SELVAGE SELVAGE < FOLO OF MATERIAL 390 across the front. Now turn under the hem one-fourth inch, beginning across the front. Keep the elastic well up into position. On the sewing machine turn under the hem over the elastic a little way at a time. Push the gathers as it seems necessary, always doing so when the presser bar is down firmly and when the needle is in the goods. With a little practice a professional job will result. No stitching will show on right side of shorts. Remember collars are much easier to attach before the side seams are sewed up. Proceed with the coat or jacket as you would in making a man's RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1956 shirt, shoulder seams first, then attach the collar and add front facings. Sew in the sleeves and flat fell if the material is to be washed. The coat part fits up onto the sleeve instead of the sleeve onto the coat. Fold the fronts together evenly and mark the position of the pockets, then sew them into place while the garment is open. Press well before sewing up the side seams, and there will be little pressing necessary when the coat is finished. Buy the right amount of material, cut carefully, stitch straight, and press well, and tailoring will be a joy. Mortar for the Miles Verla R. Hull Silence may be golden, But never seems to be When no dear friend across the miles Takes time to write to me. So I have the post-card habit, For letters, digest form. Now gainful waiting-moments Can keep my friendships warm! On a Sleepless Summer Night Beulah Huish Sadleir You have deigned to show me love As new as each awaited moon Upon its rising date. The white rose blooming by the door Breathes life through every silvered pore. The dampened grass is therapy to Soul and feet—and While there is no sleep—the thought Of you dispels such loneliness As might be here. There Is Still Time CHAPTER 5 (CONCLUSION) Margery S. Stewart lay still while Elizabeth adjusted the straps, but when they waited for the elevator she lifted her eyes. 'They were blue and clear, like a child's, and full of pain and fear. "If my mother were only here.... Or someone. I don't want to lose my baby." Elizabeth was swept with pity. She took the girl's hand, held it tightly in her own. She smoothed the hair back from the girl's forehead. "Listen, my child, and don't be afraid. This doesn't mean you won't have your baby next time. Sometimes these things happen. But next time will be different. Just keep remembering that." The girl clutched her hand. "Bill and I want a baby more than anything else in the world. We were so happy." "You just pray as hard as you can, and [ll pray with you and everything will be all right. I promise you." The girl sighed, relaxed. "You sound just like my mother. That's what she would say." Elizabeth took her upstairs, remembered at the last moment to pull the mask over her face, forgot to leave the chart at the desk, but remembered the operating room. Gentle nurses took the girl, wiped away her tears, murmured encouragement. The girl looked back to Elizabeth. Ts girl obeyed meekly. She "Thank you. I feel strong now. I'm not afraid." Elizabeth went back to the chart. She reached for the chalk and crossed out the name of Mrs. Malouf. Mrs. Malouf, too, was alone. She was a large, silent woman. But on the elevator she opened her eyes. "Hold a thought for me," she said. "T will," Elizabeth said firmly. "T certainly will." She watched the elevator doors open before her. She pulled up her mask. 'This is a little job, she thought, not very important, but I'm so glad... So very glad I have it. To walk even a little way with someone in need is happiness deeper than I have ever known. It was three o'clock before she knew it. The nurse who had helped her with the uniform came to her. "You'll come tomorrow?" Elizabeth nodded. "Thank goodness! Tired?" "A little. I can rest when I go home." The nurse smiled. "You'll get used to the job, it will take a few days." "IT wonder how you do it," Elizabeth said, "it's bitter hard work, and such responsibility." The nurse took off her cap and shook out her light brown curls. "Wouldn't trade my job for the plushiest career in town." Page 391 392 [' was good to hurry home, to close the big front door behind her, and relax in Matilda's bustling concern. "Here's iced raspberry punch I've been saving for you and some chiffon cake I made special. Was it hard?" Elizabeth shook her head. "No. It was good. Matilda, you can't imagine how really brave people are. How did Grandma Anderson make out?" "My land! You never heard such singings and hummings and bustling about... Happy as a mother bird with new nestlings, she was." Elizabeth sighed with relief. "I'm glad. It's all going to work out fine. Know something, Matilda?" "No'm." "Everybody needs a big job to do, Matilda, work to stretch his mind and muscles. It's good that way." Matilda cleared away the glass and plate. "And you need a nice little rest before the youngsters git here, and besides, you ain't forgettin' the dinner party tonight?" Elizabeth jumped to her feet. "Completely forgotten it. I better run upstairs and dab some cream on my face. 'The dinner is at Mrs. Jones' and you know how beautiful she is." Matilda's smile was brief and white. "Mis' Jones is one gorgeous creature, and I ain't exaggeratin'!"' She rolled her eyes. "That red hair and those green eyes and that figure!" "Will you please send the youngsters upstairs when they come in?" she called to Matilda. Elaine was first. She came in slowly, with the shining look around RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1956 her dark eyes that Elizabeth had come to associate with: A. An unexpected compliment; B. A special date; C. The consumption of a large indigestible mound of French fried potatoes and catchup. "You'll never guess!" She came to light upon the bed. "You're in love?" "Hate boys." "You ate three bars on the way home from school?" "Mother, be serious! 'They've asked me to give a dramatic reading at Mutual next week." Elizabeth sat up. "A what?" Elaine nodded. "Just as I thought. No one around here cares what I do or want... Or dream about. No one has even noticed that I've spent hours... Simply hours in the garage, practicing." "Practicing what?" "My reading. I'm going to give "The Interlude.' It's terribly sad, about a girl who is bidding her lover farewell... He's going to war, you know." Apprehension seized Elizabeth. From her own youth she conjured up memories of miserable moments brought on by her own lack of humor. "Darling, don't you think it would be best to... Sort of break it in gently... I mean, start out with something light and gay...." Her voice trailed away, muffled by Elaine's accusing glare. She stood up, floated disdainfully to the door. "I might have known I could expect nothing... Simply nothing from my family. No one around here..." she looked over Elizabeth's head, "understands art, or anything, really." She went out, closing the door firmly behind her. THERE IS STILL TIME Elizabeth's listening ear followed her footsteps down the back stairs, through the kitchen... Pause... Slam of the refrigerator door... Pause. That meant the last of the cake and a second glass of milk. The screen door slammed and the garage door screeched open. Elizabeth sank back on her pillows. Every man to his own idea, and every child to its own learning. She fell fast asleep. GHE was awakened by Brent. He sat beside her and rumpled her hair. "Hey, beautiful! How's the nurse?" She opened her eyes. "Ti, Brent! Is it late?" "Six. When are we due at Karen's?" "Seven. 'Twins home?" "Yup. In the back yard with Mother. She's teaching them how to braid a lasso." He got up. "T'll get in and out of the shower. Maybe it will give me a boost." "Tired?" He passed a hand wearily over his face. "Beat. It makes me so mad when I can't push a thing through the way I want it... Past all the people who stand in the way." She swung out of bed. Thing special?" "The job. Lost out on two bids. Some new people.... They are cutting their own throats just to get in, and cutting mine, too, incidentally." She went to him, put her arms around him. "I wish I could help." He turned away. "No one can help. A man is strictly on his own in this racket." "But he isn't." "Any- 393 He rumpled her hair. "Yes, yes I know... I should believe in the ultimate reward. Well, I'll go take that shower." "Brent...." "ies?" She took a deep breath. "T'd give anything I possess to give you what I'm discovering. 'That's just how beautiful and comforting it is.' His mouth straightened, stubbornly. "Better be getting out your most lavish, darling. Karen is probably going to be loaded for bear." AREN'S dinner party was a beautiful affair. Elizabeth looked down the long white cloth, with its sparkling silver and softly flaring candles. Karen was in smokegray chiffon and pearls. She was laughing at something her guest on the right had said. "Now I'm the type that doesn't lean," Karen was saying, "I simply can't imagine a situation that could shrivel me. I think people should learn a complete independence." "But we must lean on something, someone, greater than outrselves.... We need the Lord, at least I do." The guest was Doctor Neiland, a scientist. Karen tilted her chin defiantly. "That's for the weak." "I do not consider myself exactly weak," the scientist said dryly, "nor any number of my friends." Karen laughed. "How very serious we are becoming. I will not have people serious around me. There's nothing to be solemn about... It's roses, roses all the way." She flashed her lovely, appealing smile on all her guests, "Let's go to the living room. I've a new song I want to sing for you." 394 She rose and led the way, her gray chiffon swished softly about her, the net stole floated back from her shoulders. Elizabeth felt a trifle heavy and dull next to such electric charm. She found herself a chair and looked around for Brent. He was in close conversation with a group of men. Their faces were grave and closed. Karen came over to her. "Accompany me. You know the song." Elizabeth complied. She looked through the music, lifted her eyes to Karen, awaiting her signal. Suddenly Karen laughed and darted away. She returned in a moment, a silver candelabrum in her hand. She placed it on the piano to everyone's amusement and bowed to Elizabeth. Elizabeth laughed. It was all so gay and light and fun, a_ typical Karen evening. She swept into the music, and Karen began to sing. It must have been, Elizabeth decided later, quite a few moments before anyone noticed the fire. It happened so suddenly. Was it Karen, or someone else? Karen ran about, flames from the candle circling madly through the flimsy stole, the fragile dress, her hair. If she had only stood still, not run away from them. But she did, crying and dodging away from the arms that would smother the fre, until Brent caught her and forced her to the rug and wrapped his jacket around her, beating out the flames with his bare hands. Elizabeth found herself kneeling beside Karen, sobbing.... Karen covered her burned face with her burned hands. "Tt's gone!" she cried, "it's gone!" Over and over again. Eo KR RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1956 Brent's hands were not badly burned. He would not go to the hospital, insisted Elizabeth could take care of them, and she followed the doctor's instructions. Brent's thick blonde brows drew together. "Why did she keep saying, 'I'ts gone'?" "I don't know. Do you suppose she meant her looks?" Elizabeth caught his shoulders. "She won't be scarred! Not Karen!" ELIZABETH went to the hospital half an hour early. She found her way to Karen's room. It was dark. A nurse rose up from beside Karen's bed. "How is she?" Karen whimpered under heavy bandages. "It's gone! Oh, Elizabeth what shall I do? What shall I do? There's nothing for me at all, if I don't have any beauty." "Nonsense." Elizabeth sat beside her. "In the first place, we're not sure your beauty is gone; in the second place, we'll love you just the same." Karen turned her head from side to side on the pillow. "No," she said, "you won't love me. When I was a child and fearfully ugly, no one loved me at all. But one day I started being pretty, and then it all began... The friends, the fun, my marriage... Everything began when I was pretty. My whole life is built on it." Later, talking to Doctor Neal, Elizabeth felt better. There would be plastic surgery, and time, and perhaps, even scars, but not a hopeless disfigurement. Doctor Neal shook his head. "But what good is it, if she's going to the THERE IS STILL TIME stay in that room of her life all the time?" "What do you mean?" He said, "There are so many rooms of happiness in the house of our life. It's pathetic to me to see people cling to one room, even though it's being demolished, affords no shelter, because they don't believe enough to open the door to another room and take a_ look around." Elizabeth went back to Karen. "He says it's going to be all right." Karen turned away. "He's just saying that." Elizabeth went closer. "You've got to believe. Think of the suffering you'll save yourself, if you'll only believe." "IT can't believe,' Karen cried from her bleak abyss. "I never could believe. I can't just start now." "You've got to stop thinking about yourself. You can't imagine how much you are needed in the world. Right in this hospital there are a dozen places...." She fell silent, for the door of Karen's anguish, she had no key. BUZABETH stopped at the temple grounds on her way home. She had grown into the habit of stopping here frequently. As the building progressed, the feeling around it changed. Not so much of peace, Elizabeth thought, but a feeling of readiness for the future. Elizabeth looked at the high, beautiful walls of the temple, breathtaking in their height and purity of line. I am like the house, she thought, something of me that was of the world is being broken and taken 395 away... And in its place could stand, if only I were willing to live for it, the spiritual house. The thought filled her with such humility and longing she could scarcely bear the pain of it. "A temple not made with hands...." They were putting in the steps. She went to stand beside them, seeing in her mind's eye the generations of young men and women who would climb these stairs to their marriage vows, of the children who would come to be baptized for their dead fathers, the older men and women coming to do the work for their dead. Oh, let me be a part of it, she prayed... No matter how small, no matter how humble... Let my whole family be a part of it. Let Brent and me come here.... Elizabeth turned toward home. It was good to drive into her own driveway, to look at her own lawn and flowers. She stopped short on the threshold. Brent was home... At three thirty in the afternoon, an unprecedented occurrence. She looked at her watch to make sure. "Darling, you're not feeling well?" Brent did not lift his head. "I feel all right," his voice was flat, dead. She went to him, knelt beside him, cradled his head on her shoulder. "What's wrong, Brent? 'Too much work?" He pushed away from her with heavy, slow movements. "It's gone," he said. Alarmed, she shook him. "What are you talking about?" "My construction outfit. I've just lost it." She sat very still on her heels. I 396 should have known. Flashes from the past months rose before her eyes. Brent's frantic absorption in his business, his increasing irritability. "Tt isn't that bad. We still have the house." He laughed shortly. "For about a month. It's mortgaged to the hilt and with no business to pay for it. I thought I'd get that Lander's bid, today. Bid as low as I dared. Lost it, and that's that." I should be prostrate with fear and worry about tomorrow, she thought. But I'm not. I feel sure, so very sure that everything will come out all right, that this is going to be taken care of. She put her hand on his arm. "You started from nothing once before." He pushed her hand away. "That was twenty years ago. I'm old and I'm tired." He held out his hands, palms up. "I haven't the price to get started." BLIZABETH spread out her skirts with long, gentle fingers. "But if you had a job, and I had a job, and we worked and saved, we would soon have enough to build another house, and then two houses, just like we did before." He looked at her questioningly, "But what of the children? What of Elaine? What of our friends?" The swift memory of Maria brushed coldly upon her. She pushed it away with strong insistence. "There are friends and friends. If we lose these, we'll find some others. If we lose these, we never really had their friendship at RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1956 all, so, consequently, we haven't lost a thing." "But the money? We've lost all that money." She stood up and walked about the room. "Money can't buy Karen her beauty again, nor the belief and unselfishness to go on without it. Money won't buy us the courage we're going to need. You'll have to start looking for a higher place than the bank, Brent." Brent rose up, too, and came to her and took her in his arms. "A higher place... Where you've been going for months and months? Elizabeth, you are a tower." She held him close. "I'm not strong, Brent. But I know where strength is, all kinds of strength." He held his cheek against hers. "T've watched you for a long time... Watched you grow, watched the children change from selfish, screaming youngsters to nice, decent kids. Is it as simple as going to Church?" She took a deep breath. "If you're humble and pray and do everything you can until you know. I am learning and so can you. And there is no joy to compare with it." Brent dropped his arms. He went over to stand before the window. "You can see the temple from here, ever notice?" Elizabeth went to stand beside him. "It isn't finished yet... There's still time." Brent turned to her. What?" gentle. She smiled and moved within the shelter of his arms. 'Time for us to help build it, my darling." "We'll do that," Brent promised huskily. "Time for His voice was curiously Emily Chadwick Laugg Makes Mlany Quilts BMY Chadwick Zaugg, West Point, Utah, has made many quilts in many designs and in a great variety of colors and patterns. Appliqued quilts, pieced quilts, designs in intricate quilting patterns, quilts in basket design, star quilts, modified star designs, tulip quilts, diamond patterns, and many others have been made by the busy fingers of this devoted mother. She has made quilts of small scraps and large scraps, used clothing, and new materials — quilts for many people and for many homes, for gifts to members of her family and for Relief Society bazaars. Mrs. Zaugg, now eighty-five years old, is the mother of twelve living children. She has fifty-nine grandchildren and seven great-grandchildren. As a young mother of six children she carried the responsibility of the family, while her husband served on a twoyear mission. While living in LeGrande, Oregon, Mrs. Zaugg helped to operate a family dairy, churning three gallons of cream at a time and molding the butter into twopound "pats.'"" She read The Relief Society Magazine while turning the churn. She was president of Relief Society in the Mountain Glenn Ward in Oregon for seventeen years, and during that time her thirteenth child was born. Three years later her husband was called on another mission — this time to Switzerland and Germany. In 1935 the family moved to West Point, Utah. Sister Zaugg became a visiting teacher and is still faithful in this capacity. In 1948, she became the Relief Society work meeting leader and has had charge of the quilt-making projects. Jo a Friend Marvel Crookston A friend once sent some daffodils To make my sick room gay. Now spring can never pass again But glad thoughts wing her way. Page 397 From The F ield _ Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1950, page 278, and the Handbook of Instructions, page 123. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Barbara D. Howell SAN JOSE STAKE (CALIFORNIA), SAN JOSE FIRST WARD FORMER PRESIDENTS HONORED AT MOTHERS AND DAUGHTERS BANQUET Front row, seated, left to right: Della A. Walton; Sophia J. Harmon; Frances W. Wright. Back row, standing, left to right: Ethel M. Beckstrand; Marjorie T. Jenks; Elizabeth R. Thomassen; Eva C, Taylor; Pauline C. Pace; Lucille R. Taylor; Ethelyn D. States, present President, Barbara D. Howell, President, San Jose Stake Relief Society, reports that former presidents of San Jose First Ward Relief Society and also the eldest sisters in the ward were honored guests at the banquet. The theme for the evening was "The Very Young and Young at Heart." One hundred seventy-six attended. A most unique program was presented by both the young and the old. Yesteryear fashions of five eras were modeled by mothers and daughters. "Since the San Jose Ward was organized from the California Mission in 1935, five wards and a dependent Spanish branch have grown out of the San Jose First Ward. There are now eighty-two Relief Society members in the San Jose First Ward, and 450 members in San Jose Stake." Page 398 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 399 Photograph submitted by Genevieve L. Anderson EAST LOS ANGELES STAKE (CALIFORNIA), MISSION PARK WARD RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERS MAKE MULTI-COLORED HOOKED RUG FOR RELIEF SOCIETY ROOM Left to right: Grace Laidlaw, President; Carma Clark, Counselor and designer of tug; Fairie Sessions, Counselor. Genevieve L. Anderson, President, East Los Angeles Stake Relief Society, reports this interesting and worthwhile project: "*"Tis a rug of many colors, like Joseph's coat of old. Loving hearts and hands have made it, through hours of work untold." "These lines from a poem composed by Joanne C. Duncan, and dedicated to Counselor Fairie Sessions, very well describe the multi-colored hooked rug lovingly and patiently made by Relief Society members. The exquisitely hooked piece, which was two years in the making, consists of forty-four sections and will cover an area fifteen by thirty feet. It was hooked by over sixty women for the Relief Society room in the new chapel, for which ground was broken in 1954. In January of that year, Sister Sessions proposed that the organization hook a rug for the Relief Society room in the new chapel. Unanimous approval of her suggestion gave impetus to the project.... A talented designer, Carma Clark suggested a pattern that would be effective, yet not too difficult. Thirty colors were used, and each section consists of fifty-four squares, each five and one half inches square. Special mention should be made regarding the devoted efforts of two sisters, each over seventy years of age, who donated far more than their share of work hours: Josie Alleman and Amanda Bassett. The present officers of Mission Park Ward Relief Society are: Grace Laidlaw, President; Sarah Anderson, First Counselor; Fairie Sessions, Second Counselor; Juanita Foley, Secretary-Treasuper," 400 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1956 Photograph submitted by Zella C. Christensen SOUTH SANPETE STAKE (UTAH), EPHRAIM NORTH, SOUTH, AND WEST WARDS HONOR FORMER PRESIDENTS AT ANNIVERSARY DINNER, March 13, 1956 Zella C. Christensen, President, South Sanpete Stake Relief Society, reports an unusually successful anniversary dinner: "At this anniversary party, all the women who have ever served as presidents of the three Ephraim wards were honored. All of the former presidents who attended were presented a beautiful carnation as a token of our love and appreciation for their fine service. Present presidents of the three wards are: North Ward — Marcel Poulsen South Ward — Dorothy Braithwaite West Ward — Vonda Christensen "Stake board members in attendance were: Zella C. Christensen, Agnes Anderson, Gladys Dean, Algia Nielson, Orpha Edwards, and Dora Olsen. In all, two hundred and fifty women were in attendance." Photograph submitted by Elnora T. Loveland WEST BOISE STAKE (IDAHO) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT EASTER MESSAGE "I AM THE LIGHT OF THE WORLD," March 30, 1956 In front, left to right: Wendell Jensen, pianist; Marguerite Ward, First Counselor; Elnora T, Loveland, President; LaRue Campbell, director and chorister, Geneva I, NOTES FROM THE FIELD 401 Peterson, Second Counselor; Josephine Anderson, social science class leader; June Garrett, Magazine representative; Thelda Bills, Secretary; Erma Waite, work meeting leadet; Genevieve Passy, visiting teacher message leader; Fern Laney, literature class leader; Jane Naylor, organist (seated). Seated, at the right of the organ: George G. Gore as Peter; Bishop Marion J. Callister as Judas; Sonia Peterson as a young maiden, seated in front of Judas; N. Keith Larsen as a Roman guard; Lois Rasmussen as Mary Magdalene. Second row, standing fourth from the left: soloist Paul L. Ward. The following numbers, portraying the mission of Jesus, his crucifixion, and his resurrection, were presented by the Singing Mothers, assisted by a mixed chorus and soloists: "Christ the Lord Is Risen Again"; "Christ Went Up Into the Hills"; "The Lord Is Risen"; "I Think When I Read That Sweet Story of Old"; "Were You There?"; "The Legend of the Garden'; "The Resurrection"; "The Easter Story"; "Words of the Master'; "Peace I Leave With You." Photograph submitted by Belva J. Petersen EAST OGDEN STAKE (UTAH) RELIEF SOCIETY RECEIVES GIFT OF BOUND VOLUMES OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE AND A BOOKCASE FOR KEEPING THEM Left to right: Karene Straw, Magazine representative, East Ogden Stake Relief ait Dr. Edward I. Rich; Belva J. Petersen, President, East Ogden Stake Relief ociety. Sister Petersen reports the deep appreciation felt for this generous gift: "The East Ogden Stake Relief Society was presented with the bound volumes of The Relief Society Magazine (1914 to and including 1955) and a bookcase to keep them in. They were given to us by Dr. Edward I. Rich, in behalf of his wife, Almira Cozzens Rich, who died January 6, 1954. Sister Rich was a devoted Relief Society worker, serving as the first Relief Society president in Mount Ogden Stake, which position she held for fourteen years (1922-1936). Previous to this calling, she served as ward secretary in the Ogden Fifth Ward, and as counselor to the Weber Stake Relief Society president, Aggie Stevens." 402 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1956 Photograph submitted by Effie F. Meeks FLORIDA STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE Front row, seated, left to right: Josie DeLoache; Willard DePrater; Mary Studebaker; Susan Warren; Renie Tompkins; Nancy Brazzeal, First Counselor; Effie F. Meeks, President; Blannie Jackson, Second Counselor; Doris Smithson; Gladys Kelly; Allie Mae Avery; Phyllis Ladd. Second row, standing, left to nght: Mamie Stalling; Elois Hand; Rosa Lee Brooks; Alice Brimhall; Johnnie L. Johnson; Cassie Bowles; Algie Sauls; Edith S$. Box; Mary C. Duran; Margaret Lee; Mary Jorden; Lucille Whitehead; Alzada Chace; Ruth Boone; Ruby Copeland; Mildred Smith, organist. Back row, standing, left to mght: Carrie Rudd; Erma Phelps; Laura DeMerrot; Dulcie Bryan; Thelma Dickey; Lera Harris; Estele Henderson; Mattie Mobley; Annie Jordan; Thelma Sutton; Ruth White; Helen B. Shields; Ramona Demery; Rose Melvin, Jewel Hill; Trixie Davis. Sister Meeks reports that this occasion was the first time the Florida Stake Singing Mothers have presented the music for quarterly conference since the stake was organized. > She Manti Temple Gertrude Beck On the side of a hill, in the heart of the West, Stands a temple erected to God; It gleams in pure white... A glorious sight, And is ruled by the straight, tempered rod. May loved ones find peace in its foundations of truth, May all brothers and sisters alike Work together, and search for an almighty strength, To guide them by day and by night. IN DEPARTMENT Sheology—Characters and Teachings of The Book of Mormon Preview of Lessons for 1956-57 Elder Leland H. Monson HE theology lessons for this year bring to a conclusion our sixyear course of study of the Characters and Teachings of The Book of Mormon. During this course we have studied the lives of these remarkable prophets and have become acquainted with their faith, courage, and devotion in living and teaching the gospel of Jesus Christ. These lessons have culminated in the memorable account of the birth, crucifixion, and resurrection of the Savior and his ministry as an immortal Being here on this continent. The first two lessons for this year —beginning with 3 Nephi, chapter 15—continue the account of the ministry of Christ among the Nephite people and reveal the great compassion Jesus had for those who manifested such abiding faith in him. 'These lessons establish the fact that strict adherence to the Gospel Plan is necessary for eternal life and show that peace and happtness come both to individuals and nations who obey the Lord's commandments. The lessons also describe the great fall of the Nephite nation and show how continued wickedness destroys a people when they do not repent. 'These lessons also emphasize the fact that 'he Book of Mormon was written to the Gentiles, the Jews, and the Lamanites of the last days. 'They show that to the Gentiles would be given the privilege of unveiling the land of America after it had been kept hidden from the nations of the world for centuries. They point out that a great and marvelous work would be accomplished by the Gentiles in the last days. 'The Jews, the record tells us, would be a hated and despised people, but that the gospel would come to them, that many would begin to believe in Christ, and that they would be restored to the land of their inheritance. The Page 403 404 Lord also held out to the Lamanites some great promises for the last days. Mormon and Moroni directed part of their instructions to these Lamanites. Moroni urged presentday Lamanites to:... Be baptized in the name of Jesus, and lay hold upon the gospel of Christ, which shall be set before you, not only in this record but also in the record which shall come unto the Gentiles from the Jews, which record shall come from the Gentiles unto you (Mormon 7:8). It is hoped by the author that every Relief Society member will recognize that the primary purpose of 'The Book of Mormon is to reaffirm and re-establish in the minds of men that Jesus Christ is divine. It is further hoped that every Relief Society sister will be persuaded that firm testimonies of the divinity of Christ and rich personal blessings come to those who, diligently and with a prayerful heart, study The Book of Mormon. The acceptance of The Book of Mormon as having been written and translated under the inspiration of the Lord will strengthen this testimony. 'That when this course has been completed, members of the Relief Society will have gained this priceless testimony, is the sincere hope of the author of these lessons and the general board of Relief Society. The lessons for the coming and final year have been given the following titles and objectives: Lesson 41—Jesus Instructs the Nephites (3 Nephi, chapters 15-21) Objective: To show the great compassion of Jesus toward the Nephites RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1956 who manifested such great faith in him, and his love for children. Lesson 42—Christ's Ministry Continued (3 Nephi, chapters 22-30) Objective: To show that strict adherence to the Gospel Plan is necessary for eternal life. Lesson 43—The Nephites and Lamanites Become a United People (Fourth Nephi) Objective: To show that peace and happiness come to individuals and nations through living the gospel of Christ in unity. Lesson 44—The Fall of the Nephite Nation as Recorded by Mormon (the Book of Mormon, chapters 1-7; Moroni, chapters 7-9) Objective: To show how continued wickedness destroys a nation when it does not repent. Lesson 45—Moroni Explains Principles and Ordinances of the Gospel (the Book of Mormon, chapters 8 and g; the Book of Ether, chapters 5 and 12:5-41; the Book of Moroni, chapters 1-7, and chapter 10) Objective: To show "... If the day cometh that the power and gifts of God shall be done away among you, it shall be because of unbelief' (Moroni 10:24). Lesson 46—Prophecies Concerning the Jews, Gentiles, and Lamanites in the Latter Days Objective: To show that the prophecies made by Book of Mormon prophets are being fulfilled. LESSON DEPARTMENT Lesson 47—A Review of Outstanding Characters of The Book of Mormon Objective: To show through a study of the lives of the characters of The Book of Mormon that true greatness is found in a love of God and service to one's fellow men. 405 Lesson 48—"A New Witness for Christ" Objective: To show that firm testimonies of the divinity of Christ and tich blessings come to those who study The Book of Mormon with a prayerful heart and practice its teachings in their lives. Ussiting Seacher Tlessages— Book of Mormon Gems of Truth Preview of Lessons for 1956-57 Leone O. Jacobs HE visiting teacher messages for the coming season (1956-57) will conclude the six-year series "Book of Mormon Gems of Truth." Messages for this year, as in previous years, are selceted from the same material as outlined in the theology course, thus correlating the two. These gems of truth not only portray the character of their authors, but also set forth the eternal, unchangeable principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ. The Book of Mormon prophets were indeed inspired by the Lord as shown by their prophecies and teachings. Messages of scripture dealing with important virtues and principles of the gospel will be discussed, and their practical application brought to our attention. 'The general subjects are: on revelation— the words of Mormon in Third Nephi; prayer—the words of the Savior to the multitude as given in Third Nephi; charity—the words of Mormon in the Book of Moroni; sustaining authority—the words of Mormon found in Third Nephi; love of God—found in Fourth Nephi, during the period of peace which followed the visit of the Sayior to the Nephites; laboring diligently—instruction of Mormon to his son, Moroni; faith—Mormon's teaching as found in the Book of Moroni; and, last, the promise concerning a testimony of The Book of Mormon as given by Moroni in his farewell exhortation. This promise will insure a testimony of the truthfulness of The Book of Mormon as an added witness of the divinity of the Savior, to anyone who meets the requirements stated therein. Inasmuch as these messages are brief and have universal appeal, they are suitable for presentation in all homes. It is again recommended that visiting teachers memorize the quotations. The quotations and their objectives are as follows: Lesson 41. "Yea, Wo Unto Him That Shall Deny the Revelations of 406 the Lord, and That Shall Say the Lord No Longer Worketh by Revelation..." (3 Nephi 29:6). Objective: To show that faith in continuous revelation is essential to a testimony of the truth of the gospel. Lesson 42. "Pray in Your Families Unto the Father, Always in My Name, That Your Wives and Your Children May Be Blessed" (3 Nephi 18:21). Objective: To point out the blessings that come from family prayer. Lesson 43. "But Charity Is the Pure Love of Christ, and It Endureth Forever; and Whoso Is Found Possessed of It at the Last Day, It Shall Be Well With Him" (Moroni 7:47). Objective: To stress the great importance of developing charity. Lesson 44. "And Wo Be Unto Him That Will Not Hearken Unto the Words of Jesus, and Also to Them Whom He Hath Chosen and Sent Among Them; For Whoso Receiveth Not the Words of Jesus and the Words of Those Whom He Hath Sent Receiveth Not Him; and Therefore He will Not Receive Them at the Last Day" (3 Nephi 29:34). Objective: To point out that hearkening to the words of Jesus and to the words of those whom he has chosen to lead the Church are required of Latter-day Saints. Lesson 45. "And It Came to Pass That There Was No Contention in the Land, Because of the Love of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1956 God Which Did Dwell in the Hearts of the People" (4 Nephi 1) Objective: To give encouragement for eliminating contention through having the love of God in our hearts. Lesson 46. "And Now, My Beloved Son, Notwithstanding Their [the Nephites'] Hardness, Let Us Labor Diligently; For If We Should Cease to Labor, We Should Be Brought Under Condemnation; For We Have a Labor to Perform Whilst in This Tabernacle of Clay, That We May Conquer the Enemy of All Righteousness, and Rest Our Souls in the Kingdom of God" (Moroni 9:6). Objective: To remind us that we as individuals must never cease laboring to bring souls to Christ. Lesson 47. "And What Is It That Ye Shall Hope For? Behold I Say Unto You That Ye Shall Have Hope Through the Atonement of Christ and the Power of His Resurrection, to Be Raised Unto Life Eternal, and This Because of Your Faith in Him According to the Promise" (Moroni 7:41). Objective: To show that faith in Jesus Christ is the key to eternal life. Lesson 48. "And When Ye Shall Receive These Things, I Would Exhort You That Ye Would Ask God, the Eternal Father, in the Name of Christ, If These Things Are Not True; and If Ye Shall Ask With a Sincere Heart, With Real Intent, Having Faith in Christ, He Will Manifest the Truth of It Unto You by the Power of the Holy Ghost" (Moroni 10:4). Objective: To point out that Moroni's promise is certain of fulfillment if prescribed conditions are met. Work Mleeting— Food Preparation and Service Preview of Lessons for 1956-57 Rhea H. Gardner 'HIS is the second year of the course of study on "Food Preparation and Service." Too often in our day, women look beyond the walls of their homes for opportunities and experiences that offer challenge and contribute toward cultural growth. The fact is that the world's greatest laboratories for such experiences are our homes. Our homes are gold mines of opportunities, but the mining is not successfully done without effort. It requires planning and an earnest and continuous search. The important thing is that each wife and mother approach her task with a feeling of pride in her work as a maker of homes and a builder of characters, and that she allow nothing to blind her vision nor discourage her efforts. One of the richest shafts in this gold mine is in the area of meal preparation and service. If the mining is carefully and_ thoroughly done, the rewards are incalculable. The physical health of family members is kept at its best, and ties between mother and children are strengthened through their united relationships in the family kitchens. Since the best foods may be served at a nominal cost, the choosing, preparing, and serving food becomes a real art, satisfying the creative urge that is within us all and turning would-be boredom into deep satisfactions. Because food preparation is a daily activity, it can be a source of great, creative joy. Fveryday duties, when done with competence as well as with love and devotion, enrich us spiritually; spiritual satisfaction is the finest fruit of all endeavor. The same experience results in boredom when we fail to develop skills that assure us success and a growing love for our work. The objective of these lessons is to teach the basic rules for success in choosing, preparing, and serving food, so that the experience of food preparation will become a real art and furnish recreation as well. What activity does more to re-create one's enthusiasm and love for life than to prepare and serve a delicious food that lifts the spirits and gives comfort and peace to the ravenous appetites of growing children? The full objective of these lessons will be reached only if each presentation includes a discussion on how each individual food fits into the entire meal picture. The fact that foods are good is not enough; they must also be good with the other foods with which they are served. Titles for the 1956-1957 course of lessons are as follows: Lunches and Sandwiches Casseroles and Leftovers Party Refreshments Breads Cheese Dishes Desserts Beverages Summary eo eee a Page 407 408 It is recommended that the demonstration method of teaching be used as much as possible in the presentation of these lessons. 'The printed or spoken word is made alive and is more likely to become effective in the lives of those who read or hear it, if, in addition, it is demonstrated. As the solidity of our homes is RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1956 being tested, and youth is confronted with forces that are in opposition to principles taught within the home, every effort must be made to hold the family together. Delicious foods, prepared by the co-operative effort of family members and served attractively in an atmosphere of peace and love, will do much to keep the family united and working for common ideals. Ol iterature—Shakespeate in Our Lives Preview of Lessons for 1956-57 Elder Briant S. Jacobs HETHER we will or no, Shakespeare is always with us. Few of us are even mildly aware of the many actual words he places daily in our mouths; fewer still have taken the time to trace these daily phrases back to the plays themselves. And scarcely any of us have ever said aloud one word of thanks or appreciation to this greatest writer in English literature for the warming, cheering, enlarging contributions he makes constantly to our lives. The purposes of our study of Shakespeare are to understand more fully: (1) how near we are to Shakespeare in our daily lives; (2) how much our awareness of the human and natural worlds about us is quickened through reading him; and (3) how deeply indebted we are to him for his words of universal truth. Realizing full well that the high qualities of respect and love can never be forced nor dictated, our supreme objective is to understand Shakespeare more fully that we might enjoy him; respect and love then follow inevitably. Controversy over origins or influences is not our major concern; nor are we interested in analyzing him as do scholars or critics. We are interested in finding within his lines those qualities which have made him immortal; we do want to become intimate friends with his characters and to feel at home in his stage settings. 'Then his words which we hear constantly ringing about us will gather richer meanings. Then his high poetry will sing more strongly within us, and lift us, sadden us, baffle and tease us, just as does life itself when most truly, keenly seen. 'Then in his speaking more intimately to us we shall realize in simple awe why his works have only increased in use and vitality throughout the centuries. More fittingly than of any other writer it might be said of Shakespeare that he is "all things to all men." His world of literary truth LESSON DEPARTMENT is adorned with the delights of the imagination, with poetry, music, beauty, fantasy, suffering, terror, wisdom, compassion. It is his people who come more fully alive on the page than do our neighbors and business associates in~ so-called "Teal" life. With him leading us and putting words and visions before our inner eye, we shall plumb depths of wisdom and human insight elsewhere and heretofore unknown to us. And best of all, gradually we shall come to realize that the unifying force of all his plays — Shakespeare himself — has seen life as truly as he has seen it fully. He never cudgels us into accepting any prejudiced, partial view of life as the whole and only one; he never preaches nor poses. I[nstead, he seems to say, "Here is a version of truth, of life as it has come to me. Consider it as you will; reject or accept it if you must; yield up to it your enjoyment and sympathy if you can." Our text is G. B. Harrison's Shakespeare Major Plays and the Sonnets, Harcourt, Brace & Company, 1948, $6. It will be used for the entire course. It is imperative that each class leader have a text, one which is competently edited, with full footnotes at the bottom of each page. Lesson titles and objectives for the first year follow: Lesson 1. Why Shakespeare? Objective: To understand tke reasons for Shakespeare's greatness and appreciate his contribution to our lives. Lesson 2. Shakespeare's World Objective: To present the customs, 409 beliefs, and conflicts of Shakespeare's life and world, which were ready to be given harmony and artistic form by his emerging genius. Lesson 3. Shakespeare's Poetic Power Objective: To feel more profoundly the peculiar power and mystery of Shakespeare's poetry that we might read his works with enlarged understanding and hearts. Lesson 4. The Moral Shakespeare Objective: To show that in his plays the artist Shakespeare reveals himself as a typical Elizabethan who, among many other values, knew and loved the Bible and its moral teachings; therefore he defined Truth truly. Lesson 5. The Merchant of Venice Objective: To learn more fully that the two-edged sword of mercy cuts those who do not extend mercy, just as it cuts those to whom mercy is not extended. Lesson 6. Romeo and Juliet Objective: To witness the great beauty of the poetic expression and dramatic skill of Shakespeare in depicting the love of Romeo and Juliet. Lesson 7. A Midsummer Night's Dream Objective: To show that in A Midsummer Night's Dream, Shakespeare touches our lives through fantasy and poetry; through qualities we all approve, such as love, delight, joy, and humor. Lesson 8. Julius Caesar Objective: To realize that idealistic men of good will may destroy themselves in bold but imprudent attempts to destroy the evils they feel exist. Music for Lessons on Shakespeare Any of Shakespeare's works that are set to music could be used for any lesson, but the following are listed under the most appropriate one. LESSONS 1, 2, 3, AND 4: "A Sea Dirge" (solo) The Tempest— Chappell and Co., Ltd. 60c Two Shakespeare Songs (solos) "Shall I Compare Thee to a Summer's Day?" (Sonnet); "Full Fathom Five" (A Sea Dirge) The Tempest—Chappell and Co., Ltd. 60c "It Was a Lover and His Lass" (solo) As You Like It—G. Schirmer Co., Inc. 5oc "Who Is Sylvia?" (solo) Two Gentlemen of Verona—G. Schirmer Co., Inc. Oc "Shall I Compare Thee?" solo) Sonnet XVIII—G. Schirmer and Co., Inc. Oc "Blow, Blow, Thou Wintery Wind" (duet) As You Like It—Theodore Presser Co. 20¢ "It Was a Lover and His Lass" (trio) As You Like It—Oliver Ditson, Co. 22¢ "Under the Greenwood Tree" (fourpart mixed voices) As You Like It— H. J. Fitzsimmons Co. 20¢ "Sweet and Twenty" (solo) Twelfth Night—Chappell and Co., Ltd. 60c "Hark, Hark, the Lark'' (trio) Cymbeline—Theodore Presser Co. 20¢ "Who Is Sylvia?" (two-part chorus) Two Gentlemen of Verona—G. Schirmer Co. 20¢ Lesson 5. Merchant of Venice "Tell Me Where Is Fancy Bred" (solo) —Chappell and Co., Ltd. 60c Lesson 6. Romeo and Juliet "Come, Black-Browed Night" (four-part chorus )—G. Schirmer Inc. 22¢ Lesson 7. Midsummer Nights Dream "I Know a Bank" (duet or chorus)— G. Schirmer Inc. 20c¢ Lesson 8. Julius Caesar "Orpheus Song" (solo)—-Chappell and Company. 60c If your local dealer is unable to supply these numbers, they may be ordered from the following stores: Beesley Music Company, 70 South Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah Daynes Music Company, 15 East First South Street, Salt Lake City, Utah Glen Brothers Music Company, 74 South Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. Social Science—Latter-day Saint Family Life Preview of the Lessons for 1956-57 Elder John Farr Larson Joseph Smith, the Prophet and Seer of the Lord, has done mote, save Jesus only, for the salvation of men in this world, than any other man that ever lived in it. In the short space of twenty years, he has brought forth the Book of Mormon, which he translated by the gift and power of God, and has been the means of publishing it on two continents; has sent the fulness of the everlasting gospel, which it contained, to the four quarters of the earth; has brought forth the revelations and commandments which compose this book of Doctrine and Covenants, and many other wise documents and instructions for the benefit of the children of men; gathered many thousands of the Latter-day Saints, founded a great city, and left a fame and name that cannot be slain. He lived great, and he died great in the eyes of God and his people; and like most of thie Lord's anointed in ancient times, has sealed his mission and his words with his own blood; and so has his brother Hyrum. In life they were not divided, and in death they were not separated! (D. & C. 135:3). Page 410 LESSON DEPARTMENT HE foregoing excerpt from modern Latter-day scriptures offers a complete and concise summary of the Prophet Joseph Smith's place in the history of the world. It describes vividly the broad scope of his accomplishments within an unbelievably short time. It awakens in every Latter-day Saint a new appreciation for the life of this great leader. One cannot review his service to mankind without concluding that he was inspired of the Lord and divinely called to usher in the dispensation of the fulness of times. All Latter-day Saints are desirous of becoming more familiar with the "wise... Instructions for the benefit of the children of men" uttered by the Prophet. He spoke with wisdom on almost every conceivable subject, and most of what he said was far in advance of the thinking of his day. Some of the Prophet's teachings were directed to God's children everywhere, some to members of the Church only, while still others were spoken to specific groups within the Church. Of special. Interest to members of the Relief Society are his instructions delivered and recorded at the early meetings of the Female Relief Society of Nauvoo, which was established by the Prophet Joseph Smith in March 1842. Sarah M. Kimball reported the Prophet as saying, ""The Church was never perfectly organized until the women were thus organized" (Relief Society Magazine, March 1910, page 129). The Prophet Joseph's exalted concept of women's status elevated them to a new level. His instruc- 411 tions established a conduct pattern for Latter-day Saint women which they have been taught to follow ever since, perhaps not always being aware of the original source of these instructions. His suggested procedures in serving others and in perfecting ourselves are as applicable today as when they were spoken, and coincide with "new" ideas advanced by the modern experts. Latter-day Saint women are better wives and mothers by living in accordance with the teachings given them by the Prophet Joseph Smith. Their family life patterns become greatly strengthened. In speaking to the Relief Society on May 26, 1842, the Prophet advised the sisters of Relief Society, "If I were not in your midst to aid and counsel you, the devil would overcome you" (D. H. C. V, page 21). The social science lessons for the coming year are based upon the Prophet Joseph Smith's teachings to Latter-day Saint women. They are offered in the hope that through their consideration Relief Society members everywhere will increase in testimony regarding the Prophet's mission, and in a desire to improve the effectiveness of their great organization by heeding his timely counsel. 'These 1956-57 lessons are the first year of a course of study designed to strengthen the family, and to consider its problems, position, and blessings in our modern culture. Lesson titles and objectives for the year are as follows: Lesson 1—Joseph Smith's Home Life Objective: To show the influence of the Prophet's early family life upon Early 412 his teachings to the Latter-day Saint women. Lesson 2—A New Day For Women Objective: 'To show that the organization of the Relief Society marked the beginning of a new era for women. Lesson 3—The Key Is Turned Objective: 'To show significant steps in the organization of the Relief Society and the opportunities for service found in its objectives. Lesson 4—Women and the PriestHood Objectives: To show the role and responsibilities of Latter-day Saint women in connection with the Priesthood. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1956 Lesson 5—"Unto the Least of These Objective: To show that salvation is the ultimate aim in all service to the needy. Lesson 6—"'Search Your Hearts" Objective: To illustrate the process of perfection and the necessity of eliminating those traits of character which retard our quest for perfection. Lesson 7—"Be Ye Therefore Perfect" Objective: 'To suggest the importance of acquiring desirable qualities and to show the blessings in store for those who love the Lord. Tlotes on the Jhon of the ahosséns HIS year only one writer not previously represented among the authors of the lessons, is introduced to Relief Society members and readers of the Magazine. John Farr Larson, author of the social science lessons, "Latter-day Saint Family Life,' was born in Taylor, Weber County, Utah, a son of Patriarch James A. Larson and Olive Farr Larson. He is a graduate of Weber College and the University of Utah School of Law, and is a practicing attorney in Salt Lake City at the present time. He is a member of the Utah State Bar Association and is currently serving as chairman of the Family Law Section of that organization. He has been admitted to practice law before the Supreme Court of Utah, the United States Court of Military Appeals, and the United States Supreme Court. In 1938 Elder Larson became affiliated with the Utah State Juvenile Court System and since 1944 he has been Director of the Bureau of Services for Children, Utah State Department of Public Welfare. (This Bureau has administrative supervision of Juvenile Courts, Child Welfare Services in County Departments of Public Welfare, the licensing of Child Placing Agencies and Day Care Centers, and the investigation of adoption petitions for District Courts. ) He is a former President of the Utah Conference of Social Work, the Utah Child Guidance Association, Board of Directors of Salt Lake Community Chest, and is currently a member of the Editorial Advisory Board and_ Professional Council of the National Probation and Parole Association. In 1950 he served as Chairman, Utah Committee, Mid-Century White House Conference on Children and Youth. Elder Larson served in the Eastern States Mission from May 1936 until LESSON DEPARTMENT June 1938. He has always been active in the Church. For many years he served in Scouting and other MIA positions in the Ogden Eighth Ward. He is a former Sunday School superintendent of West Ensign and Canyoncrest Wards, member of the Highland Stake Sunday School Board and superintendency, and for three years a counselor in the bishopric of Canyoncrest Ward. At present he is a member of the Monument Park Stake High Council. He married Ann Clayson in the Salt Lake Temple in June 19309. They are the parents of two sons and three daughters. For biographical sketches of the authors of the other lessons, see the following references in The Relief Society Magazine: Elder Leland H. Monson, July 1951, page 472. Leone Openshaw Jacobs, July 1951, Feee 473: Rhea Hurst Gardner, June 1952, page 418. Elder Briant S. Jacobs, July 1949, page 471. Sleeping Love Gertrude Kovan Night has fallen on the lake— Silver iced, it gleams. Magic moonbeams softly trace Across forgotten dreams Of other nights when you and I Stood entranced by love, Not noting how the silence fell So quickly from above. 413 City & State Send Whasic eo ihe Gech y hae = Ashford's Piano Voluntaries— Vols. 1 and 2 _o0000.... Eeee ee. Ea. $1.25 a Celestial Echoes.......................... 1.00 a, Chapel Echoes —..00000 ww 85 -_ Chapel Musings..........................85 = Chappell's Sacred Song. Concert Transcriptions of Favorite Hymns _...22. 2... 1.00 — Church Pianist—Vols. 1, 2, 3.. Ea. 1.25 se. Famous Sacred Songs................ 1.25 a More Concert Transcriptions of Favorite Hymns...........0....000.0.2...-- 1.00 ee Peery's Piano Voluntaries........ 1.25 = Piano Voluntaries...................... 1.00 ae Sabbath Day Music _................ 1.25 oooh Sacred Music For Piano Solo...... 1.50 a Sacred Piano Solos.................... 1.00 __ Sacred Melodies With Variations 222... Eee 1.25 oon Sacred Piano Transcriptions...... 1.00 —_ Sunday Piano Music (Boston)...... 1.25 oa Sunday Piano Music (Presser)... 1.00 oa Tranquil Hours............................ 1.50 Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank: DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY: 15 E. Ist South: Salt Lake City 11, Utah: Please send the music indicated above. [L On Approval [1 Charge C] Money Enclosed! Name Address oon... Ese ecceccecesceccesseececeeesesnsseseesseese ALAUATEL: TTT Ns e. Ist South J On BOD Ge 145 NORTH UNIVERSITY, PROVO #! 2260 WASHINGTON BLVD, GGDEN Favorites....... 22. Ccecseeeceeeeeeeeeseeeee 1.25 HISTORIC TRAIN Write for information about the HISTORIC TRAIN that will include the great PAGEANT AT THE HILL CUMORAH. HAWAII Plan on going to Hawaii this Fall. We sail on November 9, 1956, from Los Angeles, California. For Complete Details, Write or Phone: VIDA FOX CLAWSON 966 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah Phone: EM 4-2017 PEBBLE A Nn (OF Cc ha t d Christie Lund Coles An orchard is the loveliest place... In April decked in fairy lace; In summer, hung with crimson fruit, A place to hide, a place to loot; A spot to lie and see the sky, And watch cloud-images pass by, To dream as small birds chirp and sing... An orchard is the loveliest thing. Page 414 S; he RS ee y Pla nt Nancy M. Amnstrong E all know that a testimony of the gospel of Jesus Christ is a living, growing thing. All living things need nourishment. When we have a particularly beautiful or rare plant in our gardens We see that it has sunlight and water, cultivation and plant food. In the garden of life, what is more beautiful than a testimony of the gospel? It is indeed entitled to the choicest spot; to the best care and finest nourishment we can provide for it. A testimony draws its nourishment from activity in the work of the Lord, and in keeping his commandments, we give it extra care. John Keats expressed the idea that "A thing of beauty is a joy forever." Surely this is true of a testimony. It is a source of joy to the one who possesses it, and a thing of beauty to all who come in contact with it. When a testimony is in full flowering, it bears many lovely blossoms of good deeds. 'The more bouquets one gives away to others, the more abundantly the testimony blooms. Like othei growing things, a testimony can lie dormant for a period of time, but, if it receives no nourishment, it may wither away. Our first obligation is to see that our own testimonies are receiving all the sunlight and nourishment they need to keep them in full flowering. Our next duty is to feel the responsibility to reach out to some fine sister whose testimony is lying dormant and help her bring it into bloom, so that her garden of life will be rich with the perfume "peace of mind"; the fragrance of every true testimony. 6arly American Hooked Rug Design Elizabeth Williamson AN old quilt pattern [Early American] may be used in a hooked rug design. The use of two colors is effective, such as: navy blue on white, or the reverse, using white on navy blue background. Any color combination may be used to harmonize with the room decoration. Of the pattern. The stronger the contrast the more striking the effect It's awaiting You... E YES there is still a tremendous amount of outstanding instruction and use awaiting you in this and other copies of the Relief Society Magazine. Your editions may be handsomely bound at the West's finest bindery and printing plant for $2.50 cloth bound and $3.50 leather bound per volume plus postage for mail orders. All mail orders must be paid in advance. Follow these postage rates if you send your order by mail: Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Up to 150 miles 0000.22 150 to 300 miles __.. _ 300 to 600 miles _.......... 600 to 1000 miles....... 1000 to 1400 miles — 2.00000. 1400 to 1800 miles 0. -76 ed uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-258] f.%@) ORDER NOW YOUR MUSIC FOR THE SINGING MOTHERS FOR SPECIAL EVENING SERVICE November 4th Teach Me, O Lord—S. S. A. By Hamblen....20¢ each Plus Postage "Our Service Counts" GLEN-BROS. MUSIC CO. 74 So. Main, Salt Lake City, Utah Page 415 1956 University of Utal, SUMMER SCHOOL Special Features June 11-July 20—Special Program for High School Graduates Techniques in study habits; help in choosing a vocation; instruction in use of slide rule; classes in Reading, Mathematics, English, French, German, and Spanish. June 18-July 27—Youth Program Swimming, tennis, team games, archery, etc.; arts and cratts; fun music; speech and dramatics; typing and driver education; language program: French, Spanish, and German (3 age groups—upper Elementary grades, Junior High, and High School). June 11-22—Writers' Conference June 17-23—Utah School of Alcohol Studies July 16-August 3—Workshop in Modern Methods of Clothing Construction July 23-August 10—Vocal Workshop August 6-10—Workshop in Personnel and Guidance August 6-24—Workshop on Creative Design in Millinery and Costume Accessories August 12-24—Group Development Laboratory August 13-24—Workshop: Modern Procedures in the Teaching of Reading MORE THAN TEN WORKSHOPS IN EDUCATION Ask for circulars and a catalog Dean of the Summer School 109 Annex UNIVERSITY OF UTAH Salt Lake City, Utah Page 416 Relief Society Courses of Study 1956-1957 THEOLOGY COURSE OF STUDY: 1. THE BOOK OF MORMON— fo Edition (Regularly $2.00). -_ es -naan ina$.98 "'12¢ iPasmiee LITERATURE COURSE OF STUDY: SHAKESPEARE IN OUR LIVES Textbook: 2. SHAKESPEARE'S MAJOR PLAYS AND THE SONNETS— G. B. Harrison: 2.000.... Ce ccccccceceeee eee eeeee ec ecaneecneneceecereeseeeecs$6.00 15c — SOCIAL SCIENCE COURSE OF STUDY: LATTER-DAY SAINT FAMILY LIFE Reference Books: 3. JOSEPH SMITH, By his Mother Lucy Mack Smith......$3.00 4. DOCUMENTARY HISTORY OF THE CHURCH CO A 7 25 (b) Volume V...... _. Nin..-$1.25 15¢ Postage for Each Individual Volume The following other volumes of the Documentary History of the Church are also available: 5. Complete set of seven volumes _.....00..0.....000.0002-------$10.95 (e) Volume VII........$3.00 Plus 65¢ postage for set; 15¢ postage for each individual volume DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah Gentlemen: Enclosed you will find ( ) check ( ) money order ( ) charge to my account for the following amount 1 2 3 4 (a) (b) 5 (a) (b) (ce) (d) (e) - Zone....... State... Ccc seeccee { "Book (0. 9 44 East South Temple -- Salt Lake City. Utah; (a) Volume I............$3.00 (b) Volume II _.........$1.00 $....... (c) Volume III..........$1.25 (d) Volume VI..........$1.25 secceeeee. For the encircled (numbered) books: IDA F-10-209-46925 DEC 56 When theyre counting on you... The look of trust and faith in the children's eyes MEET YOUR When did you last Your Beneficial Life Insurance helps you meet these and the best for you? Perience to help you by ''Planned Futures." booklet, 'Planned Futures.".. Fi. FRIENDLY It's the faith and trust that most children have in their check your life insurance policies to make ae:; sure you're getting the responsibilities wisely and well. You can tailor your 4 q g 0 Beneficial man can of your family, its financial needs, and the amount belo yous Ta ne e round out your insur-... You can count on Beneficial Li ife Insurance 35 "seme may be nn re today for helpful folder on f ficial BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO | Planned Futures. No obligation, of It's a new Beneficia 7 course. Service. Beneficial Building, Dept. RF /s your CM | St AD) oeererecoeeerencoconceremernecrnccosner; 5 B. _— David O. McKay, Pres. Salt Lake City, Utah City... _...... Zone... State.. AGENT parents—and it means big responsibilities for you. Most for your money That's what we mean | Salt Lake City, Utah Please send me a copy of your free | \ t has nothing to do with the printed words in the book. Beneficial Life Planned Futures program to the size Name ccsccccccccesevsneceeeeccosesceeuenscesteccerssaneerstecers you can afford to pay. BENEFICIAL LIFE This _ is a job your Sra UMIUCE Lfefasurance Company the training and ex- VOL. 43 NO. 7. JULY 1956 Lessons fot Octot Navajo Si lu te Hazel Loomis Play, flute, play! Are you a willow in my hand— Or instrument... I fashioned at the spring? My slender fingers, satin brown, Are here to tremble at your will; My lips to hold you as my own; My throat to trill at every call; My flesh to cry at what I feel! Play, flute, play wild a song! Play, flute, play! Play low, the cooing song of doves— The owlet's mournful call. Staccato sound of falling rain And hoof beats down the far ravine. Play shrill, the coyote's hungry cry— Echo young ones in their lair. Play sweet, oh, flute, the song of home Beside the hogan fire. Play, flute, play soft a song! Play, flute, play! Play wild, the song of burning thirst; The triumph of the rain; The eagle's screaming in the sky, Her carrion to gain. Play swift, the song of ponies wild— Of hunters at the kill! Master of this flute am I— Rest now, oh, flute, Be still. The Cover: View of Ribe, Denmark, From the Domkirke Courtesy Lind Studio Photograph submitted by Mary G. Sorensen Ribe is one of the oldest towns in Denmark. Note the narrow, winding streets and the stork's nest on the house at the right. Frontispiece: "Navajo Country — Monument Valley, Utah" Photograph by Victor J. Nelson Cover Design by Evan Jensen From Near and Sar Thank you for your splendid editorial in the May Magazine ("The Gift for Mother's Day' by Marianne C. Sharp). When I read to my husband: "The most precious gift which children can give to their mother is the knowledge that they are walking the straight and narrow path to immortality and eternal life," he said, "Our children have given you that precious gift." So I copied that paragraph, added a few lines expressing our love and appreciation, and mailed a copy to each of our five children. Humbly and gratefully I can say that they are all busily engaged in Church activities.... I greatly love Relief Society and appreciate being a member and worker in that great organization. 'The Magazine has been in our home since the first volume, and it is also in the homes of our children. —Adena W. Swenson Pleasant Grove, Utah May I express my appreciation of the Magazine. In May 1955, the special feature written by Elna P. Haymond — "Mother" — presented a soul-stirring story about Sister Haymond's Grandmother Doney who came in the Ellsworth Handcart Company in 1856. I was thrilled to read the article, and should like to say that the little daughter born on _ that arduous trip is my mother, Mary Jane Doney Lowe. She is the mother of ten children, nine of whom are living. She, too, fought the battles of life with the weapons of love, faith, and determination. I hope to live that I may be worthy of the heritage she has left us. —Bertha Lowe Johnson Logan, Utah In the May issue of The Relief Society Magazine, I especially liked the frontispiece poem "The Things in You I See" by Dorothy J. Roberts, and the article "Poetry Is for People' by Eva Willes Wangsgaard. I have never read anything on the subject which expressed so aptly the way I feel. Such contributions are a 1 —Agnes Just Reid Firth, Idaho Page 418 I like Mrs. Wangsgaard's article on poetry ('Poetry Is for People," May 1956). It is comprehensive and scholarly. She is a very talented, capable woman— one of Utah's best. —Gene Romolo Provo, Utah When my Magazine comes, I lay everything else aside until I read it. More than once I have let my dinner stand on the table and get cold while I read the Magazine. Imagine my surprise, when reading the reports from the different wards, seeing the pictures of Laura Brown, Hetty Anderson, and Mable Guymon, all distant relatives of mine. Thomas Guymon "who went to Utah from Tennesee" was my great-grandfather. I have many relatives in Utah, California, and Idaho. Oh, how I wish it could be possible to meet and get acquainted with all of them. 'The pictures are in the May 1956 issue of the Magazine — Emery Stake (Utah), Huntington Second Ward, page 336. I enjoy the Magazine very much and hope I will never be without it. I was eighty-three years old the 28th of last February. —Laura Guymon Hawbaker Sherman, Texas I enjoy The Relief Society Magazine because I learn what other branches are doing. I enjoy the poetry, recipes, pictures, and the hobby features — and I enjoy the lessons. I have made some very fine friendship pals through the Near and Far department. I also write to over two hundred shut-ins. I don't remember seeing any letters from this part of Ohio. Georgetown Branch started about seven years ago with about six members. We now have about 163. Hope we continue to grow. Our members are scattered and some travel fifty miles to attend Church. We have to go about seventeen miles. —Mrs. William Ruggles Bethel, Ohio THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - - - - - - - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - - - First Counselor Velma N. Simonsen - - - - - Second Counselor Margaret C. Pickering - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Evon W. Peterson Alberta H. Christensen Edith P. Backman Edith S. Elliott Louise W. Madsen Mildred B. Eyring Winniefred S. Florence J. Madsen Aleine M. Young Helen W. Anderson Manwaring Leone G. Layton Josie B. Bay Gladys S. Boyer Elna P. Haymond Blanche B. Stoddard Christine H. Robinson Charlotte A. Larsen Annie M. Ellsworth Mary R. Young RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Vol. 43 JULY 1956 No. 7 Conten ts SPECIAL FEATURES Outings and Family Solidarity...... LaVern W. Parmley 420 The Danish Mission a Preston R. Nibley 426 Old Tucson eee... Willard Luce 432 Annual Report 1955 ooo... Ceeeceececesceeceecceeseeeeeeeeeteeeeneneees vsstsneesasestseeseeeeeee-Margaret C. Pickering 458 FICTION | Cathy and the Onions.................-.- Toone penton enpasnvveetenepreesesesevsssenee-Florence B. Dunford 434 Heart's Bounty — Chapter 20 2. Cccccececececeeeeecee essen conte ceeeennegeessceceecoeuaseenseseseaeeeeaee~Deone R. Sutherland 449 GENERAL FEATURES From Near and Far wi. Ececscesssscenccseseececeaecoceeseensecesensnseanenseeceteateneqesneeceecsesseceeeeeeees 418 Woman's Sphere —— eee... Ramona W. Cannon 441 Editorial: Frontiers.... C.. CcccccccscccccsensecceescescoceececessoseneessnenesoesscenegeeeceecoseesuseesesecesesesaeecescenneesVesta P. Crawford nis Notes to the Field: Buying Textbooks for Relief Society Lessons. Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities 2...... C. Eeececeecceeececseeee seen"Margaret Cc. "Pickering 470 FEATURES FOR THE HOME Lily N. Hortnagl Makes Handicraft Gifts for Many Occasions 2....2... Eccececece tee cee eee eceececeecseeeeeeceseeeeees 445 Recipes From the Danish Mission........... CosuteeeeseteseeeeMary Kaiser 446 Sew a Sunbonnet zs Dn eeMarijane Morris 455 Sandwiches oon cece eneeeneeennennenecnecenneceeceencenneeeeceseeees: eeRhea H. Gardner 456 Herbs for Modern Cookery — Terie eeElizabeth Williamson 496 LESSON DEPARTMENT Audio Visual Aids for 1956-57 eeMildred B. Eyring 475 Theology: Jesus Instructs the Nephites Boo ee Leland H. Monson 477 Visiting Teacher Messages — 'Yea, Wo Unto Him That Shall Deny the Revelations © ida Sorel 5g ORLeone O. Jacobs 481 Work Meeting: Lunches and Sandwiches occ eee vevtsteuteeeeeteseeeeee-- Rhea H. Gardner 482 Literature: Why Shakespeare? 02..0.000000.2. Ceceseene ee... Briant S. Jacobs 484 Social Science: Joseph Smith's Early Home Life 202.2... Eeetee scenceJohn Farr Larson 490 POETRY Navajo Flute — Frontispiece Hazel Loomis 418 Mier Vail iron. Nnn nnn crtetecececcscncacecessocecescvennepeseceeevacacsesnncncesenaqneaceyesandeadencncnlodansctecscegceseeEthel Jacobson 425 Her Hands an eo Luella N. Adams 431 Vacation err! Grace B. Wilson 433 Golden Windows 20... CecccsseceecceecceeeececeececeeeeeeceeeenenseneasconsenenceesaeneneseaeceeeeeceeseaeececeeseseeeesDorothy J. Roberts 439 Grandfather's Cello oo... CcccecececsccsecencnnesecenceececoeceeeeneeneeeceeseseseneeseseseoeseneeesosceseseeeeeeeenansDora Toone Brough 443 Years Be Se wnsennessceeee taco es onenessMabel Jones Gabbott 444 Each Day Is Mine ou... Ene Mary Hess Hackney 448 In the Quiet Harbor............. - ae Law year aa 454 My Prayer.... Cccliceseceeceseseeeceeeeeceseoeeeeeceeeeeeeee sesessetstseveseeeeeeee rene E. Jones 495 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 40 North Main, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Pretty As a Pansy. 200.... Ccccsccceceee ci cenceccceeceeeseccneeeneeeeeeeeeeseeeeeeseeeneneeee _ Sich, VECTSA GO, enon n. A cccccccccennscaresonaesceosscuststancnnsoseccaesaneecrseteswesescensasaecereonteneoeceococrecsionetereracssenvewesesosess Frances C. Yost 428.. 440 Outings and Family Solidarity LaVern W. Parmley President, The Primary Association ECENTLY at a stake conference, one of the leaders said to Brother Oscar A. Kirkham, "After the morning meeting I wish you would take the opportunity to walk home with my son. He is not going to his Sabbath School, and I wish you would have a chat with him." Brother Kirkham, after the meeting, took the chap by the arm, and they started down the street towards home. He thought a very good approach would be to say: "You know, you have a great father. He is a fine man." 'The boy immediately turned and said, "Brother Kirkham, I wish you would talk to my father for me. In all my life he has never been with me to a movie. He has never taken me with him anywhere. I haven't even had a game of checkers with him. I would appreciate it." There are many adults who seem to have attained the dignified state of parenthood without having first passed through the undignified state of childhood. Childhood memories dim with the passing of years, until, finally, all that are left are those of the somewhat idealistic side. Through doing things together, parents learn to understand their child's point of view, and to deal more sympathetically with his natural urges and desires. What all parents really need is a bridge between themselves and their children Page 420 to shorten the gap and bring about family solidarity. Business men, educators, and religious leaders agree that the early home experiences of a child are important factors in his life. 'The question has been asked — "Can a child fail in his life's work because parents have provided him with poor home training and environment?" Executives and personnel experts of leading American corporations declare a unanimous "yes." United States industry says this to parents: "We wouldn't want your son or daughter, if you have failed to train him for successful adulthood." Most industrial leaders believe members of a family should pull together to develop their standards of living. According to Lawrence A. Appley, President of the American Management Association, _Inc., "There seems to be a direct significant relationship between early home environment and on-the-job success." ARENTS ought to build into the minds of their children confidence in their own ability. One business manager, when asked how this could be done, said, "Encourage your child to try a variety of skills, take him hunting and _fishing; teach him the use of power tools; teach him civic mindedness, OUTINGS AND FAMILY SOLIDARITY 421 THE FAMILY HOUR FEATURES A PICNIC AT HOME Members of the Francis A. Madsen family: Seated at the table, left to right: Mary Louise Rawlings (daughter); David Rawlings (grandson); Ben E. Rawlings (son-in-law); Francis A. Madsen (father); Francis A. Madsen, Jr. (son); Susan Madsen (granddaughter); Connie Madsen (daughter-in-law). Standing in the background, left to right: Louise W. Madsen (mother, member of the general board of Relief Society); Richard Madsen (son). Children, seated at the table, in front, left: Scott Rawlings (grandson); Peter William Madsen (son); Michelle Madsen (granddaughter). Community loyalty, church loyalty and build his moral fiber." In an article "Your Children Need Family Recreation," written by Dr. Rex A. Skidmore of the University of Utah, and published in the November 1955 issue of the Children's Friend, we read: It has been said that "the family that prays together stays together.' Some experts have added to this that the family that "'plays together grows together." Case studies show that both of these activities have great possibilities sound family relationships. Some values of the family playing together are particularly important. First, the family usually gets better acquainted with each other. Too many families live at home in name only and are away from each other most of the time. Family recreation can be "loads of fun." Playing with those who are near and dear to one is enjoyable in many respects. Participating in recreational activities establishes a deeper bond, and opens the doors of communication among family members. In developing 422 A picnic seems to be one type of outing suitable for families. Young and old enjoy taking a lunch to a park, canyon, seaside, or other appropriate place where there is an abundance of fresh air and things to do, where the children can romp and expend some of the energies which build up within them. Parents who nag their children at home usually find it easy to let them run, yell, and sing to their "'heart's content'"' in a picnic area. Parents who do not take their whole family on a picnic at least several times during a year are missing a golden opportunity for having fun and strengthening family bonds. Elder Ezra Taft Benson, at a general conference, said: Our homes need the stabilizing influence of a closer relationship between parents and children. Every boy and girl needs the safeguard which an intimate association with mother or father will provide. 'This relationship must be built upon love and mutual confidence. Such an atmosphere can be created as parents plan for recreation and diversion together with their children. An evening spent in wholesome activity; a picnic in the mountains or nearby park; or a project for fathers and sons and mothers and daughters — these will all tend to increase filial affection and love in the home, and strengthen parent-children relations. Time thus spent yields big dividends. Parents in this close association have no difficulty teaching virtue, honesty and industry, the basic principles of our American way of life. There can be no genuine happiness separate and apart from the home. More recreation and more devotion in the home will result in greater family solidarity. Solidarity, as defined in the dictionary, means: "An entire union of interests and responsibilities in a group; community of interests, standards, etc." Children, themselves, feel the necessity of family solidarity, of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1956 sharing, working, and playing together in a family group. The question, "What do you think makes a happy family?" was asked of more than 1500 schooi children. Every grade from the second grade to the last year in high school was represented in this study conducted by the New Rochelle Guidance Center. The following are some of the answers given: A thirteen year old boy summed up his answer in these words, "A happy family reminds me of a baseball team, with Mom pitching, Dad catching and the kids fielding with everyone taking a turn at bat." The seven and eight-year-olds focused their answers on the concrete satisfactions of family life: a picnic in the park, the "surprise" daddy brings home, holiday celebrations, the family pet. One said, "Our family is happy because we help each other a lot." The nine-year-olds put their emphasis on relationships in family life: They frequently mentioned family parties and outings, playing games with the family, talking about pleasant things at meals. 'To them happiness meant togetherness. The ten - year - olds generally reached this conclusion: Do your chores, have fun, and go places together. The eleven and _ twelve-year-olds continued to underline the ideas of the younger children but did so more maturely. The happy family is the united family. The most important thing in a happy family is being together a lot. OUTINGS AND FAMILY SOLIDARITY Family solidarity was what each group wanted. 'These young people, so varied in age and_background, agreed with startling unanimity that being together in the family and doing things with all of its members is the very essence of happiness. FS TABLISHING play habits of the right sort is perhaps one of the most important things in character development. 'The president of a stake once said, "Oh, if my father had only let me _ play when I was a boy. If I wanted to play ball or go on a hike, he would say, If you've got more energy than you need, there's the hoe and there's the cornfield.' His attitude towards play activities was that they were a waste of time. Now I feel myself all cramped and bound into a limited space of action. I can't reach out easily for social contacts." There is a great vacancy in that man's life. In the book Recreation in the Home, we read: It is generally recognized as true that right living is not transmitted by merely telling children to be honest and brave and true. Rather it is developed in the individual as a phase of other activities and through the example of parents and children working, playing, and carrying on social life together. Perhaps there is not the same degree of pleasure to the boy who blisters his hands on a hoe handle or exhausts himself in running a mile to chase the cows out of the lucerne patch, that there is when he blisters his hands on a baseball bat and exhausts himself in making a home trun. But there can be pleasure in both if the proper attitude is fixed for both. In any program of family activity 423 there must be socialized co-operation. The tasks allotted should take into consideration the age and abilities of the children. They should give opportunity for individual success and excellence of performance. Individual initiative should not be crushed and the child should be given due credit and praise when the task is completed. Boy Scouts in the family may be given the joy of building the fire, and even cooking the meal for a family outing. The girls may plan and prepare a picnic supper for the back yard. They can set the table and arrange flowers for the centerpiece. If the outing is held in the canyon or park, the younger set can be given the "clean-up" assignment. Scouts, again, can use their "know-how" in seeing that the fire is completely out. Fortunate is the family that works and plays together. A family will be surprised at the enjoyable time that is to be had by spending a vacation at home. Many families fail to explore their own communities and the facilities available for recreation. 'They never visit places of interest that tourists travel miles to see. 'They do not realize that parks and museums are established for their interest and pleasure. There is a world of enjoyment and education to be had in such places. Backyard camping and cooking can be most exciting. A trip to the zoo affords a lot of fun. A bicycle or hiking trip can be exhilarating. Family picnics in the park, or nearby canyons can be real family outings. 'Tours of dairies, printing presses, and other industries can be revealing and educational in value, 424 THE great cry of parents is, "We don't have time." There is just so much time in the world. No one has more time than someone else. 'The difference is, some use it wisely, others waste it. Parents should take time to lay up a store of good family relationships. Such accomplishments will last for a lifetime. 'Time cannot take them away. In a recent issue of a weekly periodical a mother summarized her thoughts about time: My biggest mistake as a mother was a mistaken perspective of time. While our children were growing up, I was under the impression that the major part of my life was being lived while I had them with me. Looking back, I well understand what my beloved grandfather meant when he used to speak of "those few weeks we had the children with us." It is such a short, short time. I don't mean it seems brief; it is brief! For a birthday present a father once gave his son a piece of paper with the following written on it: "To my dear Son: I give you one hour of my time each day, to be yours, and to be used as you want to, without interference of any kind whatsoever. Your Father." Realizing that this father could make a very costly gift to his son, a friend asked, "How did you happen to hit upon the idea of giving such an extraordinary present?" RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1956 The man answered, "The other day a young fellow, whom I had not seen since he was a lad about my boy's age, came to my office to 'make a touch.' His face and bearing carried the tell-tale marks of idleness and dissipation. 'Robert!' I exclaimed in amazement, 'to see you like this — and you with such a fine father!' "The boy answered, 'Well, I've often heard Dad was a fine man. All his friends have told me so. I never knew him. He was so much occupied with his business, that I only saw him occasionally at mealtimes. I never really knew him,' "That made me think, and think furiously, and believe me, from now on I am going to see to it that my son has a chance to know me. This is the greatest gift a man can give, yet a gift every father owes to his son." Parents must realize how much of the mature years of their children will be spent in seeing the things memory preserves for them. They must guard the space in a child's memory storehouse, so they will have stored up a mighty collection of mental movies which will depict happy family associations. In Elder Mark E. Petersen's book, For Time or Eternity, he says, "It is our faith that the family is a basic unit in heaven. We should be saved as families." Family outings are some of the best tools to use in building family solidarity. Family solidarity built upon this earth will continue throughout eternity. Don Knight SWIFTCURRENT LAKE, GLACIER NATIONAL PARK MONTANA Nleantain Vigil Ethel Jacobson The last light pales on the loftiest rim Long after the valleys are veiled and dim, Then heaven bends in a starry arc Spreading a mantle of tranquil dark. The wind lies hushed in the silvery firs, On soundless wings the great ow] stirs As, in infinity's embrace, Poised constellations wheel in space. The spheres tread out their measured dance.... The stars give way. The sun's swift lance Touches the topmost peak anew At a moment preordained, on cue, Set long before the tremulous light Of dawn first quickened primordial night. Faith needs no sign for all reborning Beyond this miracle of morning. Page 425 The Danish Mission Preston R. Nibley A! The October Conference of the Church, held in Salt Lake City in 1849, Erastus Snow, thirty-one years of age, a member of the Council of the 'Twelve, was selected to open a mission for the Church "in the Scandinavian Countries." Elders Peter O. Hansen and John E. Forsgren were called to accompany him. Elder Hansen was a native of Denmark and had begun to translate The Book of Mormon into the Danish language before leaving America. When these brethren reached England, in April 1850, Elder Snow requested George P. Dykes, an elder laboring in that country, to join them, as he had some knowledge of the Norwegian language; the missionaries then continued their journey and arrived in Copenhagen, Denmark, on June 14, 1850. In delivering their message to the Danish people, they met with almost immediate success and, on August 12, 1850, less than two months after their arrival, Erastus Snow baptized fifteen converts "in the clear salt water of the Sound." A branch of the Church was organized in CopenBy Ewing Galloway, New York - NEW KING'S MARKET, COPENHAGEN, DENMARK Page 426 THE DANISH MISSION 427 Lind Studios Submitted by Mary G. Sorensen GEELS FOREST IN HOLTE, NEAR COPENHAGEN, DENMARK hagen on September 15, following. Other elders arrived in the mission and the work of proselyting was gradually extended to all parts of Denmark. Andrew Jenson, Assistant Church Historian and a native of Denmark, computed in 1930 that 26,656 of his countrymen had joined the Church since the introduction of the gospel in 1850, eighty years previously. During that time, also, he stated, 13,984 of these baptized had "emigrated to Zion." Denmark remained a part of the Scandinavian Mission until 1920, when a separate mission was formed with Elder Carl E. Petersen as the first president. In March 1956, there were 1,875 members in the Danish Mission, located in sixteen branches. Holger P. Peterson is the present president of the Danish Mission. Seventeen Relief Society organizations were reported in December 1955, with 359 members. Ora Irene H. Peterson presides over the Danish Mission Relief Society. A Note: The cover for this Magazine is a View of Ribe, Denmark, From the Domkirke. See also "Recipes From the Danish Mission," page 446. Pretty As a Pansy Frances C. Yost ANDA looked nervously at \\V the clock ticking away the minutes. "Here it is after one. If Vince doesn't come right away to eat, I'll miss Relief Society today." She gently moved the lace curtain at the window and peered down the street, hoping to see the familiar green pickup truck turn the corner. Since Vince had _ started in his own lumber business, it was hard for him to keep regular hours. Wanda didn't want to miss the meeting. She received so much joy and satisfaction and down-toearth education from Relief Society. She enjoyed working in the other organizations, too; but Relief Society was different. It was her meeting. A meeting where she could develop in a_ well-rounded way, as well as serving others. As Wanda watched at the window, the truck slowed up to the curb and Vince, almost running, came to the house. She hurried to the door to greet him. You couldn't be cross with someone who was late when he was working his heart out for you. She swung the door wide for him, and gave him her prettiest smile. "Welcome home, stranger." "Sorry I'm late, honey. Had a customer. Couldn't make it a minute sooner. But I'll eat and run so you can make it to your meeting." Vincent brushed her cheek with a swift kiss as he hurried to wash up. "That's okeh," Wanda replied. She had sort of given up the idea of getting to Relief Society, but in no time at all Vince was Page 428 grabbing his hat, brushing her cheek with a quick goodbye kiss, and gone. Wanda glanced at the clock, a quarter to two. She almost never left the dishes in the sink, but if she did today she could still make it to Relief Society. Untying her apron, and powdering her nose, Wanda whisked on her tweed sports coat and shut the door gently, leaving it unlatched for her girls when they would come from school. As she left her home, she glanced at the home of Granny Crockett who lived next door. Usually they walked to Relief Society meeting together, but Granny Crockett had probably seen Vince's truck, and gone ahead. But we can walk home together, Wanda thought. It was the literature lesson today, given well by Sister Bates. Imagine writing nine hundred poems and fourteen novels as Thomas Hardy did, the ladies sighed! Only too soon, the meeting was over, and the sisters exchanged greetings and well wishes. Wanda Mason and Granny Crockett slowly walked the short distance to their homes together. "You can tell from his poems Thomas Hardy was a man of the soil," Granny remarked. "Such a_ well-rounded _ person, Thomas Hardy was. Imagine, even as a boy, he went around to parties and weddings playing his violin," Wanda reminisced. Then she fell to thinking how Relief Society tipped the scales of PRETTY AS A PANSY values in her life, helping her to shape her outlook and define her goals. She was so engrossed in thoughts of the lesson that she did not remember the dishes in the sink, until she stepped on the porch. Marie and Connie would probably be doing up the dishes right this minute to surprise her. Wanda prepared herself to act really surprised, and lavish them with her praise. But, as she opened the door, the odor of burning meat surrounded her. The girls must be cooking hamburgers. No, it was the expensive ground round steak with which she had planned to make a special new dish. Anger made Wanda rigid at the sight of the very small amount of ground round steak which was left. ER lovely kitchen was a chaos of confusion! A _ greasy griddle, burned almost black, was on the cupboard, and the lovely copperbottom skillet was filled with hamburgers and onions. Wanda glanced through the rooms to see the girls' school clothes draped on the beds, the living room strewn with crumbs, while the television blasted away at high volume. The house Wanda had spent all morning cleaning was in utter disorder. Suddenly Wanda was scolding as rain pours down in cascades. Connie and Marie stood by with startled consternation on their faces. Wanda, realizing she had been too hasty, went to her room and shut the door quickly behind her. Shame at her outburst and discouragement seemed to engulf her. She was disappointed, too. Would the girls never learn? Would they never start to take hold, to keep the house 429 in shape, to think before using up household stores? ~Wanda J said nothing when the children took choice things like nuts, cherries, and olives, but now when they were using the dinner meat for afterschool snacks, that was the last straw. "All morning I've worked in the house and for what?" she asked herself aloud. "I would have been ahead if I had forgotten the house entirely and planted the pansies that are waiting." Wanda put on her gardening things, tied a scarf on her hair, and walked through the house, looking neither to the right nor to the left. On the porch she picked up the pansy plants she had purchased yesterday at the greenhouse and, with the planter fork, left the house, slamming the door almost childishly behind her. As Wanda's hands worked in the tich black soil, she thought again of the poet Thomas Hardy, and the common rural people of whom he wrote. Gradually her mind seemed to grope its way from a soundless sort of fog. RANNY Crockett, next door, sat crocheting on her warm sun porch. She had sat down to rest after the walk from Relief Society. As her hands moved, her mind dwelt on the lesson at Relief Society. She recalled a line from one of Thomas Hardy's poems: "This is the weather the cuckoo likes, and so do I." Suddenly from next door she heard Wanda's voice raised in scolding. "Why land sakes, pretty Wanda Mason went into that house not more than five minutes ago. Won- 430 der what mischief she found her girls into?" Granny said softly. "Harsh words are molded on children's memories forever." Her mind went back to a day, when, as a little child, her mother in heated wrath had called her a lozy dolt. Granny's head, with its hair pinned neatly into a round flat knot at the crown of her neck, shook as if to erase the memory. It was only when she looked up from her crocheting that she noticed Wanda Mason in her garden, setting out pansy plants. Granny laid down her crochet work and, out of the corner of her eye, saw Wanda Mason wipe her eyes with the sleeve of her shirt, as she knelt in the flower bed. Suddenly Granny Crockett remembered the water cress a neighbor had brought her from his last fishing trip. Wrapping a generous portion of the cress in wax paper and going out the back door, she meandered over to where Wanda Mason was setting out her pansies. It wasn't until Granny Crockett was right to Wanda that she noticed the tears falling from her eyes, moistening the soil where she was working. Words seemed inadequate. Instead, Granny Crockett placed her hand gently on Wanda's shoulder. Wanda looked up startled, but, at sight of Granny Crockett, the flood locks broke, and a new flow of tears rushed forth. "There, there, child," Granny Crockett comforted. "I suppose you heard me raise my voice to the children. I'm so dreadfully ashamed. But, oh, Granny, I try so hard to make a real home.. A clean home, and I skimp and go without to plan and prepare nice RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1956 meals, and the children...." Wanda told Granny everything, how she had found the house, and about the dinner meat used for after-school hamburgers. "Tt is discouraging," Granny Crockett admitted.. "And yet I'd give a lot, if my children were close enough to raid my pantry. I've lived to see three generations, and they all do it sometime or another, and they all seem to come through that growing hungry stage like a blueribbon heifer. I brought you over some water cress." "Why, how nice. You know how we love it in the spring. Thanks so much," Wanda said. "You have chosen a nice assortment of pansy plants,' Granny Crockett said, looking at the plants Wanda was planting. ANDA was pleased. Granny Crockett had a "green thumb," and Wanda appreciated any floral compliment Grann gave her. "I do hope they grow." "They'll grow," Granny Crockett nodded knowingly, "just like those two lovely girls of yours are growing." Wanda, who had placed the last plant in its little moistened crevice and anchored it firmly with black rich soil, shifted herself from her knees to her feet and stood surveying the plants. "Those blooms should be picked, to strengthen the roots. I'll let the girls do that for the table decoration for our supper table." Wanda realized that in her planting, she had also planted every bit of her wrath. "T want you to come and see my pansy bed now, Sister Wanda. Pansies are such choice little flowers. PRETTY AS A PANSY Why, they're almost human when you look straight in their faces. Come." She took Wanda's arm firmly. Together, they walked through the arbor that divided the Mason and the Crockett lawns, and which would be covered with climbing roses in June. "See those tiny pansies peeping through?" Granny Crockett asked. "Once I spaded up a bed because I saw a weed or two. But in doing it, I uprooted the tiny pansies just pushing through. Life's like that. Sometimes we uproot our homes and children to get rid of a weed or two of wrong, that would wither later, on their own. What children really need more than spading, is warm, loving sunshine... The sunshine of a mother's loving smile. A smile that is as dependable as the sun's rays." Wanda realized, with a pang of consternation, that her children had seen her face torn with anger. No wonder they had looked so startled. She secretly vowed to try to keep it from happening again. Lilac dusk was creeping upon them, but Wanda's mind had already taken up its routine. She could make spaghetti and meat balls for supper. 'The family enjoyed the dishes they were used to more than something new and fancy, anyway. 431 And the water cress gift from Granny Crockett would make a lovely cress and hard-boiled egg salad, which would be a treat for Vince and the girls on a spring evening. And she would pull out a cherry pie from the deep freeze, as a sort of celebration of her burying the hatchet, so to speak. "T must hurry,' Wanda said. Her face smiled like the big white pansies which Granny Crockett knew would later bloom in her garden. "And thanks... Thanks for everything!" Wanda added. When she walked into her home, it seemed her own little world had righted itself. The school clothes were put away, the coats hung neatly in the hall, and Marie and Connie were doing the dishes. "We were going to surprise you," they chorused when caught in the act. "What a happy surprise!'" Wanda smiled a pretty violet-eyed pansy smile... Granny Crockett walked through the garden and over the smooth green lawn which sloped to the lily pond. <A bluebird came flashing out of nowhere, and stopped short on seeing her so closely, then flitted away among the peonies beside the garden fence. Granny smiled, all was calm and smooth again. The pansy faces all were smiling faces. Her Hands Luella N. Adams Not shapely white, those precious hands— Deep lined, with labor etched, They helped to build an empire, Those hands that rested not. Kind hands that eased our childish pain We know that we will clasp again. Old Slucson Willard Luce LD Tucson isn't nearly as old as it sounds—or looks. Its crumbling adobe walls seem to have weathered centuries of desert wind and rain. Its warped lumber seems to have been burned brown by the desert sun and sucked dry of all moisture. Its hitchracks appear to have tethered a thousand horses. But all this is make-believe. Old Tucson was born in 1940, created by Hollywood for the movie "Arizona." Built in the Tucson Mountains a few miles west of Tucson, Arizona, the set was constructed to represent the old Spanish settlement of Tucson during our Civil War days. When the film was finished, the movie company moved out and the Junior Chamber of Commerce moved in. They kept the set repaired as a show place for tourists and as a location for their annual 'Tucson Daze celebration held each autumn. Since Tucson is a square dancing center with a dozen or more clubs meeting regularly, the J. C.'s inaugurated square dancing at Old Tucson. These weekly get-togethers are well attended by visitors and natives alike.. Since 1940, the movie companies have moved back to Old Tucson on several occasions. In 1954 they came back for the Cinemascope production of Greer Garson's "Strange Lady in Town." 'They completely remodeled Old Tucson. They covered some of the adobe Page 432 walls with boards. They added second stories to some of the buildings. They built hotels, livery stables, saloons, and a dozen other establishments until you just wouldn't know the old town. And that is quite as it should be since the setting for this new, full-color film was Santa Fe, New Mexico, 7.9) just before the "Gay go's. Most of these buildings are complete — not just walls and false fronts. They are colorful, authentic, and a tourist attracter of the first magnitude. 'Today, however, Wards Saloon dispenses soft drinks, postcards, and other tourist subplies. 'There are other business houses which open and do a landoffice business during "Tucson Daze" and the height of the tourist season. It is said that the set will soon be reconverted back to the original "Old Tucson." Set on a valley floor in the Tucson Mountain Park, the make-believe town is surrounded by giant saguaro cactus. On the east and south the rugged mountain peaks hover over it. There are picnicking areas in the Tucson Mountain Park, and there is the 'Trailside Museum. 'This museum features live exhibits of the fauna and flora of the ArizonaSonora desert. The larger animals include the peccary — or wild hog — mountain lion, wildcat, ocelot, etc. The small animal room in- OLD TUCSON Willard Luce 433 PO te. MOVIE SET OF "OLD TUCSON," TUCSON MOUNTAIN PARK ARIZONA cludes live species of centipedes, scorpions, lizards, rodents, and snakes. 'Trails lead through the botanical gardens where the plants are well labeled. Desert water holes have been so placed as to give the visitor an opportunity to study the desert wild life at first hand. So, even if Old Tucson isn't as old as it sounds, it's an interesting place to visit, especially if you take in the rest of Tucson Mountain Park. > Va cation Grace Barker Wilson The shades are drawn, the doors are closed, And all about an empty look Proclaims a solitary house That somebody forsook. Around the yard the grass grows tall, And weeds crowd every flower bed; The stray dogs in the neighborhood Hold counsel there, instead. At night the darkened windows have A ghastly, special glare, and some, Both animals and flowers, wish The owners would come home, Cathy and the Onions Florence Berrett Dunford door to their cousin Theodore's, less than a third of a country block apart, Cathy Bennett was so weary she thought she could not make it. Theodore's mother had nine boys. Naturally it was almost impossible to keep a hired. Girl. The morning before when Uncle Stanley had appealed to her father, Cathy had offered to help out. For eight hours on Thursday and until noon on Friday, she had stood at the ironing board and ironed nothing but shirts. I never want to see another boy's shirt, she thought, as she opened the screen door. She stopped short. Her father and mother were in the long narrow kitchen with its blue and white linoleum and polished range, talking in low tones. "['m_ sorry," her mother said, brushing at a wing of dark hair, "I'd like to go to the party. But I just can't. I haven't a thing to wear except one of those old Mother-Hubbards. I'm tired of those." "T know you are." Cathy's father's* voice was tender. "But still you've got to go. You haven't been out SINCE... SiiiGe... E Since the baby died, Cathy supplied in her own mind. Her mother loved babies. She supposed there was nothing worse to her than losing a baby. She's got to go! Cathy thought. Mother's got to go to Aunt Mae's party tomorrow night.. "It's taking a little time to get Page 434 T HOUGH home was just next on my feet after the flood," Cathy's father said, apologetically. Until the summer before they'd lived on a ranch. But the Dry Bed had overflowed its banks. Now they were back in Menan again, but the job at the flour mill didn't pay enough for new dresses. Even Cathy could see that. Cathy backed down the steps. There was a hopelessness in her parents' voices, that meant defeat. Only Cathy wouldn't admit failure. Her sister, Jinny, who was eight, came up at that moment. "Mother can't go to Aunt Mae's party because she hasn't anything to wear," Cathy told Jinny there in the sun-baked dooryard. "Tho what?" Jinny lisped. "Tho... We have to do something." "Didn't Uncle Stanley pay youoh anything for awning?" Jinny asked. It was warm, the first of June. The Idaho sun turned Jinny's hair to flame. "Of course not,' Cathy said. "That was a favor." "Well, whyn't you ask Thindoo?" Thindoo was the best Jinny could do with Theodore. "T will! I will!' Cathy cried, her eyes brightening. "Come on." She grasped Jinny's hand. Forgetting her weariness, she hurried along the path toward Theodore's again. HEODORE and Homer were just climbing onto Theodore's pony. "We've got to hurry," Theodore said, "Father's expecting CATHY AND THE ONIONS us at the ranch to thin beets." Theodore had fair hair and blue eyes and a kind manner. "Mothah can't go to the party tomorrow night," Jinny lisped. "We've got to duoh something to get her a new dress." "We thought perhaps you might tell us where we could get a job," Cathy said. "Job?" 'Theodore scratched his head. "Too bad thinning beets is a man's job." He took time out to think a minute. "If we could get work that paid," Cathy said, "we could ask Miz Rawson at the store to help us select a dress for Mother and charge it" "It's too bad Mother's hired girl just showed up. I wish I could help you," Theodore said again. "Wait a minute. 'This morning at the postoffice I heard Tom Smith say he wanted someone to weed his onions. He has a big patch, you know; lives about a mile west of town on the way to our ranch." "That big thkin-flint?" Jinny asked. Theodore grinned. "I guess he is a bit close. He's a bachelor." "Maybe he'd think weeding onions was a boy's job, too," Cathy said. "Maybe so," Theodore said. "But he said this morning he'd take girls. Aren't any boys who'd work for the wages he pays." "You think Jinny and I might get jobs?" Cathy asked. "You could certainly try. Though I have my doubts about Jinny." a i a «67M twelve," Cathy said over the phone a few minttes later. Luckily her mother was taking her 435 fifteen-minute rest. "Jinny's a bit younger than I," she added. "That's all right," Mr. Smith boomed. Leaving a note for their mother, Cathy and Jinny hurried out the white picket front gate and toward town. Miz Rawson was very nice about the dress. "You're sure you have the job?" she asked. She was as old as Cathy's mother, but she had never found the right man. Her silvery-reddish hair was thin and frizzy. "Not that it matters," she said. "Your father's credit is always good." "Oh, but this isn't Father," Cathy insisted. "Mr. Smith said Jinny and I were to report at eight in the morning." They found a pretty dress. "The color of your mother's eyes," Miz Rawson said. "Mother's eyes are gray," Jinny said. "Blue," Cathy said. "A gray-blue," Miz Rawson compromised. "I know she'll like this dress. And of course I know her size. Your mother and I went to school together." "Mother says you were the gayest girl in the class," Cathy said. "But she was the prettiest," Miz Rawson said, sighing. It was the middle of the afternoon when Cathy and Jinny returned home, the new dress in its wrapping of paper, carried carefully under Cathy's arm. But she wanted her father there, too, when she showed it. Urging Jinny to keep their secret, she tiptoed through the dim front room to the big bedroom she shared with her sisters 436 and slid the package up on a closet self. Game "Mother was real touched; she had tears in her eyes," Jinny told Cathy happily the next morning as they went down the shaded sidewalk in the direction of 'Tom Smith's. "She thought the dress was lovely," Cathy said. "Father didn't like it because we'd charged it...." "But he couldn't say anything with Mothah so happy," Jinny exulted. "T don't care how hot it is, or how hard Tom Smith makes us work," Cathy said. "I'm so happy Mother has her dress." ¢SE TOW do we weed onions?" Jinny asked, as they neared the big white frame house. "With a hoe?" "Maybe he'll make us get down on our knees," Cathy said. "You should have borrowed Thindoo's overalls." "T never wear levis; you know that," Cathy said a bit sharply. "We'll donth blame me if you get callouses on your knees," Jinny said. Mr. Smith answered Cathy's knock at the rear. He seemed very glad to see her, though not Jinny. "She wouldn't know a weed from an onion," he said. Mr. Smith's face was round. He was quite round all over, Cathy noticed. "T work alth time at home," Jinny protested. "I'm eight." "She doesn't look eight," Mr. Smith said. "I suppose you won't weed without her?" "Oh, yes, I will!" Cathy said hurriedly. She was very disapRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1956 pointed. How long would it take her to earn the dress? "Forty-seven cents a row," Mr. Smith said, squinting down one of the rows that to Cathy looked a whole block long. "And no hoes. You sure you can tell weeds from onions?" "Cathy hath an awful nose; she can smell everything," Jinny said, snickering. "She means I'm aller... Sensitive to some things," Cathy said. "Sometimes I get hives." "Huh." Mr. Smith was not interested. "I suppose you brought your lunch?" When they picked raspberries for the Wendell's, they were always given their lunch. But after Theodore's warning, Cathy had not expected it of Mr. Smith. "We sure did," Jinny lisped. When Mr. Smith's broad back disappeared inside the cool depths of his house again, she said, "I'm just goin' to stay awhile and watch." ATHY got down on her knees. Lucky she had worn a big straw hat. Her old cotton stockings came up well above her knees. "These weeds are sure thick," she called out to Jinny a few moments later. 'There were furrows between the rows. She crawled along in one, pulled the small weeds from _between the onions, dropped them in the furrow. "Water will carry them away," Mr. Smith had said. "T wishth..." Jinny began, from her shady spot on the ditchbank. Cathy's sneeze cut short her remarks. "Oww," Cathy said, and rubbed the forefinger of her right hand across her nose. And sneezed three times, heavily. CATHY AND THE ONIONS "What's the mattah?" Jinny called out. Cathy straightened up on her knees. "I... Don't... Know. I feel funny. Ker... Choo! Oh, my arm's itching!" She scraped at her left arm. "Now it's my forehead," she cried. "Oh, dear! Can you smell the onions?" "Of courth not," Jinny said. "Whatth mattah with you anyway? Your face looks all splotchy." Cathy swallowed. 'Two big tears ran down her stinging cheeks. "I feel sick. I'm getting hives," she wailed. "These awful old onions are giving me hives!" "Tl go tell Mr. Smith," Jinny said, getting to her feet. "You will not! I'll be all right." She started to pull weeds faster than ever, casting them furiously into the small furrow. Already her knees were burning. Could the welts be breaking out all over? "T can't stop; I can't," she muttered to herself. "I've already charged the dress. Mother has got it. I've got to weed the onions... To get the money... To pay for Mother's.... "Oh, Jinny," she wailed, sitting down flat in the furrow, "I can't see! My eyes are swelling shut! I can't tell a weed from an onion!" She began rubbing the back of her hand across her eyes, sniffling. "I can't see!" she called wildly. "What's this about not seeing?" It was Mr. Smith's voice, and Cathy thought dimly he must have ears in the back of his head. Or else he was watching from a window. "Cathy's got hives; she can't thee," Jinny said. Jinny always 437 spoke out, making bad matters worse, Cathy thought desperately. "Tll... Be... All right,' Cathy gasped. "They'll... Go... Away." To herself, she said frantically, They've got to. Her mother wouldn't keep the dress if she lost the job. When her father got home from the mill tonight, there'd be only gloom in the house. Cathy got up on her knees again, plucked at what she thought was a weed. "Stop it! Stop it!" Mr. Smith yelled. "That's an onion!" He leaned over and, grasping Cathy by the shoulder, lifted her to her feet. "Now then, let's look at you." From his silence Cathy felt she must look shocking. "Come in the house... No, sit down on the ditchbank in the shade." Even Mr. Smith's tight-fisted nature, his concern for his onions, seemed taking second place. "Tl be all right," Cathy gasped. "Tl be all nght!" "Well, you won't be around onions, that's for sure," Mr. Smith said. "You," he went on, glancing at Jinny, "take your sister's arm and lead her home." As Jinny hurried forward, he muttered distractedly, "I've got to get somebody to weed those onions." As Cathy and Jinny made their way alongside the house toward the front gate, Cathy could hear his voice on the telephone. "NOWTH what?" Jinny said, as they stood outside the gate. "T don't know," Cathy - said. "Let's just stand here a minute. | feel better already. I believe I can see a little." 438 "Buth you can't weed onions," Jinny said. "No. And we can't go home, either!" Despair poured through Cathy. "Why canth the dress — stay charged?" Jinny reasoned. "Miz Rawson said Fawthah's credit was good." "It won't be if we do things like this!" Cathy cried. "Besides, Mother won't let us keep it. By the time Father gets home it'll be sent back. And he won't really want to keep it either. Theodore...." In any trouble, Cathy's mind went to her cousin. "Thindoo, Thindoo!" Jinny began to dance around with joy. "He'll help us." "He will not," "How can he? He and Homer are thinning beets. And _ their' beets are almost as important to them as Mr. Smith's onions are to him." "Wellth, anyway," Jinny pleaded, "Jeth just go on down to the ranch. Ith only a mile; no farther than home." Without hope, Cathy let herself be persuaded. There was no way out of her trouble this time, she felt sure. Going to Theodore's would only prolong her ordeal. And her respect and love for her father demanded she be back home in time to return the dress before the store closed for the night. Walking along the dusty road, hurrying toward each patch of shade, feeling the coolness of the water in the ditch beside the road, hearing its rush and music and thythm, did something for Cathy's hives. By the time they turned in at the wide pole gate at 'heodore's ranch, most of the swelling seemed Cathy scolded. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1956 to have gone away. "I can even see,' she told Jinny. O the north now lay the green expanse of the beet field. Two small blobs, one shorter and rounder over to the right, told Cathy where to go. Somehow the task ahead of her would seem easier if Theodore knew. While Cathy told Theodore against Jinny's interruptions—Theodore went on thinning beets, watching Homer out of one eye, who kept striking out with his short hoe in all directions. "{ might have known," he said, his voice warm with sympathy. "T've noticed you never eat onions." "T really didn't know myself I didn't like them," Cathy said. "You're sure your mother won't keep the dress?" 'Theodore asked. "Tm sure." Cathy's brown eyes met his blue ones. "Sometimes it's better to just do a thing... Go home and take the dress back, I mean," Theodore said. It was his way of saying that this time he couldn't help. I shouldn't have come, Cathy thought. It was bad enough that she'd got herself into this trouble. Now she had Theodore worried too. She was just turning away, when she saw Uncle Stanley coming toward them. "Anything wrong?" he asked. Uncle Stanley was kind, but he was also practical. He had so much work to do, he couldn't let his heart overrule his head the way 'Theodore sometimes seemed to do. "We justh came to see Thindoo," Jinny said. "Cathy charged a dress so Aunt Sue could go to Mother's party to- CATHY AND THE ONIONS night," Theodore told his father, "on the strength of weeding onions for Tom Smith. But Mr. Smith wouldn't let Jinny in the patch, and the onions gave Cathy hives. Her eyes swelled up so she couldn't see." He smiled a little at Cathy. "Well, you might thin beets, though the job is for men," Uncle Stanley said. "But I'm short of cash, too. Theodore and Homer won't get paid until the beets are hauled this fall." "I guess there's just nothing we can do," Cathy said, fighting to keep her voice steady. "Mother just can't go to the party." "T didn't think you'd let girls thin beets," Theodore told his father. "Under ordinary circumstances I wouldn't," Uncle Stanley said. "I wonder,' Theodore said, "if we could make a trade for a few days. I could go over to Mr. Smith's and weed his onions, take the money he gives me and pay for Aunt Sue's dress. Cathy and Jinny could stay here and thin beets." Cathy saw Uncle Stanley's eyes 439 go over the broad field of beets. Theodore, she knew, was his mainstay. Homer and Jinny and she would be poor substitutes. "T'm sorry," he said. Already he was ina hurry. "I just...." Suddenly he seemed really to see Cathy. "Why, this is Cathy!" he said. And then he grinned—like Theodore—and said, "We. Surely appreciated you ironing all those shirts!' "Oh, that was all right," Cathy said. She closed her right hand, feeling the blisters which, by now, were turning to callouses. "TI was glad to help." Uncle Stanley seemed to be undergoing a change of heart. "Since it's Cathy who is asking, I think we should do our best. How long," he asked 'Theodore, "do you suppose it'll take you over at Smith's?" Theodore was smiling now, too. Homer and Jinny were jumping up and down, their arms about each other. For the first moment since yesterday noon when she schemed her wild scheme, Cathy felt everything was going to be all right. Golden Windows Dorothy J. Roberts In new pride I polish from my window pane The wavy rivulets where rain has been.... Once, far away, I watched a splendor come Upon my own as on some hill-wide home. And I recall the sheets of flaming gold Each sash, against the dark and distance, held. The final fingers of the sunset reached Across the valley till these panes were touched And rooms were filled with molten gold that fell, A burning arras, to the window sill. Rayed in rose and distance, mine was no less Than the greatest treasure behind a window-glass... I shine to luster every crystal square For though I may not see it, gold is there, Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, July 1, and July 15, 1896 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WoMeEN oF ALL NATIONS" VOTE WISELY: The political conditions of this country at the present time are anything but satisfactory. It is impossible to tell what a day may bring forth, or what new scheme may be developed by those who manipulate the machinery of politics.... Disturbing elements are at work.... Every man is asking his neighbor what the issues are likely to produce.... It is a solemn time as well as a time of extraordinary privilege, for one cannot contemplate the condition of this nation under the present outlook without feelings of sadness, and only to those who trust in God can there come the hope that is uplifting. —Kditorial RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE IN BINGHAM STAKE (IDAHO): President Zina D. H. Young and her Counselor Jane S. Richards, also Sister R. E. Monch attended the Relief Society Conference held at Iona, Idaho on the 13th of June. Apostle F. D. Richards was present and spoke very interestingly upon the Relief Society. These sisters had intended to visit Bannock and Bear Lake Stakes, but were hindered from making the trip on account of the high water. —Editorial Notes THE OTHER WORLD It lies around us like a cloud, The world we do not see; Yet the sweet closing of an eye May bring us there to be.... Sweet souls around us watch us still, Press nearer to our side, Into our thoughts, into our prayers, With gentle helping glide.... —Selected THE AUTHOR OF "UNCLE TOM'S CABIN": Mrs. Harriet Beecher Stowe died at her home in Forest Street, Hartford (Connecticut) Wednesday, July ist. Mrs. Stowe, the daughter of Lyman Beecher, was born at Litchfield, Conn., June 15, 1811. At an early age she manifested a great eagerness for books.... On January 5, 1836, she married Rev. Calvin Stowe, D. D., professor of Biblical History in Lane Seminary, over which her father presided. During Mrs. Stowe's intervals of leisure amidst family cares, she contributed to the periodicals, sketches and short stories.... In 1852... She contributed to the National Era, an anti-slavery paper published at Washington, "Uncle Tom's Cabin" as a serial.... It met with unequaled success, 313,000 copies (in book form) were sold in the United States within three years and a half, and in all, over a million copies, including a German edition prepared there. In Great Britain its sale was enormous. It was translated into twenty different languages... And it was dramatized in various forms.... —Boston Transcript Page 440 OUR "Woman's Sphere" editor is sightseeing and visiting with members of her family in Europe and was privileged to attend the unusually inspirational Latter-day Saints Servicemen's Conference at the Army's Religious Retreat in Berchtesgaden. Minerva Young Bennion, wife of Elder Adam S. Bennion, touched the hearts of the servicemen with her appeal from mothers to these youths. The wives of the West German, French, and Netherlands Mission _ presidents: Bernice O. Dyer, Rachael L. Lee, and Ada S. VanDam gave beautiful talks. The same is true of Sister Bringhurst, whose husband is president of the Bern Temple. E learned how Dutch people are of their Queen Juliana. They love her thrift, her democracy, her schedule of hard work, her excellent and wise motherhood. Besides this, she is "a clever woman." She went all through the University of Leyden with no special privileges or help from anyone. Since the high schools in Holland have eight-year courses, the University work is on a more advanced level, and one is twenty-five (if smart like Juliana) or, ordinarily, twenty-six at graduation time. Proud the Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon ELLE S. SPAFFORD, General President of Relief Society, was awarded an honorary degree, Doctor of Humanities, at the commencement exercises at Brigham Young University, June 1, 1956. In addition to her devoted and _ distinguished service to Relief Society, President Spafford has participated in many other social welfare and humanitarian activities. She became vice-chairman of the Crusade for Freedom in 1952; she has been a vice-president of the National Council of Women since 1948, and attended the meetings of the International Council of Women in Helsinki, Finland, in 1954, as head of the American delegation of the National Council of Women of the United States. She is a director of the American Mothers' Committee. President Spaftord has already received a citation from Brigham Young University as a distinguished alumnus. BIRTHDAY congratulations are extended to: Mrs. Jane Anderton Perkins, Bountiful, Utah; ninety-two; Mrs. Matilda C. Robbins, Salt Lake City, Utah, ninety-two; Mrs. Minnie Peterson Brown, Coalville, Utah, ninety-one; Mrs. Eleanor Kelly Nicholes, American Fork, Utah, ninety; Mrs. Sarah Burbank Williams, Brigham City, Utah, ninety; Mrs. Lovisa Allan, Wellsville, Utah, ninety. Page 44] Q—> EDITORIAL ~9 VOL. 43 JULY 1956 NO. 7 Fro ntters T has been said that frontiers are now but half-forgotten realms in the world of history, that their eager, spiritual beckoning, their call to adventure and far places, their promise and their fulfillment will never be known to another generation. It is true that the geographical aspects of the world are fairly well known, having been viewed from the skies, and having been explored even to the lonely outposts by the brave and the venturesome. Nearly all the habitable regions are occupied, and, although some areas are still in various phases of the pioneering stage, still the noontide of seeking the unknown frontier is past. Today we are not privileged to experience the sacrifice, the wonder, and the rejoicing of the quest of a far frontier. 'The wagons are gone, the trails but faintly marked upon the prairie; the mountain peaks are named and mapped, the course of the rivers long discovered. We may feel that in our generation we have lost something of that fearless facing of the future, that undeviating purpose, that great fulfillment that led the vanguard westward. And turned the desert into gardens. Still we need never be without the heritage of the frontier. It is our great legacy from the past to be for us a source of courage and buoyant inspiration, for, though the geographical frontiers have vanished, Page 442 the frontiers of the future forever remain — the undiscovered realms of mind and spirit — individual development and group accomplishment. Along these pathways, there are still mountains to climb and wide and verdant valleys to be cultivated. Much of life is like an ever-beckoning frontier. 'Take the morning, for instance — dawn is forever a frontier, the light of day on a far peak, the joy of waking with the golden hours unfolding. No one knows in the morning what treasures of enlightenment and understanding a day may bring. Its hours are all to be discovered — "if I take the wings of the morning...." A new type of work is a frontier, or a new way of doing a familiar responsibility. A homemaker walks each day in a frontier land, for almost every hour brings some new adventure on the trail of time.. It may be only the planting of the garden, the glory of first bloom, the ripe fruit on a tree. It may be an adventure into designing or home decorating, or perhaps the making of a gift or the planning of a birthday dinner — or something more prosaic. Perfection may be in small units, and often a valley view of life may exceed in contentment the expanse that some far height reveals. How privileged is the woman who sees her children and her grandchildren embark on the frontiers of life. The mysterious world lies all around EDITORIAL the infant — to be explored — the texture of a petal, the satin lining of a quilt, the windowpane — and then all the further. Knowledge breaking upon his consciousness. Wonderful is the frontier of childhood and privileged those who may share and influence that journey which reaches through family patterns into the far eternity. Each picture first seen, all the music heard and learned, are pathways of satisfaction where, in the mind and spirit, one may feel the joy of discovery. Who has fully discovered the treasures along scriptural highways? Each reading and re-reading may become a frontier of spiritual heights. Recall the Proverb, speaking of wisdom: The Lord possessed me in the beginning of his way, before his works of old. I was set up from everlasting, from the beginning.... When there were no depths, I was brought forth; when there were no fountains abounding with water. 443 fields, nor the highest part of the dust of the world (Proverbs 8:22-26). For us in the Church, our own Relief Society, established when Nauvoo the Beautiful was a frontier city, for us the world-wide sisterhood offers a broad and shining pathway into new interests and accomplishments, a journeying into regions of the mind and spirit not known before. For all of us there are illuminating and satisfying experiences in every meeting, every activity — new friends, new thoughts, new knowledge, further enlightenment, and the ever-increasing unity of the sisterhood. Once a poet in reverie asked, "What canst thou find with seeking which hath not long been found?" There is much to be found with seeking which we have not yet experienced, and the place to find our beckoning horizons is still along the far and near frontiers. We still shall find "the heaven for height, and the hills was I brought forth. While as Big: 2), oi Gra ndfa ther s Cello Dora Toone Brough The oxen trudged along, their pace was slow, Week after week across that sun-scorched plain; Grandfather's cello tied to a wagon bow— It came out West in a pioneer train. Yes, it must come, no matter what the risk For why should he leave such a treasured thing? And cello music could be loud and brisk By campfire glow, to help them dance and sing, It found its way into a hall of fame, That grand old Playhouse known from East to West? Those music makers of the past became Most famous, too, they were among the best. Now, in his grandson's home it shall endure Close by grandmother's loom, safe and secure. Before the mountains were settled, before yet he had not made the earth, nor the earth for depth..." (Proverbs —V. P. C. Notes TO THE FIELD Buying Sexthooks for Relicf Society Lessons ROM inquiries which come to the general board it would seem that some Relief Society officers and class leaders are not acquainted with the recommended procedure for acquiring necessary textbooks for lessons. The education counselor in both the stake and ward should present to the president of the respective organizations, a list of the textbooks which will be needed to teach the Relief Society lessons during the coming season. She should then be authorized to purchase these books with funds from the Relief Society general fund. The education counselors should see that the name of the Relief Society organization is written in each book before giving it to the respective stake or ward class leader for her use. At the end of the course the education counselor is responsible for collecting the books and placing them in the Relief Society library. Where a teacher wishes to purchase her own textbook in order to be able to mark it and keep it after the conclusion of the course, it is recommended that the Relief Society organization should also purchase a textbook: 1. In order that the book may become a part of the Relief Society library; 2. To be available for use by those given special assignments; 3. Because a change of teachers might be necessary during the course, and at that time it might be impossible for the Relief Society organization to purchase a copy of the desired textbook. Education counselors are urged to safeguard Relief Society libraries and to be alert to opportunities of adding to them gifts of Church and other worthwhile books. _> Yea rs Mabel Jones Gabbott Years are but soundless shells beside life's sea, When filled with only days and days, Yet each returns a muted symphony, When crowned with kindly gracious ways. Page 444 Lily Nl Hortnagl Makes Handicraft Gifts for Many Occasions | ee Norton Scott Hortnagl of Long Beach, California, has done many kinds of work, but the "odd" minutes she has spent on her handicraft hobbies have netted her a rich reward and have given happiness to hundreds of her relatives and friends. She has made sixteen star quilts, and each of her children received a star quilt as a wedding gift. She has crocheted many doilies, pot holders, tablecloths, lace for many pillowslips, and hundreds of other items. She has made baskets from greeting cards, has painted tea towels, and has done both hand and machine sewing of all kinds. Her work has won awards at fairs on different occasions, and two years ago she won a first prize for making a man's shirt, which was exhibited at the Arizona State Fair in Phoenix. Mrs. Hortnagl was born in Colonia Dublan, Mexico, and was married to Charles B. Scott in 1910. In 1927 she was left a widow with six children. In Pomerene, Arizona, she served nine years as postmistress, and, supplementing this occupation with janitorial work at night, she made a living for her family. With the help of her thirteen-year-old son, she built a house, using second-hand brick, rocks from the hills, and sand from the creek. She mixed the concrete with a hand mixer. When she was ready for the roof, all the men from the town helped put up the gable ends ready to be shingled. While Mrs. Hortnagl was tacking on the shingles, the Relief Society visiting teachers came. '""Don't come down," they called, "we will give you our message and you can hear from where you are. The message is: 'Beautify Your Homes.' You are setting an example." In 1932 she was married to Lorenz Hortnagl and moved to California. She filled two stake missions and, in 1950, accompanied her husband to Switzerland for a twoyear mission. She has been a visiting teacher since 1910, and for thirteen years she made a one-hundred per cent record without a break. She has twenty-three grandchildren and one great-granddaughter. She has compiled a beautiful "Book of Remembrance' and loves to write. Mrs. Hortnagl says that she hopes she will never be "laid on the shelf." Page 445 Recipes From the Danish Mission Submitted by Mary Kaiser FRIKADELLER (Danish Meat Balls) Y, Ib. Veal 1 grated onion % |b. Pork 2 tbsp. Flour or 1 c. Bread crumbs 2 c. Milk salt and pepper to taste 1 egg Put veal and pork together through a grinder four or five times. Add flour or bread crumbs, milk, egg, onion, salt, and pepper. Mix thoroughly. Drop in frying pan from a large tablespoon and fry over a low flame. Serve with browned butter, potatoes, and stewed cabbage. Ropcrop MED FLODE (Fruit Pudding With Cream) 1% lbs. Red currants % c. Potato flour (or cornstarch) 128 Ibs. Raspberries vanilla 8 c. Water blanched almonds sweeten to taste The foreigner who visits Denmark remembers this dessert mainly because of its Danish name (Rodgrod med Flode) which is almost impossible for him to pronounce. His Danish friends are always greatly amused by his efforts to say it right. It is a popular dish on a hot summer day. Wash the currants and raspberries, add water, and boil. When all the juice has boiled out, remove the berries from the fire, force through a fine sieve or a cloth, and put the juice back into the pot. Sweeten to taste, and thicken with the potato flour or cornstarch, using 4 c. Thickening to every 4 c. Of juice. If potato flour is used, be sure to have juice boiling hot when it is added, and take the juice off the stove while adding the flour. If potato flour boils, the juice will be "long"—a sure sign of a bad cook in Denmark! Add the vanilla. While still hot pour into a glass bowl. When it begins to stiffen, decorate the surface with a pattern of blanched almonds. Serve with sugar and cream. SMORREBROD (Open Sandwiches) There is no doubt that Denmark's open sandwiches (Smorrebrod) are the most famous feature of the Danish kitchen. Strangely enough, they are not found elsewhere, even in neighboring countries. Danish sandwiches have hundreds of variations, and new ones are constantly being composed. From the simple, "flat," four sandwiches that office workers take with them to work and eat at their desks, accompanied by a bottle of milk, they range to the gloriously colored "high" compositions, so generous that three are enough for a meal, eaten at restaurants. In Denmark, we usually make sandwiches with dark rye bread. The bread should be made with the whole grain and should be as firm as possible, so that the slices can be quite thin. Also, white bread can be used, but it should be of heavy texture and may be toasted. Fish is usually the starter, and from there one goes to the meat and salad. Almost inevitably Danes wind up the "Smorrebrod" meal with a piece of buttered white bread on which a good cheese has been placed. Recipes for some typical Danish sandwiches follow: Page 446 RECIPES FROM THE DANISH MISSION 447 AEG 0G SILD (Eggs and Herrings) Spread slices of hard boiled egg on buttered bread and place one or more boned herrings lengthwise on the egg. Decorate with cress. REJEMAD (Shrimp Sandwich) The small Danish shrimps are extremely popular delicacies, and most Danish housewives are virtual masters at peeling them, but it is slow work for the beginner. At restaurants, shrimps are always served peeled, unless the customer specifically asks for unpeeled ones. Put a fresh leaf of lettuce on the buttered bread and top abundantly with cold boiled shrimps. DyrLaEcens NATMAD ("The Veterinarian's Midnight Snack'') Spread spiced lard on a piece of dark rye bread, and put slices of liver paste on top. Pieces of jellied consomme are placed over this, and on top, pieces of slightly salted boiled veal. Decorate with cress. RogueErortT Ost MED AEGGEBLOMME (Blue Cheese and Egg Yolk) Butter a piece of white bread and spread Danish blue cheese — or gorgonzola — in a ring, making a hollow in the center. When eating the sandwich, break the raw egg yolk and spread it across the cheese. Thin slices of radish may be used to decorate this and other kinds of cheese sandwiches. KopsupPE MED URTER 0G BOLLER (Meat Soup With Vegetables, Meat Balls, and Dumplings) Soup 8% lbs. Beef 5 _ leeks 7 qts. Water parsley 1 celeriac (a variety of celery) salt and pepper to taste 4 carrots Put the beef in water, add salt, cover, and boil for fifteen minutes. Then skim, and add celery or celeriac, carrots, leeks, and a bunch of the top of a leek, leaves from the celeriac or celery, a sprig of parsley and seasoning. When meat is tender, remove, together with the vegetables, and strain the soup. Cut the vegetables in small pieces. Meat Bays "2 Ib. Veal 2 c. Milk "2 |b. Pork 1 egg 2 tbsp. Flour salt and pepper to taste Put veal and pork together through the grinder four or five times. Add flour, milk, and eggs. Boil the meat balls by themselves, but do not add to the soup until they are done, otherwise, they will thicken the soup. Dumpiincs — 3s c. Butter 5 eggs 1 c. Flour little salt and sugar 1 c. Water Melt butter, stir in flour and add boiling water. When mixture is cool, add egg yolks and a little salt and sugar. Finally, fold in stiffly beaten egg whites. Form into 448 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1956 tiny balls with a teaspoon, and drop into boiling water. Cook slowly for a few minutes, and remove from water with a perforated spoon. Put the dumplings, the meat balls, and the vegetables in the soup and serve. Slice the beef and serve it afterwards with boiled potatoes and horse-radish sauce. AEBLEKAGE (Apple Cake) 2 Ibs. Cooking apples jelly 1 c. Melted butter whipped cream sweeten to taste vanilla dried bread crumbs Peel, core, and quarter apples. Simmer, covered in a little water, until soft. Force through a sieve and sweeten to taste. Add vanilla. Butter a fireproof dish, put layers of bread crumbs and layers of applesauce into the dish alternately, letting the bottom and the top layer be of bread crumbs. Pour the melted butter down through the apple cake, and bake for 30 minutes in a hot oven. Turn on to a plate and decorate with jelly and whipped cream. Additional whipped cream may be served in a separate dish. Serve the cake either hot or cold. KRINGLE (Knot-shaped Cake) 300 grams flour 2 eggs 300 grams butter or margarine 60 grams dry yeast 200 grams sugar egg and sugar for coating Mix flour with margarine or butter. Stir yeast with a little sugar and put it in the flour together with eggs. Roll the dough at once in two bars. Stir butter with sugar and place it on the bars. Form the bars as a knot, place them in the pan, and let them rise from three to four hours. Coat with egg and sugar. Bake in a hot oven (375°) for about 20 minutes. Note: About 28% grams equal an ounce in avoirdupois weight. For purposes of cooking measurements, it would be reliable to figure about 28 grams to an ounce. C1TRON-FROMAGE (Lemon Sponge Cream) 5 eggs 5 sheets husblas (unsweetened gelatine 100 grams sugar equal to one envelope) juice and grated peel of 1 lemon Whip egg yolks and sugar light and foamy. Add lemon juice and grated peel. Stir soaked, melted, and warmed gelatine in the eggs. Place in a cool place. When it thickens, mix carefully the stiff whipped egg whites in it. Pour into a bowl and set in a cool place until it is completely stiff. Decorate wth whipped cream. Note: If the sponge cream parts into two layers, the yolks and the whites have been mixed too early. If the gelatine thickens in fluffs or lumps, it has been too cold and added too slowly when it was mixed in the sponge cream. > Gach Day Js Mine Mary Hess Hackney As time unwinds upon life's reel, Each day is mine, and none can steal The happiness and deep content That come to me with time well spent. Heart's Bounty CHAPTER 2 Deone R. Sutherland Synopsis: Fourteen-year-old Annie Griffith is taken by her father to Salt Lake City at the invitation of the Willams family to live and be educated with their daughter Marie. Annie's family is temporarily living in the mountaims while Brother Griffith serves a mission to cut stone for the temple. Annie, almost in tears, bids goodbye to her father, and is comforted by Parker Josephson, a neighbor and friend of the Williams family. HE days turned into a pattern for Annie Griffith, and she was able to get over the first pangs of homesickness that she had felt. She longed for word of her family, and letters did come whenever anyone from the camp came to the town. She applied herself to her lessons and grew quite proud of the ease with which she sailed through her first Latin grammar. She would be reading Julius Caesar in no time, Professor Peterson said. But her heart sank as the days got crisper, and it was obvious that her father wasn't going to be able to make another trip down until spring. She hadn't really expected him, but the thought that he might, had comforted her at night those first sad days. Annie and Marie ran around the top of the carriage house spreading white sheets to dry fruit on. The apricots and corn were all long safe in the cellar, and the season for preparing for the winter, nearly over. Parker Josephson came out of his house and waved at the girls. He was with his father, and they were on their way back to the Josephson store. Both girls nearly tumbled off the roof trying to wave back. Marie called out, but her Aunt Agnes reproved her _ sharply. "They're on their way back to Brother Josephson's store; you can't delay them for foolish play. Besides, Parker has a great many things to do these last few days, and you girls must leave him alone, so he can get ready without being interrupted by your games and jokes." Marie stood up with her arms akimbo. "Aunt Agnes, what's he getting ready for?" "Now, I have let the cat out of the bag, and we'll never finish our work. It's time for your lessons in less than an hour, and we've too much to do to waste it gabbing." Aunt Agnes set her lips firmly, and Annie and Marie began to work again. Mare broke the silence once, but her Aunt Agnes again stopped her short. It wasn't until they raced back into the house for lesson time, that Marie rushed to her mother with their questions. "Why, girls, Marie dear, Parkers going back East to a university, a college. He's going to prepare himself in mathematics and the sciences so he can come home some day, and help make our own university a place to be proud of. I thought perhaps he might have told you already, Marie, but I suppose he was trying to save your feelings a few more happy days. He has been Page 449 450 such a good playmate for a little girl who had no sisters or brothers of her own. But now you have Annie." "T want Parker," Marie cried, and she burst into tears. "How long will he be gone?" Annie asked. Sister Williams stroked Marie's hair. "About three years, they say. Don't cry, Marie. He'll come back. You have other friends who love you, Marie." Marie looked up. "We can make him a present to take. Oh, Annie, let's make him something special. Only you'll have to do the sewing, because I'm such a dunce at sewing." Aunt Agnes stood in the doorway. "You're a little dunce, because you never finish anything you start. But [ll help you cut out and sew Parker a shirt, if you promise to stay with the project until it's completed." "T will, I will.' Marie danced with joy. "That's a real present he'll love, won't he, Annie?" "Yes, if we can make it nicely enough. I've helped with my brother's shirts at home, but Mama always made Daddy's shirts." "T won't let you make any mistakes." Aunt Agnes smiled at Annie's earnest concern. "You'll be able to handle everything very well, I'm sure." HE week before Parker was to leave, Brother and Sister Williams had a small dinner for him in their home. There had been a dance held especially in his honor at the Church amusement hall, but the girls had had to come home early. Parker had been very fair; he had RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1956 danced with friends his own age, but had included one dance each for Marie and Annie. Aunt Agnes had thought they were much too young for that sort of thing. The girls had lain in bed and _ talked about the dance after Marie had finally stopped grumbling about having to come home so early. "It won't be the same without Parker,' Marie lamented, turning over and resting her cheek snugly in her pillow. "No," said Annie, "it won't be the same." "Tm glad he's coming to our place last of all before he's to go. Mama and Papa have been friends with his parents before I was even born. Do you think he'll ever come back?" "Of course," said Annie who was lying on her back looking up toward the dark ceiling. "Then [I'm going to wait and marry him then," said Marie yawning. In a moment she was sound asleep, and, finally, Annie turned over and slept also. Sister Williams used her best china, the china Brother Williams had brought all the way from New York, for the special Parker dinner, as they called it. The girls flew back and forth working all day to help get the house shining and the dinner ready. 'There were no lessons that day, which made Marie jump for joy. The shirt was finished and pressed neatly and tied up in a package ready for Parker. "I'll be the one to give it to him," Marie said happily. "Annie should be the one," said Aunt Agnes, "since she did almost HEART'S BOUNTY all the work. You'll never be much of a sewer, I'm afraid, Marie." Sister Williams was brushing Marie's ringlets. "You're so hard on her, Agnes. Marie can give the shirt for both of them. Annie will be right there. He'll know they both did their best." "You'll let me, won't you, Annie?" Marie pleaded. "Of course, it doesn't matter who gives it to him." "You see!" phantly. "Do hold still," her mother pleaded. "We don't have much time to finish dressing, and you're taking all the time with your hair. Look, Annie's ready to go down and help again in the kitchen." Annie had braided her heavy black hair so tightly it pulled at her scalp. Her face was scrubbed until it shone, and the dark blue of her dress matched her eyes exactly. She followed Aunt Agnes back down the long dark stairs to the kitchen and pantry, where the main preparations for the meal were in progTess. Steam covered all the downstairs windows, and it was unbearably warm in the kitchen. 'They dared not open the outside door, because both Sister Williams and Marie were prone to lung congestion. There were beads of perspiration on Annie's brow before it was finally time to serve dinner. Brother and Sister Josephson and two other families had come to the dinner. Though the girls helped with the serving, they also ate at the large, round dinner table. Annie thought she had never tasted such delicious roast beef and Yorkshire pudding. There were so many things to learn, Marie said _ trium- 451 thought Annie. They had not been able to have many elaborate dinners in the mountains. But there were not many years left, and they would all be back together on her father's farm. She would know a great deal by then, she thought. HEY saved the presents until after dinner. 'The families gathered in the parlor for singing, and then came the moment the gitls had decided upon to present Parker with his shirt. Marie's eyes sparkled as she laid it in his lap. He untied it and declared that it was the nicest shirt he'd ever owned. Then he kissed Marie on the top of her head for a thank you, but Annie ran and hid in the kitchen when he came over to thank her, which made everyone laugh. They sang "Auld Lang Syne" and "God Be With You," and then Brother Williams said the evening prayers, with everyone kneeling against the chairs and_ loveseat. Everyone hated to say goodbye to Parker. He was such a lot of fun, and he was very industrious, everyone said. But he would be able to better serve his Church and _people with further education, and he did have a good mind. At dawn the next morning, Marie and Annie ran and hid behind the hlac bushes to watch Parker leave with his father in the buggy. The girls had agreed to say nothing, simply to hide there and watch him leave, but at the last minute, Marie had danced out into the path calling, "Goodbye, Parker, goodbye." He ran over, then, and ordered Marie back into the house before she caught her death of cold. 452 "Goodbye, little Marie," he said. "Goodbye, Annie. Why did you run and hide last might when I wanted to say goodbye?" "T don't know," Annie said, and tried to drop behind Marie. "Here, then," Parker said. "We'll shake hands before I go, anyway." Annie offered her hand while Marie hopped up and down and cried, "You will write to us, won't you, Parker?" "T surely will, if youll answer my letters. Now run back into the house both of you, or Marie's mother will never forgive me. Go on, while I watch. And no sniffling, Marie." Annie turned to follow Marie, but Parker caught her arm again. "Annie, will you still be here when I get back?" "T think so," Annie said without looking at him. "I guess you'll be all grown up then, but I hope you'll be here or not too far away, anyway." Annie tried to draw away, and this time he let her go, but he didn't turn until the big door had closed on both the girls. T was hard for Marie and Annie to concentrate on their lessons. In a few days, though, they felt less as if they had lost their only friend, and began to play again and consider that there would be a time when Parker would be coming back. By spring Annie was well into Julius Caesar and able to read it very well. Professor Peterson had nothing but praise for the results of her serious efforts. Marie would bend her golden head over her RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1956 book, stumbling on the phrases until her face would grow scarlet. Annie yearned to whisper the answers, but she was far too afraid of the wrath of their teacher. The lessons sometimes ended with Marie in a fit of tears, but, more often, Marie was indifferent. "T never want to be a teacher," she would say petulantly, when her teacher would question her why she was not better prepared. "I'm going to get married." "Do you not think you need to know anything to get married?" Professor Peterson's face would get angry. When Marie's mother sat in the room with them, the lessons went more peacefully. Often two other gitls joined them for special lessons. It was more fun in a larger group, Annie thought, and Marie did better when she wasn't really pinned down to be specific in her answers. In the spring, the girls were told that this year would finish any mathematics they were to have. Marie was delighted, but Annie stayed to talk to Professor Peterson after their lessons. "T feel I know nothing about mathematics," she explained. "I would like you to help me go on in that study next fall. I can't stop now before I've really learned anything." Professor Peterson put his finger beside his nose. "You may continue those lessons. Most certainly." He did not say it, but Annie with her quick mind was a continual delight to him. And now this. Yes, she would make a fine teacher. "The glory of God is intelligence." HEART'S BOUNTY AFTER the snow melted and the earth dried for summer, Annie began to look forward to seeing her father again. She half expected someone to bring a letter letting her know when he might be coming into Salt Lake. One afternoon after she had finished scrubbing the kitchen, the pantry, the porch, and the stairs that led down to the board walk in back of the house, she looked up to see Aunt Agnes (as she now called Marie's Aunt) beckoning her from the window. There was a stitch in her back when she stood up, and she hadn't washed her hands yet, but she went right back up the stairs. She rinsed her hands in the kitchen and Aunt Agnes came to the doorway in some agitation. "Annie, dear, do hurry. There's news of your father in the parlor." Annie never bothered to dry her hands at all. A letter? Here? She ran down the hall toward the front of the house, seeking Sister Williams who must have the letter. "No, not a letter,' Aunt Agnes called, but Annie dashed into the parlor and almost stumbled over her father sitting quietly talking to Sister Williams. He caught her in his arms and kissed her soundly and made her sit down. "Oh, Father," Annie cried, "I was going to impress you so with my lady-like behavior when you came, and now I've spoiled everything." "You did come in a bit swiftly," her father laughed. "But Sister Williams has told me enough to make me very happy and proud of you, Annie." Annie's eyes thanked Sister Williams. It was wonderful to visit 453 with her father again, and get news of her mother and her brothers. They talked of how quickly the year had gone by, and how quickly the next three years would pass, and then they would be back together again at their own farm, north of Great Salt Lake City. Annie would be able to teach somewhere close by, or perhaps stay at home and help her mother. Annie thought that would be wonderful. It was sad to see her father go again in two days, but Annie didn't need anyone this time to help her through the parting, as Parker had helped her the year before. She cried a little in her pillow at night, but woke with a happy heart and a zest for all the things she and Marie were required to do each day. She read the Aeneid the next winter, and began Greek. She had always been excellent in spelling and reading and was doing well, Professor Peterson thought, in her mathematics—for a girl. "You could make a first-rate scholar,' Professor Peterson told her once. "But Marie, you're dawdling all your time and talent away." Marie never heard. She daydreamed, with her curls caught between her pretty hands. "Annie, which trim shall I have on my new dress, the pink lace or the brown?" Professor Peterson stood up in exasperation, and the lessons were over for another day. Annie worked all summer over presents to send to her family. She knitted a warm woolen petticoat and shawl for her mother, and made shirts and socks for her broth- 454 ers and father. Sometimes she was desperate because she felt she might never finish them before the last wagon went up to the little camp in the mountains. There was little time when she was not working or studying or accompanying Marie somewhere. But she did get her bundle completed and firmly packed and sent off with Brother Harris who had his small family up in the mountains, too. Annie felt dull and just a little sad, with her sewing finished and no new project immediately in sight. 'The days were getting cold and sharp when Marie and Annie received their first letter from Parker Josephson. Marie squealed with delight. "Tsn't he kind and thoughtful to include both our names on the letter, Annie? Isn't he wonderful?" He told of the big Eastern university and the pretty countryside, and how much more foliage there was back there than at home. He said he missed everyone very much, but especially the jokes and fun of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1956 his two little friends. There was also a long letter to Marie's parents and, of course, mail for his own family and other friends his own age. "We must write him back at once," Marie said. "You can help me with a letter, Annie. Help me think of things to say...." "And how to spell the words?" asked Aunt Agnes briskly. "Yes," laughed Marie. "I'll write the letter. What do you want me to tell Parker for you, Annie?" Aunt Agnes bit a thread with her teeth. 'Marie, maybe Annie wants to write her own letter." "No, that's all right," Annie said, not looking up from her crocheting. "Marie can tell him hello for me." Marie danced off to get the materials for writing from her mother. Annie pressed her lips together firmly and blinked back the sting against her eyelids. It was foolish to be so sensitive. She would have to learn to be less so. (To be continued) <> Jn the Quiet Harbor Mabel Law Atkinson Within the harbor of tranquility I judge the ravages of pirate years Less harshly than the while they plundered me, Flaunting their dreaded gonfalon of fears; For now I know the wise, far-seeing Pilot Chartered the course my fragile craft should take To come at last unto fulfillment's islet Where starlings call a challenge from the brake. Where once the winds of desolation moaned To mock my cry, re-echoes lyric song— Mute carillons of angels were intoned Within despair to guide my craft along. The dreams I thought the pirate years had killed' ' Now in thé quiet harbor are fulfilled. ° BRIM CUT DOUBLE Bi" FOLD are | BACK H ig No 3 Y E ae \| i |o | rm ec <— 34" STRIP FACED \< 14" TO UNDERSIDE TO \ GATHER TO FORM \ CAPE TIE y Jl-—F ACE OR HEM. Ce Sew a Sunbonnet Marijane Morris iy the women of America were ever to need a common symbol — it could be the sunbonnet. The broad-brimmed bonnets, in some form or another, were always present whenever something really important happened to America. Curiously, however, little information is available on them as a type of headdress. And yet, they have endured through the years and are still a favorite of many women. Those who make and wear sunbonnets today may not do as grandmother did, match them to their dresses, but you can be sure they know their value in warding off the sun's rays and frustrating the insects. Surely, the sunbonnet has earned more than mention in a dictionary. The pattern here is a basic one consisting of five pieces: the brim, the back, the three-fourths inch deep strip sewed to the underside back to be used to gather up the cape, and the two ties. It requires one-half yard of any kind of light-weight material, print, organdy, cretonne, etc.: The brim is made double. The back is gathered to the underside of the brim, and the right side of the brim stitched down on top, as you would attach a collar. Or skirt band. ) ~ Page 455 Sandwiches Rhea H. Gardner Extension Service Home Management and Furnishings Specialist, Utah State Agricultural College The purpose of a sandwich determines the kind and amount of filling to be used, as well as its size. A sandwich can supply most of the needs of a good meal, or it may be a light accompaniment to a salad, soup, or beverage. CHEESE FILLINGS: PIMIENTO CHEESE Locs Cut a sandwich loaf into thin slices. Trim off crusts. Spread each slice with cream cheese pimiento filling. Roll up like a jelly roll. Circle with bacon; fasten ends with toothpick, then broil till golden on all sides and bacon is crisp. Serve at once with a crisp salad. SPECIAL CHEESE Blend together one 3-0z. Package cream cheese, 1 tbsp. Chopped pimiento, 1% tbsp. Chopped olives, and % tbsp. Chopped nuts. SNAPPY CHEESE Wash, dry, and finely chop 1 c. Water cress. Add 3 tbsp. Cream cheese, % tbsp. Worcestershire and 1 tbsp. French dressing. RoQuEFORT SPECIAL Blend 1 small package (3 oz.) cream cheese with 2 0z. Roquefort or blue cheese. Season with % tsp. Grated onion, % tsp. Worcestershire and % tsp. Salt. Spread on bread. Cut. Sprinkle each sandwich with paprika and place under broiler to brown. VARIETY CHEESE SPREAD This easily prepared spread is excellent for sandwiches and hors d'oeuvres. 'The possibilities of seasoning it are endless. 1 pound cheddar-type cheese — any smooth melting cheese may be used. Process cheese is excellent. 1 tall can evaporated milk. Grate cheese or cut in small pieces. Put cheese and milk in top part of double boiler; cook over hot water, stirring constantly just until the cheese melts. From heat and season to taste. Remove It is a good idea to divide the mixture into 2 or 3 portions and season each differently. Seasonings: Minced chives, pimiento, or parsley Chopped olives or celery Pickle relish Prepared mustard Caraway seeds CHICKEN SALAD ROLLS Combine 1 c. Each minced chicken and celery, and % c. Each chopped nuts and shredded carrots with % c. Thick sour cream, 2 tbsp. French dressing; 1 tsp. Each salt and dry mustard, and % tsp. Sage. Spread on 8 buttered rolls. Page 456 SANDWICHES 457 CHICKEN SALAD Combine 1% c. Chopped cooked chicken, % c. Chopped celery, 2 tbsp. Chopped olives, % tsp. Salt. Mix with enough mayonnaise to moisten — about 4 tbsp. Add a crisp leaf of lettuce or shredded lettuce to each sandwich. ('Tuna may be used in place of chicken.) CHICKEN AND ALMOND Combine 1 c. Chopped cooked chicken, 4% c. Chopped toasted almonds or peanuts, 3 tbsp. Mayonnaise, 3 tbsp. Sour cream, 1 tbsp. Lemon juice, salt and pepper to taste. Mix well. CHICKEN TREAT Use two parts each of chopped cooked chicken and broken California walnuts with 1 part drained crushed pineapple, moistened with salad dressing. CornepD BEEF Combine 1 c. Chopped corned beef, % c. Chopped celery, 1 tsp. Grated onion, 1 tbsp. Prepared mustard, 2 tbsp. Mayonnaise. Mix well. Tuna SPECIAL Remove excess oil from canned tuna fish. Flake fish and combine 1 c. With % c, each of chopped celery, nuts, and olives; add % tsp. Salt and mayonnaise, enough to moisten — about 4 tbsp. ORANGE CRUNCH SANDWICHES 3 oranges, 1 tbsp. Butter, 2 c. Granulated sugar, 1 c. Boiling water. Put orange rinds and all through food chopper, using coarse blade. Mix all ingredients in saucepan. Boil about 15 minutes or until mixture is thick. Store in covered jar in refrigerator. When ready to use, spread slices of raisin bread with butter. Mix chunk style peanut butter into as much of the orange mixture as you intend to use. Spread on bread. SANDWICH FILLINGS SUITABLE FOR FREEZING: BEEF AND KETCHUP 1% c. Cooked ground beef % tsp. Salt 1 tsp. Worcestershire ¥ c. Ketchup 1 tbsp. Softened butter Cornep BEEF 1 ¢. (12 oz. Can) corned beef, chopped 2 tbsp. Pickle relish % c. Cooked salad dressing "2 tsp. Celery salt CHICKEN OR TUNA AND PICKLE 1% c. Cooked, chopped chicken or tuna % c. Boiled salad dressing or undiluted % c. Chopped pickle ~ © cream of chicken soup 1 tsp. Worcestershire sauce % tsp. Celery salt Selected Data—Annual Report 1055 REEF Society continued to advance in nearly all phases of the program during 1955, its 113th year, according to the activities and achievements reflected in this report compiled from the annual reports of 223 stakes and 42 missions. Many worthwhile and inspiring activities, particularly in compassionate service, were disclosed by the narrative sections of the reports. _. There were 7,213 members added to Relief Society during the year, bringing the total membership to 163,513—a considerable number being young women living in foreign lands to which their husbands have been assigned in the armed forces. 'These young women not only enjoy the benefits of the Relief Society program themselves, but are introducing them to their neighbors among whom they are temporarily living. While the growth reflected in 1955 is commendable, it is less than 1954, and so our goal— every Latter-day Saint woman a member of Relief Society—should continue to receive constant, serious consideration. In 1955, 103,467 Relief Society members participated in leadership activities, bringing opportunity for development to 6,269 more women than were reached by these activities in 1954. The overall average attendance at regular meetings showed a slight decrease, though there was a slight increase in the missions. Theology and testimony meetings continued to enjoy the largest attendance, followed, in order, by work, literature, and social science meetings. We are particularly gratified to see that work meeting, through its varied program designed to meet the needs of all homemakers, old and young, is bringing into the society many young women interested in making their homes attractive and happier. Visiting teacher meetings increased 760 in the stakes and 376 in the missions, and the increase of 163,079 visits to Latter-day Saint families by 4,873 more visiting teachers in 2,617 more districts, reflects steady progress in this vital activity. Compassionate services continued to receive increased attention as indicated by 12,421 more visits to the sick and homebound, and ten more days care of the sick, over 1954. The increase in days care of the sick, while small, is commendable in view of the present trend toward hospitalization. The narrative sections of the reports contained many inspiring and heartwarming incidents of varied types of solicitude and help for the aged as well as for neighbors and friends. All this is evidence that the grand key words of the society as given by the Prophet Joseph Smith — "Said Jesus: 'Ye shall do the work which ye see me do' " — continue to have place and purpose in the hearts of Relief Society members. This is the second year we have received reports on the Singing Mothers choruses. These showed 2,005 choruses in the stakes and missions, an increase of 228, with approximately 30,983 singers, an increase of 3,703 over 1954. These are very encouraging increases in this lovely and satisfying activity which gives added unity, spirituality, and cultural benefits to those who listen as well as to those who sing, and, in addition, brings music into the homes of the participants. Each year sees an expansion of Relief Society's program and influence, not only in the established stakes and missions, but in newly created stakes and in missions in remote lands and islands not heretofore reached, and so our great band of sisterhood gradually is encircling the world. The general board gratefully acknowledges the support of all those who have so unselfishly given of their time, talents, minds, and hearts in advancing the Relief Society program of raising human lives to higher and happier levels. With the sustained loyalty of its devoted workers, Relief Society will continue to do so. Margera 0. Ciekering General Secretary-Treasurer Page 458 ANNUAL REPORT MEMBERSHIP — 1955 334,906 L. D. S. Families +- 16,216 over 163,513 R. S. Members Je 7,213 over or 48.82% of potential membership In Stakes 276,077 L. D. S. Families ok 11,495 over 133,228 R. S. Members 2 6,166 over or 48.26% of potential membership In Missions 58,829 L. D. S. Families + 4,721 over 30,285 R. S. Members ae 1,047 over or 51.48% of potential membership LEADERSHIP ACTIVITIES 459 1954 1954 1954 1954 1954 1954 103,467 R. S. Members Participated in Leadership Activities — 1955 97,198 in 1954 1955 General Officers.............-------0-+-++ 26 Stake Officers _..2...2..2--2---.--:---+-+++ 2,579 Mission Officers........-.--.---------++ 697 Local Executive Officers............ 13,882 Other Officers............-.---::00+ 7,309 Class Leaders............2..2:.2010000- 13,462 1954 24 2,490 607 13,524 7,011 12,903 Visiting Teachers......-..-------------- 65,512. 60,639 460 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1956 GEOGRAPHIC DISTRIBUTION OF RELIEF SOCIETY ORGANIZATIONS AND MEMBERS—1955 Location Stakes Missions Totals OrganiMembers OrganiMembers OrganiMembers zations zations zations United States and Territories Alabama 14 177 14 177 Alaska 4 119 4 119 Arizona 105 6,385 23 437 128 6,822 Arkansas 7 110 7 110 California 298 18,232 33 861 331 19,093 Colorado 25 1,348 26 615 51 1,963 Connecticut 4 80 4 80 Delaware 3 43 3 43 District of Columbia 3 110 4) 110 Florida 9 364 35 632 44 996 Georgia 3 94 19 382 22 476 Hawaii 16 739 41 810 57 1,549 Idaho 329 20,113 5 99 334 20,212 Illinois 8 311 28 523 36 834 Indiana 1 26 22 542 23 568 Iowa 10 205 10 205 Kansas 21 312 21 312 Kentucky 22 358 22 358 Louisiana 9 238 8 156 17 394 Maine 11 127 11 127 Maryland 4 268 1 13 5 281 Massachusetts 11 192 11 192 Michigan 9 272 5 118 14 390 Minnesota 15 333 15 333 Mississippi 8 118 7 118 15 236 Missouri 21 435 21 435 Montana 12 368 50 1,130 62 1,498 Nebraska 13 194 13 194 Nevada 41 2,316 41 2,316 New Hampshire 3 22 3 32 New Jersey 2 85 a 129 6 214 New Mexico 18 649 30 516 48 1,165 New York 5 241 21 405 26 646 North Carolina 40 816 40 816 North Dakota 6 62 6 62 Ohio 1 33 21 501 22 534 Oklahoma 22 339 22 339 Oregon 54 2,739 23 494 77 3,233 Pennsylvania 1 42 JE. 432 25 474 Rhode Island --- 2 12 2 12 South Carolina 12 419 10 139 22 558 ANNUAL REPORT 461 Location Stakes Missions Totals OrganiMembers OrganiMembers OrganiMembers zations zations zations United States and Territories South Dakota 9 117 9 117 Tennessee 13 199 13 199 Texas 38 1,134 34 554 72 1,688 Utah 911 67,880 911 67,880 Vermont Zo 19 2 19 Virginia 5 271 22 443 27 714 Washington 61 2,947 8 156 69 3,103 West Virginia 10 203 10 203 Wisconsin 3 115 13 168 16 283 Wyoming 52 2,785 16 308 68 3,093 Total United States 2,043 130,642 792 15,165 2,835 145,807 Other Countries Argentina 21 424 21 4a Australia 24 531 24 531 Austria 6 127 6 er Belgium 11 86 11 86 Brazil 15 143 15 143 Canada 57, 2,436 67 1,191 124 3,627 Costa Rica a 15 2 15 Denmark 17 359 17 359 England 71 937 71 937 Finland (1954) 13 168 13 168 France (1954) 14 111 14 111 Germany — East (1954) 95 3,777 95 3,777 Germany — West 65 906 65 906 Guatemala 5 98 5 98 Honduras 1 5 1 5 Ireland 3 Si 3 51 Japan 20 245 20 285 Mexico 4 150 56 1,183 60 1,333 Netherlands 22 279 Ze 279 New Zealand 70 998 70 998 Nicaragua 1 5 1 5 Norway (1954) 13 343 13 343 Panama Canal Zone 2 25 2 25 Puerto Rico 2 17 2 17 Salvador 3 37 3 37 Samoa (1954) 50 686 50 686 Scotland 6 8l 6 81 Sweden 41 518 41 518 Switzerland 26 388 26 388 Tahiti 15 170 15 170 Tonga 40 619 40 ' 619 Union of South Africa 15 199 15 199 Uruguay 24 364 24 364 Wales fi 34 4 34 Total Other Countries 61 2,586 840 15,120 901 17,706 GRAND TOTAL 2,104 133,228 1,632 30,285 3,736 163,513 MEETINGS — 1955 176,358 Total Meetings Held in Wards and Branches 120,008 Regular Meetings Increase or Increase Decrease In Stakes Over 1954 In Missions Over 1954 Theology 16,354 + 788 13,921 + 220 Work 23,347 + 1,263 15,931 — 50 Literature 15,967) + 743 10,944 + 352 (Optional Lessons in Missions) Social Science 13,882 + 486 9,662 — 159 (Optional Lessons in Missions) 19,790 Visiting Teacher Meetings Over 1984 In Stakes 20... Ee ece esse ceeeeeeeees 15,125 + 760 In Missions............222--.--0--0000++ 4,665 + 376 36,560 All Other Meetings Increase Over 1954 In Stakes 21,474 | + 1,370 In Missions.... 15,086 + 736 462 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1956 ANNUAL REPORT 463 ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS — 1955 Regular Meetings 58,633 or 35.86% Total Average Attendance in 1955 56,166 or 35.93% in 1954 Average Attendance Total Average Increase In Stakes In Missions Attendance Over 1954 Theology 51,357 12,389 63,746 +2,316 Work 46,160 11,859 58,019 +3,442 Literature 45,148 11,554 56,702 +2,804 Social Science 43,731 11,014 54,745 +1,180 VISITING TEACHER MEETINGS 33,238 or 50.74% Total Average Attendance in 1955 31,217 or 51.48% in 1954 Average Attendance Total Average Increase In Stakes In Missions Attendance Over 1954 29,401 3,837 33,238 +2,021 VISITING TEACHER SERVICE 1955 1954 over 1964 Total Family Visits 2,797,264 2,634,185 +163,079 Visiting Teachers 65,512 60,639 -+ 4,873 Districts 35,045 32,428 4+ 2,617 Families Visited At Home 1,873,610 1,764,915 -+108,695 Not Home 923,654 869,270 + 54,384 8.35 Av. Visits were made to each L. D. S. Family in 1955 8.27, in 1954 SEWING SERVICE — 1955 Increase 1955 1954 "Hb cerease Total Articles Completed 313,495 298,005 -+15,490 Av. Number of Women Sewing Monthly at Work Meeting....... 45,888 45,158 + 730 Kinds of Articles Completed: Quilts 2. 18,367 17,165 + 1,202 Children's Clothing.... 30,664 29,079 + 1,585 - Women's Clothing... 43,644 41,463 + 2,181 Men's Clothing............ 2,505 3,057 — 552 Household Furnishings 99,711 93,120 + 6,591 Miscellaneous Articles 118,604 114,121 -+ 4,483 COMPASSIONATE SERVICE — 1955 Increase 1955 1954 over 1984 Visits to Sick and Homebound...... 247,878 235,457 +12,421 Days Care of Sick 25,510 25,500 + 10 Number of Funerals at Which Relief Society Assisted.. 7,168 6561 + 607 Dressing for Burial.............. 656 678 — 22 464 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1956 CHURCH WELFARE SERVICE — 1955 Increase 1955 1954. Reeeass Average Number of Women Participating in Welfare Sewing at Work Meeting.... 8,268 8,648 — 380 Average Number of Women Participating in Welfare Sewing at Sewing Center........ 2,374 3,178 — 804 Average Number of Women Participating in Welfare Projects Other FAMILY WELFARE SERVICE — 1955 Increase 1955 1954. Over 1984 Number of Initial Family Visits Under DiNumber of Subsequent FY}: Number Visited Who i f \ Gave Service on -@ \) Church Welfare Be) OPrrojects ww. 2,395 2,299 + 96 Number of Women Visited Who Sewed at Work Meeting........ 2,243 2,246 — 3 Number of Women Visited Who Sewed for Themselves and Families _..0.00002.2222.--- 2,713 2,774 — 61 ANNUAL REPORT Than Sewing................. 18,077 16,243 rection of Bishop........11,093 10,983 or Follow-up Visits....27,518 26,874 465 -- 1,834 + 110 |) )6ae 466 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1956 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL REPORT FOR STAKES AND MISSIONS Receipts and Disbursements — 1955 Cash Balance on Hand, January 1........$ 1,087,379.38 PRECEDES nc etcenernnc ene 1,668,621.55 $ 2,756,000.93 Cash Balance on Hand, December 31.$ 1,163,953.92 Assets and Liabilities — December 31, 1955 Assets — agCash Balance on Hand, December 31..$ 1,163,953.92 "Wheat Trust Fund Deposited at Presiding Bishop's Office ~................ 422,912.22 Other Invested Funds (Savings Bonds, etc.) 2....... Cccccceeceeeeceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee 86,001.27 Real Estate and Buildings —....... W... 87,963.05 Furniture and Fixtures 0.020020... 814,414.03 Other Assets 02.00.... Teccsececeeceeceeceeeeeeeees 170,650.28 Total Assets -00....... Ccccceceeceeeeeceeees$ 2,745,894.77 Liabilities Accounts Payable ~..0...22.....2-..-.---------0-++$ 2,605.14 Balance Net Worth -...002...2--2.-..2s2-0c00-+ 2,743,289.63 Total Liabilities and Net Worth.$ 2,745,894.77 = REPORT OF FUNDS FOR NEW RELIEF SOCIETY BUILDING 1947 — 1955 Receipts. Contributions...............--ae mh |$ 563,142.98 Proceeds from Sale of NAS te Died NOL Te ---- nage --~-—----- nace 3,594.50 Titel Recep ae...$ 586,766.64 Disbursements Including Construction Expense.............--------+ 407,072.92 Cash Balance December 31, 1955....$ 179,693.72 Disbursements _.....-.....2-22-------0--eeeeeeeeeeeeee TrHtSP ORO... Ccc -..---nnce------cceaneeses ole -- 1,592,047.01 ~ 20,029.16 COMPARATIVE aie Om i a STATISTICAL DATA -19 1955 1954 Changes 1954 to 1955 Number Number Number or or or Amount Amount Amount Per Cent Organizations Stakes and Missions, Total........ 265 258 + oe of Stakes 2.2.. Ceceeceeeeeceeceeteeeeeeees 223 216 + yee St 2H Missions __........-.----------s+000++0000+" BZ 42 — — Vitel nn cen nr nciege ne cect en eo 3,736 3,601 + 135 + 3.75 Wards and Branches in Stakes 2,104 2,023 + 81 + 4.00 Branches in Missions................ 1,632 1,578 +L 54 1 3.42 Membership Total 163,513 156,300 + 7,213 + 4.61 See 133,228 127,062 + 6,166 + 4.85 Missions.........-.---------2-+-sse0+eeeeeeeee* 30,285 29,238 +- 1,047 + 3.58 General Officers and Board Members................-+-+ 26 24 + 2 + 8.33 Stake Officers and Board Members.................-++ 2,579 2,490 +- 89 + 3.57 Mission Presidents and Other Officers _....2...--.--:0++- 697 607 + 90 + 14.83 Ward and Branch Executive Officers................ 13,882 13,524 + 358 + 2.65 Other Officers -.0..2...... Ceeeeeeeeee 7,309 ZOU -— 298 ++ 4.25 Class Leaders..00.22.22.220220.222200--+ 13,462 12,903 + 559 + 4.33 Visiting Teachers.................... 65,512 60,639 + 4,873 + 8.04 All Other Members.................. 60,046 59,102 —- » 944+ 1.60 L. D. S. Families—T otal 334,906 318690 + 16,216 + 5.09 In Stakes -.......22.22.2cecceceteteceeeeeeeeee 276,077 264,582 + 11,495 + 4.34 In Missions....................----------+-+e+ 58,829 54,108 +- 4,721 + 8.73 Meetings and Attendance 1. Meetings Held, Total.............. 181,651 174,733 + 6,918 + 3.96 General Board Meetings........ 31 29 + 2 + 6.90 Relief Society General Conference.......2...2-.--sce-eeeee 1 1 — — Group Stake Conventions...... 120 112 + ersiee7.14 In Stakes and Missions............ 5,141 5,8 -—- 23r4 «45 Stake and Mission District Board Meetings................ 2,883 oles 92 + 3.30 Stake and Ward Officers (Union) Meetings...........- 2,258 2,327 — 69 — 2.97 In Wards and Branches.......... 176,358 169,473 + 6,885 +. 4.06 Regular Meetings for Members.........-..22------0-0+-+ 120,008 116,365 + 3,643 + 3.13 March, November Sundays and Other Special Meetings ~...-.....-.2----.------+ 12,959 11,518 + 1,441 +12.51 Visiting Teachers Meetings.. 19,790 18,654 + 1,136 + 6.09 Preparation Meetings _......: 18,496 18,013 + 483 + 2.68 Relief Society Conferences.. 3,192 3,002 + 190 + 6.33 R. S. Conf. Preliminar Meetings.................-_—— 1,913 1,921 — 8 —.42 ANNUAL REPORT 467 468 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1956 1955 1954 Changes 1954 to 1955 Number Number Number or or or Amount Amount Amount Per Cent 2. Average Attendance at Regular Meetings for Members.... 58,633 56,166 + 2,467 + 4.39 In Stakes -2..0.22..2-2e-ceeeeeeeeeeeeeeees 46,599 44,650 + 1,949 + 4.37 In Missions ~...........22-..-------------++ 12,034 11516 + 518 + 4.50 3. Per Cent of Members Represented by Average Attendance at Regular Meetings _.............. 35.86% 35.93% In Stakes -0..0.......-ceeceeceeeeeeeeeeeees 34.989, 35.14% In Missions 39.745, 39.3897 4. Average Attendance at Visiting Teachers Meetings............ 33,238 31,217 + 2,021 +. 6.47 5. Per Cent of Visiting Teachers Represented by Average Attendance «.....2..2.2..2eeeeeeeee 50.74% 51.48% Visits by Stake and Mission Officers 1. To Wards and Branches........ 24,864 23,411 + 1,453 + 6.21 To Wards by Stake Officers.. 19,309 18,201 + 1,108 + 6.09 To Branches by Mission and District Officers _......20 000.00. 5,555 5,210 + 345 + 6.62 Activities 1. Visiting Teaching: Number of Visiting Teacher Districts -.....2..2.22.-.22-2---0+ 35,045 32,428 + 2,617 + 8.07 Family Visits — Total............ 2,797,264 2,634,185 + 163,079 + 6.19 Home _....-.. Eeeeeeceeeceeeeeeeeeeees 1,873,610 1,764,915 -+-108,695 + 6.16 Not Home....0.....--.----222--+- 923,654 869,270 + 54,384 + 6.26 Per Cent at Home................ 66.98% 67.00% Number Communications in Bieu of Visits......2......--... 42,798 32,910 + 9,888 +30.05 2. Educational Meetings: Average Attendance at Relief Society.....-..-.-----:--lceeeeeeeeeeeeeee Theology ~.....--.-.---.------20--+ 63,746 61,430 + 2,316 + 3.77 Work (Sewing)............-..--. 58,019 54,50 lee + Baa? + 63) Literature -.......22.2--.2------se00 56,702 53,898 + 2,804 + 5.20 Social Science -...............--.--- 54,745 53,565 + 1,180 + 2.20 3. Sewing Service at Meetings: Average Number of Women Sewing Monthly.................. 45,888 45,158 + 730 + 1.62 Total Articles Completed...... 313,495 298,005 + 15,490 + 5.20 Kind of Articles: 0 18,367 17,165 + 1,202 + 7.00 Children's Clothing........ 30,664 29,079 + io85.* 525 Women's Clothing.......... 43,644 41,463 + 2,181 + 5.26 Men's Clothing...............- 2,505 3,057 — 552 —18.06 Household Furnishings.... 99,711 93,120 + 6,591 + 7.08 Other (Miscellaneous).... 118,604 114,121 + 4,483 + 3.93 1955 1954 Changes 1954 to 1955 Number Number Number or or or Amount Amount Amount Per Cent 4. Compassionate Service: Number Days Care of the Sick 25,510 25,500 + i et Number of Bodies Dressed for Burial _.0o........ Eeeeeeeee cece 656 678 — oe Number of Funerals at Which Relief Society Assisted...... 7,168 6,561 + 607 + 9.25 5. Church Welfare Services: Average Number Women Participating in Welfare Sewing at Work Meeting................. 8,268 8,648 — 380 — 4.39 Average Number Women Participating in Welfare Sewing at Sewing Center WW... 2,374 3,178 — 804 —25.30 Average Number Women Participating in Welfare Projects Other Than Sewing....... 18,077 16,243 + 1,834 +11.29 6. Family Welfare Service: Number Initial Visits Under Direction of Bishop _............ 11,093 10,983 + 110 + 1.00 Number of Subsequent or Follow-up Visits 20.02.0000... 27,518 26,874 + 644 + 2.40 Number Visited Who Gave Service on Church Welfare ProjectS oo... Eee eee 2,395 2,299 + 96 + 4.18 Number of Women Visited Who Sewed at Work Meet- 00 2,243 2,246 — 3— 13 Member of Women Visited Who Sewed for Themselves and Families 00.2.0... 2,713 2,774 — 61 — 2.20 Total Number of Wards and Branches With Lists of Nurses 2,190 2,043 + on (ee Wards and Branches in Stakes 1,673 1,566 + 107 + 6.83 Mission Branches.................... 517 477 + 40 + 8.39 Total Number of Wards and © Branches Having Singing Mothers Choruses.................... 2,005 1777 + 228 +12.83 Wards and Branches in Stakes 1,600 1,430 + 170 +11.89 Mission Branches.................... 405 347 + 58 + 16.71 Total Approximate Number of Singers oo... Eeee ce eee 30,983 27,280 + 3,703 +13.57 Wards and Branches in Stakes 26,683 23,095 + 3,588 + 15.54 Mission Branches................... 4,300 4,185 + 115 + 2.75 Magazine 'Relief Society Magazine Subscriptions 2022... Eeseeeeee 135,726 128,868144-6,857144 5.32 Finances Cash Receipts -.............$1,668,621.55 $1,517,003.50 +$151,618.05 ++ 9.99 ANNUAL REPORT Visits to Sick and Homebound Cash Disbursements... 1,592,047.01 Net Assets 20.02.0000... 2,743,289.63 469 247,878 235,457 + 12,421 + 5.28 1,466,112.69 + 125,934.32 + 8.59 2,633,414.03 + 109,875.60 + 4.17 \\ FROM THE FIELD [7 Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1950, page 278, and the Handbook of Instructions, page 123. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Rose B. Astle SOUTH LOS ANGELES STAKE (CALIFORNIA) SINGING MOTHERS FURNISH MUSIC FOR PATRIOTIC PROGRAM "LAND OF THE FREE," March 16, 1956 Ruth Haycock, the chorister, is seated at the right on the front row, and the organist, Lillian Carsey, is seated next to Sister Haycock. Rose B. Astle, President, South Los Angeles Stake Relief Society, reports the activities of these Singing Mothers: "They furnished music for a patriotic program en-- titled "Land of the Free," honoring our ward Rclicf Society officers, Magazine representatives, and our elderly people. They also furnished music for our recent stake quarterly conference, and in several of our wards they have sung for sacrament meetings. They will sing for our coming Relief Socicty convention, where our stake will be host to Inglewood and Los Angeles Stake Relief Societies." Page 470 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 47] Photograph submitted by Christie H. Haynes NEVADA STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY THIRTIETH ANNIVERSARY SOCIAL HONORS FORMER PRESIDENTS, March 23, 1956 Standing, left to right, former presidents: Mary E. Horlacher; Louisa Johnson; Anna M. Aljets; Erma A. Erickson; Hope G. Broadbent; Lucille Horton; Koa L. Taylor; Marietta T. Call; Sylvia H. Johnson; Christie H. Haynes, present President, Nevada Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Elaine B. Curtis HOLLADAY STAKE (UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, March 18, 1956 Seated at the organ, left to right: Wilma B. Bunker, chorister; Maurine W. Keyes, pianist; Theo C. Eves, organist. Two hundred Singing Mothers presented the music for quarterly conference at the time of the organization of the Holladay Stake. Wood fiber corsages were made by the stake board members and presented to each Singing Mother. Holladay Stake was formerly part of Cottonwood Stake. Elaine B. Curtis is president of Holladay Stake Relief Society. 472 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1956 Photograph submitted by Jenna Vee Hall GOODING STAKE (IDAHO), JEROME SECOND WARD RELIEF SOCIETY ANNIVERSARY PARTY, March g, 1956 Jenna Vee Hall, President, Gooding Stake Relief Society, reports the success and happiness occasioned by this delightful party: "A turkey dinner was served to 175 members of the ward. The tables were decorated in the Relief Society colors, blue and gold. 'The centerpiece depicted the various departments of Relief Society by means of dolls carrying articles representative of the different activities. Each separate doll was attached to a center doll by white mbbons. The center doll represented Relief Society, with the motto: 'Charity Never Faileth.' Daffodils in blue vases were also used. Special guests were the Gooding Stake presidency and their wives and the husbands of the stake Relief Society presidency. These guests are seated at the head table. The party created a good feeling among the ward members and the sisters felt that their time was well spent in making preparations for the occasion. Officers of the Jerome Second Ward Relief Society are: Idella Walker, President; Virgie Packer, First Counselor; LaVerl Johnson, Second Counselor; Eva Johnson, Secretary," Photograph submitted by Fern Horton SANTAQUIN-TINTIC STAKE (UTAH), EUREKA WARD ANNIVERSARY PARTY, March 17, 1956 Front row, seated, left to right: Grace Atherley, work meeting leader; Trina Peterson; Mildred Garrity; Ruby Robinson; Alice Jamison; Elna C. Bird, First Counselor; NOTES FROM THE FIELD 473 Marene Bird; Ella H. Sandstrom, President; Beatrice Boss, Second Counselor; Ruby Bigler, Secretary-Treasurer; Hilda Webb; Sarah Sanderson. Second row, standing, left to right: Sylvia Childs; Erma Gourley; Mildred Kay, literature class leader; Janet Lee; Rhoda Bell, visiting teacher message leader; Margaret Brady, program chairman; Grace Chatwin, theology class leader; Ada Cherry; Maude Scofield; Mathena Dalton; Stella Jones; Clara Garbett; Kate Elhott. Third row, standing, left to right: Pearl Forsey; Elva Webb; Valene Livingston, Kate Ames; Mayme Wirthlin, chorister; Mary Garbett, organist; Celestia Thompson; Nellie Laird; LaRue Fox; Genevieve Sanderson. Fourth row, standing, left to right: Alice Daniels; Delores Robinson, Magazine representative; Blanche Beck; Joan Dale, social science class leader; Donna Paxman, bazaar chairman. Fern Horton is president of Santaquin-Tintic Stake Relief Society. Op 5; 3 lg if lodies, Modes Ragrem. Ga eg get Hines Pepe t Te eal ae THEA GITE MSH Photograph submitted by Ione J. Simpson SOUTH IDAHO FALLS STAKE (IDAHO) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT SPRING CONCERT "MELODIES AND MODES," March 29, 1956 Front row, seated, beginning sixth from the left: Sara Ker, stake organist; Florine Berntson, who acted as pianist for the chorus; Barbara Anderson, stake chorister; Eva Wallace, stake work meeting leader, center, back row. Ione J. Simpson, President, South Idaho Falls Stake Relief Society, reports: "Sharing honors with the Singing Mothers were the ward work meeting departments under the able leadership of Eva Wallace. Results of the work of the teachers of ward sewing and tailoring classes were shown as models displayed clothing made for all occasions, the modesty of which lost nothing in style. Tables of articles made in work meetings completed the display." 474 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1956 Photograph submitted by Eugenia N. Logan OAHU STAKE (HAWAII) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, February 1956 Eugenia N. Logan, President, Oahu Stake Relief Society, reports that Elder Spencer W. Kimball of the Council of the Twelve, and Sister Kimball attended the conference. Sister Aleine M. Young represented the general board at Relief Society convention. Sister Young stands in center front, back of the rostrum. Photograph submitted by Leora G. Clawson SEATTLE STAKE (WASHINGTON) BIRTHDAY PARTY AND REUNION March 12, 1956 Front row, seated, left to right: Mable Arnold; Media Hawkstrasser; Duckie Cornelius; Maurine Linde; Vera Leishman; Leora G. Clawson, President; Birdie Bean; Jennie Kearns; Helen Milligan; Charlotte Holman; Lucy Chabot. Back row, standing, left to right: Hazel Doble; Pearl Hoyle; Melba Westra; Chelta Brown; Lila Croshaw; Mable Udell, First Counselor; Luella Bean, Second Counselor; Clara Smith, Secretary-Treasurer; Blanch Payne; Ruby Finlayson; Elva Jackson; Leona Torney; Emily Brain. President Leora G. Clawson reports: "The Seattle Stake Relief Society Board gave a birthday and reunion luncheon March 12, 1956, honoring Jennie Kearns, Maurine Linde, and Clarine Walpole, who were resigning from the board. Special guests were Vera Leishman and Birdie Bean, former presidents of Seattle Stake Relief Society. All those who had served as stake board members since the stake was organized in 1938 were invited to attend. 'Table decorations were carried out in Relief Society colors, with dolls dressed in costumes of 1842 carrying a copy of The Times and Seasons, and dolls in modern dress carrying a copy of The Relief Society Magazine dated March 1956." Audio Visual Aids for 1956-57 Mildred B. Eyring Member, General Board of Relief Society HE value of teaching aids and the wise use of them should be understood by all Relief Society officers and teachers. To aid means to help or assist. Any device which does not clarify a lesson or project, attract and hold interest, or assist members in remembering important points, is not really an aid, and should be discarded. New workers in Relief Society, particularly, should read the articles on Audio-Visual Aids which have appeared in The Relief Society Magazine in recent years: January 1953, page 27; Jume 1953, page 418; June 1954, page 400; and June 1955, page 403. The exchange of ideas for teaching aids in stake union meeting is most important. Each ward class leader can give her ideas, and, in turn, will receive many more ideas from the class leaders of the other wards. The stake leader will be there to give her information, wise direction, and counsel to the planning. In the stake conventions this year many suggestions are being given to stake leaders regarding visual aids for this coming year's work. These will be helpful as will be also the written material which is being left in the stakes. Theology — "Characters and Teachings of The Book of Mormon" 1. Blackboard 2. A growing chart 3. A brief review chart is being left with stake leaders in the conventions. 4. Graphic chart of the records kept by Book of Mormon people, Relief Society Magazine, July 1951, Pp. 476-477.. (Theology leaders might be interested in the comparative chart of events in The Book of Mormon, Bible, and world history given in the August 1955 issue of The Instructor, page 256. 'This issue may be purchased from the Deseret Sunday School Union, 50 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah.) Page 475 476 Visiting Teacher Messages "Book of Mormon Gems of Truth" 1. Blackboard or chart giving the quotations from The Book of Mormon. 2. Blackboard or chart giving the objective of the lesson. 3. Blackboard or chart giving the special points to be stressed. Literature "Shakespeare in Our Lives" 1. Blackboard. 2. Pictures in the text including the plan of a Shakespearean Theater (Text, Plate V). 3. Pictures from the Perry Picture Company, Malden, Massachusetts. (Send fifteen cents for their catalogue direct to the company.) 4. Some of Shakespeare's poems have been given musical settings and are available in sheet music. See June 1956 Relief Society Magazine, page 410. Some songs may be found in old song books. "Who Is Sylvia?" with music by Schubert is familiar to many. Social Science "Latter-day Saint Family Life" 1. Blackboard. 2. Pictures of the Prophet Joseph Smith, his mother, their homes in Palmyra and Nauvoo, and many others can be obtained from the Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah. The price is 5c each for black and white and loc each for colored pictures. 3. Pictures and information in A Centenary of Relief Society. 4. A comparative chart showing the position of women in 1842 and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1956 1956 is being given to stake leaders in stake conventions. 5. The History of Joseph Smith by His Mother Lucy Mack Smith is a reference book for class leaders. 6. Lists of many articles published in The Relief Society Magazine are being left with stake leaders in the conventions. PxECUTIV ES, choristers, organists, Magazine representatives, and work meeting leaders should also be aware of the value of good visual aids and make use of them in their work. The executives of stakes and wards are being given suggestions in the conventions for visual aids in publicizing the March and November Fast Sunday night meetings. Visual aids can also be used to improve membership and attendance. Magazine representatives are urged to make use of attractive posters and charts to stimulate interest in their work. Work meeting leaders can make their plans known to members by the use of informative, attractive posters. Music leaders will find material in the text, Fundamentals of Conducting, by J. Spencer Cornwall, which can be used as visual aids in their department. Also much of the work in Sister Madsen's lessons in The Relief Society Magazine, 1950-51 and 1951-52, can be made more effective by good visual aids devised by stake and ward music leaders. The general board again urges leaders in all departments to make the best possible use of audio-visual aids in carrying out their various assignments. Sheology—Characters and Teachings of The Book of Mormon Lesson 41—Jesus Instructs the Nephites Elder Leland H. Monson (Text: The Book of Mormon: 3 Nephi, chapters 15-21) For Tuesday, October 2, 1956 Objective: To show the great compassion of Jesus toward the Nephites who manifested such great faith in him, and his love for children. HEN Jesus appeared to the Nephites, God, the Eternal Father introduced him as his Son "~.. In whom I am_ well pleased..." (3 Nephi 11:7). For the Nephites and for us this reestablishes and reaffirms the divinity of Christ. As a God, not merely as a great moral teacher, he gave to the Nephites the Sermon on the Mount, which we studied last year. In this lesson we turn to other instructions which this divine Being, Christ our Redeemer, gave to the Nephites. The Law of Moses Superseded Chnist told the Nephites that he had given to ancient Israel the Law of Moses and that now the law was fulfilled. He said, "... I have come to fulfil the law; therefore it hath an end" (3 Nephi 15:5). He asked that they live the new law which he had and would give unto them. "Behold," he said, "I am the law, and the light. Look unto me and endure to the end, and ye shall live..." (3 Nephi 15:9). The Sheep of Another Fold Jesus then told the Nephites that they, and the other lost tribes of Israel, had been separated from those at Jerusalem because of the iniquity that existed among the Jews. He informed them that they were the sheep of another fold that he mentioned to the Jews. And verily I say unto you, that ye are they of whom I said: Other sheep I have which are not of this fold; them also I must bring, and they shall hear my voice; and there shall be one fold, and one shepherd (3 Nephi 15:21). He further told them that there was still another fold that should hear him (See 3 Nephi 16:1-3); and announced that he was going to visit them. (See 3 Nephi 17:4.) Jesus instructed the Nephites: And I command you that ye shall write these sayings after I am gone, that if it so be that my people at Jerusalem, they who have seen me and been with me in my ministry, do not ask the Father in my name, that they may receive a knowledge of you by the Holy Ghost, and also of the other tribes whom they know not of, that these sayings which ye shall write shall be kept and shall be manifested unto the Gentiles, that through the fulness of the Gentiles, the remnant of their seed, who shall be scattered forth upon the face of the earth because of their unbelief, may be brought in, or may be brought to a knowledge of me, their Redeemer. And then will I gather them in from the four quarters of the earth; and then Page 477 478 will I fulfill the covenant which the Father hath made unto all the people of the house of Israel. And blessed are the Gentiles, because of their belief in me, in and of the Holy Ghost, which witnesses unto them of me and of the Father. Behold, because of their belief in me, saith the Father, and because of the unbelief of you, O house of Israel, in the latter day shall the truth come unto the Gentiles, that the fulness of these things shall be made known unto them (3 Nephi 16:4-7). Jesus also said that the land was given to the Nephites, the seed of Joseph, for their inheritance: Verily, verily, I say unto you, thus hath the Father commanded me — that I should give unto this people this land for their inheritance (3 Nephi 16:16). The Savior then perceived that the people were weak and could not understand all the words which the Father had commanded him to speak to them at that time, so he counseled them to go to their homes and "... Ponder upon the things which I have said, and ask of the Father, in my name, that ye may understand..." (3 Nephi 17:3). Jesus then said he must go to his Father and also to show himself to the lost tribes of Israel, but as he looked at the multitude, he saw they were in tears and their eyes seemed to implore him to stay with them a little longer. Healing of the Sick The Savior spoke, "... Behold, my bowels are filled with compassion towards you" (3 Nephi 17:6), and he instructed them to bring any sick, lame, blind, halt, maimed, or otherwise afflicted to him. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1956 And it came to pass that when he had thus spoken, all the multitude, with one accord, did go forth with their sick and their afflicted, and their lame, and with their blind, and with their dumb, and with all them that were afflicted in any manner and he did heal them every one as they were brought forth unto him. And they did all, both they who had been healed and they who were whole, bow down at his feet, and did worship him; and as many as could come for the multitude did kiss his feet, insomuch that they did bathe his feet with their tears (3 Nephi 17:9-10). Jesus then commanded them to bring their little children. He stood in the midst of them and commanded the multitude to kneel and he prayed mightily to the Father:. And the things which he prayed cannot be written, and the multitude did bear record who heard him. And after this manner do they bear record: The eye hath never seen, neither hath the ear heard, before, so great and marvelous things as we saw and heard Jesus speak unto the Father; And no tongue can speak, neither can there be written by any man, neither can the hearts of men conceive so great and marvelous things as we both saw and heard Jesus speak; and no one can conceive of the joy which filled our souls at the time we heard him pray for us unto the Father (3 Nephi 17:15-17). Blessing Little Children The two thousand five hundred people who were assembled were overjoyed. When Jesus: witnessed their great faith he told them his joy was full. As he spoke to them he wept, and "... Took their little children, one by one, and blessed them, and prayed unto the Father for them. And when he had done LESSON DEPARTMENT this he wept. Again" (3 Nephi 17:21-22). The Savior then asked the multitude to look at their. Little ones, and, as they looked, angels came down, and encircled the little children, and ministered unto them. Institution of Sacrament Jesus instituted the ordinance of the sacrament among the Nephites. The disciples were told that they must partake of the sacrament in remembrance of Christ's body and blood that it should be a testimony unto the Father that they would always remember him. 'They were promised that if they would do this, his spirit would always be with them, and that it would show their willingness to do that which Jesus had commanded them. Jesus instructed the Nephites to pray always, saying:. Ye must watch and pray always lest ye enter into temptation for Satan desireth to have you, that he may sift you as wheat (3 Nephi 18:18). And as I have prayed among you even so shall ye pray in my church, among my people who do repent, and are baptized im my name. Behold I am the light; I have set an example for you (3 Nephi 18:16). He instructed the disciples further that if a man is unworthy to partake of the sacrament he should be forbidden. However, he should not be cast out from among them, but be ministered to by them and be prayed for. 'Then, if he repents and is baptized, he should be received by them and be given the sacrament. If a man would not repent they were still to continue to minister to him in case he might return and. Repent. Which, if he 479 did, and came to the Savior with full purpose of heart, the Savior would heal him and the people would be the means of bringing salvation to him.. (See 3 Nephi 18:28-32.) Jesus then "... Touched with his hand..." (3, Nephi 18:36) the twelve disciples, giving them power to bestow the Holy Ghost. He then departed from them and ascended into heaven. Bestowal of Holy Ghost Word soon spread among the people that Jesus would appear on the next day. On that day, the twelve disciples appeared before the assembled group. 'The assembly was so large that it was divided into twelve groups, over each one of which a disciple presided. 'The disciples prayed that the Holy Ghost should be given unto them.. Nephi went down into the water and was baptized.... And he baptized all those whom Jesus had chosen" (3 Nephi 19:11-12). When they came up out of the water "... The Holy Ghost did fall upon them..." (3 Nephi 19:13). Angels came down and ministered to the disciples. While this was taking place "... Jesus came and stood in the midst and ministered unto them" (3 Nephi 19:15). Jesus went a short distance and prayed as follows: Father, I thank thee that thou hast given the Holy Ghost unto these whom I have chosen; and it is because of their belief in me that I have chosen them out of the world. Father, I pray thee that thou wilt give the Holy Ghost unto all them that shall believe in their words, 480 Father, thou hast given them the Holy Ghost because they believe in me; and thou seest that they believe in me because thou hearest them, and they pray unto me; and they pray unto me because I am with them. And now Father, I pray unto thee for them, and also for all those who shall believe on their words, that they may believe in me, that I may be in them as thou, Father, art in me, that we may be one (3 Nephi 19:20-23). After Jesus had finished praying, he commended the disciples on their faith, saying:... So great faith have I never seen among all the Jews; wherefore I could not show unto them so great miracles, because of their unbelief.... There are none of them that have seen so great things as ye have seen; neither have they heard so great things as ye have heard (3 Nephi 19:35-36). Jesus then commanded the multitude and the disciples to arise and cease praying, but he admonished them to pray always in their hearts. Jesus miraculously provided the sacrament and:... He brake bread again and blessed it, and gave to the disciples to eat. And when they had eaten he commanded them that they should break bread, and give unto the multitude... He also gave them wine to drink... (3 Nephi 20:3-5). The Gospel in the Latter Days The Savior advised the Nephites that in the latter days the gospel should be preached to the Jews and that they would accept it. "Then," he said, "will the Father gather them together again, and give unto them Jerusalem for the land of their inheritance" (3 Nephi 20:33). RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1956 That the people of the latter days might be. Fully aware of the time when these events would occur, Jesus gave the Nephites the sign of the Father's work. "... This is the thing which I will give unto you for a sign," he said, "for verily I say unto you that when these things which I declare unto you, and which I shall declare unto you hereafter of myself, and by the power of the Holy Ghost which shall be given unto you of the Father, shall be made known unto the Gentiles that they may know concerning... This my people who shall be scattered by them... It shall be a sign unto them, that they may know that the work of the Father hath already commenced unto the fulfilling of the covenant which he hath made unto the people who are of the house of Israel" (3 Nephi 21:2, 7). Jesus further told the Nephites that a great work should be accomplished at that time and that there would be many who would not believe it "... Although a man shall declare it unto them" (3 Nephi 21:9). Concerning the Gentiles in that day, Jesus said: "Yea, wo be unto the Gentiles except they repent..." (3 Nephi 21:14). On the other hand, he pointed out, if they would repent and "... Hearken unto my words..." he would establish his church among them:.. And they shall come in unto the covenant and be numbered among this the remnant of Jacob, unto whom I have given this land for their inheritance (3 Nephi 21:22). Jesus was deeply concerned over the Gentiles and the Jews of the last days when the record of the Ne- LESSON DEPARTMENT phites should come forth amongst them. He stressed the importance of the sacrament in the lives of the Nephites, informing them that it would help them to remember him, that it would be a witness unto the Father that they did remember him. He also was grateful unto his Father that the disciples had been given the Holy Ghost as a companion. The Savior's emphasis upon the sacrament and upon the bestowal of the Holy Ghost, indicates the great importance of these ordinances. Sometimes, however, partaking of the sacrament becomes so routine in our lives that we do not derive the full benefit from it. Only as we live worthily and meditate upon the meaning of the sacrifice of the Savior and the covenants we 481 take, can we get the full blessing that accompanies proper participation. After we have been baptized and confirmed and have received the Holy Ghost, we must continue to be faithful, to live the gospel, if we are to have the Holy Ghost and its influence to direct our lives. Questions on the Lesson 1. What miracles did Jesus perform among the Nephites? 2. What did Jesus say about the latterday Gentiles? 3. What did he say about the latterday Jews? 4. Discuss the importance of the ordinance of the sacrament. 5. Discuss the significance and blessings attached to the bestowal of the Holy Ghost. Visiting Seacher Nessages— Book of Mormon Gems of Truth Lesson 41—"Yea, Wo Unto Him That Shall Deny the Revelations of the Lord and That Shall Say the Lord No Longer Worketh by Revelation..." (3 Nephi 29:6). Leone O. Jacobs For Tuesday, October 2, 1956 Objective: To show that faith in continuous revelation is essential to a testimony of the truth of the gospel. ONTINUOUS revelation is the foundation stone upon which The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is built. It was also by means of this principle that the Church was restored in these latter days. When the Father and the Son appeared to Joseph Smith in 1820 that principle was reaffirmed in modern times. Many people discount divine revelation entirely, saying such belief is purely mythical, that the scriptures are only unproved tradition. Others say that revelation is no longer necessary, that God gave all the instructions needed for the welfare of mankind, in ancient days. But Latter-day Saints "... Believe all that God has revealed, all that He does now reveal, and we believe that He will yet reveal many great 482 and important things pertaining to the Kingdom of God" (gth Article of Faith). There are certain fundamental principles and commandments in the scriptures which apply to all ages. Other revelations may apply only to particular circumstances. It was necessary, for example, for the Lord to instruct Moses day by day, in the flight of the children of Israel from Egypt. The resurrected Christ told the Nephites: Behold, I say unto you that the law is fulfilled that was given unto Moses. Behold, I am he that gave the law, and I am he who covenanted with my people Israel; therefore, the law in me is fulfilled, for I have come to fulfil the law; therefore it hath an end (3 Nephi 15:45). Brigham Young was given revelation concerning the westward march of the saints to the Rocky Mountains, etc. Guidance is definitely needed from God in all ages and for different circumstances. It would seem inconsistent for anyone who believes in the Bible to reject the principle of continuous revelation, for surely a just and loving God, who is "the same yesterRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1956 day, today and forever" would not reveal his will to Noah, to Abraham, to Moses and others, yet leave later generations without contact. Many people inquire, "Do the Authorities of the Church receive revelations today?" Certainly they do. Revelations are received currently for the welfare of the Church as a whole. Because they do not appear in book form as do those in the Doctrine and Covenants, for example, does not mean they are any less important or authoritative. In a recent address on the subject of revelation President Stephen L Richards stated:... The secret of life is to. Build on the old, the tried and the true.... Now revelation is the foundation. I know of nothing else so solid and dependable... « Revelation has generally come to us through the prophets, although the greatest and most important of all revelation came directly from the Lord Jesus Christ, the Son of the Eternal God.... Modern day scripture or revelation has the same validity with even more direct proof of authenticity than does ancient scripture. Both emanate from the same source... We know the right through revelation So, my brethren and sisters, learn the revelations and live by them. They are true. (Deseret News, Church Section, July " 1955, pp. 2-3). Work Meeting— Food Preparation and Service (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) lane 1—Lunches and Sandwiches Rhea H. Gardner For Tuesday, October 9, 1956 HEN one meal a day must be carried to work in a lunch box, the homemaker has a real challenge to meet, for into that lunch box must go foods that will provide a fair share of the day's needs and be so inviting, satisfying, and healthful, that the worker or LESSON DEPARTMENT school child will keep physically and mentally fit. Whatever the packed lunch lacks in providing a third of the day's nutritional needs should be met in the other two meals. With the use of thermos jars, in which can be carried warm soups, stews, or other main dish foods or refrigeratorchilled beverages, the task of preparing a tasty and well-balanced packed lunch meal is greatly simplified. With the improved food wrappings one is now able to include in the packed lunch crisp strips of salad-type vegetables, with the assurance that they will stay refrigerator crisp until eaten. Glass jars or colorful plastic containers with tight-fitting lids—in which can be carried well-chilled fruit, baked custard, or other desserts, are a further help in giving the meals you pack, the same high rating as your other meals. Because sandwiches are so often a mainstay in the lunch box, it is especially important that they be prepared with care, imagination, and a thought of what they will taste like three to five hours after they are prepared. The imaginative sandwich maker today keeps her sandwiches right at the top in appetite appeal. In addition to enriched white and whole wheat, she also uses raisin, bran, French, rye, and nut breads for variety. She uses a wide variety of sandwich fillings and tries always to include two different kinds of sandwiches in each lunch box meal. She combines ingredients for sandwich fillings with a thought for 483 contrast in flavor, color, and texture. Bland fillings are sharpened with lemon, custard, ketchup, sauces, and pickles. Crunchiness is added by crisp bacon, nuts, cucumber, celery, carrots, or shredded cabbage. Fillings which lack color are enlivened with chopped pickle, pimiento, olives, sweet peppers, or parsley. The skilled sandwich maker creams, but never melts, the butter she uses; then spreads it out to the very edges of both slices. She is generous with sandwich fillings, making them as thick as one slice of bread. Each sandwich is neatly and securely wrapped to prevent drying out of the bread. She wraps clean, crisp lettuce leaves in waxed paper to be added to the sandwich just before it is eaten. She includes in every lunch an element of surprise — some fresh fruit, a piece of favorite cake, candy, cookies, or other dessert. In many instances, the home freezer is the sandwich maker's best friend. A variety of sandwiches can be prepared and kept in the freezer for two or three weeks, but no longer. Frozen sandwiches wrapped two to a package in moisture-vapor proof wrappings, not waxed paper, thaw in about three hours and are still refrigerator cool. They should be eaten soon after thawing, however, since frozen food deteriorates quickly after thawing. Whether the packed lunch is to serve as a main meal for a working man, for a school child, or for a dainty refreshment at a social function, it deserves all the care and interest you can give it both for your sake and the one who will eat it. Note: See "Sandwiches," by Rhea H. Gardner, page 456, in this issue of the Magazine and "Packed Lunch Suggestions," zine, October 1952, page 669. By Hazel Stevens, The Relief Society Maga- of iterature—Shakespeare in Our Lives Lesson 1—Why Shakespeare? Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: Shakespeare Major Plays and the Sonnets, by G. B. Harrison, Harcourt, Brace & Company, 1948) For Tuesday, October 16, 1956 Objective: To understand the reasons for Shakespeare's greatness and appreciate his contribution to our lives.... Thyself and thy belongings Are not thine own so proper as to waste Thyself upon thy virtues, they on thee. Heaven doth with us as we with torches do, Not light them for themselves; for if our virtues Did not go forth of us, 'twere all alike As if we had them not.... ERE English literature to be compared to the universe, Shakespeare would be the sun, about which all others circle to feel the warming influence of its outstanding glow. To bask in Shakespeare's life-giving zest and gusto, to be quickened by the sheer cleanness and precision of his words, to be awed by his wisdom and justice as he shares with us his probings deep into the human heart and the mysteries of mortality — in these realms of highest adventure Shakespeare is our supreme guide and spokesman, and has been for centuries. Time has proved him moral and true; his virtues reveal him as brilliant and just; his selfless humility proclaims him worthy of the sustained love of mankind. None of our writers has received more love or deserved more, than he. Love cannot be commanded or forced, it must be earned, usually by giving oneself to others. Shakespeare has given himself to others so abundantly that rarely are we Page 484 Measure for Measure, I. 1.30-36 fully aware of our debt. For centuries he has been the most widely quoted man in our culture, surpassed only by the Bible. Actually he constantly places more words in our mouths than any of us realize. "Brevity is the soul of wit" (to quote Shakespeare), and well-turned phrases are so rare because so few mortals have ever been able to put the nub of the matter into a few memorable words. Best proof that Shakespeare is the master phrasemaker of the language is to cite a few of his contributions to our everyday language which after centuries still survive. For how many of the following have you ever expressed gratitude to Shakespeare? There's something in the wind (Comedy of Errors); play fast and loose, out of the question (Love's Labour's Lost); single blessedness, the course of true love never runs smooth (Midsummer Night's Dream); halcyon days (I Henry VI); paint the lily, elbow room, cold comfort (King John); what's in a name? A fool's paradise (Romeo and Juliet); my own flesh and blood, it's a wise father that knows LESSON DEPARTMENT his own child (Merchant of Venice); merry as the day is long (Much Ado About Nothing); too much of a good thing (As You Like It); he has eaten me out of house and home (II Henry IV); give the devil his due, tell the truth and shame the devil, hearts of gold, the better part of valor is discretion (I Henry IV); wear my heart on my sleeve, a green-eyed monster, a foregone conclusion, who steals my purse steals trash, loved not wisely but too well, the seamy side of life (Othello); a lean and hungry look, an itching palm, it was Greek to me, a dish fit for the gods (Julius Caesar); flaming youth, in my mind's eye, the glass of fashion, as easy as lying, cudgel thy brains, the primrose path, it smells to heaven, something rotten in Denmark, method in his madness, every dog will have his day (Hamlet); every inch a king, the wheel is come full circle, more sinned against than sinning (King Lear). Merely because these now common expressions are Shakespeare's is not to justify them. Instead let us say that, while all of us use them today, essentially they are his, and are included here solely to illustrate the fecundity of his verbal powers. Actually we should ignore these "old saws" and invent our own. Would that we could! Would we were Shakespeare! Attempts to Know Shakespeare From 1623, when the First Folio edition of Shakespeare's plays appeared, up to the present, at least 120 men have dedicated their mature years to editing Shakespeare's works, criticizing the texts, relating his plays to their sources, determining the order in which the plays were written, etc. The first Shakespeare societies appeared early in the nineteenth century; today they are everywhere. Special Shakespeare collections are prized possessions of the wealthiest, largest li- 485 braries in England and the United States; in the United States, the largest and most famous is the Folger Library in Washington, D. C., an entire institution dedicated to Shakespearean scholarship. So thoroughly has Shakespeare been counted, compared, explained, analyzed, paraphrased, quoted, searched by X-ray and ultraviolet light that no one can doubt his greatness, since he has survived this deluge triumphant. When many of our best minds for centuries have dedbicated their lives to him, what remains for us to do or claim to do? J. W. Mackail gives us the only sane and true answer: The best approach to Shakespeare is to read him.... It is easy, and common, to read too much about him (Approach to Shakespeare, page 5). To be known, then, Shakespeare must be read and heard. Yes, we possess him in some degree, since it is impossible for a literate, attentive person in our society to escape hearing him being constantly quoted. We have studied him at school in our youth, and, occasionally, we may have read him for our own pleasure during maturity. All members of our western culture beyond early childhood know of Shakespeare, in varying degree; not quite as many know him. Many of us feel that we would like to know him "if we just had the time." On a more mature level, let us grant the fact that all of us have time for what we most enjoy. Inasmuch as we now have time to enjoy Shakespeare — the next two years of the literature lessons have been dedicated to introducing him — our immediate challenge is to convince ourselves 486 that he yields a rich enjoyment which eminently deserves our attention, our effort, and, most precious, our time. 'The more we read Shakespeare the more each of us, no matter who we are' or whatever our background, must come to realize that in every page of Shakespeare there is joy and truth and insight which will immediately enrich our day-to-day existence, if only we will be among those who will give him ear. If we will each day share with ourselves and our families only one or two of his great thoughts or piercing insights into human frailty, then we will understand as never before why his audience constantly increases in size and loyalty. Why Study Shakespeare? One reason may be that time has proved his greatness, has proved his visions and values to be true. If we study him as the greatest dramatist, because some of our greatest critics have so proclaimed, we know we shall not be wasting our precious time and effort. But, valid and popular as this approach may be, in part it robs us of the privilege and pain of making our own judgments. Let us ask ourselves the following questions: Why have millions of people read Shakespeare. Of their own choice, and attended his plays? How has he fed the timeless, basic hungers of multitudes of people, from all walks of life? How can anything more than three hundred years old be considered great in our modern, scientific, efficient world? Word Magic As we have already seen, Shakespeare's words give such pleasure that many of his phrases have beRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1956 come part of our living language. The longer we read him the more we marvel at the aptness and cunning of his words. 'The fecundity of his imagination seems inexhaustible. Sometimes we even come to feel that his ability to portray a soul, or catch an essence of place or mood solely through words reveals almost supernatural powers. 'To witness such word dexterity makes us more humbly aware of man's infinite though mortal capabilities. As an example, consider his effortless skill in using the commonest household incidents to reveal the deeper, hidden truths within us which are often felt but seldom expressed. How very apt is his comparing the spilling of concealed guilt with one's attempt to carry a pan brimful: So full of artless jealousy is guilt, It spills itself in fearing to be spilt. Hamlet, IV. 5.19 Such a comparison provokes us into deep thought, itself its own delight, since it frees us from our constant, exclusive concern with the surface trivia of life. If he wishes us to experience the turmoil of human suffering, his words bring us the aged King Lear wandering afield during storm, nearly grief-crazed over the treachery and selfishness of his daughter:. Tears his white hair, Which the impetuous blasts, with eyeless rage, Catch in their fury, and make nothing of; Strives in his little world of man to outscorn The to-and-fro-conflicting wind and rain, King Lear III. 7-11 In other passages Shakespeare is less violent, really gentle and warm, ay LESSON DEPARTMENT A Perry Picture When it suits his purpose to be so. For example, to be ".., as vigilant asa cat to steal cream" (I Henry IV, IV.2.65) brings almost a smile to our faces. Since a cat has no moral standards, Shakespeare _ reminds us pertinently of this part of the cat's basic nature, while vigilance is a qualifying word of sufficient mildness to merit so warm and domestic a comparison. Self-Revelation One of Shakespeare's most substantial rewards is that, more forcefully and intensely than any other writer, he reveals us to ourselves; he "holds the mirror up to nature" and helps us see ourselves as we really are. 'This he can do because he "has the most comprehensive soul," the most searching eye, the sharpest pen. Although he does not provide 487 Copyright 1902 STRATFORD-ON-AVON — THE HOME OF SHAKESPEARE all the answers, he uses the method of poetry and art — intuition, insight, metaphor, rhythm, subtlety — to help us see all things as they really are. Probably his supreme gift is his intense zest for life, possible only if preceded by a probing, recording curiosity about everything in life: nature, society, ourselves, our God. Because Shakespeare felt this straining tug of his own monstrous curiosity and obeyed it, he feels and thus soothes our own. See. Ing truth in his created world, we can then better see it revealed in ourselves. As William Hazlitt has observed: Every single character in Shakespeare is as much an individual as those in life itself.... His characters are real beings of flesh and blood.... How well indeed we come to 488 know more of ourselves from the following random quotes: He jests at scars that never felt a wound. Romeo and Juliet, II.2 How sharper than a serpent's tooth it is To have a thankless child!... King Lear, I, 4 That which in mean men we entitle patience Is pale cold cowardice in noble breasts. Richard HU, 1, 2: Smooth runs the water where the brook is deep; Henry VI, Ill, I I had most need of blessing, and "Amen" Stuck in my throat. Macbeth, II, 2 Thus conscience does make cowards of us all, And thus the native hue of resolution Is sicklied o'er with the pale cast of thought, Hamlet, III, 1 The Prince of Darkness is a gentleman. King Lear, HI, 4... No, 'tis slander; Whose edge is sharper than the sword; whose tongue Outvenoms all the worms of Nile; whose breath Rides on the posting winds, and doth belie All corners of the world: kings, queens, and states, Maids, matrons, nay, the secrets of the grave This viperous slander enters.... Cymbeline, III, 4 True Morality How beautifully reassuring it is that our heritage has chosen for its supreme spokesman William Shakespeare, a man so intelligent and sensitive, so aware of every phase of humankind, so unbiased and sympathetic in his depiction of things as they are, so strong and gentle and wholesome, in a word, so comprehensive and universal. How many other candidates we RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1956 have had for the office of Greatest English Poet, writers sometimes partially blind to the goodness of man and nature, writers calloused by cynicism and despair, or writers who refuse to face life's great spiritual and moral problems but would rather escape in glib shallowness or frivolity or sensation! For how many have illicit love and adultery been cause for jest; how many have seen cruelty and pride and hypocrisy and yielding to animal desire and faithless self-interest, as the inevitable state of man. But Shakespeare is none of these. As Coleridge has seen in all his wisdom: Shakespeare has no innocent adulteries.. Ho virtuous vice; he never renders that amiable which religion and reason alike teach us to detest; or clothe impurity in the garb of virtue. Shakespeare's characters depict the basic truths of mortality and immortality in and of themselves, without seeming to be pious, sanctimonious, or "preachy." His truths never seem "tacked-on," or sugarcoated moralizing pills slipped down our throats when he has popped our mouths open; instead, his truths are the very essence of things as they are. Because he is excited by all phases of life, he discusses everything, and holds nothing back. Because he has vowed to hold the mirror up to all of nature he presents every human evil and weakness, but his greatness is that, without posting little moralizing signposts (which would weaken and mar his larger effect), he subtly suggests to us that what he speaks of as evil is evil. For example, when anyone mentions the word luxury but leaves LESSON DEPARTMENT it untagged, without any slanting adjectives, how are we to know whether that person regards luxury as good or bad? But when Shakespeare personifies luxury as "the devil luxury, with his fat rump and potato finger" (Troilus and Cressida, V.2.55), it is difficult for us to refrain from identifying so vigorous an image not only with the immediate character who speaks it, but with Shakespeare's own opinion. To define this as his over-all attitude toward luxury seems further justified when we find him speaking elsewhere of luxury in similar tone; for example, in The Merry Wives of Windsor, Falstaff is caught and chided by the fairies in his attempt to steal a man's wife: Fie on sinful fantasy! Fie on lust and luxury! Lust is but a bloody fire, Kindled with unchaste desire, Fed in heart, whose flames aspire, As thoughts do blow them, higher.... V.5.97-102 Again, after reading the following (lI.3.153-171) on pride, a revealing aside from Troilus and Cressida, how much more subtle and personal does Shakespeare make pride than if he had merely tacked on the wall such a proverb as, "Pride goeth before destruction," a widespread custom in Elizabethan homes. Ajax and Agamemnon have been lamenting Achilles' pride. Note particularly the cunning Shakespeare employs to tell us that Ajax is a proud man, and about as awkward in selfanalysis as the rest of us. Speaking of Achilles, Ajax says, "Is he so much? Do you not think, he thinks himself a better man than I am?" 489 Agam. No question. Ajax. Will you subscribe this thought and say he is? Agam. No, noble Ajax. You are as strong, as valiant, as wise, no less noble, much more gentle, and altogether more tractable. Ajax. Why should a man be proud? How doth pride grow? I know not what pride is. Agam. Your mind's the clearer, Ajax, and your virtues the fairer. He that is proud eats up himself. Pride is his own glass, his own trumpet, his own chronicle, and whatever praises itself but in the deed devours the deed in the praise. Ajax. I do hate a proud man as I hate the engendering of toads. Nestor. (aside) And yet he loves himself. Is it not strange? How superbly Shakespeare's tone herein accomplishes what might well have been his two objectives: first, to give a body or form to his own emotional attitude toward pride; and second, by Ajax's smugness ("How doth pride grow?') and by Ajax's own vigorous image of pride (" as I hate the engendering of toads") to illustrate in Ajax the very quality which he condemns. Shakespeare subtly forces us to realize that pride is not a vice which occurs only in others. He does not strongly denounce it in Ajax, as Ajax resembles the rest of us. And Shakespeare seems to say, "Inasmuch as we are all in this business of life together, let us then act as brothers, and tolerate each other in our human weaknesses." Shakespeare has been many things to many peoples; so he must be to each of us. But whatever else he may or may not be, read him, that he may then be allowed to remind you that all men become brothers when, in compassion, they share 490 the great binding experiences of life: pain, sorrow, laughter, death. It is in these tender times that all men shrug off their surface badges of distinction and understand one another, and this great unifying truth does not come to an end with the termination of either mortality or death. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1956 Thoughts for Discussion 1. Has Shakespeare endured time's onslaughts because he is true or because he is popular? Discuss. 2. How does Shakespeare treat evil? 3. Why does Shakespeare deserve a constant rereading? 4. Should the purpose of a writer be to "hold the mirror up to nature" or should. He select and omit, to make the mirror reflect only the lovely in life? Social Sctence—Latter-day Saint Family Life Lesson 1—Joseph Smith's Early Home Life Elder John Farr Larson For Tuesday, October 23, 1956 Objective: To show the influence of the Prophet's early family life upon his teachings to the Latter-day Saint women. OSEPH Smith established a_ pattern, both of opportunity and of obligation, for Latter-day Saint women which has been followed and built upon by the succeeding Presidents of the Church. His teachings regarding Latter-day Saint women came as inspiration from the Lord, after long years of preparation for his calling. 'The Prophet's early family life undoubtedly played a most important role in influencing this preparation. In the life of the Prophet's mother we find exemplified the virtues which should characterize a true Latterday Saint. A glimpse into the Smith household will help us to appreciate more fully the development of the Prophet's lofty concepts regarding woman's sphere, which are to be discussed in the lessons to follow. Family Background Joseph Smith, Jr. Was born the fourth child in a family of eleven. His parents, Joseph Smith, Sr. And Lucy Mack Smith, descended from substantial New England stock, the Smiths having been "honorable farmers" and the Macks "industrious land owners." His parents were chosen to fill very important missions in helping to establish the Church in this dispensation. The parents were well-to-do at the time of their marriage, and for a few years following, but, because of the fraud of a trusted agent, a large indebtedness was imposed upon them, which not only wiped out their entire holdings but burdened them for many years to come. T' A series of misfortunes followed. The story of how this family moved from place to place overcoming adversity and wrestling with poverty, is one of hard work, sacrifice, relAll references in this lesson, unless otherwise noted, are from the mother of the Prophet Joseph. See History of Joseph Smith By His Mother, Lucy Mack Smith, as edited by Preston Nibley. LESSON DEPARTMENT sourcefulness, courage, and great faith. Through it all, the parents seemed sustained by a deep spirituality and absolute trust in God which had characterized their familics for generations and which were readily absorbed by their children. Their trials and hardships resulted in even greater humility, strength of character, and family solidarity than they had heretofore known. The Smith children learned at an early age to be industrious and dutiful, sharing alongside their parents the responsibilities of their pioneer life. In this superior home Christian virtues were taught and _practiced. Family prayer, Bible reading, and thoughtful meditation by the fireside were the order of the day. Kindness and consideration were their watchwords. 'The parents instructed the children in reading and writing, since they "had, in great measure, been debarred from the privilege of schools." So impressive were their evening family gatherings, that on many occasions neighbors joined to partake of their spirit. On one of these evenings, soon after the family began singing, a couple of little boys came in, and one of them stepped up to Samuel and whispered, "Mr. Smith, won't you pray pretty soon? Our mother said we must be home by eight o'clock, and we would like to hear you pray before we go" (Ibid., page 189). Often repeated in the family circle were the prophetic declarations made by members of both the Smith and the Mack families prior to this time, which were to be fulfilled by the Prophet's mission. Lucy Mack's brother, Jason Mack, had believed: 491... That by prayer and faith the gifts of the gospel, which were enjoyed by the ancient disciples of Christ, might be attained.... He was also of the opinion that God would, at some subsequent period, manifest His Power as He had anciently done—in signs and wonders (Ibid., page 9). One of the Smith ancestors had been impressed to say that a Prophet would be raised up within the family to perform a great work on the earth. The familiar accounts of other spiritual manifestations to family members combined to produce a spiritual sensitiveness and belief in divine power, which were undoubtedly a preparation for the family's acceptance of the Prophet's mission. Family Acceptance of the Prophet's Message The assurance that his father would accept his story was given Joseph by the Angel Moroni on the morning of September 22, 1823. This was the morning after the angel appeared to the Prophet in his bedroom to instruct him regarding the sacred record he was to translate. He was sent from the field by his father when he seemed ill. As he went home, the angel appeared and asked him why he had not told his father that which he had been commanded to tell. Joseph replied: "I was afraid my father would not believe me." The angel answered, "He will believe every word you say to him." And, just as the angel had predicted, his father not only believed him, but charged him to follow every instruction given him by Moroni (Ibid., page 79. See also Pearl of Great Price, Joseph Smith 2:29-50). The interest of parents in the 492 worthy activities of their children and faith in their accomplishments are real factors in attainment. The support of the Prophet by his parents, and by his brothers and sisters, stimulated him in his calling. The entire family openly received Joseph's message. In fact, they were so eager to hear more that the eldest son, Alvin, who always exhibited great anxiety over the plates, suggested they arise early, complete their work, and leave time for long evenings to listen to Joseph. The Prophet confided what he had been permitted to reveal, cautioning them to keep his words within the family circle. The Prophet's mother beautifully describes the family during the days which followed: From this time forth, Joseph continued to receive instructions from the Lord, and we continued to get the children together every evening for the purpose of listening while he gave us a relation of the same. I presume our family presented an aspect as singular as any that ever lived upon the face of the earth—all seated in a circle, father, mother, sons and daughters, and giving the most profound attention to a boy, eighteen years of age, who had never read the Bible through in his life: he seemed much less inclined to the petusal of books than any of the rest of our children, but far more given to meditation and deep study. We were now confirmed in the opinion that God was about to bring to light something upon which we could stay our minds, or that would give us a more perfect knowledge of the plan of salvation and the redemption of the human family. This caused us greatly to rejoice, the sweetest union and happiness pervaded our house, and tranquility reigned in our midst. During our evening conversations, Joseph would occasionally give us some of the most amusing recitals that could be RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1956 imagined. He would describe the ancient inhabitants of this continent, their dress, mode of traveling, and the animals upon which they rode; their cities, their buildings, with every particular; their mode of warfare; and also their religious worship. This he would do with as much ease, seemingly, as if he had spent his whole life among them (Ibid., pp. 82-83). Prophet's Dependence Upon His Parents Each child derives great strength, ability, and character from the love, advice, and close association of his parents. The Prophet Joseph Smith was no exception. He leaned heavily on the support and counsel of his parents, both before and after the organization of the Church. The bond of affection between them grew stronger as they shared the many responsibilities involved in his mission. One instance is cited to indicate that Joseph desired to include them in his joys as well as his anxieties. Upon completion of the translation of The Book of Mormon, Joseph asked his parents to join him at the Whitmer home. The evening was spent in reading the manuscript, and the following morning "after attending to the usual services, namely, reading, singing and praying," Joseph and Oliver Cowdery, David Whitmer, and Martin Harris, went to a nearby grove to engage in prayer, after which they were shown the plates by an angel. (See D. H. C. I, pp. 52-57.) When Joseph returned to the house, he threw himself down beside his mother and exclaimed: Father, mother, you do not know how happy I am: the Lord has now caused the plates to be shown to three more besides myself. They have seen an angel, who has testified to them, and they will have to bear witness to the truth of what LESSON DEPARTMENT I have said, for now they know for themselves, that I do not go about to deceive the people, and I feel as if I was relieved of a burden which was almost too heavy for me to bear, and it rejoices my soul, that I am not any longer to be entirely alone in the world (History of Joseph Smith By His Mother, Lucy Mack Smith, page 152). The Prophet always showed deep gratitude for the influence of his parents. This is shown by the following entry in his Annals made in October 1835, when the Prophet visited his father for several days, attending to him during an illness: Waited on my father again... All this day with my heart raised to God in the name of Jesus Christ, that He would testore him to health, that I might be blessed with his company and_ advice, esteeming it one of the greatest earthly blessings to be blessed with the society of parents, whose mature years and experience render them capable of administering the most wholesome advice... We called on the Lord in mighty prayer in the name of Jesus Christ, and laid our hands on him and _ rebuked the disease. And God heard and answered our prayers — to the great joy and satisfaction of our souls. Our aged father arose and dressed himself, shouted, and praised the Lord (D. H. C. II, page 289). "Mother Smith" There were many sterling qualities in Lucy Mack Smith which endeared her to her family and the people about her. She was by nature refined, cultured, and dignified. She was kind and courteous, and, because of her sympathetic understanding, she was of great comfort as she ministered among the sick and distressed. The Prophet had ample opportunity to see her strong leadership in action, first in the home, then in the community, and afterwards among the women of the 493 Church, and must have felt the need for others to emulate her spirit of service and her deep spirituality. Her life was not an easy one, but at no time did she question the hand of the Lord. In fact, she seemed to have a talent for turing adversity into a blessing. At one time the entire family, except the parents, was struck with typhus fever. It was at this time that Joseph developed a leg infection and underwent a most painful operation. After these experiences, she wrote: Having passed through about a year of sickness and distress, health again returned to our family, and we most assuredly realized the blessing; and indeed, we felt to acknowledge the hand of God, more in preserving our lives through such a tremendous scene of affliction, than if we had, during this time, seen nothing but health and prosperity (History of Joseph Smith By His Mother, Lucy Mack Smith, page 58). Early in her married life, when seriously ill, she had promised the Lord if he would restore her to health, she would devote the remainder of her life to him and her family, and this she did consistently. She had great faith in the power of the Priesthood and was always ready to sustain her husband and sons in their respective Church assignments. On many occasions when the men of the household were absent, she adroitly handled intruding enemies to prevent their obtaining The Book of Mormon manuscript. Mother Smith was an effective missionary, not only by means of her good life, but in actually expounding the principles of the gospel. She spoke frequently in the 494 Setonach Whasic oes LADIES THREE PART CHORUSES. An Evening Prayer (SSAA) —Helmund............-.------ 18. Holy Lord God—Cain.....18 _ If Ye Love Me, Keep My Commandments — MadCT ) 9 aa.20 =) 9 re.20. Lord Bless You and Keep You — Lutkin -............---.20. Lord's Prayer—Malotte...25. Prayer For Service—Gaul.20. Teach Me, O Lord—Hamblen oon 22... Eeeeeeeeeeeeee eee.20. Twenty - Third Psalm — Schubert -........----2---------- 25 Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank i DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY; 15 E. Ist South; Salt Lake City 11, Utah: Please send the music indicated above. Oj On Approval 1 Charge 1 Money Enclosed Name Address! City & State Sal Lats 145 NORTH UNIVERSITY, PROVO «! 2860 wASHuifstON BUFDL Capen RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1956 Nauvoo Relief Society meetings, and seized every opportunity, when traveling, to engage a "Gentile" in conversation. Her years of experience were invaluable to the younger mothers of the Church, and they looked to her for wise counsel and sound judgment. Her capacity to love was unlimited. Not only did she shower her own children and husband with affection, but she extended the same devotion to those who married into her family; she welcomed the Phophet's wife, Emma, from the time he first brought her to the Smith home as a bride. There was always a strong affinity between them. Not every mother is called upon to be the mother of a prophet, but the challenge of establishing a righteous home life, one that will carefully develop those traits of character so well developed in the Prophet, is an incentive to Relief Society members everywhere. Every child, if properly nurtured in the home, will be better equipped to respond to calls of leadership which may come to him—whether in the Church, the community, or the nation. Supplementary References 1. "Solomon Mack and His Family"— series by Archibald F. Bennett commencing in the September 1955 Improvement Era. (Background reading for teacher. ) 2. "Testimony Through Reading The Book of Mormon"'—Mathew Cowley, Relief Society Magazine, January 1953, page 6. 3. "Spiritualizing Our Homes'—Velma N. Simonsen, Relief Society Magazine, April 1953, page 238. 4. "Mother's Influence"—Edith Price Backman, Relief Society Magazine, May 1954, page 254. LESSON DEPARTMENT Questions for Discussion 1. What characteristics made the Smith household a superior one? 2. How was the Prophet's family prepared for his mission? 3. Cite instances which illustrate the family's interest in Joseph's message. Why was this important? 4. Give examples of the Prophet's dependence on his parents? Of his desire to share his experiences with them? 5- How did Lucy Mack Smith influence the Prophet's teachings to Latter-day Saint women? How were his teachings affected by his early home life? > My Prayer Irene E. Jones Dear Lord, to thee I raise my prayer, That I may always kindness share, And fill with love another's need: Dear Lord, this is my humble creed. Oh, give me daily of thy grace, To lighten every darkened place Where shadows dwell and fears abide; Be ever present at my side. Lord, whomsoever I chance to meet, Who doubting knows and fears defeat, May I have strength to strengthen him, To dry the tears his eyes bedim. Oh, give me of thy wisdom, Lord, That I may teach in sweet accord, And with thy everlasting plan, Lift nearer thee, each stricken man. In all I do, may I fulfill Thy holy mission, and instill In all who mourn, a part of me That comes, O Lord, direct from thee. Oh, give me faith and gratitude; Give unto me an attitude Like unto thine when thou didst teach; May I serve thee while serving each, 495 HISTORIC TRAIN Write for information about the HISTORIC TRAIN that will include the great PAGEANT AT THE HILL CUMORAH. HAWAII Plan on going to Hawaii this Fall. We sail on November 9, 1956, from Los Angeles, California. For Complete Details, Write or Phone: VIDA FOX CLAWSON 966 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah Phone: EM 4-2017 COOKING ELECTRICALLY brings better food with less work Buy from Your Dealer Be Modern... Live Electrically UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. 496 THE WORLD'S FINEST PIANOS Mason & Hamlin The Stradivari of Pianos EVERETT Finest Toned Spinet Piano Built Cable-Nelson Finest Low Priced Piano Built a Obtain your November 4th music— "Teach Me O Lord," price 20c per copy. Please order early! Beesley Music Co. Pioneer Piano People 70 S. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH It's awaiting @ You... YES there is still a tremendous amount of outstanding instruction and use awaiting you in this and other copies of the Relief Society Magazine. Your editions may be handsomely bound at the West's finest bindery and printing plant for $2.50 cloth bound and $3.50 leather bound per volume plus postage for mail orders. All mail orders must be paid in advance. Follow these postage rates if you send your order by mail: Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles 35 150 to 300 miles.................------- 39 300 to 600 miles.................--. S0000-+ 45 ® 600 to 1000 miles.0o. N.. Wee eee 54 1000 to 1400 miles.....0......... Eee -64 1400 to 1800 miles............... Eee 76 Over 1800 miles _...0...........0. Ceeeeeeeeeees 87 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-2581 31 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1956 Fae Vlodorn Cookery FENNEL (FoEnicuLtum Dutce) Elizabeth Williamson WE ET fennel is an annual herb, not usually included in the kitchen herb gardens, but once started it becomes an old standby, often seeding itself. Fennel needs a sunny exposure and will grow tall (two to four feet high) and feathery. It makes a pretty background in the garden. Originally fennel came from the Mediterranean area. The Romans used it as a vegetable. They also dried the leaves and extracted the juice from the stalks. The juice was used for eye medicine and for stomach disorders. Fennel is still commonly used in Italian cookery. The early English used the extract in drinks supposed to make obese people lose weight and become thin. The most common American use of fennel is for a sauce to be used with boiled fish. It provides a sharp and unusual flavor. If you have never tried this herb, you will experience a new thrill in herb cookery. It is also good with white beans, salads, soups, and sauces. The dried seeds are used in seasoning pickles, cake, and cookies. 'The stalks are good for eating raw. ORSON PRATT PARLEY PRATT From the writings of Orson & Parley Pratt 1. ORSON PRATT'S WORKS Compiled by Parker Pratt Robison Unfamiliar to many in this generation are these fine selections from the writings of Orson Pratt, one of the Church's first missionaries. Each article has dynamic missionary appeal and _ recalls vividly the early days of the Church, both in foreign Jands and in America. $3.00 2. WRITINGS OF PARLEY P. PRATT Compiled by Parker Pratt Robison The priceless gems contained in this collection clearly explain the profound principles of the Restored Gospel, and reveal the beauty, the peace, and the joy of the Great Millennium. Cover titles are in 26 karat gold leaf. $3.00 3. KEY TO THEOLOGY Parley P. Pratt First written in 1851, this valuable book offers an excellent general view of the science of theology, as gathered from revelation, history, and prophecy. It is written by one of the first missionaries of the Church, who was an authority and scholar in the field of theology. This book has converted many to the Church. $1.50 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah | | | | | ( ) charge to my account for the following: 1 2 3 | | | | REX-R 5-222. 7659 qT me for STRAWBERRY JAM... You'll want plenty for those after-. School snacks; and nothing goes better Berry-Good Treats WIth — with toast in' the morning. Stock up now on U and I Granulated for the early canning season. DU" J get STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE.. Generous helpings of fresh, flavorrich berries, topped with whipped cream and Superfine Granulated U andI Sugar... A treat few can resist. AND JUST PLAIN STRAWBERRIES. Or not quite "plain"; whether you like 'em with or without cream, it takes U and I Superfine Dessert Sugar to bring out the full delicious sweetness and goodness of the berries. Or you may prefer them topped with U and I Powdered. Stock UD NOW! With suits coming on-the market, it's: a good time to take a look at your stock of the entire U and I Sugar family. YTAHIDAHO SUp@ GEN Efe "e a' ee, 4 MAGAZINS Reuter Soom oe a te ETD yy as, a I VOL. 43 NO. Fe fs ay S I C—-t"] Ply: -~. " om The Cover: Home Catherine E. Berry Wherever you were born, that land shall be Home to your heart—beside the rolling sea, In mountain country or the wandering plain, A part of it shall stay with you, remain To color sunrise or the day's bright close; Your mind can feel it there, emotion knows No other background that can give you peace, That sure sense of belonging, heart's release. If you should wander far from climbing hills, Or from a rock-bound coast where water spills The foam of mounting waves upon the sand, If you should leave the rolling, green-spread land, No matter where you go, it follows you, Like treasured dreams forever breaking through The round of time, and you will feel the lack, The haunting need of it that calls you back. Havel River, Berlin, Germany Photograph from Verkehrsamt, Berlin Submitted by Mary E. Gregory Frontispiece Photograph: Aspen Mirror Lake, Utah Photograph by Hal Rumel Cover Design by Evan Jensen From ear and Sar I read the Magazine with interest from cover to cover and love it. Of all the magazines, it is, to me, the best. —Mrs. Amy Bennett Virginia, Idaho I have received many nice gifts from home since I have been in the Philippine Islands, but I must say my Relief Society Magazine is one of the nicest.... A feeling of closeness has been maintained by my mother in Ogden, Utah, and myself through our Magazine. She reads it, underlines articles and poems, and sends it on to me. —Mrs. Jenice Lauritsen Philippine Islands I would like to write just a few lines to tell how much IJ enjoy The Relief Society Magazine. My cousins send it to me every month, and I think it is a grand book. Also, although I am of the Church of England, I think you are a very fine, grand people. The Magazine is passed on from one to another this way, and everyone finds a special piece in it. My people have been on missions and stayed with me. They live in Utah and are named Wagstaff. —RMiss Marie A. Stanford Broadstairs, Kent, England I received the March copy of The Relief Society Magazine which you sent.... Thanks very much. I have enjoyed the Magazine for many years. Have been in Salt Lake City since 1946 with Augusta Lundsted, a cousin of my husband. She is in very poor health, so can't be alone and is getting along in years also, eightyfour years in May. From an old sister in the gospel. —Brita E. Lundgren Salt Lake City, Utah For years I have enjoyed reading our fine Magazine. I am particularly happy that it is purse-size, because it has thus filled many a waiting hour with just the faith-firing thought I needed just then. —Verla R. Hull Ogden, Utah Page 498 Thanks so much for a wonderful Magazine. We receive one for each branch and -have many articles and items of interest translated for the sisters. They enjoy them very much and feel much closer to their sisters in other parts of the world through the Magazine. —Hortense B. Robinson President Finnish Mission Relief Society Helsinki, Finland I have been a subscriber to the Magazine many years and certainly enjoy reading it, although my left eye is growing quite dim. I was the age of ninety years last October 15, 1955, and my son Ivan and wife Myrtle gave me an open house party. I am the only living child of Cyrus H. Wheelock, the man who was a great missionary for the Church both abroad and in America and was acquainted with the Prophet Joseph Smith and also his brother Hyrum. He saw them the day they were killed. —Maud Wheelock Farnsworth Orem, Utah I wish to thank Elder and Mrs. Elizaeth Hagen, Woods Cross, for The Relief Society Magazine they are sending me. I am very grateful to them. We are receiving much pleasure and _ instruction from studying each number. I enjoy attending the Latter-day Saints services here. —Mtrs. Sophie Harsch Nauvoo, Illinois I couldn't do without this wonderful Magazine. I have never been without it since I became a member of the Church sixteen years ago. I love the lessons, the poetry, and the wonderful stories. I certainly wouldn't want to miss an issue. —Gladys M. Rutledge Olympia, Washington I enjoyed and appreciated the Magazine while in Illinois with my airborne husband very much. So as not to miss any of the beautiful covers or stimulating and faith-promoting inside pages, would you please note the change of address. —Mtrs. Paul R. Petersen Provo, Utah THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - - - - - - - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - - - First Counselor Velma N. Simonsen - - - - - Second Counselor Margaret C. Pickering - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Evon W. Peterson Alberta H. Christensen Edith P. Backman Edith S. Elliott Louise W. Madsen Mildred B. Eyring Winniefred S. Florence J. Madsen Aleine M. Young Helen W. Anderson Manwaring Leone G. Layton Josie B. Bay Gladys S. Boyer Elna P. Haymond Blanche B. Stoddard Christine H. Robinson Charlotte A. Larsen Annie M. Ellsworth Mary R. Young RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Edito - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawtord Assistant to the Editor - - - - - - - - - June Nielsen General Manager - - - - - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Vol. 43 AUGUST 1956 No. 8 Contents SPECIAL FEATURES Messages From the Wives of the General Authorities of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints..... 501 "And I Now Turn the Key in Your Behalf'. 509 Relief Society General Presidency With Gifts for the Relief Society Building From the Australian, East German, and Samoan Missions, and the Okinawa District of the Northern Far East Mission.. I occ sacecencacas sve $11 The East German Mission -.0..0.222.2.2:.-teccccsceeeeeeees a... Preston R. Nibley 512 Vacation Mecca on the Rio Grande en... Ic cece cceeeeeeececeneeecoeeseeneeeeecosenceseeseseeerereeeessNell Murbarger 520 The Art of Worthwhile Waiting............. Pauline Henderson 530 A Tribute to the Singing Mothers.... N. I.....2.0...2c2c2cececccecccecceceecceeeecececeeceeeeeeeceeeeceeeeceeseneneMyree Daugherty 533 Tring -ooeneeeneececee eee cncecececesnnenceceuceecoeeseneseesceacsesseseesesssoscecesesececsseqesseessssaeeseosesaestancesessnaesnensaeecaseotereeCelia Luce 536 The Gift of Love............. Oy -ncsecoscvonsecscaserrsvereseosoreresteesonecuenseiteRosa Lee Lloyd 514 A Rose Without a Thorn.....:.......... A Irene McCullough 531 Heart's Bounty — Chapter 3 ooncn. Ceccecceccccceccccceeseeseneeeneenenenesneneneetsececenesenesaeeneensneeeee-Deone R. Sutherland 538 From Near and Far ooie. Eceeececececcceeeceseeceeececeeeeeeeeeseeees re498 Sixty Years Ago 20... Oe ee cine 524 Woman's Sphere on. N ene. CeeecccececececeneceacesceececeeececneeeceneeeecaesseeseseseuesessevevavavensseceneesnaeeeaeecesRamona W. Cannon 525 Editorial: The Priceless Gift of Peace Marianne C. Sharp 526 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities..0..000.0. CcoccecseeceeeeoeeeeMargaret C. Pickering 543 FEATURES FOR THE HOME Recipes From the East German Missionec... O. O..-cccecsccsecsceceseeocerseeseenceceesenecee... Mary Ethel E. Gregory 528 Casserole Recipes -22... C... CesecccecccececeeneeeceeneeeceseeeevsesucsecesuesvesnessavagsesusessesctneessesesaeeesnsnsteeeseneeeRhea H. Gardner 534 Josephine Johnson Laker Specializes in Useful Hobbieseiccc. Cccccccccccc-cssssssssssssesecssesesecesecseceteceeeeseeceoeseee 537 LESSON DEPARTMENT Theology: Christ's Ministry Continued 22. Cccee-ceeccsecseesseessesesesseeceessneeseee Leland H. Monson 548 Visiting Teacher Messages: ''Pray in Your Families Unto the Father''.......... Leone O. Jacobs 552 Work Meeting: Casseroles and Leftovers....... CcecccccecsecseceseesesssesevesseseneseeseeeseesRhea H. Gardner 553 Literature: Shakespeare's World.... Ae a! Briant S. Jacobs 555 Social Science: A New Day for Women oo...... Cicc ci cccccescnc-ssecoessevessocotsteeiteveeeceeeceseeeJohn Farr Larsen 562 Home — Frontispiece on.... EeoeecceecoessosscossceseeeceesneesseesuesssessusessesenesassstensansesscsseetsneesusesseseeesCatherine E. Berry 497 Written at Sunset noice icceccceee cc cecccececececceneeeseueseneesseeceeseeessee.. Dorothy J. Roberts 523 Grandfather's Wagon.................... Enola Chamberlin 527 Quilt Pattern: Star of Faith = Maud Rubin 527 Core of Summer Eva Willes Wangsgaard 533 Moonrise a Ethel Jacsobson 536 itipiychye = aS ea LeeVesta N. Lukei 537 Woodland Wonder Elsie McKinnon Strachan 547 SUMMeT Tide nn ceecseeccccecscsecesssecnsseroneesenseecessconsesssnseessseraessssesnsessasesenuvesssessnussesusesennetaescesBeatrice K. Ekman 547 T Need the Stears oe. Cece eee eesesevsnnsseesnvesn ves esnvenetiestvtieettei sitesGrace Barker Wilson 567 POMS nen eeceeceeccecnsesneeceeeeceaseve vanensnsvsvvovesiesnssivanasiesapsttesitsi tteThelma Ireland 568 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 40 North Main, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. EMMA RAY McKAY IRENE SMITH MERRILL RICHARDS Page 500 ITlessages From the Vives of the General Authorities of She Church of GYesus Christ of Latter-day Saints ECAUSE of many accomplishments achieved by Relief Societies while Church edifices are being built, I wish to commend all you wonderful women who spend many days, weeks, and months in helpful service, painting, preparing new buildings for use, cooking and serving banquets, and taking on added responsibility in the home while husbands are working on projects. May our Heavenly Father bless you with especially good health to endure this sublime service. —Emma Ray McKay (Mrs. David O. McKay) THROUGHOUT the land, Relief Society women impart a refining influence with their kindness, happiness, and love. My Grandmother, having raised one child, spent her long life serving in Relief Society and doing temple work. Mother, blessed with fourteen, stayed close at home. Some women have accomplished both tasks. May we each fill our niche admirably. —Irene Smith Merrill Richards (Mrs. Stephen L Richards) MESS'cES and pictures of the wives of two of the General Authorities are not presented in this special feature. Luacine Savage Clark, wife of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., died August 2, 1944. Relief Society was one of Sister Clark's major interests from the time she was eighteen. She used her many fine leadership abilities and other talents freely in Relief Society service. She is remembered as the author of an operetta, of poems, and delightful stories for children. Edith Grant Young, wife of Elder Clifford E. Young, Assistant to the Council of the Twelve, passed away August 20, 1947. Sister Young, a daughter of President Heber J. Grant, was well known for her beautiful voice and musical abilities which she was always willing to use for the service and enjoyment of others. She was a loyal supporter of the women's work of the Church. Page 50] 502 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1956 HILE in the Far East the summer of 1955, I was astonished to discover the great activity of our sisters of the Relief Society. I attended their meetings and was greatly pleased with their faithfulness and joy received through their labors and studies, which at times were under adverse circumstances. I bring greetings from them to the sisters who are more favorably situated here in the stakes of Zion. —Jessie Evans Smith (Mrs. Joseph Fielding Smith) HE true spirit of Relief Society touches the hearts of women, making them sisters in very deed. Possessed of this spirit, they rise above the barriers of nationality and race, social and economic position, forgetting self in the service of others, which is the service of God; indeed "Charity is the pure love of Christ." —Fern T. Lee (Mrs. Harold B. Lee) OR my membership in the Relief Society organization, I am deeply grateful. 'The friendship with choice sisters, the opportunity for intellectual and spiritual growth through the lessons, and the privilege of service as a visiting teacher, give me joy and development and lasting satisfaction. My wish would be that every Latter-day Saint woman would avail herself of this inspired association. —Camilla E. Kimball (Mrs. Spencer W. Kimball) S Relief Society members we are highly favored among women. We have the priceless blessing of the true plan of salvation. Wherever we live, under whatever conditions, the gospel is ours to live and enjoy. Our testimony of its truth is an anchor and an inspiration. If lived according to Church direction, it will exalt us in the Celestial Kingdom. Let us all live it fully today and every day. —Flora A. Benson (Mrs. Ezra 'T. Benson) N conducting a business it is often found that its by-products are quite as valuable as that for which it was originally planned. So with Relief Society, where many of its benefits come unnoticed and unplanned: new friends, ability to work well with others, added skills, improvement in personality. —Emma Marr Petersen (Mrs. Mark E. Petersen) NSELFISHNESS is the rock upon which the work of the Relief Society is founded — the tock of charity, service, and love of others. Such a foundation can but foster love and greatness of soul in all women who are willing to partake. It fills the lives of women with its divine purpose and nobility. —Alberta W. Moyle (Mrs. Henry D. Moyle) N Relief Society we sing and pray, work and play, study and learn together. Also, we comfort the sick and help the needy. Bonds of friendship and love I hold for co-workers in Relief Society activities assure me that this organization is truly a precious gift from God to Latter-day Saint women. —Ethel D. Stapley (Mrs. Delbert L. Stapley) CURRENTLY newspapers and magazines carry articles dealing with adult education and psychological adjustment, particularly of women. Neither boredom nor a feeling of futility has part in the life of a Latter-day Saint woman who avails herself of the many varied opportunities for self-expression and service to others the Relief Society affords her. I am grateful indeed for my association with the women of the Church in this great organization —Ida J. Romney (Mrs. Marion G. Romney) WIVES OF GENERAL AUTHORITIES 503 504 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1956 Dear Sisters: We feel the strength of your love and faith, and in you see the miracle of fine development and sweet achievement wrought by Relief Society work. May the gospel spread from hearts to homes, from communities to countries, until it shall fill the earth with joy and peace "which passeth all understanding." —Ina A. Richards (Mrs. LeGrand Richards) MINERVA Young Bennion, wife of Elder Adam S. Bennion, was with her husband in Europe when the Magazine went to press. Sister Bennion has served many years as a faithful visiting teacher and has given her full support and loyalty to Relief Society. HE Relief Society all over the world serves the Church and its people in the spirit of love. On the European Choir Tour last summer, we were greeted by faithful members everywhere, who impressed us with their deep devotion to the Church. It is thrilling to see how universal is the spirit of the gospel. —Alice Thornley Evans (Mrs. Richard L. Evans) LWAYS ready to help in time of material need, the Relief Society is also aware that "man cannot live by bread alone." 'Their wonderful work in ministering to the needs of our minds and hearts deserves a special tribute. As a musician, I particularly appreciate the contribution made by the Singing Mothers to our spiritual enrichment. —Emma Ramsey Morris (Mrs. George QO. Morris) ELIEF Society exerts a wonderful influence on a woman's life. 'The hours spent in listening to the beautiful lessons and sharing in the various activities, are some of my happiest memories. —Jeanne N. Smith (Mrs. Eldred G. Smith) ITHIN the pages of the Relief Society Magazine are many treasures of the arts, which contribute much to the cultural value of our lives. When I received the February issue of 1956, I turned over the page, and there was a beautiful, breath-taking, winter scene of Mount Olympus of the Wasatch Range. The artistic beauty of it startled me, and I exclaimed, "Oh! How lovely!" This was one of the choice moments of uplift for me. —Fawn B. McKay (Mrs. Thomas E. McKay) GREETINGS to the Relief Society Workers: May we ever keep in mind the great responsibility placed upon the women of the Church by the Prophet Joseph Smith when he organized the Relief Society by carrying forward the purposes for which this organization came into existence. It will always be a blessing and opportunity to those who engage in it. —Leona Ballantyne Sonne (Mrs. Alma Sonne) T is commendable to see so many mothers set good examples before their children in regard to the importance and sacredness of the temples and temple ordinances. We are grateful to the Relief Society sisters, including the General Presidency and the wives of the General Authorities, for their participation and interest in temple work. —Lewella Rees Christiansen (Mrs. ElRay L. Christiansen) WIVES OF GENERAL AUTHORITIES 505 506 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1956 S the very young wife of a very young bishop in a very humble ward, I discovered the beauty of Relief Society. Through the years the Relief Society has brought sweet refinement to countless women by varied lessons, and untold comfort and help to the sorrowing and needy. What a fabulous organization! —LaRue C. Longden (Mrs. John Longden) RELIEF SOCIETY Its motto—"Charity Never Faileth." Its purpose—Service. Its endowment—Spirituality. It trains our hearts, hands, and minds. Hail to the greatest Sisterhood on earth! —Zina Y. C. Brown (Mrs. Hugh B. Brown) E cannot estimate the great good we may each exert, if we willingly give our time and talents to furthering Relief Society. Each may find in this great program of spiritual, mental, and social development a niche in which to place her tiny candle, that its rays may mingle with those of countless sisters throughout the world, to bring a shining light of love and comfort and hope to all who see. —Doris Mary Thornley Sill (Mrs. Sterling W. Sill) I am indebted to Sister Leslie Kendall and also to Charles Lamb for some words which apply, I think, to the Relief Society organization: Would that every troubled soul in these times could receive into their hearts its sweet message which breathes the very spirit of innocence, purity, and simplicity of heart; pray make yourselves acquainted with it. We are all made better and happier by contemplating the ideals of the Relief Society organization. —Valeria B. Young (Mrs. Levi Edgar Young) I would like to express my appreciation to my mother for her interest in Relief Society and her instilling in me a love for the great benefits of membership in the organization. In our ward the older women have been benefited because the young women have attended and taken part in the lessons. —Vilate R. Ivins (Mrs. Antoine R. Ivins) THE Relief Society has blessed many women. It has given them training in intellectual, social, and moral fields, and they have had the benefit of learning and doing, simultaneously. Its great scope and power have made us realize that Joseph Smith was a true Prophet' and Seer when he organized Relief Society at Nauvoo, in 1842. —Ida M. Kirkham (Mrs. Oscar A. Kirkham) REGARDLESS of your numbers or your location in the Church, you manifest the same faith, service, and devotion. Beauty and culture emanate through your group activities; blessings you shower through your visits to the sick and the homebound; mental and spiritual growth you develop through the faithful study of the lessons; and charity you manifest through your accomplishments of welfare assignments. —Gladys P. Young (Mrs. S. Dilworth Young) URING the past few years it has been my privilege to work in the literary department. I feel that those sisters who study the thoughts of the world's foremost writers are able to take increased cultural and spiritual benefits into their homes. Much inspiration is derived from all phases of the Relief Society program. —Ferne G. Hunter (Mrs. Milton R. Hunter) WIVES OF GENERAL AUTHORITIES 507 508 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1956 T has been my privilege to serve as a ward Relief Society president for the last four years, and I can truly say that no other organization in the world has as many spiritual and cultural opportunities to offer its women as the Relief Society, and all Latter-day Saint women who actively participate in it are greatly blessed. —Amelia S. McConkie (Mrs. Bruce R. McConkie) WHILE my experience in Relief Society service has been neither long nor extensive, I have deeply enjoyed it. I am grateful that I may participate in the inspired program of this wonderful organization, as my mother and grandmothers did before me, and especially that I have the privilege of being a teacher, a great blessing and an important responsibility. —Maxine C. Hanks (Mrs. Marion D. Hanks) WHEN our Father in heaven established the Church in these the latter days, a complete plan was instituted whereby we, as his children, could progress mentally, physically, and spiritually toward perfection. The Relief Society helps us to attain this goal. It is a truly great organization with inspirational and stimulating lessons of the highest value to all women. For many years it has been my special privilege to be a class leader. If we could all take advantage of these wonderful opportunities for selfimprovement, the abundant life could be a reality. —Madeline B. Wirthlin (Mrs. Joseph L. Wirthlin) OR almost three decades, Relief Society has helped to develop my interest in the study of our Church works, the arts, my civic responsibilities, and the significance of marriage and the home. I have found the treasures of knowledge given there have broadened my spiritual understanding, as well as my wisdom and judgment. —Lula J. Isaacson (Mrs. Thorpe B. Isaacson) WIVES OF GENERAL AUTHORITIES 509 T° be a Latter-day Saint Relief Society member is to be a part of the greatest sisterhood in the world. The keynote of this group is unselfishness, service, and loving association. A Relief Society woman may travel far into foreign lands and find herself among strangers, but wherever she meets Relief Society sisters, she is immediately among friends with whom she has common interests and common understanding. —Lucile Thurman Buehner (Mrs. Carl W. Buehner) 'And J Now Turn the Key in Your Behalf se HIS is a charitable Society, and according to your natures.... You are now placed in a situation in which you can act according to those sympathies which God has planted in your bosoms. "Tf you live up to these principles, how great and glorious will be your reward in the celestial kingdom! If you live up to your privileges, the angels cannot be restrained from being your associates. Females, if they are pure and innocent, can come in the presence of God; for what is more pleasing to God than innocence; you must be innocent, or you cannot come up before God: if we would come before God, we must keep ourselves pure, as He is pure.... "You will receive instructions through the order of the Priesthood which God has established, through the medium of those appointed to lead, guide and direct the affairs of the Church in this last dispensation; and I now turn the key in your behalf in the name of the Lord, and this Society shall rejoice and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time henceforth; this is the beginning of better days to the poor and needy, who shall be made to rejoice and pour forth blessings on your heads." —Prophet Joseph Smith to the Relief Society, April 28, 1842, Nauvoo, Illinois, Documentary History of the Church, IV, pp. 605, 607. 510 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1956 RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL PRESIDENCY WITH GIFTS FOR THE RELIEF SOCIETY BUILDING FROM THE AUSTRALIAN, EAST GERMAN, AND SAMOAN MISSIONS, AND THE OKINAWA DISTRICT OF THE NORTHERN FAR EAST MISSION Above (left to right): Counselor Marianne C. Sharp, President Belle S. Spafford, and Counselor Velma N. Simonsen. Left to right: a beautiful hand-painted plaque showing trees native to the continent of Australia; a unique lamp in the form of a ship's wheel, made of different woods with a shade painted with Australian scenes and animals; a Koala bear; and a second interesting plaque which pictures the life of the Australian aborigines. Picture on the opposite page (left to right): President Belle S. Spafford, Counselor Marianne C. Sharp, and Counselor Velma N. Simonsen. President Spafford holds an unusual lacquerware tray decorated with blue pearl inlay sent by the Okinawa District Relief Society of the Northern Far East Mission. In the center is an exquisite Meissen vase, an example of the famed porcelains of Germany. The artistic vase is a gift from the Relief Society of the East German Mission. The beautiful table in the foreground is a gift of the Samoan Mission Relief Society. It is made of five native Samoan woods, and the center of the table is formed by an intricately engraved brass tray of Fijian art. Page 511 The East German Mission Preston R. Nibley HE East German Mission, which comprised the provinces of Mecklenburg, Saxony, Brandenburg, Pommern, Schliesen, and East and West Prussia, was formed in August 1937, with Elder Philemon Kelly as president. President Kelly presided until January 1, 1938, when he was succeeded by Elder Alfred C. Rees. President Rees presided until July 30, 1939, when he was succeeded by Elder Thomas E.. McKay. President Joseph Fielding Smith and Mrs. Smith visited the East German Mission in July 1939 and held meetings in Konigsberg, Berlin, and Chemnitz. Ominous threats of the great World War II, in August 1939, caused the First Presidency to request that all American missionaries should leave the East German and West German Missions. The supervision of their exodus, of their gathering at Copenhagen, Denmark, and their subsequent return to the United States, was the task of President Joseph Fielding Smith, who established headquarters at Copenhagen. During the great war, which broke out in all its fury in September 1939, the activities of the East German Mission were directed by 'Thomas E.. McKay, by correspondence from Salt Lake City. By Ewing Galloway, New York ZWINGER NATIONAL GALLERY OF PAINTINGS DRESDEN, SAXONY, EAST GERMANY Page 512 THE EAST GERMAN MISSION 513 ae By Ewing Galloway, New York STATUE OF GOETHE AND SCHILLER, WEIMAR, EAST GERMANY At the close of the war, Elder Ezra Taft Benson of the Council of the Twelve, visited Berlin, as a representative of the Church, in March 1946. His work was largely that of bringing relief to the suffering members of the Church, many of whom were behind "the Iron Curtain." In November 1946, the East German Mission was again organized, with Elder Walter Stover of Salt Lake City as president. He established headquarters in Berlin and began the work of reconstructing the mission, amidst the ruins of war. Hight districts were formed: Erzgebirge, Zwickau, Berlin, Thueringen, Dresden, Leipzig, Schwerin, and Chemnitz. Much difficulty was experienced by President Stover in visiting the members in the Russian Zone. President Stover was released in June 1951 and was succeeded by EIder Arthur Glaus. President Glaus was succeeded in November 1953 by Elder Herold L. Gregory, who presides at the present time. Ninety-seven Relief Society organizations were reported in December 1955, with 3,727 members. Mary Ethel EF. Gregory presides over the East German Mission Relief Society. Note: The cover for this Magazine is a view of the Havel River, Berlin, Germany. | See also "Recipes From the East German Mission," page 528. The Gift of Love Rosa Lee Lloyd EGGY Rockwood put a heapP ing bowl of cereal in front of her little son, seven-yearold Juddy, and listened while his daddy questioned him as they drank their fruit juice. "What would you like for your birthday next week, Juddy? Name anything less than a ride to the moon and we'll consider it." Juddy swallowed hard and put his spoon down without tasting his cereal. "Two things!" he said fiercely. "Two things I can't have!" "Hey, fellow!" Bill chided him. "Don't be a defeatist. How do you know you can't have them before you ask for them?" "T know," he repeated. "I know I can't." His little chin squared off stubbornly, but not before Peggy had seen his lip quiver and his eyes blink hard. Her blue eyes shadowed tenderly as she shook her head at her husband. He must not scold Juddy now. She had known that something was troubling him, but she realized that scolding him or teasing him would only make him freeze up and keep his secret from them. "All right, Son," Bill agreed. "You can tell your mother later. Right now let's see if I can eat more cereal than you can. Yesterday you beat me. Remember?" Juddy picked up his spoon, smiling at his dad. They are so much alike, Peggy thought, her heart swelling with love for them. 'They had the same smooth brown hair, pensive brown Page 514 eyes and wistful, sensitive mouths contradicting the firm square line of their chins. They were all she had in the world, because her parents had both been killed when she was three and there were no aunts or uncles or grandparents, only an insurance policy that paid for her at the Service Center until she was old enough to make her own way. Then she had met Bill and he was an orphan, too. No wonder having each other and Juddy was always a miracle to them. After breakfast Juddy took his football out to the back garden, and Peggy watched him from the kitchen window. He waved gaily as Bill backed the car out of the garage and headed for the highway. 'Then he slumped down in a dejected heap on the lawn and stared wistfully at the big house next door. | had been very lonesome since his little friend Warren Hodge from across the street had gone to visit his grandmother in Colorado. Watching him now, Peggy was quite sure she knew one of the things he would like for his birthday. That was to roller skate around the wide veranda that encircled the big house. Mrs. LaRue's house, with its southern architecture, its draped windows, had a wide, inviting veranda that none of the other houses on Hill Street could afford; the kind where guests strolled in the purple twilight before one of Mrs. LaRue's famous Newburgh dinners; the kind of veranda a little boy would dearly love to whiz around on his roller skates. THE GIFT OF LOVE But, of course, Peggy told herself, with a proud lift of her shortclipped blond head, she couldn't permit Juddy to ask Mrs. LaRue if he could skate on her veranda the way he did before she moved in last spring. You simply couldn't ask a woman like Mrs. LaRue for a favor, especially when she had treated him as though he must not intrude in her life of parties and long week ends with her guests from all over the world. Peggy nibbled her lip as she put the breakfast dishes back in the cabinet and thought about Mrs. LaRue and her big house. It was an old house, Bill had told her, built about thirty years ago by the Cornwall family who had later moved to California. It was the only house on Hill Street for many years, until a real estate company built a row of modest little houses on each side of it, and she and Bill had bought one of them last spring. The big house had then been vacant and Juddy had had a grand time roller skating on the veranda. He had come to think of it as belonging to him. Bill had forbidden him to skate on the sidewalks and streets because they were too steep and the traffic was very heavy on the crossroad below. The path around their own house was graveled, so there was now no place for him to skate, since Mrs. LaRue had bought the house. Peggy remembered how she and Juddy had watched the men unload the huge vans of furniture. Then a car had come with the servants, and a week later Mrs. LaRue herself had arrived. Peggy's lips folded in as she thought of her first sight of her 5a5 new neighbor. Juddy had been on the curb, and she had been sitting on her own front steps when Mrs. LaRue drove up alone in her lengthy blue and cream-colored convertible. Her dress had been blue, too, the color of the car, and her stole was honey-dyed mink. Peggy thought, as she glanced quickly away, that her hair was too black and her mouth too red and her skin too satin-smooth—as though she was afraid to smile for fear it would crack. However Juddy had smiled at Mrs. LaRue and run toward her, impulsively. "Hello," he had called, his eyes beaming friendliness. "I'm Juddy. I live over there. That's my mother on the steps." Mrs. LaRue had turned to look at him, but her hand had gone nervously to her throat. "Oh, no!" she had said almost to herself. "I didn't think there would be children living close." Then she looked at Peggy and tried to smile. "T only meant...." her voice stumbled. "Well — I really don't know what I meant. Please forgive me. I'm very tired." HE had hurried into the house and Juddy had run to his mother and thrown his arms around her. His eyes had been dark question marks as he looked up to her. "She's tired," Peggy had soothed hini. "Maybe she has driven a long way." "But I liked her," he insisted. "I liked her face." What could Juddy see to like about her face? Peggy had asked herself. 516 "Why?" she had questioned him, pressing his head against her breast. "Because she has a sorry face," he had answered, slowly. "It made me sorry, too." "A sorry face," she had repeated wonderingly. Juddy often hit upon the very word to describe something that eluded her. "T wish she liked me, Mama," he added over a sigh. "You must make her like you, Juddy," she had told him. "You must show her you can be a good neighbor by staying in your own yard until you are invited over there. And don't yell when you are near her windows. When you meet her give her a friendly smile, but don't try to make her notice you. Just be a good little boy and she will like you in time." But a month had gone by and still Mrs. LaRue hadn't been friendly to Juddy nor to her or Bill. And there were times when Peggy was sure that Mrs. LaRue deliberately turned her head away when she saw Juddy playing in the driveway. "We won't bother her," Peggy had told Bill. But they were unhappy to have a close neighbor who avoided them. OW Peggy looked out of the window again, but she couldn't see Juddy anywhere. She shrugged her shoulders determinedly. She must not worry about him so much. No, Peggy thought again, they couldn't live Juddy's life for him, but they could give him a happier life than either she or Bill had had, a life filled with love and surrounded by happy people. It bothered her because Juddy wanted, so terribly, for Mrs. LaRue to like him. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1956 She felt anger mounting in her. What did Juddy see in Mrs. LaRue that made him so eager to have her notice him? She and Bill had always hovered over him and guarded him and tried to give him everything a little boy could want. But, lately, nothing they did seemed to answer a longing in him, Peggy was dusting the figurines on the mantle when the front doorbell rang. She smoothed her apron and hurried to answer it. She caught her breath sharply. Juddy, looking guilty and pale, was standing there beside Mrs. LaRue who was holding his football in both hands! Her blue satin housecoat was buttoned crookedly as though she had put it on in a hurry. There was a great smear of dirt across the housecoat as though she had been pulled through a mudpuddle! "He was out there in the street," she said tightly. "I saw him from my window. He shouldn't play in the street. You should know better. A car was coming so I ran and pushed him." "She fell down," Juddy added in a small voice. Mrs. LaRue's lips trembled and she bent her head. Peggy squeezed her eyes shut. Juddy had been playing in the street! She reached yearningly for him. "How awful!" she breathed. Thought he was in the back yard." The two women looked at each other. She's all shaken up, Peggy thought, with a twinge. That was a bad fall. "He might've been killed," Mrs. LaRue choked. "Don't you young a | THE GIFT OF LOVE mothers realize how dangerous it is?" Peggy couldn't breathe as she stared at Mrs. LaRue whose darkly beautiful eyes were deep with fear and shock. Juddy lifted his hand and brushed the dirt from her housecoat. "'T'm sorry," he murmured. "T only went after my football. It bounced when I ran." "Juddy!"" Peggy scolded. "Your Daddy will be very cross. You know you're not to skate or play in the street!" "Daddy said not to skate in the street," he protested. Mrs. LaRue looked down at him, ~ reproachfully, but there was something in her eyes almost like flowers growing under ice. "If you have to skate..." her voice loosened a little, "you can use my veranda in the mornings. Anytime from eight till twelve. You'll be safe there." Juddy's eyes were almost too big for his face. "Gee, thanks!" he "Thanks, Mrs. LaRue. Nice." Before Peggy could thank her, Mrs. LaRue brushed past Juddy and hurried down the steps, but his eyes followed her until she had disappeared through her front door. EGGY felt weak and trembly as she went slowly back into the house and took down Juddy's skates from the high shelf in the closet. How could she ever repay Mrs. LaRue? What could she do for a woman who had everything in the world and didn't need the friendliness of her neighbors? Peggy was determined to show her gratitude grinned. You're real 517 to her. Maybe if she baked a pie or one of her real fancy jelly cakes, it might be acceptable. Then she remembered that Mrs. LaRue had a cook and a maid and was noted for her delicious dinners. But Juddy didn't question what he could do to show his appreciation. Peggy watched from the window as he put the skates on the lawn beside the rose arbor. 'Then he reached up and picked the prettiest pink rosebuds and, carefully holding them in his little hand, he walked determinedly up to Mrs. LaRue's front door and rang the bell. Peggy turned away from the window, squeezing back the tears. She couldn't bear it if Mrs. LaRue refused the roses or sent him away without a word or even a smile. But a few minutes later she heard the rhythmic grind of his roller skates as he whizzed around the veranda, and it was music in her heart. She must think of some way to show Mrs. LaRue how grateful she was. THE summer days sped by. Juddy skated in the mornings and played in his own back yard in the afternoon with the neighbor children. Peggy waited patiently for him to talk about Mrs. LaRue and how she liked the flowers he took her each morning, but he didn't mention her. He seemed to have a precious secret that he didn't share with anyone. | She and Bill decided to respect his silence, but Wednesday when they were having sandwiches and milk together at noon, she asked, as though the thought had just occurred to her: "Shall we invite Mrs. 518 LaRue to your birthday party Fnday?" Juddy took a bite and chewed it a long time. 'Thoughtfully. "Let me ask her, Mama," he said at last. "She talks to me now. Every morning. But she might be busy that day," he added with a deep frown. The next night Peggy was surprised to hear him crying in his bedroom. Bill had gone in to say goodnight and hear his prayers and she had heard them talking in low tones and then Juddy began to cry. After awhile Bill came out with his brows puzzled together and his mouth pulled down into that funny way when something disturbed him. "Beats me!" he sighed, lounging in the chair beside her. "I can't understand my own son. There's something on his mind, Peg. But he won't tell me. Do you know what it is?" Peggy shook her head. "No, I don't, Bill. Id tell you if I did. He's been so happy the past weeks skating on the veranda." "Yeah. He loves that. But there's something else. When I listened to his prayers — well — guess what he said? He told the Lord he didn't need any toys or new clothes for his birthday. Then he said that the Lord already knew what he really needed because he'd asked for it all summer." Peggy's eyes met Bill's. "What could he want that's so important?" she questioned. "What does he need that we can't give him?" Bill unwound his long legs and stood up. "Beats me!" he repeated. "T'll bring home something for his party RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1956 tomorrow. Say! Do you think he might want a pet of some kind? A puppy or a kitten or even a snake?" Peggy shook her head, smiling. "No. He said it was something we couldn't get for him." Y three o'clock the next afternoon the garden was crowded with children who had come to Juddy's party. Peggy thought she had never heard such a rowdy group. She glanced apprehensively at Mrs. LaRue's windows, hoping the noise wouldn't bother her too much. "We'll cut the cake early and serve the ice cream," she told Alice who had come to help her. "That will quiet them." Alice smiled back in her knowing way. "For awhile," she said. "You can't stop a whirlwind, Peg." "No," Peggy agreed as she watched the tumbling boys showing off to the little girls who squealed with delight. "But we can stuff them so full they can't squeal." "What time is Bill coming?" Alice asked. "Any time now," she answered. "T hope he's here when Juddy opens his presents — oh, here he is now. Hi, there, Mr. Rockwood. You're just in time for the main event. Help us get them toned down so we can serve." Bill tossed his hat on a chair and took a whistle from his pocket. His eyes sparked up. "Dave Grant at the office gave me this to use this afternoon. Said he always uses one at his children's parties." He gave a long shrill whistle, then THE GIFT OF LOVE two short ones, and the children turned to listen. "All of you sit down on the lawn," Peggy called. "Because we don't have enough chairs...." Her voice trailed off and she stood there silent with astonishment. Mrs. LaRue was walking down the graveled path. She looked lovely in a white linen dress with a tiny bunch of flowers pinned at her waist. Her dark eyes had a bright new glow, and her lips curved gently as she smiled at them all. She doesn't have a sorry face any more, Peggy thought. "Come in," Peggy finally spoke, hurrying to Mrs. LaRue, catching her hands in her own. "Juddy will be so pleased." Peggy looked around the garden for him, but he was already leaping toward Mrs. LaRue. "Here, Daddy, come quick!" he called. "Here's a surprise for us on my birthday." The children sat very still, looking at Mrs. LaRue as Juddy took her hand and pulled her gently inside the garden. "T hope you won't mind," she smiled at Peggy and Bill. "You see — Juddy told me what he wanted most for his birthday. So I told him if I decided to come I would make his wish come true." She bit her lip and drew a deep breath. Peggy felt her own heart beating up in her throat. Mrs. LaRue's voice was low and sweet like a lullaby. "Juddy has been praying for a grandmother," she said. "So I have come to tell him that I will be his grandmother." The garden was suddenly hushed in a kind of quiet glory. Peggy 519 heard the distant whistle of the four o'clock train in the valley below. Bill cleared his throat, and she heard him say in a husky voice: "That's mighty nice of you, Mrs. LaRue. We surely do appreciate it and everything else you've done for Juddy." "We surely do," Peggy managed. "We'll always love you for it." Juddy beamed up at Mrs. LaRue. "See?" he said. "I told you they would. I told you they needed me to have a grandmother like Warren and all the others have. Boy! Am I lucky!" Mrs. LaRue touched his head. "Tm lucky, too, Juddy,' she murmured. "I have a nice warm feeling that I haven't had for many years. Not since...." Her eyes met theirs with a brave steadiness. "Not since I lost my own little son in an accident on the highway. I couldn't bear to look at children after that. It hurt so. But Juddy made me notice him. He wouldn't give up." Peggy bent her head. She was so ashamed because she had misjudged Mrs. LaRue. That's what happens, she thought, her throat aching, when you merely look at the outside of people and don't know what is in their hearts. But Juddy had seen into her heart and loved Her. "Now look," Bill was suggesting, in his deep, capable voice, "Juddy, it's your birthday so you can cut your cake." "Not me," he shouted, reaching for Mrs. LaRue. "I want everyone to see my grandmother cut my cake. Boy, does she cut the big pieces! You'll see, Daddy. She knows what kids like!" Vacation Mecca on the Rio Grande Nell Murbarger NE of the newest and least 8) known of our nation's playgrounds, Big Bend National Park, lifts above the dry plains of Western Texas like a miracle island in a sea of grass. Slashed by deep, spectacular gorges, softened by flower-filled canyons, and shaded by the bold summits of the Chisos Mountains, here is a vacationer's land of delight! More than four centuries have passed since Cabeza de Vaca _ became the first white man of modern times to look upon this strange mountain empire along the Rio Grande, but only in recent years has the Big Bend country become readily accessible to motorists. Chief factor contributing to that end was the paving of State Route 227, leading south to the park from U. S. Highway go, at Marathon. After dipping and winding for eighty miles through a rough, volcanic region, Route 227 reaches its southern terminus in a scenic, pleasantly wooded cove, at the foot of high Casa Grande Peak. In addition to park administrative offices, here are provided a few tourist cottages, a postoffice, store, cafe, gasoline station, and campground — a road's end cluster of buildings which represents the largest settlement in a land area larger than Massachusetts! Even more remarkable is the fact that only rods from the village lies the borderland of a wild empire virtually unchanged from the time of the exploring Spaniard Cabeza de Vaca — an area still picturesque and unspoiled by civilization. Situated in a great elbow of the Page 520 Rio Grande, 300 miles southeast of El Paso, Big Bend National Park ranges in altitude from 2000 feet on the river flats to more than a mile and a half above sea level in the Chisos, and even midsummer finds temperatures singularly pleasant in the headquarters area and higher elevations — the mercury seldom rising above eighty-seven degrees. In winter, the Big Bend country enjoys the advantages of a latitudinal position nearly 400 miles farther south than Los Angeles; and although flurries of snow may fall on the highest summits, temperatures in the middle-to-lower elevations remain pleasantly warm, with healthful dry air and bright sunshine. Next to climatic factors, one of the chief matters to consider in choosing a suitable vacation spot is the question of keeping occupied —the business of "what to do?" In that connection, it seems only fair to issue a word of warning: the Big Bend is still undeveloped along lines of both plushy elegance and hurdy-gurdy cheapness. Persons whose vacationing pleasure depends upon luxurious accommodations and proximity to golf courses, dance halls, moving picture theatres, and midway-type amusements, will find other resort areas more to their liking. Conversely, those whose greatest vacationing pleasure lies in the association with nature, in hiking, horseback riding, amateur exploring, sightseeing, photography, and plain, ordinary relaxing in an atmosphere of peace and quiet, will find VACATION MECCA ON THE RIO GRANDE Nell Murbarger 521 LOOKING DOWN JUNIPER CANYON FROM TOTEM ROCK, BIG BEND NATIONAL PARK, TEXAS here an all-season vacation land unlike any other in the United States. GURE footed saddle horses are available for rent at reasonable rates, and from the vicinity of headquarters, a network of safe-hiking and horseback trails fans out through beautifully wooded canyons to many places of interest and spectacular viewpoints. One such trail (restricted to hikers) leads to Totem Rock, near the high, exposed summit of Lost Mine Peak; another foot and horse trail leads to "The Window," a perpendicular rock slit commanding a view of thousands of acres of wild land on both sides of the Rio Grande. Persons ambitious enough to undertake a full-day's horseback ride will find a worthy destination in the South Rim; while packmules and burros are available for overnight, or even more extensive trips. Nature lovers in almost every category will find any of these trips productive of myriad delights. Quail 522 and wild doves add their plaintive notes to the wild concert led by mockingbirds and warblers, and the patient bird watcher even may be favored by the sight of a rare hooded oriole or blue-throated hummingbird. More than 200 species of birds have been catalogued here. March to June finds a dozen species of cactuses flaunting their vivid blooms on rocky knolls; April is the month when Spanish daggers (yuccas) lift their spikes of creamy white bells; and with June and July, the tall heads of the century plants burst into golden glory — their flower stems several times taller than a man! Even late autumn finds the canyons a massed delight of wild flowers and ferns. Forest trees found in the park include Arizona cypress, Douglas fir, Ponderosa and Mexican pinion pines, alligator-barked, and weeping junipers, Texas madrones, maples, and several species of oaks, and, in these environs, more than sixty species of animals make their homes. Inviting one-day side trips easily accessible in the family car, include a thirty-five-mile jaunt to Santa Elena Canyon, where the Rio Grande winds tortuously through a gorge, eighteen miles in length, with rock walls rising sheerly on either side to heights as much as a quarter of a mile above the river! One. Wall of this fantastic gorge stands in Mexico — the other in the United States. A short way down river is Boquillas Canyon, of comparable depth; and Mariscal, deepest and most spectacular of three river-hewn slits. En route to Santa Elena Canyon, the autoist may include side jaunts to the old ghost towns of 'Terlingua RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1956 and Study Butte. For more than fifty years one of the nation's major sources of mercury, Terlingua once boasted the largest population of any mining town in Texas. Only a few old buildings and mine dumps remain. Another interesting side trip may be made into the Grapevine Hills, a weird region of balanced rocks, picturesque stone formations, and strangely eroded spires. Other points of interest in the park include a fossil deposit which has yielded a wide variety of prehistoric marine life, including oysters thirty inches in length, clams four feet across, and a_ forty-five-foot stone crocodile. Long before the coming of American explorers and_ settlers, superstitious Spanish folk had applied to these mountains the name "Chisos," meaning "phantoms" or "ghosts." Although doubtless inspired by the long, gauzy, cloud streamers, which so often wrap about the rock-crowned summit of Casa Grande Peak, it isn't at all difficult to invest that word with a meaning less materialistic. After spending a few days and nights in this still, brooding land of great heights and dark depths, it becomes strangely easy to imagine a figure of the long-ago shuffling along the Lost Mine trail, or sitting under the friendly pines looking out across the jumbled wilderness of the Sierra del Carmen to the distant mountains of Mexico, ranged tier upon blue tier. Neither is it difficult to imagine the former inhabitant watching the serrated peaks as sunset clothes them in crimson and gold, soon blended to royal purple and darkened, at last, to a soft robe of midnight velvet. Leland Van Wagoner JET TRACINGS ON THE SKY Written at Semee! Dorothy ]. Roberts At noon your jet is but a roar Ripping the hazy atmosphere As you in gleaming metal soar Beyond this note that knifes the ear; Now visible your valor shines At sunset, climbing sky's blue hill, In two long, fleecy golden lines Written by your silver quill. Here fathoms under you I stand 'Trying to trace your craft that sings, That writes in promise above the land And guards tomorrow with its wings. DB, 5 B) Page 523 Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, August 1, and August 15, 1896 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomMeN oF ALL NATIONS" ADVANCEMENT: To all well-balanced minds, woman is particularly adapted, fitted, and is it too much to say, fore-ordained to the sacred calling of nurse and accoucheur. If any member of a family is sick who does the nursing? Whose gentle hand soothes the aching, tossing head? Who binds up the cuts and scratches, or perchance the more serious wounds and bruises?... Then let us ask, who should study and inform themselves most thoroughly upon the intricate principles of medicine, and the more simple and natural laws of nursing? —H. RELIEF SOCIETY IN TEASDALE, WAYNE COUNTY (UTAH): Although we are so far away from your beautiful city, and only few in numbers, yet we enjoy the spirit of the Lord in our meetings, and are trying to do our duty and adhere to the counsel given to us, in storing up grain, and studying the Lectures on Faith and storing our minds with good and useful knowledge, and trying to live as becomes Latterday Saints and mothers in Israel. I am pleased to say we are a united little band of sisters here in Teasdale. —Mary E. Adams, President Teasdale Relief Society MEDITATION My soul has gone forth in its wandering, To the hills that are purple with light; Those temples that tower everlasting, In their majesty, grandeur and might. And I list to the voices eternal, That have sung thro' the ages of time, And I bask in the visions supernal, That lift me to regions sublime.... —E. B. W. CALIFORNIA WOMEN A POWER: Some of the best thinkers and most logical of women have come into California, and are becoming a power. I think there is not a "stupid woman" in the State. Some are eminently "clever" in the sense which, among English folk, denotes intellectual strength and ability to express it. At this writing the State Woman Suffrage Association and the Equal Rights League of San Francisco are in Convention in Union Square Hall. —Nellie Blessing Eyster MEMORIAL FOR HANNAH T. KING: Memorial Day for the late Sister Hannah T. King, poet and author, was observed on July 30 ult. At the residence of Mrs. John Alford, who had made special preparations for the occasion and sent out cards of invitation for 4 p. M. A most delicious repast was served in the happiest style. At each plate was a handsome double card tied with lavender nbbon, each one containing a verse from the Psalms of which Sister King was so fond. 'The table and the parlors, in fact were artistically decorated with flowers and vines.... After dinner the ladies each paid a beautiful tribute to the gifted, departed friend.... The guests were Mesdames Horne, Kimball, Spencer, Smith, Grieves, Howe, Woodmansee, Brockbank, McFarlane, Richards and Wells. —News Note Page 524 N London, on the Embankment, we asked a British "bobby" a question. He replied very courteously and added, "Like to see the Queen? She'll be driving by any moment now. Right over there is a good place to stand." We waited. Soon the policeman signaled another in the distance and the Queen's car rounded the corner. Elizabeth is more beautiful than her photographs — very graceful and relaxed, dainty, feminine. She is a radiant person; yet, as her subjects desire her to be, she is "every inch a queen," a genuinely regal person. Britons take great pride in her. BRITAIN'S Princess Royal (the late Queen Mary's daughter, Princess Mary), as Chancellor of the University of Leeds, in May, conferred honorary degrees upon several notable people. Among them was Mrs. R. S. Pandit, High Commissioner for India in London, and Indian Ambassador to Ireland, who received a Doctor of Laws degree. 'The Princess said that universities must always remain temoved, but not too far removed, from the forum and the market place, the office and the workshop. The commonwealth of the universities should be world-wide and should know no curtains. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon Swedish doctor was puzzled because the wound of a housewife did not close. The woman told him that was so because a cooking flavoring or essence had run into the wound. The doctor began to investigate. American physicians took up the problem. Result, the discovery of Dicumarol and Dicumarin, which thin blood clots and are used in treating phlebitis and some coronary troubles. ARGERY S. STEWART, wellknown contributor to The Relief Society Magazine, and Eunice V. Buck are the authors of Strange Babies, a beautifully illustrated adventure book for children, recently published by Caxton Printers, Caldwell, Idaho. APTAIN GIOCONDA SARANIERO is the first woman to attain the rank of captain in the United States Navy Medical Corps. She is now with the Bureau of Medicine and Surgery in Washington, D. C. IRTHDAY congratulations are extended to: Mary Barrett Hendry, Salt Lake City, Utah, ninetynine; Mrs. Louisa Draper, Moroni, Utah, ninety-two; Mrs. Mary Jane Williams Clifford, Brigham City, Utah, ninety-one; Mrs. Martha C. Anderson, Salt Lake City, ninety. Page 525 OQ EDITORIAL 9 VOL. 43 AUGUST 1956 She Priceless Gift of Peace ON the evening before the crucifixion, the Savior stood in the midst of his eleven faithful disciples who had unswervingly followed him for about three years, albeit with little understanding of his role as the Savior of the world. Heavy with impending events waiting for fulfillment, Jesus looked upon those whom the Father had given him out of the world and in love bestowed a parting gift on them—a gift which awaits each one today, if he will but accept it. While still one with them, Christ promised: Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you: not as the world giveth, give I unto you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid (John 14:27). As with all gifts from the eternal worlds, this gift must be earned to be possessed, but it is offered freely to all. Every Latter-day Saint wonian may possess this peace deep in her soul, which will constantly guide her through the shoals of everyday living to a rock-fast haven in which she guards her knowledge of the love of her Eternal Father for her, and of the mission of his Son, her Savior. Through righteous living, she may comfort herself with the words and live the injunction, '... Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid." Although the atomic age has Page 526 brought a new fear into hearts, and peace in the human soul is _ badly needed, women of all times and ages in the world's history have been tried and tested, and the blessing of peace has always been of greatest value. A wife and mother is at times sorely tried. When disagreements and misunderstandings arise, her emotions and feelings may become almost desperate. It is then she should recall the words of the Savior promising her peace, and pray and work with herself. When she humbles herself and takes the guidance of the spirit—then this gift floods her being and her heart becomes calm and unafraid. If a Latter-day Saint woman takes the time, when her feelings are sore, to sit down and read the scriptures, that also helps to bring calmness to her. Peace again may be banished from her heart when sickness strikes her family; however, by recalling the words of the Savior in his great hour of anguish, "... Not my will, but thine, be done" (Luke 22:42), and by placing implicit faith in the Lord, leaving the outcome to him, a woman may regain peace within her soul. What mother is there that does not need the "peace... Which passeth all understanding" as she tries to lead her children in the path of righteousness? It is a fact that when a mother's heart is worried EDITORIAL and troubled, when household cares press heavily upon her, and other responsibilities almost overwhelm her, then her actions and words will reflect the state of her inward feelings for "... Out of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaketh" (Matt. 12:34). Think of the difference in the words of advice from a mother whose heart is full of uncertainty, fear, worry, and dissatisfaction, with the guiding words which come from a mother whose 527 heart is untroubled, unafraid, and at peace. Such a wise mother looks beyond her anxieties of the moment, household pressures, and multiplicity of duties, to keep ever foremost in her heart the great goal of an eternal marriage and the eternity of family relationships dependent upon righteous living. Living for this goal, the gift of peace radiates within her soul. —M. C. S. Grandfa ther s Wagon Enola Chamberlin Here is Grandfather's wagon In which he crossed the plains. It weathered the drought of the desert, It weathered the mountain rains. But with houses crowding together, It is only in the way— How long can the wagon weather The indifference of today? Quilt Pattern: Star of Faith Maude Rubin Moving slowly through bright skeins of silk Her hands make careful choice, Then briefly rest on treasured fabric— A wedding tie, a satin gown, A yellowed baby robe... The years have hurried past like thoughts at night. As fears dissolve, their glow intensifies. Kaleidoscope of colors on her knees Brightens this mouse-gray twilight. Now choosing golden thread, tired fingers Work one last design Five-pointed, unwavering. {Recipes Soriano ase German WV ikeoen Submitted by Mary Ethel E. Gregory Lec oF VEAL (KALBSHAXE) STEAMED AND FRIED 1 leg of veal Rub the leg of veal well with salt and let stand one-half hour. Prepare, in the meantime, the broth for the boiling of the leg. Ingredients for Broth vinegar to suit taste 1 root of parsley water 1 bay leaf 1 carrot sliced 3 cloves 1 onion 6 peppercorns lemon rind In a saucepan put water and vinegar to suit taste, add the sliced carrot, onion, parsley root, bay leaf, cloves, peppercorns, and lemon rind. Place the leg of veal in the sauce and see that it is well covered. Boil it until it is tender. Lift the leg of veal from boiling broth, and rinse in clear cold water and dry well. Sprinkle with salt and pepper and coat with egg and bread crumbs. Fry on both sides in butter until it is light brown. BAVARIAN CaBBAGE ROLLS (Bayrische Krautwickel) 1 head cabbage pepper % |b. Beef, ground salt % Ib. Pork, ground chopped onion 2 eggs lemon rind flour (enough to bind) butter or margarine Take the biggest leaves from the cabbage (one for each person) and steam in boiling water for about fifteen minutes. Cut the remainder of the cabbage into small pieces and mix with meat, eggs, pepper, salt, onion, flour, and grated lemon rind. Put the filling into each leaf and form into roulades. Bind the roulades with thread (take the thread off before serving them). Fry the roulades until nicely browned all around. SCHLESISCHES HIMMELREICH Ingredients for Soup: Ingredients for Dumplings: 2 Ibs. Dried fruit 1-2 Ibs. Flour (prunes, apricots, apples) 3-5 Ibs. Peeled boiled potatoes 1-2 Ibs. Smoked ham 1 egg 1 tbsp. Sugar salt to taste Cook dried fruit, ham, and sugar in enough water to cover, until ham is tender. Add more water if needed. Thicken slightly with flour. For making the dumplings, mash potatoes with fork, add egg, salt, and enough flour to form a firm dough. Form balls the size of an egg and drop into the soup made of the ham and fruit mixture. Steam the dumplings until they rise to the surface. Mear Batts (Konigsberger Klops) % Ib. Beef, ground 1-2 tbsp. Capers (if desired) "2 |b. Pork meat, ground 1 small onion 2 dry white rolls or 1 tsp. Chopped parsley 2 slices dry bread 1 ~~ 'tbsp. Flour 1 egg. 1% tbsp. Butter % c. Cream salt and pepper grated lemon rind and juice Page 528 RECIPES FROM THE EAST GERMAN MISSION: 529 Mix ingredients for meat balls. Form balls about the size of a big walnut. Melt butter in saucepan, add flour and then broth or bouillon. Simmer meat balls in this sauce for about fifteen minutes then add cream. Flavor with grated lemon rind and juice. Add capers if desired. Serve with potatoes. Sour Roasr (Sauerbraten ) To be served with raw potato dumplings 2 Ibs. Beef Marinating Ingredients: 2 tbsp. Flour "1: onion 3 tbsp. Butter 4 peppercorns 2 c. Broth or water 4 Cloves salt 1 ¢. Vinegar 1 c. Water or buttermilk bay leaf Wash and dry meat. Marinate four to six days. Keep cool and turn every day. Remove meat from juice and dry. Dredge in flour and melted butter in frying pan, brown the meat, and add salt. Add broth slowly and juice for flavor. Cover and let. Simmer on low flame for one and one-half hours. Turn meat occasionally, replacing water if necessary. Thicken and serve. Raw Poratro Dux princes (Rohe Kartoffelkloesse ) To be served with Sauerbraten - 8 medium-sized. Potatoes, raw. 2 eggs 4 boiled potatoes 3 tsp. Flour (potato starch) 2 white rolls salt 2.0z. Lard or butter little hot milk Peel the raw potatoes, grate them into a bowl of cold water through a muslin on the grater. Let them rest for a few minutes then press through the muslin. Put the potatoes in a deep mixing bowl, pour a little hot milk over them. Add the grated boiled potatoes.. Cut the rolls in little squares and fry in butter or lard and add to the dough. Beat the eggs in the flour and the potato starch (which remains as sediment from grating the raw potatoes on the bottom of the bowl into which you grated the potatoes). Mix all this together and form nice, round dumplings. Boil for half an hour in salted water. These dumplings are to be eaten at once, otherwise they become hard and lose their appetizing appearance. The water to boil the dumplings in should be put on the stove early enough so that it is boiling when dumplings are all formed. = APPLE FRITTERS (Apfelkuechel ) 1 Ib. Flour 6 c. Apple juice or milk sugar to suit taste _ 2 tbsp. Butter cinnamon. 3 egg whites apples Make a batter by adding to the flour enough sugar to sweeten the flour, cinnamon, and the apple juice, then add hot butter. Whisk the whipped whites of three eggs into the batter. The batter should be a little thicker than for ordinary pancakes. Peel nice, large apples, Cut in round slices. Turn in the batter. Bake in deep fat. Sprinkle generously with sugar. She Art of Worthwhile Waiting Pauline Henderson He' wonderful it would be if, at the end of our life, we could add up all the hours, days, and years that we have spent just waiting for something, and be allowed to add them to our total span of life! To say "I hate waiting," however, is to say in effect, "I hate living," for while we wait, life is going on and we are growing older. If we believe that life is good and worthwhile, then it must naturally follow that life is too precious to waste even one minute in the state of bored frustration that to most of us is synonymous with waiting. How many times do we say, "If I only had more time to read!" and then, the next time we are forced to sit and wait, spend the time in mental condemnation of the waiting instead of reading. I know a woman whose wide knowledge astonished me because I knew that she had had only a grade-school education and was the busy mother of a growing family. Then one day I saw her collection of paper-backed books by well-known authors. "T always carry one with me in my purse," she told me, "to read when I have to wait for a bus or at the dentist with the children, or anyplace." Yet it is not necessary to read in order to benefit from these brief periods of waiting. We hear much talk today of the too fast pace we are living. We are told that we hurry too much—telax too little. But even the fastest paced life has its periods of enforced waiting, time which is generally spent in a state of acute impatience that only increases the tension of our lives. How much more profitable it would be to use this time for relaxation —a sort of mental unwinding —a time to let go—to meditate — yes — even to pray, for it is not necessary to be on one's knees in order to pray effectively. Most of us, at least once in our lives, are faced with a period of prolonged waiting. Perhaps it is for the promotion that will bring us greater secunty — or the return of good health after a time of illness — or the agonizing waiting for the return of a loved one who is away. These are the times that wrench our souls, when frustration builds up within us to a high point, as we wait to reach the culmination of our desires. We spend our time in a state of suspended animation, and each day becomes merely a deary succession of hours to be lived through as quickly as possible. What a shameful waste of this wonderful gift of life! The time that we must spend in waiting is an integral part of our lives — time that, once wasted, will never come again — a time to be lived and enjoyed and made the most of — not wasted in idly marking time. When a situation reaches the point when there is nothing more to be done except wait, then we are automatically released from the necessity of doing anything about it. The struggle is ended, and we are free to give ourselves to something else and let time itself take over. This is the time to take on something new — preferably something as unrelated to the thing we are waiting for as possible. 'That course in music that we have always dreamed of taking someday, or the hobby we have always wanted to pursue —or best of all—seek out someone less fortunate than ourselves and lend a helping hand. If we will spend our waiting time in such a manner, we will be almost surprised to find one. Day that the waiting has ended — our dream has become a reality, and we are ready to enjoy it with a fresh outlook and a new sense of values. Page 530 A Rose Without a Shorn Irene McCullough OLLIE heard the door slam as Jim left the house. What's the use, she thought, he's all wound up again, and when he is that way everything I do is wrong as far as he is concerned. She was too angry to cry. She felt all tied _ up inside. If only she could discuss her problem with someone, it might help. It would be useless to talk to her mother. She invariably took Mollie's part and Jim did not stand a chance. Aunt Margaret was just as bad. There was Millie, across the street, but she had so many cares of her own, it would be unfair to burden her with any more. Besides, she did not want her affairs discussed around the neighborhood. Suddenly she thought of Aunt Rachael. Aunt Rachael never gossiped. She was over eighty years old, and the town had practically grown up around her. She had had many ups and downs in her life— mostly downs — and yet she had come through smiling. Surely she could advise her. Mollie hurriedly cleaned up the house and started out to see Aunt Rachael. It was just a short distance, and the cool, damp air felt refreshing against her flushed cheeks. "Come in and sit down," called out Aunt Rachael as soon as Mollie opened the door. "It's so nice to have someone drop in and chat with me. I don't get out as often as I used to." Mollie could not hold back her pent-up emotions any longer. She dropped into the nearest chair and burst into tears. Aunt Rachael did not say a word — just let her sob it out. "Oh, Aunt Rachael, I'm sorry; I'm really ashamed to act this way." "That's all ght, dear, that's all right. It's just nature's way of easing the pressure when you are overtaxed. Now, what's troubling you?" "It's Jim — he is so cross and irritable lately that I can hardly stand it. No matter how hard I try, I don't seem to please him. Maybe I never was meant for him; maybe he is tired of me; maybe I should leave him; maybe...." "Maybe," interrupted Aunt Rachael, "he is working too hard. I heard he got the contract to put in the new road down in Fairview. They say that is a pretty tough job." "He has been working hard, Aunt Rachael. It's nearly impossible to get dependable help nowadays, and every time he leaves the job, something goes wrong. He never gets home until late and has to leave early in the morning." "Ruth came in to see me yesterday." softly said Aunt Rachael, artfully trying to change the conversation. "She said she had just been over to see your new living-room set and that it was the prettiest one she had ever seen." "It is beautiful. I didn't want Jim to buy it because I felt it was too expensive, but Jim could see I Page 53] 532 preferred it, so he had them send it out." "T want to run in and get a peek at it myself as soon as I can,' said Aunt Rachael. "These new sofas are surely attractive. But, speaking of Ruth, she looked so tired and thin yesterday, I couldn't help feeling sorry for her." "She does look worn out," replied Mollie. "Her husband is a good-natured man, but he can't seem to hold down a job for long. Ruth tends the neighbors' children, takes in sewing and does all her own work. No wonder she's tired and thin." UNT Rachael sighed, then began slowly and thoughtfully: "T think I understand her problems pretty well. You know Frank, my husband, was the kindest man that ever lived, but he just could not seem to get out of low gear. I decided to leave him once. I had three children then, and John, the eldest, was only six years old. We had one of the best farms in the valley, but our farm never produced as much as the neighboring farms. Fach time it was our turn to irrigate, we lost a portion of the water because Frank was always late opening up the headgates. We could have raised twice as many chickens, pigs, and cows as we did, but Frank never seemed to get around to it. But he could always find time to sit down and tell the children stories, or whittle them a whistle or a flipper, go fishing or pick berries with them. I had scolded him so much about his inability to get things done that I was beginning to have an awful disposition." Aunt Rachael leaned back in her RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1956 chair and seemed to be looking back through the years. "One day I decided that we could no longer go on the way we were. I put on my bonnet and went to see mother. She lived about a mile down the road. Mother was one of the first pioneers to settle in the valley. Her life had not been an easy one. She had _ walked across the plains in 1854. She lost her first three children with diphtheria. Father was away from home a great deal of the time, and mother had to shoulder the responsibility of the farm and home. I walked into her living room and sat down. I told her I was going to bring the three children and come home to live; that I just could not struggle with Frank's careless ways any longer. She listened until I had finished my story, then took me by the arm and led me out onto the front porch and said: ""Rachael, you married Frank for time and eternity. You go straight home and don't come back. You will never live to find a rose without some thorns.' Without more ado, she walked back into the house and closed the door. "T walked slowly down the steps and toward home. I thought about Frank. Would I trade him for anyone else I knew? I couldn't think of a soul I would rather have married, even a very ambitious one. How about the children — would they want to leave their father? They went to him for everything. It was Frank who took time to hear their tales of woe, bind up a stubbed toe or cut finger, and comfort and advise them. When they were sick, it was Frank who got up at A ROSE WITHOUT A THORN night and watched over them with 533 "Mollie, you will never find a rose without a thorn." tender care. 'They didn't call for me—they called for Frank. It dawned on me that I, too, had my thorns. Surely I could fill in for the weaknesses in Frank as he was filling in for me.... When Frank died the meetinghouse was filled to overflowing — everyone loved him. He was the kindest man that ever lived, and I miss him more every day." Aunt Rachael's trembling old hand wiped a tear from her eye, then she managed a smile and said, Mollie got up and went over and kissed Aunt Rachael goodbye and hurriedly left for home. The children would soon be there for lunch and maybe Jim would run in for a sandwich. With a thankful prayer in her heart, and a new humility, Mollie spoke softly to herself: "T, too, never expect to find a rose without a thorn, nor am I one,' and she resolved to be a more understanding wife and count her blessings. A Sribute to the Singing Mothers Myree Daugherty pyoNezers of singing voices came to my ears, struck the chords of my heart, and penetrated the very depths of my soul. I thought it was a choir of angels, but I was here on earth, and angels do not dwell on earth. The singing continued and grew in volume. The words sent messages of love, of beauty, of adoration and praise. They spoke of mercy, of contentment, happiness and joy. And then faces began to take form before my eyes, and, gradually, one face became familiar. It was the face of a beautiful woman. She was singing, but it was different from most singing. The song was coming from her innermost heart; around her face seemed to shine a heavenly light. Behind her appearance, I could see a life of hardships and anxious moments, but, also, rising high above I could see courage, strength, faith, prayers, and finally success and peace of mind. And then I recognized the face to be that of my dear Mother, and then I knew the singing was coming from a group of angels. Yes, they were angels on earth. God had sent them here with a special callang and responsibility, and they have and still are fulfilling their duties in a complete way. They are here always to give us strength, and love, and courage. God bless them — our Singing Mothers. <>< Core of Sum nler Eva Willes Wangsgaard Here is the core of summer When all our praise is sung: The miracle of apples Where pink-tipped fragrance hung. This is enough of wonder For many psalms and hymns: These fruits that swell and ripen Upon unshattered limbs. Casserole Recipes Rhea H. Gardner ia you want to pack every meal with appetite appeal, keep on hand a generous supply of casserole recipes. Whether they are made from market-fresh meats and vegetables or from leftovers will make no difference. There is no easiet way to prepare a meal for your family or guests than by serving a casserole dish as the main course. Quick Bacon-NoopLE CassEROLE 2 c. Noodles (% Ib.) 1 no. 2 can tomatoes (2% cups) 8 slices bacon, halved lc. Soft bread crumbs ¥% c. Bacon drippings 1% tsp. Salt 1 clove garlic halved 1 'tsp. Sugar Y% c. Minced onion "% c. Grated Parmesan cheese Heat oven to 350°F. Cook noodles in boiling water until tender. Drain. Meanwhile in skillet, cook bacon until crisp, remove. Pour off dmppings then measure % c. Back into skillet. Add garlic, cook 2 or 3 minutes. Remove. Add onion. Cook until tender. Add tomatoes and next four ingredients. Cook 8 to 10 minutes. Add to noodles and bacon; toss well. Bake covered for 30 minutes. Tuna Purrs 4 eggs, slightly beaten 1 tbsp. Minced onion 2 c. Soft bread crumbs 2 c. Whole milk 1 tsp. Salt 1 can chunk-style tuna (1 cup) 1 tbsp. Prepared mustard Combine ingredients. Pour into 6 individual casseroles or 8 custard cups. Chill. About 50 minutes before serving, heat oven to 400°F. Set casseroles in pan of warm water. Bake 35 to 40 minutes. Meanwhile heat 1 can condensed cream of mushroom soup undiluted. Add 2 tbsp. Butter and stir until melted. Use as sauce for puffs. Breer AND RIcE CASSEROLE 1 ¢. Tice 1 Ib. Ground chuck beef 2 tbsp. Butter 1 tsp. Salt 113 ¢. Diced celery dash pepper 3. Tbsp. Minced onion 1 can tomato soup % c. Water Cook rice. Saute celery and onion in butter until tender but not browned. Place rice in casserole. Top with celery mixture. Brown meat in fat remaining in skillet. Arrange on top of celery. Combine soup with water. Pour over mixture and bake 35 minutes in 375°F'. Oven. ScALLOPED Ham, PoTaTOES, AND CARROTS 1 slice ham (% Ib.) 2% tsp. Flour 1 can cream of mushroom soup 1 c¢, milk 3 ¢. Sliced pared potatoes lc. Sliced carrots % c. Minced onions salt and pepper Page 534 Cut ham into serving portions. Brown lightly. Stir flour into fat in skillet. Add soup, then slowly stir in milk and bring to boiling point. In casserole arrange layers of ham, potato, carrot, and onion. Pour in soup mixture. Place in 375° F. Oven and bake covered 60 minutes. Uncover and bake 15 minutes longer or until potato is tender. Ham AND SWEET POTATOES 6 medium-sized sweet potatoes "2 C. Green pepper or pimiento strips 1 tbsp. Butter 1 no. 2 can pineapple chunks, drained 72 tsp. Salt 2 tbsp brown sugar pepper to taste 1 tbsp. Cornstarch pinch nutmeg "% ¢. Pineapple juice 2 ¢. Cooked ham cut in bite-size pieces 2 tbsp. Vinegar 2 tbsp. Butter milk, as needed Cook then mash sweet potatoes. Add seasonings and enough milk to whip. Heat oven to 400°F. Saute ham in 2 tablespoons butter. Add green pepper and pineapple chunks. Cook 2 or 3 minutes. Add brown sugar and cornstarch then juice and vinegar. Cook, stirring until clear and thickened. Pour mixture into g-inch pie plate or casserole. Drop spoonfuls of potato on top. Bake 20 to 25 minutes or until bubbling hot. TurKEY CASSEROLE 2 c. Noodles (4 Ib.) % tsp. Pepper 1 pkg. Frozen or 1 c. Grated cheese 2 c. Freshly cooked broccoli 2 c. Milk 2 tbsp. Butter 2 c. Turkey or chicken 2 tbsp. Flour cut in bite-size pieces 1 tsp. Salt ¥%, c. Sliced toasted almonds "4 tsp. Prepared mustard + In separate saucepans, cook noodles and broccoli until just tender. Meanwhile, in saucepan over low heat melt butter. Blend in flour. Add seasonings. Cook, stirring constantly until thickened. Remove from heat, add cheese, and stir until melted. Drain noodles and broccoli. Cut broccoli stems in %-inch slices. Leave flowerets whole. Arrange noodles, broccoli stems, and turkey in casserole. Pour cheese sauce over all. Arrange broccoli flowerets on top, pressing them lightly into sauce. Sprinkle with almonds. Bake till bubbling on top. Note: Frozen peas or carrots could be used in place of broccoli, and ham may be used in place of turkey. CREAMED Noop. E RING This is a tasty and attractive dish. It is especially suited to Sunday dinner or company luncheon, since everything, except the final baking of the ring, can be done well in advance of serving time. It also offers an excellent and appealing way to use leftovers. Cook 1 package or about 2 c. Fresh noodles. Drain and place into an oiled mold about 9 inches in diameter. Mix: 2 c. Medium white sauce 2 eggs, slightly beaten % Ib. Cheese, grated 2 tbsp. Grated onion % tsp. Dry mustard Pour over noodles. Place in pan of water and bake in a moderate oven (3 50°F.) for 30 to 40 minutes. CASSEROLES AND LEFTOVERS 535 536 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1956 Turn out on large platter and fill center with creamed meat, poultry, fish or vegetables. Makes 6-8 servings. LEFTOVER TURKEY % c. Chopped celery 1 3 oz. Can sliced mushrooms ¥, c. Tiny whole onions 3 ¢. Diced turkey 2 c. Turkey stock or 1 tbsp. Lemon juice 2 chicken boullion cubes dissolved 3 tbsp. Chopped parsley in 2 c. Water salt and pepper % c. Flour Cook celery and onions in small amount of boiling salted water. Drain. Heat 1% c. Stock to boiling. Blend flour with 4 c. Cold stock. Mix. Cook until thick and smooth. Add remaining ingredients, season to taste. Pour into casserole. Top with tich biscuit dough. Bake 30 minutes in 425°F. Oven. Serves 6 - 8. Srimming Celia Luce I trimmed my hollyhock plants. I could almost imagine them shuddering as I cut off long stalks of seeds. I could almost hear them saying, "I have done my share of work, and now you are trimming it all away. I will have the job to do all over again. Please stop and let me rest. I have done my share." But I went right on trimming. Untrimmed hollyhocks become dead sticks. I don't want dead sticks in my garden. Trimmed hollyhocks send out shoots in all sorts of new directions and start to blossom all over again. They stay young and vigorous until the killing frost, at last, finishes their work in the fall. I, like the hollyhocks, need trimming. I need to forget past deeds and look only to the future. I must see what new and interesting directions I can find for my efforts. Above all, I must keep busy in work that matters, I want my mind to stay young and vigorous, too. I never want-to become a dead stick. Moonrise Ethel Jacobson Oh, rising moon, Whiteness slipping from a shadowy sea, Lucent, polished, A wafer of chalcedony Sea-foam pale, Dripping diamond sea-spray stars, You rise from a blackness Of waves, cliffs, deodars.... The midnight landscape Lightens, brightens, shimmers and glows, A silver rose! Unfolding in petaled bloom. Josephine Johnson Laker Specializes in Useful Hobbies OSEPHINE Johnson Laker, seventy years old, of Freedom, Wyoming, has enriched her life with hobbies and has contributed much beauty to the lives of her friends and relatives. 'Any hobby that gives happiness is a worthwhile hobby, but a useful hobby is a two-fold blessing," says Sister Laker, "and, anyway, I love variety." Quilting is a favorite hobby for Sister Laker, and she makes quilts in intricatepieced designs, in applique patterns, and in unusually beautiful quilted motifs on plain colors. Her "Flower-Basket" quilts have been much admired, and her ''Four-Flower"' quilts are beautifully designed in harmonizing tints on plain backgrounds. In one year, her sixty-ninth year, she made a quilt for each one of her five children. Sister Laker is an industrious "green-thumb" gardener, and she grows flowers indoors and outdoors, experimenting with seedlings and cuttings, and finding the best varieties suitable to the climate of beautiful Star Valley that is her home. She paints pictures, and is skilled in all the household arts. For many years she has been active in Relief Society, serving as a visiting teacher for twenty-two years, and assisting in lesson work, quilting and sewing projects. Triptych Vesta N. Lukei These be Love's trinity: Devotion constant as The tide and moon, protective prayer, And faith. Page 537 Heart's Bounty CHAPTER 3 Deone R. Sutherland Synopsis: Annie Griffith, whose father, with his family, has been called on a mission to the mountains to cut stone for the temple, is living with the Williams family in Salt Lake City, and is being educated with Marie Williams under the direction of a private tutor. Both Annie and Marie are very much interested in a neighbor, Parker Josephson, who leaves to attend an eastern university to learn to be a teacher of science. A farewell dinner for Parker is given at the Williams home, and Annie and Marie give him, as a going-away remembrance, a shirt which they have made. Both the girls are lonely after Parker has left, but they continue their studies, and finally a_letter arrives from Parker, addressed to both of the girls. HE next two years passed | quickly. Marie's seventeenth birthday was celebrated with a party in the Williams' home. Both girls had put their hair up. Annie, reluctantly, because Marie insisted. "Annie is content," Marie exclaimed, "to stay looking like a little girl for the next ten years." "It's not that," Annie said. "I just don't think it matters too much." "Matters!" Marie exclaimed. "Look in the glass and see how much it matters!" Annie had to admit there was some change when she looked at herself. The dark, soft, full wings of hair exposed the high cheekbones and the soft firm line of her chin. It made one notice the soft curve of her mouth and how wide and large her dark blue eyes were. Marie looked older, too, but she had always looked more mature for her age than Annie. Marie's father lamented that, in place of his two Page 538 little girls, two young women had come to stay. "Oh, do you really think so?" Marie had exclaimed happily, but Annie had felt a moment of sadness. She hadn't wanted to grow up away from her own family, but now she had, almost. The young people insisted Annie sing at Marie's party. After she had sung favorites that Marie's mother had taught her and Marie, she sang Welsh songs her father had taught her as a little girl. 'Then she protested she would sing no more and went out into the kitchen to help. Aunt Agnes came out of the pantry and patted Annie on the cheek. "You are a very extraordinary young lady, Annie. You should live in no one else's shadow." "Why, I don't," Annie said. Marie flung the door open. "Do hurry, Annie, they're waiting for refreshments. Oh, Annie, you sing so beautifully. If only I could do half the things you can do." "You can," Annie said. Marie sat on the window sill. "I can't. I can't sing as well, I can't play the piano as well, I'm not as smart, I can't sew as well; but I have the prettiest hair in the whole valle 'thd coat Agnes cleared her throat sharply. Marie twirled her skirts a little, watching them billow. "Annie says I am prettier than anyone, and you're always saying my heart is good." Annie laughed at her while Aunt Agnes struggled with indignation at HEART'S BOUNTY such vanity. "Well," Aunt Agnes finally sputtered, "if it comes to beauty, Annie'll make the boys stand on their hands soon enough. If you look twice at Annie, the second glance is worth a dozen of Miss Marie." Marie laughed and danced out of the room, and Annie laughed, too. Then she kissed Aunt Agnes soundly on the cheeks. "Another year and I'll be teaching and beguiling little boys and girls. Then, Aunt Agnes, you and Marie will be my fondest memories. And Brother and Sister Williams, of course." "Brother Josephson was telling us that Parker should be home within another month or two." Aunt Agnes carried the cookies out of the pantry. "That's what Marie has been expecting," Annie said. "They're already planning a big party for him in the recreation hall at the church." Aunt Agnes steadied her tray. "He got his degree cum laude or something." "T know," Annie said softly. Aunt Agnes waited while Annie opened the door to the hall. "Marie has had a dozen crushes since Park-? CI. When Annie said nothing, Aunt Agnes snorted vigorously and sailed past Annie. Sister Williams bought yards of new material for the girls' dresses for the party in honor of Parker's return. Aunt Agnes and the girls sewed steadily for over a month, They wanted every detail perfect, and so Agnes and Annie were constantly having to undo and do over parts Marie had sewn. Marie lay on her bed when her headache got 539 too bad, and Aunt Agnes and Annie finished the dresses. One day Parker Josephson came home. Marie was very put out because he didn't come over immediately to see them. "He probably still thinks of us as little girls," she said petulantly. "Won't he be surprised to find us all grown up?" She took out the three letters she had received from Parker during the three years he had been gone, and re-read them. "Whatever did you do with the letter Parker sent to you, Annie?" Marie looked at her. Annie leaned over her sewing. "It's around somewhere, or perhaps I lost it. You are a goose, Marie." "She is," said Aunt Agnes. "For all she knows Parker's probably engaged already to someone nearer his own age." Marie looked stricken, and Annie looked up quickly. Aunt Agnes said gently, "There, I'm just joking. If he were, your Mama would be the first to know, I'm sure, since she's been like a second mother to him for years." Aunt Agnes pursed her lips to her sewing. GISTER Williams reproved Marie for being so anxious to run over to see Parker. "He has to visit with his family, first, Marie. We'll see him soon enough. You girls saw him come. He has to have time to rest up after such a long, grueling trip. Besides, the party is this Friday evening, and I'm sure it would be nice to look your best when you do see him. He'll be expecting the two little girls he left." "That's just what I was saying, Mama," Marie said. 540 But Brother and Sister Williams and Marie stopped next door at the Josephson's on Thursday to welcome Parker home. They told him they hadn't been able to wait until the party to see him. Marie told Annie how surprised he had been to see how grown up she was. "He asked about you, too, Annie. I told him you were home working on our dresses. We should have made you go with us. He looks older, too. I don't think we could play tag with him anymore, if we weren't too grown up ourselves." "That's too bad," Annie said. She was setting the table for the evening meal. "No, it isn't. I mean he seems more serious or something. Oh, I don't know what I mean." Annie went back into the pantry for more plates. She shook her head angrily at herself. Why should she feel sad tonight, the night before a party where she was going to wear a dress more beautiful than she had ever dreamed she might own? It was heavy taffeta that changed in the light from full pink to dark rose. VERYONE went to the dance. The few older people, who felt they couldn't dance, sat on the benches and chairs around the hall. At one end of the hall was spread a large table of planks, and this was covered with white cloths. There refreshments would be served. The music was lively and quick; the happy sound of a violin rose above the voices, and Annie's heart beat faster just hearing it. Everyone arrived on time, because no one wanted to miss any of the fun. Parker and his parents stood close to the door, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1956 greeting everyone while the music warmed up. Brother and_ Sister Williams and the girls stopped to shake hands and greet Parker. Parker shook Marie's hand and then took Annie's. "T've already told Marie how grown up she is. Annie, you've become a most delightful young lady, just as I knew you would. You'll both save a dance for me, won't you?" "Oh, Parker, I've saved you the first already!" Marie exclaimed. Annie nodded her head quickly, while Marie's voice tinkled on. Parker did look older and steadier. But the little quirk about his mouth that told you any moment he might laugh, was still there. And he was as kind as ever. Annie moved on quickly, because people pressed behind her, and, under his eyes, she became all of a sudden very disconcerted. Marie's voice was in her ear. "Oh, Annie, I'm so glad Papa made us go with him and Mama. If I had gone with the Johnson family, Parker would have been terribly jealous over Billy Johnson, and it would have ruined everything. Just think, I have the first dance with Parker. Won't people be nodding their heads over that!" She tapped an impatient toe, while her skirts rippled like soft waves. The hall was soon filled with people, and Marie and Annie found themselves dancing all the sets. Annie thought how much her family would enjoy this party. Her parents loved dancing and were never - too tired to join in whenever music could be found. Annie felt as if she were floating instead of dancing to the music. It was so much fun. HEART'S BOUNTY She saw Parker start toward her twice, but both times she was claimed and had danced away before he reached her. Finally, the exhausted musicians had to take a rest, and the refreshment table began to be very busy. Annie dropped into a chair on the fringe of the crowd, while Samuel Taylor stood in line to bring her some refreshments. She had offered to help, but had been told it wasn't quite time for her turn. Annie smoothed her hair, which had become loosened with the dancing. At that moment Parker Josephson dropped into the chair beside her. "I suspect someone has already gone for something for you?" he asked. "Yes," Annie smiled. "IT thought you were going to save me a dance?" "Yes." "The very next one, then," Parker said. "Yes." Was that all she could say? Annie bit her lip. "Professor Peterson was saying just now that you'll make a wonderful teacher. Just another year here, isn't it?" ARKER looked at her too closely; it made even her simplest remarks difficult. "He's very kind, I'm sure." "Sister Williams says you're...." "T'm sure there can be nothing more dull than the extolling of my virtues, Parker." "You know you were difficult to know before I left, but now you're grown up, I'm afraid I'll have to begin getting acquainted with you all over again. You said you'd write, and you never did." Sail "You were just joking that day." "No more than when I told Marie she might write. She wrote me dozens of times." "Now you're teasing, as if we were still two little girls."' Annie stood up. "I really ought to find Sister Warner. I promised to help with the punch." "You can't go now." Parker pulled her down gently to the chair again. "See, the dancing is beginning. Besides, there's Sister Warner completing a set. There's no escape, you'll have to stay here beside me." Parker laughed at the color which was mounting in her face. "I always did like a girl who could blush," he said. It was a few minutes before the dances straightened into good sense for Annie, and she felt more composed. Parker was much too forward. But, perhaps, he felt more like a brother to Marie and herself, and that accounted for everything. Still, to be sitting beside him like this all this time and no one coming up! Though, of course, how could they with the dancing going on? There was poor Samuel with her punch at last, but he was stranded across the floor now. Marie would have loved being here. Oh, she thought remorsefully, where is Marie? Marie should be the one here certainly. She scarcely nodded when Parker murmured something about the skill of one of the dancers. She excused herself as soon as the music paused, not waiting for Parker's reply. She found Marie in the front hall by all the coats. "Where have you been?" Annie asked. "Shshsh," Marie whispered. ""Billy Johnson is simply wild with jeal- 542 ousy, because Parker danced with me first. He made me come out." "Not outside?" Annie grasped her arm. "Oh, no, just to the stairs. He's made me promise him the last dance, and I don't know what to do. I'm sure Parker will ask...." "Girls, girls." Aunt Agnes came from the kitchen. "They need your help now with the punch. Hurry, girls." Marie scowled and followed Annie to the end of the hall where the tables were. "Tl help you," Parker said, taking a huge pitcher from Annie. He had followed her to the tables. "I've still a dance to claim," he smiled. His hand brushed hers as he took the pitcher. NNIE. Bit her lip at her blush while Parker appreciated it. Then he was very serious and business-like, and insisted on helping tip up the big tubs that held the punch. Both Marie and Annie danced again with Parker, and then, because Marie was dancing the last dance with Billy Johnson, Parker insisted Annie dance it with him. "T could die," Marie whispered. "He's only dancing with me because he can't dance with you." Marie's face brightened. Then she sighed, "Papa's mad at me, anyway, for dancing so many times with Billy, but Billy does insist so." Marie danced off, and Annie turned to face Parker. "Sister Williams was saying you have just another year with them, and then your father and mother will be returning home." Parker looked at the heavy dark RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1956 hair and pale, smooth brow, but Annie's gaze remained downward. Annie found it an effort to meet Parker's eyes, and it made her very provoked with herself to feel so helpless. After all, he is going to marry Marie, probably; maybe even before I leave, so it is ridiculous to be so fainthearted about looking into another person's eyes, she told herself. Marie and Billy whirled past them. '"Marie's a very lovely dancer, isn't she?" Annie yearned to have the assurance with which Marie abounded. "She is, indeed," Parker smiled at her. Annie felt suddenly tired. She thought for a moment about the soft feather tick at home. "What is it?" Parker was asking. "Why have you withdrawn? The party isn't over." "Yes, it is," Annie said, and indeed the music was no longer playing. She made her way through the people to the Williams with Parker just behind her. After the dismissal prayer, Parker took her hands to say goodnight. Surely, he must feel them tremble, Annie thought. Then Marie came up suddenly with her wrap, and Parker had to help her with it. Marie and Annie returned home with the Williams. Everyone remarked what a_ nice party it had been. Annie fell silent. There were too many things to sort out in her mind and heart. She knew she could never, never, be disloyal to Marie whom she loved as a sister. She closed her eyes and pulled the robe more closely about her. The night was very cold. (To be continued) FROM THE FIELD _|~ Ean Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for ""Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1950, page 278, and the Handbook of Instructions, page 123. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Veda F. Moss RENO STAKE (NEVADA), SPARKS EAST WARD ANNIVERSARY PARTY March 17, 1956 Front row, left to right: Thelda Martin, Second Counselor; Mildred Ballingham, President; Lois Hauder, First Counselor; Ethel Marr Ball, Secretary; Agnes Kenfield, Magazine representative; Christine Richins, work meeting leader. Back row, left to right: Rose Burgess, visiting teacher message leader; Jean Edgar, work meeting leader; Gladys Grieve, theology class leader; June Hancock, chorister; Emma Lou Belnap, literature class leader; Delores Brown, organist. Veda F. Moss, President, Reno Stake Relief Society, reports: '""The beautiful table decorations were made by Christine Richins. The dolls, in costumes of pastel shades, were used to depict different phases of Relief Society work. On this delightful occasion a delicious dinner was served for all Relief Society members and their partners. A program and games were then enjoyed." Page 543 544 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1956 Photograph submitted by Eva H. Stevenson CANNON STAKE (UTAH), CANNON FOURTH WARD BAZAAR March g, 1956 At the right, back of the car, left to right: Secretary Elida Rogers, in black dress, with child standing at her right; First Counselor June Bills; President LaVerne Kellersberger; Second Counselor Lois Clark. President Kellersberger reports: "An Easter train, complete with engine and caboose, plus engineers, passengers, and workers, set a very unique stage for the Cannon Fourth Ward bazaar. The gaily decorated train booths were truly an incentive for the purchase of all the lovely handwork on display. Novel gift items, quilts, dish towels, clothing, home-baked goods, and games to play, all were helpful in making the Easter train keep on the track of success." Eva H. Stevenson is president of Cannon Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Della O. Taylor EL PASO STAKE (TEXAS AND NEW MEXICO) SINGING MOTHERS FURNISH MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, May 29, 1956 Stake chorister Carol Merrill stands in the center near the pulpit; organist Jenny Lawson stands in the back row, center. Della O. Taylor, President, El Paso Stake Relief Society, reports the following wards represented in the chorus: El Paso First, Second, and Third Wards, Texas; Las Cruces, Carlsbad, Deming, and Silver City, New Mexico. Four members traveled 170 miles to sing with the group. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 545 3& Photograph submitted by Verna L. Dewsnup ST. GEORGE STAKE (UTAH), ST. GEORGE FIFTH WARD VISITING TEACHERS ACHIEVE A ONE HUNDRED PER CENT RECORD FOR SEVEN YEARS Standing at the right in the center background: Verna L. Dewsnup, President, St. George Stake Relief Society. Standing in the second row, beginning sixth from the left: Gwendolyn Rogers, Second Counselor, St. George Fifth Ward Relief Society; Alice Holland, First Counselor; Roma C. Esplin, President. Photograph submitted by Matilda B. Gilbert FRANKLIN STAKE (IDAHO), PRESTON FIRST WARD RELIEF SOCIETY SINGING MOTHERS FURNISH MUSIC FOR MANY OCCASIONS Martha Seeley, chorister, stands at the left (in dark dress); Anona Oliverson, the accompanist, is seated left at the piano. Matilda B. Gilbert, President, Franklin Stake Relief Society, reports: "These Singing Mothers are the mothers of 216 children, 403 grandchildren, and forty-four great-grandchildren. 'The ward bishopric has called this chorus to furnish music at each fast meeting. They are in great demand to sing at funeral services. They also furnished the music at the Franklin and Oneida Stakes Relief Society convention. They have been meeting weekly for practice during the past two years. Greta Nuffer is president of the Preston First Ward Relief Society." 546 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1956 Photograph submitted by Gladys R. Winter SAN FRANCISCO STAKE (CALIFORNIA) GIVES "LONG-TIME" MEMBERS LUNCHEON Gladys R. Winter, President, San Francisco Stake Relief Society, stands in the first row at the extreme right; First Counselor Vera M. Murray stands in the third row at the right. Sister Winter reports: "A Long-Time"' Members luncheon was given just before Easter to honor the women of San Francisco Stake who are no longer able to participate as actively in Relief Society as they have done for many years. 'There are forty-two of these women over seventy-five years of age who are unable to attend regularly. Members of the stake board, assisted by three ward officers, called for these sisters at their homes and drove them thirty-five miles to the Allied Arts Guild where luncheon was served in the beautiful gardens. After an hour or two of visiting in the display of handcrafts and among the flowers, they were returned to their homes." Photograph submitted by Ida A. Gallagher MURRAY STAKE (UTAH), MURRAY SIXTH WARD VISITING TEACHERS ACHIEVE A ONE HUNDRED PER CENT RECORD FOR SIX YEARS Front row, seated, beginning fifth from the left: Beatrice Turner, First Counselor; Maxine Morgan, President; Beverly Turpin, Second Counselor; Mary Meyers, Secretary, Wilma Svedin, a former ward president and now Second Counselor in Murray Stake Relief Society. Ida A. Gallagher, President, Murray Stake Relief Society, reports that the Murray Sixth Ward Relief Society numbers thirty-three districts, with sixty-six visiting teachers. Photograph submitted by Grace E. Berndt WILFORD STAKE (UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS FURNISH MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, April 22, 1956 Standing in the second row, at the right of the organ: Catherine Aposhian, organist; Grace E. Berndt, President, Wilford Stake Relief Society; Fileen Sherren, chorister; Beth Eason, pianist. __ or (Woodland Wo nder Elsie McKinnon Strachan In the wooded park on the canyon's shoulder, They found each other, the doe and the lad; Fach the appraiser, neither the bolder— The doe's eyes, 4 question; the boy's, all-glad. The doe, still alerted, held its stand; Then heaven stood guard in that woodland wonder While a doe nibbled leaves from a small boy's hand. Summer Tide Beatrice K. Ekman The glittering sun has climbed the noonday sky, On hills and fields ts searching heat ls turned. From leafy branches plaintive robins cry And on the mountain trails, white dust ls churned. In the near pasture young lambs seek the shade Of cottonwoods peside the dwindling stream Where tame geese with their wobbly goslings wade And through the sunlit shadows gleam. Now the full tide of summet overflows The fruited orchards and the beaded grain. To honeysuckle and the velvet rose The droning bees are trafficking again. The land is thirsting for the cleansing rain To freshen leaves where dust too long has lain. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 547 clea ) LESSON D N DEPARTMENT Sheology—Characters and Teachings of The Book of Mormon Lesson 42—Christ's Ministry Continued Elder Leland H. Monson (Text: The Book of Mormon: 3 Nephi, chapters 22-30) For Tuesday, November 6, 1956 Objective: To show that strict adherence to the Gospel Plan is necessary for eternal life. The Prophecies of Isaiah | spent considerable time discussing the scriptures with the Nephites. He told them to search the words of Isaiah saying, "".. A commandment I give unto you that ye search these things diligently; for great are the words of Isaiah" (3 Nephi 23:1). Jesus further quoted the prophecies of Isaiah, assuring the people that his kindness should not depart from Israel, that his covenant to his people should not be removed (3 Nephi 22:10), that no weapon directed against them should prosper. Addition of Samuel the Lamanite's Prophecy After Jesus had expounded all the scriptures unto them which they Page 548 had received, he said unto them: "... Behold other scriptures I would that ye should write, that ye have not." He said to Nephi,... Bring forth the record which ye have kept." After "... He cast his eyes upon them..." Jesus pointed out that the prophecies of Samuel the Lamanite that "... Many saints... Should arise from the dead, and should appear unto many, and should minister unto them... At the day that the Father should glorify his name in me..." (see 3 Nephi 23:6-9) had not been written in the record. So it was written as he commanded. Malachi's Words Given Jesus commanded also that they should write the words which the Father had given to Malachi. (See LESSON DEPARTMENT 3 Nephi chapters 24 and 25.) After they were written, then the Lord expounded them. These words of Malachi include the law of tithes and offerings and foretell of the coming of:... Elijah the prophet before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord; And he shall turn the heart of the fathers to the children, and the heart of the children to their fathers, lest I come and smite the earth with a curse (3 Nephi 25:5-6). The Savior told the people:... These scriptures, which ye have not with you, the Father commanded that I should give unto you; for it was wisdom in him that they should be given unto future generations (3 Nephi 26:2). Savior Expounds All Things From Beginning And he did expound all things, even from the beginning until the time that he should come in his glory — yea, even all things which should come upon the face of the earth, even until the elements should melt with fervent heat, and the earth should be wrapt together as a scroll, and the heavens and the earth should pass away; And even unto the great and last day, when all people, and all kindreds, and all nations and tongues shall stand before God, to be judged of their works, whether they be good or whether they be evil— If they be good, to the resurrection of everlasting life; and if they be evil, to the resurrection of damnation; being on a parallel, the one on the one hand and the other on the other hand, according to the mercy, and the justice, and the holiness which is in Christ, who was before the world began (3 Nephi 26:3-5). Mormon tells us:... There cannot be written in this book even a hundredth part of the things 549 which Jesus did truly teach unto the people (3 Nephi 26:6). Jesus taught the people:... For the space of three days; and after that he did show himself unto them oft, and did break bread oft, and bless it, and give it unto them (3 Nephi 36:13). He wrought many mighty miracles among the Nephites and:... He did teach and minister unto the children of the multitude of whom hath been spoken, and he did loose their tongues, and they did speak unto their fathers great and marvelous things, even greater than he had revealed unto the people; and he loosed their tongues that they could utter.... On the morrow... The multitude gathered themselves together, and they both saw and heard these children; yea, even babes did open their mouths and utter marvelous things; and the things which they did utter were forbidden that there should not any man write them (3 Nephi 26:14, 16). From this time on the disciples began "... To baptize and to teach as many as did come unto them; and as many as were baptized in the name of Jesus were filled with the Holy Ghost" (3 Nephi 26:17). Jesus Christ Names His Church As the disciples were gathered together "... United in mighty prayer and fasting" (3 Nephi 27:1) after having preached to the people and baptized them, Jesus appeared in their midst and asked: "... What will ye that I shall give unto you?" (3 Nephi 27:2). Because of disputations among the people concerning the name of the Church, the disciples asked that he tell them ",.. The name whereby we shall call this church..." (3 Nephi 27:3). Jesus' answer was direct and final: 550 And how be it my church save it be called in my name? For if a church be called in Moses' name then it be Moses' church; or if it be called in the name of a man then it be the church of a man; but if it be called in my name then it is my church, if it so be that they are built upon my gospel (3 Nephi 27:8). The Gospel Defined Jesus, then, told the Nephites he had given to them his gospel, and defined the gospel for them: Behold I have given unto you my gospel, and this is the gospel which I have given unto you — that I came into the world to do the will of my Father, because my Father sent me. And my Father sent me that J might be lifted up upon the cross; and after that I had been lifted up upon the cross, that I might draw all men unto me, that as I have been lifted up by men even so should men be lifted up by the Father, to stand before me, to be judged of their works, whether they be good or whether they be evil— And for this cause have I been lifted up; therefore, according to the power of the Father I will draw all men unto me, that they may be judged according to their works. And it shall come to pass, that whoso repenteth and is baptized in my name shall be filled; and if he endureth to the end, behold, him will I hold guiltless before my Father at that day when I shall stand to judge the world. And he that endureth not unto the end, the same is he that is also hewn down and cast into the fire, from whence they can no more return, because of the justice of the Father. And this is the word which he hath given unto the children of men. And for this cause he fulfilleth the words which he hath given, and he lieth not, but fulfilleth all his words. And no unclean thing can enter into the kingdom; therefore nothing entereth RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1956 into his rest save it be those who have washed their garments in my blood, because of their faith, and the repentance of all their sins, and their faithfulness unto the end. Now this is the commandment: Repent, all ye ends of the earth, and come unto me and be baptized in my name, that ye may be sanctified by the reception of the Holy Ghost, that ye may stand spotless before me at the last day. Verily, verily, I say unto you, this is my gospel; and ye know the things that ye must do in my church; for the works which ye have seen me do that shall ye also do; for that which ye have seen me do even that shall ye do (3 Nephi 27:13-21). Jesus also informed the 'disciples that men would be judged out of the books, but he made it known to them that "... All things are written by the Father; therefore out of the books which shall be written shall the world be judged" (3 Nephi 27:26). The disciples were informed by Jesus that they were to judge the Nephites, and that his joy was great, even unto fulness, because of them and the generation then alive. He pointed out to them, however, that his heart sorrowed for the people of the fourth generation:... For they are led away captive by him even as was the son of perdition; for they will sell me for silver and for gold, and for that which moth doth corrupt and which thieves can break through and steal (3 Nephi 27:32). Disciples Granted Their Desires It was then that Jesus turned to his disciples and asked, one by one, "... What is it that ye desire of me, after that Iam gone to the Father?" (3 Nephi 28:1). Nine of them said: "... We desire that after we have lived unto the age of man, that LESSON DEPARTMENT our ministry, wherein thou hast called us, may have an end, that we may speedily come unto thee in thy kingdom" (3 Nephi 28:2). Jesus commended them and promised them that when they reached the age of seventy-two that they would find rest with him in his kingdom. Turning to the three remaining disciples he asked: "... What will ye that I should do unto you, when I am gone unto the Father?" (3 Nephi 28:4). Recognizing the sorrow in their hearts "... For they durst not speak unto him the thing which they desired," (3 Nephi 28:5), he said:... Behold, I know your thoughts, and ye have desired the thing which John, my beloved, who was with me in my ministry, before that I was lifted up by the Jews, desired of me. Therefore, more blessed are ye, for ye shall never taste of death; but ye shall live to behold all the doings of the Father unto the children of men, even until all things shall be fulfilled according to the will of the Father when I shall come in my glory with the powers of heaven (3 Nephi 28:6-7). Mormon was forbidden to name these three disciples in the record. He knew their names, however, and he had seen them and they had ministered unto him (3 Nephi 28:26). Mormon knew also that they would minister unto many others in the future, unto the Gentiles, the Jews, the scattered tribes of the house of Israel, and that they would perform a great and marvelous work among them. After the three disciples were granted their wish, they were "... Caught up into heaven..." where they "... Saw and heard un- 551 speakable things." (See 3 Nephi 28:2-8, 12, 36.) Later when they taught the people the gospel and were persecuted for it, the prisons could not hold them, pits could not restrain them, furnaces did them no harm, and when they were cast into dens of wild beasts, they received no harm, so great was their power. Mormon's Warning to Those Who Deny Chiist Mormon, near the end of Third Nephi, warns all those to whom this record would come not to spurn the words and works of the Lord. ".. Behold," he wrote, "at that day, if ye shall spurn at his doings he will cause that it shall soon overtake you. Wo unto him that spurneth at the doings of the Lord; yea, wo unto him that shall deny the Christ and his works! Yea, wo unto him that shall deny the revelations of the Lord.... Yea, and wo unto him that shall say at that day, to get gain, that there can be no miracle wrought by Jesus Christ; for he that doeth this shall become like unto the son of perdition, for whom there was no mercy, according to the word of Christ!" (3 Nephi 29:47). Gentiles Called to Repentance Mormon also advised the people in the last days not to "... Spurn, nor make game of the Jews, nor any of the remnant of the house of Israel..." (3 Nephi 29:8) for the Lord would keep his covenants to those people. Nephi further stated:... That when the Lord shall see fit in his wisdom, that these sayings shall come 552 unto the Gentiles according to his word, then ye may know that the covenant which the Father hath made with the children of Israel, concerning their restoration to the lands of their inheritance, is already beginning to be fulfilled. And ye may know that the words of the Lord, which have been spoken by the holy prophets, shall all be fulfilled; and ye need not say that the Lord delays his coming unto the children of Israel (3 Nephi 29:1-2). Mormon concludes Third Nephi with advice to the Gentiles of this day: Turn, all ye Gentiles, from your wicked ways; and repent of your evil doings, of your lyings and deceivings, and of your whoredoms, and of your secret abominations, and your idolatries, and of your RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1956 murders, and your priestcrafts, and your envyings, and your strifes, and from all your wickedness and abominations, and come unto me, and be baptized in my name, that ye may receive a remission of your sins, and be filled with the Holy Ghost, that ye may be numbered with my people who are of the house of Israel (3 Nephi 30:2). Questions on the Lesson 1. How did Jesus define the gospel? 2. What scripture did he give to the Nephites? Why? 3. What did Jesus say regarding the house of Israel? The Jews? The Gentiles? 4. Why are Jesus' words about Elijah important? 5. What did Malachi say about tithing? 6. What did Jesus say about the name of the Church? 7. What does "'sanctified by the reception of the Holy Ghost" mean? Visiting Seacher Mlessages— Book of Mormon Gems of Truth Lesson 42—'Pray in Your Families Unto the Father, Always in My Name, _ That Your Wives and Your Children May Be Blessed" (3 Nephi 18:21). Leone O. Jacobs For Tuesday, November 6, 1956 Objective: To point out the blessings that come from family prayer. ERHAPS there is no single activity in the home which results in richer blessings than does that of family prayer. If parents would only realize the rewards of this activity they would be very faithful in its observance. President Heber J. Grant said of family prayer: I am convinced that one of the greatest things that can come into any home to cause the boys and girls in that home to grow up in a love of God, and in a love of the gospel of Jesus Christ, is to have family prayer (Gospel Standards, page 25). Families which start the day by kneeling down together in prayer receive a spiritual uplift. As each individual goes forth to his day's duties he carries with him the knowledge that the spirit of the Lord has been entreated to attend him. He goes out with the backing of his entire family, and, added to this security, is a feeling of conf- LESSON DEPARTMENT dence that he may have God's help throughout the day. Then, at the close of the day, for the family again to kneel in humility and thanksgiving brings peace to family members and a desire to continue in righteousness. If feelings have been hurt or errors committed, individuals may not feel like praying; but Brigham Young has said of such an attitude: It matters not whether you or I feel like praying, when the time comes to pray, pray. If we do not feel like it, we should pray till we do.... Let no person give up prayer because he has not the spirit of prayer, neither let any earthly circumstance hurry you while in the performance of this important duty (Discourses of Brigham Young, pp. 44, 46). Some families encounter difficulty in finding a convenient time for all members to participate in family prayer. 'This should never be a cause for neglecting this commandment. One exemplary family found the solution to evening prayers by setting the alarm clock for 7:00 P. M., which was the signal for all to assemble before any member left for an evening appointment. Think what a safeguard these prayers 553 would be to young people! Surely prayer is a protecting shield against the enticements of Satan. Many have testified that the thought of their families kneeling together in prayer asking the Lord to protect them from harm and evil, has saved them from yielding to temptation and making serious mistakes. When loved ones are far from the home circle, the prayers of the family are a sustaining influence. It means much for them to know that their families are praying for them regularly at home. 'They may even visualize the exact hour when prayers are being said and the faces of their loved ones engaged in this sacred practice. In a day when divorce and juvenile delinquency are alarming, family prayer can be a strong influence in preventing these sad situations. Family prayer cements family ties, it generates harmony and love, and teaches unselfishness. Hearts are mellowed, tempers softened, and problems dwarfed through seeking divine aid: More things are wrought by prayer Than this world dreams of. "Morte D'Arthur," Tennyson Work Mleeting— Food Preparation and Service (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 2—Casseroles and Leftovers Rhea H. Gardner For Tuesday, November 13, 1956 CASSEROLES play an important role in meal planning. A casserole may be prepared two or more weeks before it is to be served, if it Sot is stored in a home freezer; or a day or two if it is stored in the refrigerator. A good casserole has qualities that make it distinctive and give it character; for instance, the meat should be cut in pieces large enough to be readily identified, and vegetables should be chosen that will combine well with the protein food that is used. In addition to flavor, it is important to think also of color and texture. Precook fresh vegetables only until they are about half done so they will not be overcooked when the casserole is ready to be served. Many frozen vegetables, such as peas, corn, and green beans, may be added while still icy. Never mince vegetables, except those used primarily for seasoning. Whole rings of carrots, or if they are small and garden fresh, whole carrots, whole or half lengths of string beans, clusters of bright green broccoli or snowy white cauliflower give character and appetite appeal to a casserole dish. Sutble seasoning is a goal every good cook strives for and is especially important in casseroles. Casserole dishes are best prepared in low, flat baking dishes rather than in deep, smaller ones. Casseroles that are too deep are not likely to be cooked thoroughly. Much of the attractiveness of a casserole dish is created in the topping, and there should be some of the topping given with each serving. Casseroles are excellent for outdoor meals. For your picnic parties, choose those that carry well. Because a high percentage of foods used in casseroles is comparatively soft and not particularly colorful, make sure that you include garnishes, relishes, and salad foods RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1956 that are crisp and colorful for the balance of your menu. To make a casserole for freezing, prepare it according to the regular recipe, but do not add the topping. If you plan to use it within a week or two, cover the casserole with waxed paper, aluminum foil or a bowl cover before placing it in the freezer. A moisture-vapor-proof wrapper or freezer tape to seal the lid to the dish is necessary when the casserole is to be stored for a longer period of time. When the casserole comes out of the freezer, add the topping and it is ready to bake after it has reached room temperature. Casserole dishes are just one way to use leftovers. Croquettes, meat pies, sandwich fillings, stews, stuffed peppers, meat loaves, chowders and soups are other ways in which leftovers may be attractively prepared. The same rules as those reeommended for making a good casserole should be followed. If much of the roast or boiled meat you plan to use is in tiny bits, grind it and, with the use of a binder, such as a thick sauce, crumbs or eggs, form it into balls or in a loaf. Always add one or two fresh vegetables when making a stew or meat pie. A change of seasoning can do much to make an "old dish" taste fresh as "morning dew." Leftover vegetables may be creamed and served as a sauce over a cheese or fish souffle, noodle ring, or croquettes. If you do not plan to use leftovers soon, put them in suitable containers in your freezer or the coldest part of your refrigerator until you can use them. Decide while the LESSON DEPARTMENT food is very fresh: (1) Is there enough to be served by itself or must it be combined with other foods? (2) Can it be cut in regular pieces or is it so broken that it must be chopped or ground? (3) Is it 955 moist enough to be palatable or must it be served with a sauce? (4) What ways of serving it will be best? Once you have made these decisions, you will be ready to make the best use of your leftovers. Note "Casserole Recipes" by Rhea H. Gardner, page 534, in this issue of the Magazine. OLiterature—Shakespeare in Our Lives Lesson 2—Shakespeare's World Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Text: Shakespeare Major Plays and the Sonnets, by G. B. Harrison, Harcourt, Brace & Company, 1948) For Tuesday, November 20, 1956 Objective: To present the customs, beliefs, and conflicts of Shakespeare's life and world, which were ready to be given harmony and artistic form by his emerging genius.* Ripeness is all. HE late Elizabethan period is probably the richest in all English literature, primarily because Shakespeare and his fellow-dramatists stated in such glowing words the conflicts, hopes, and fears of their most exciting age. During preceding decades and centuries the theater itself had been molded into the magnificent art-form which was ready for Shakespeare's guiding hand. Under his touch it flowered into one of man's most powerful devices for communicating his inner self. King Lear, V, 2. 2 If Elizabethan man had had no burning inner struggle or dream, the theater, polished and_ poetic though it may have been, would have lacked material of sufficient stature, since the essence of great drama must be great conflict. The time was ripe for the emergence of some great spokesman for the English soul. 'The theater was ripe. Also ripe were the great themes it was to celebrate: reason vs. Intuition, superstition vs. Learning, religion vs. Science, puritan vs. Pleasure-seeker, monarchy vs. Rebels, ani- "Note to Class Leaders: In order to understand the writings of Shakespeare better, this lesson explains briefly in two sections: "The Ordered Universe," and "Conflicting Doctrines to 'Ordered Universe'"'—different beliefs in vogue at the time of Shakespeare. It is not intended that this material be considered in greater detail than it is presented in the lesson. 556 mal man vs. Angelic man, good vs. Evil, selfishness vs. Selflessness, individuality vs. Tradition, order vs. Chaos. But in order to understand why the Elizabethan air was so heavily charged with conflict, we must first examine the traditional belief of the "ordered universe," and the threats emerging to challenge this belief. The Ordered Universe Throughout the Middle Ages one of the unquestioned commonplaces had been Aristotle's viewpoint that "God and nature create nothing that has not its use." The general belief was that God's over-all purpose in creating all nature and the universe was to glorify himself, and that the best way to glorify him was to know him. It was believed this could best be accomplished by studying the two great books which God had given man for this very purpose, "the Bible, and the book of the universal order of things, or of nature," as Ramon Sabunde wrote in his Natural Theology, about 1425. Central to both the natural and the divine orders, indeed the bridge between the two, was man who, by his own free will, could make of himself either angel or beast. And as man was created to serve God, so all nature was created to serve man. According to this belief, man, then, created in the image of God was key to the entire universe; indeed, man was but a tiny model of the universe. Man must be studied and known, as must every phase of nature. Since God is perfect, so must man and nature be perfect, both in themselves and in their inter-relationship. 'To know perfecRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1956 tion, therefore, God's perfect works must be studied. This "ordered universe" also governed nations and men as well. 'The "Primary Law of Nature" instilled in man various lesser laws which he must obey: to worship God; to obey parents and civil government; to rear and educate children; to give equal liberty to all; and to hurt no man. The same natural law considered kings the rightful rulers of England, since a king was servant of the greater law which reigned above. Within the English commonwealth were recognized four orders of men, each self-contained and content to abide by his own law; namely, gentleman, citizen, yeoman, and laborer. Three levels of order—man, the civil body or state, and the universe —were all believed to be inter-related, and that the law could not be broken in one realm without causing chaos in the other two. Because they thought the movements of the planets governed the lives of men, astrology was not considered black magic, but as an established revelation of the will of God. Ulysses stated the concept in Shakespeare's Troilus and Cressida: The heavens themselves, the planets and this center, Observe degree, priority, and place.... But when the planets In evil mixture to disorder wander, What plagues and what portents, what mutiny, What raging of the sea, shaking of earth, Commotion in the winds, frights, changes, horrors, Divert and crack, rend and deracinate, The unity and married calm of states Quite from their fixture! Oh, when degree is shaked, Which is the ladder to all high designs, The enterprise is sick!.... LESSON DEPARTMENT A Perry Picture Take but degree away, untune that string, And hark, what discord follows!.... I. 3. 85ff. In this ordered view man was perfect and all the universe, too, if man but kept his station and obeyed nature's law. Conflicting Doctrines to "Ordered Universe" A contrasting doctrine had appeared with John Calvin's Institutes of Christian Religion, published in 1536, perhaps the most influential book of the Protestant movement. Calvin stated that, because of Adam's fall, man was "'a shapeless ruin, partly ruined, partly corrupted..." whose will did not perish but "was so enslaved by depraved lusts as to be incapable of one righteous desire." 'Thus in Adam's fall the order of nature was reversed, and so the body ruled the soul. Since man was considered fallen creature, 557 Copyright 1901 SHAKESPEARE'S HOME, STRATFORD-ON-AVON, ENGLAND nature was no longer to serve him; instead, the elements, beasts, birds, and plants, were now ready to offend him. Here we see the basic conflict in the nature of man, one which all Elizabethans felt and knew. On the one hand, man was thought of as perfection and the center of the universe; on the other hand he was a corrupted animal, ruled by his own appetites, living on a vile planet. But, even though fallen, man was so important that the Son of God came to earth to save him, and man could maintain order by fulfilling God's principles of grace and redemption. But while the Elizabethans were aware of their "ordered existence," they were forced with increasing urgency to acknowledge four threats to it. (1) Copernicus (1473- 1543) had dared suggest that the sun, not the earth, was the center 558 of the universe, a view later substantiated by Galileo (1564-1642) who, with the first telescope, found rough craters on the moon, thus proving that, at least, some celestial spheres were not perfect orbs. (2) The Italian Machiavelli's most bitterly hated book, The Prince (1513) had defied the concept of a just, God-governed order for people by naming, instead, self-interest, craftiness, power, fear, and unscrupulousness as the actual tools which every sovereign used to insure his personal dominance. (3) The French satirist Montaigne's Essays (1580) had presented man as lower than the animals, since, unlike man, animals never waged organized warfare against their own kind. (4) Even more devastating had been the well-known writings of Francis Bacon (1561-1626) who had never attacked the concept of an "ordered universe": he had ignored it. He had held it to be man's duty to separate scientific from religious or moral knowledge. Instead of conjecturing about intangible mysteries, he believed it was man's duty to learn the secrets of the natural world about him, that he might put them to use for his own benefit. (For much of the preceding discussion | am deeply indebted to Theodore Spencer's excellent work, Shakespeare and the Nature of Man, New York: The Macmillan Company, 1943, Pp- 30-44-) In addition to these intellectual and scientific forces, Protestantism itself preached the new and stern doctrine that, henceforth, no intercessor or middleman was to stand between man and God; now man must be responsible for his own actions. 'This religious independence was as basic to the Elizabethan RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1956 age as was the emerging political liberty, and was as eagerly sought. Whenever men have shared their mutual hopes, fears, joys, and hungers, then they have most nearly become brothers. How fully the Elizabethans predicted modern man in their own great hunger to hear their own thoughts expressed in words! Shakespeare, then, through the Elizabethan stage, fulfilled this hunger, thus linking together men of that time, and of all time henceforth. These great conflicts in the religious, philosophical, and scientific beliefs of the Elizabethans were bound to have their influences on the writings of Shakespeare. Shakespeare's Life Shakespeare was born in 1564 at Stratford-on-Avon, a rural metropolis some eighty miles west and north of London. His parents were solid, middle-class people, his father a glove maker who was, at one time, mayor. His mother was the daughter of a local farming family tich in lands. Shakespeare must have attended the local grammar school, which had Oxford graduates as headmasters, and which gave him a solid acquaintance with important books, notably the Bible and the Greek classics. Actual proofs of how he spent his early years are sparse, but we do have record of his marrying Anne Hathaway when he was in his eighteenth year, she in her twenty-sixth. Some four years later he went to London, leaving his wife and three children in Stratford. By 1592, when he was twenty-eight, he had established in London a reputation as an actor and outstanding playwright. It is not known why his LESSON DEPARTMENT wife remained in Stratford during the next twenty years, but it is known that, not too many years after Shakespeare left Stratford, the local Puritans became sufficiently strong to pass an ordinance forbidding the performance of any plays. In London Shakespeare _ prospered. He became part owner of a playhouse, 'The Globe, and wrote all the plays for a company of actors who stayed together for two decades, and, under James I, came to be known as "The King's Men." Duting his life there he wrote thirtysix or thirty-seven plays, a sequence of sonnets, and two long poems. He invested his money in the second largest house in Stratford, bought the tithes of the local parish as an investment, and was one of the wealthiest landowners in the district. In 1611, after writing his final play, the highly successful The Tempest, he retired to Stratford, where he lived the life of a respected country gentleman until his death in 1616. His detailed will directed most of his property and lands to be given to his daughters and sister. He left money to several friends in Stratford and to actorfriends in London to buy memorial rings, and to his wife he bequeathed his second-best bed, a sign neither of bitterness nor of affection since she was entitled to one-third of all his property and use of the house as long as she lived. To us, the most interesting part of his will, as it reveals Shakespeare's belief, reads as follows: I commend my soul into the hands of God my creator, hoping, and assuredly believing, through the only merits of Jesus Christ, my Saviour, to be made partaker of life everlasting. (Burgess: The Bible in Shakespeare, page 113). 5D Shakespeare's London "The spacious times of the great Elizabeth" were in Elizabethans' hearts and on their backs, not in their physical London. Roads were little more than mudbogs, and the recently invented carriages were so awkward and rough that most people still travelled horseback — that is, if they travelled at all. Less than a mile square and still surrounded by its medieval wall, London bulged with about 200,000 people living in crowded, squalid quarters, with great noise from carts, wagons, coopers, potmakers, and shopkeepers rushing forth constantly yelling, "What do ye lack?" On the streets everywhere hawkers chanted, "Small coals!" or "Hot peas!" or "Hot, fine oatcakes!"" Porters sweated under their burdens in the narrow, crooked streets choked with filth, while open sewers, which were constantly a hazard to travel, carried off the garbage and refuse left in the streets until it rained (though human waste was carried off to sea in barges). No one bathed, but the rich used perfume to sweeten their persons, even as scents were used in homes to counteract the smell of mildewed, rotting rushes which were used as floor coverings. Rats and vermin bred freely in the large slums, and the plague was an annual summer visitor. If, during the hot, damp plague season more than thirty persons died in a week, the playhouses were closed temporarily, and, for at least two summers in Shakespeare's time, the plague forced the closing of the playhouses during the entire season. The centers of trade, gossip, and community life in the city were the innumerable taverns and the more 560 A Perry Picture RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1956 Copyright 1908 INTERIOR, ANNE HATHAWAY COTTAGE than one hundred churches, since there were no newspapers or public gatherings other than church meetings and entertainments. 'lhe entertainments such as _ cock-fighting, bull and bear-baiting, cards and dicing, and plays had been outlawed by London's "puritanical" city council. But, nonetheless, all were licensed over the city council's heads by "Good Queen Bess," who sensed the growing independence of her subjects and the influence French and Italian fashions had had upon the many English noblemen, merchants, foot-soldiers, and sailors who had travelled the continent. She felt that her subjects deserved the right to entertain themselves, and that the crown should make a profit on such activities. 'True daughter of the Renaissance that she was, She loved music and dancing, and constantly defended play production on the grounds that where else could actors keep in practice for her royal command in her palaces at regular intervals, particularly during the Christmas season? In 1485 thirty years of civil war had ended, and the Tudor line of kings, climaxed by Henry VIII, had built a strong, unified England; but the fear of anarchy and mob tule was ever in English hearts. 'The English defeated their great enemy, Spain, by sinking her Armada in 1588, but a more successful Spanish invasion was forever imminent and greatly feared. Drake and Hawkins pillaged the Spanish Main, while other daring Englishmen sank a Spanish fleet in the Bay of Cadiz and then sacked and burned the city. During Shakespeare's lifetime England was ever at war, first with Spain, then France, then Ireland. Before the Elizabethan era fur- LESSON DEPARTMENT ther independence had come to Englishmen who became freed from domination of the Roman Pope when, in 1534, Henry VIII had created the Church of England, with himself at the head. The printing press had put the English Bible into all men's hands, and books, which became increasingly common, were read, not for pleasure or amusement, but as the main source of finding out the how and why of the "brave new world" everywhere unfolding in wonder and vigor about their dreaming, almost giddy heads. And presiding over all, loved for her gentleness, her strength, and her balanced wisdom, was Queen Elizabeth, (1533-1603), confidently leading her people and personifying the qualities they held most dear. That island of England breeds very valiant creatures. 'Their mastiffs are of unmatchable courage... And the men do sympathize with the mastiffs in robustious and rough coming-on, leaving their wits with their wives. And then give them great meals of beef, and iron and steel, they will eat like wolves and fight like devils (Henry V, HI. 7. 150-162). Thus Shakespeare in his plays proved his intimate knowledge of his fellow countrymen. His great success was not by chance, since he knew so well what they loved and hated. The Elizabethan Englishman was intensely patriotic, dressed most lavishly, loved display of words, action, dress, music, and dance. He loved rough sports: gambling, bulland-bear baiting, and, above all, the drama. He was coarse and brutal, and loved to witness hangings, of which it is said more than three uundred took place each year in London alone. Young men brawled in the streets day and night, hardly 561 considering themselves "men" until they bore the scars of swordplay. At night London was a terror to the honest and older people. With no police force, citizens were appointed as constables, but their hearts were not in it, and gangs of rogues, rowdies, and thieves roamed the night city at will. The Maturing Shakespeare While the young Shakespeare made it his business to give in his plays what London wanted, we can still trace his maturing by his growing contempt and hatred for brutality, indecency, infidelity, coarseness, and any taint of uncleanliness. Nor were these the only qualities of his mind: constancy, bravery, courage, loyalty, love in the home, he esteemed; while cowardice, cruelty, usury, slavery, hypocrisy, he roundly condemned. And so we see this gallant definer and defender of our heritage strenuously at crossfire — with himself, his world, his past, and his future. He was the typical Elizabethan mind and heart. Thus, for the Elizabethan age, man was potentially an angel, yet rotting in his grave; sensitive to the most ornamental poetry and loving vocal music so fully that everyone could "bear his part," yet hungry for gory spectacle in theater, war, and tortures both animal and human; patriotic to the core, yet extremely touchy of individual rights and wary of exploitation or slavery; hungry for facts, for practical knowledge, yet still believing "there might be something in" ghosts, witches, and superstition; eager for personal wealth, yet indifferent to, if not disdainful of the suffering poor forever surrounding 562 him — the list might be extended, even swollen, almost to infinity. These traits are those of adolescence. The young in heart have ever felt the appeal of spectacle, speech, sparkle, and spirit. Particularly in the first half of his career Shakespeate wrote to young audiences, of young audiences. Actually, he wrote of a young nation to a young nation — one which has never been bounded by time, for the young in heart are always with us. The Elizabethan age was youth, incorporating within itself all its inner fears, insecurities, grandiose dreams, weaknesses and hopes. And, just as surely, Shakespeare was RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1956 mouth, and heart, yes, soul, for this most sparkling, hectic age. Thoughts for Discussion 1. How do the hopes and conflicts of Shakespeare's England predict those of our day? 2. Why were Elizabethans so hungry for drama? What great needs did Shakespeare's plays fill for his contemporaries? 3. Discuss Shakespeare's being both "country lad" and "city slicker" as preparation for his becoming the universal playwright. 4. In view of London's squalor and brutality, how can you justify calling the Elizabethan age one of spaciousness and nobility? Social Science—Latter-day Saint Family Life Lesson 2—A New Day for Women Elder John Farr Larson For Tuesday, November 27, 1956 Objective: ginning of a new era for women. HE organization of the Relief Society by the Prophet Joseph Smith came at a time when the status of women was limited legally, socially, and economically. It was significant because it recognized women as responsible adults and heralded the beginning of a series of events which elevated women to their present position. Today's women enjoy blessings and opportunities not afforded their sisters in 1842. The restoration of the gospel brought clearly into focus the worth of each soul in the eyes of God. The teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith to the women of the Church were consistent with this concept. NevertheTo show that the organization of the Relief Society marked the beless, they embodied a different attitude towards women from the one that was at that time generally accepted. An analysis of the limited status of women generally, at the time of the organization of the Relief Society, brings into sharp contrast some of the rights and _privileges women now take for granted. Legal Status of Women in 1842 Married women of the 19th Century, particularly in the first half, had little recognition, as individuals, in the legal sense. The early basic law of all states, except Louisiana, had its origin in the English common law. The common law is said to: LESSON DEPARTMENT. Comprise the body of those principles and rules of action... Which derive their authority solely from usages and customs of immemorial antiquity, or from the judgments and decrees of the courts recognizing, affirming, and enforcing such usages and customs, and in this sense particularly the ancient unwritten law of England (I Kent Commentaries 492). In the United States it is that body of rules and principles as established and determined in England at the time the various states adopted it. Many of its principles have been changed by statutes and constitutional provisions in the various states, but, except as it has been changed, it is the law today. As we study the common law we should recognize that only broad principles are here treated and that minor variations possibly existed in some states. An unmarried woman at common law had capacity to contract and perform other legal acts, equal to that of a man. When she married, her position as a separate, "competent" individual disappeared, and she was reduced to the legal capacity of "'slaves, idiots and infants." In theory, when a man and woman married, they became one person and that person was the husband. The entire legal existence of the wife merged into that of her husband. In her own capacity, a married woman could not, with validity, (1) sign a contract, deed, note or check; (2) acquire or dispose of property without the consent of her husband; or (3) sue or be sued. All personal property of the wife, whether acquired before or during marriage, became that of hei hus- 563 band. Personal property is generally property of a personal or movable nature such as money, jewelry, furniture, etc., as opposed to real property, such as land, which is of an immovable character. A_husband was in the position, legally, of being unable to give his wife a present, since while attempting it he simultaneously vested himself with its title. Upon death, the husband's personal property (including that acquired from his wife), generally went to his estate. She was permitted to keep her "paraphernalia'" which included articles of wearing apparel, and personal ornaments, suitable to her rank and degree, but even these, except her clothing, could be taken to satisfy her husband's debts. Similar harsh rules were applied to the wife's real estate. 'That acquired prior to her marriage became subject to her husband's wishes. He could sell or mortgage without her consent. He was entitled to the rents and crops from her land and had no duty to account to her for money received, since it was his money. Real property acquired by the wife before her marriage, not sold by the husband, went to her upon his death. If the wife were employed to act as a midwife, as a seamstress, or in any other capacity, her husband was entitled to her pay. A New Hampshire judge in 1830 described another aspect of the common law when he said the wife:. Was considered to be so entirely under_ the power of the husband, that she could, in no case, make what in propriety of speech is called a will (Marston Vs. Norton, Superior Court of New Hampshire, 5 N. H. 205). 564 A mother's right to her children was inferior to that of her husband and is illustrated by a decision of the New York Supreme Court in 1842: The question then is, which of these parents, the father or the mother, has the best title to the custody of the child? The opinion of the court has been repeatedly expressed, that by the law of the land the claims of the father are superior to those of the mother (Mercein Vs. The People ex rel. Barry, 3 Hill (N. Y.) 399). In that day women were not given the privilege of voting in political elections, a right now cherished by all freedom-loving people. Until recent years, a woman who had citizenship status before her marriage, lost it upon marriage to an alien. Other Problems of the Day There were other problems and conditions facing the women of the Prophet's day: the ever-present disease, infant mortality, the absence of educational opportunities, the short life span, and extremely poor working conditions for women who worked. Few labor saving devices were known to them. Great physical exertion was generally required of them in their homes. Widespread suffering existed in the country as a result of an economic depression. Public charity was then limited to poorly organized efforts which were meeting only a fraction of the need. 'Those in need were often treated as criminals. Latter-day Saint women of this period were considered, in the eyes of the law, as having a status and capacity similar to that of other women. The conditions they faced RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1956 were not unlike those of other women. However, they had _ blessings not enjoyed outside their circle and problems uniquely their own. 'The eatly history of the Church is full of episodes in which superior women suffered abuses of all kinds from enemies of the Church and were constantly facing an uncertain future. Always there were skeptics who ridiculed their belief in the divine origin of the Church and the revealed principles of the gospel. Some were subjected to the grossest of indignities. Many stood by while their husbands were cruelly treated by ruthless mobs. The Changing Trend From our vantage point in _history, in looking back to the plight of early 19th Century women, we wonder why men and women advocating principles of fair play didn't literally rise up and demand that something be done. The present rights of women came only after a long series of events directed against the unreasonable _ restrictions of the common law. At first only small voices were heard to object, and those not in concert. Later, as the chorus against the injustices grew, one by one the discriminating provisions disappeared. The organization of the Relief Society was at the very beginning of a trend of legislative, judicial, and other significant changes which gave to married women a status as individuals and by which they were liberated from the harsh and often cruel dogmas of the common law. It recognized women as capable, responsible adults. 'The teachings of Joseph Smith concerning their role in community betterment, self- LESSON DEPARTMENT improvement, and service to others, significantly enlarged women's sphere. Today, most of the injustices of the common law are gone. 'Their removal was a victory for equitable principles. 'The changes were made by men who curtailed their own interests and rights through an appeal to their sense of justice. In the last half of the 19th Century organized effort brought results for those seeking a more enlightened attitude for women. The rights of women became a frequent subject of discussion and the names of Lucy Stone and Susan B. Anthony, great leaders in the cause, became invitations for debate. At the wedding of Lucy Stone and Henry Blackwell, a statement was read suggesting how strong they felt about the status of women. (Henry Blackwell became distinguished in the movement to abolish slavery.) 'The wedding statement, in part, reads as follows: While we acknowledge our mutual affection by publicly assuming the relationship of husband and wife, yet, in justice to ourselves and a great principle, we deem it a duty to declare that this act on our part implies no sanction of, nor promise of voluntary obedience to, such of the present laws of marriage as refuse to recognize the wife as an independent, rational being, while they confer upon the husband an injurious and unnatural superiority, investing him with legal powers which no honorable man would exercise, and which no man should possess (Lucy Stone, Pioneer of Woman's Rights, page 16s). Following the above they then enumerated their specific objections. The National Woman's Suffrage Association was organized in 1868. Starting in Illinois in 1861, when the first "Married Women's Act" 565 was passed, a series of statutes and constitutional provisions were enacted, by which the common law restrictions upon the right of married women to contract, sue and be sued, acquire, hold and convey property in their own right, were removed. The right to. Vote was given to women in this country only in recent times, the 19th Amendment to the U. S. Constitution having been ratified on August 26, 1920. Latter-day Saint women, who significantly have always enjoyed an ecclesiastical voting privilege, enjoyed political suffrage rights as early as 1847, when Utah was still Mexican Territory. The right to vote conferred by a state or territory was actually first exercised by Utah women in February 1870. Because of their political experiences and their privileges locally, the women of Utah became active supporters and effective, conspicuous figures in the National Woman Suffrage movement, and sent delegates regularly to the National Suffrage Conventions to lend support to this great cause (A Centenary of Relief Society, 1942, page 67). President Brigham Young was aware of the influence of our women when he said on one occasion: Now, sisters, I want you to vote, because you are the characters that rule the ballot box (Widtsoe, John A.: Priesthood and Church Government, page 87). Not only have the legal and political rights of women been extended but women today are achieving recognition in most fields of human activity. Superior Rights of Married Women Today In many respects, married women 566 Sacred Three Part Choruses for Ladies Voices ae HOLY, LORD GOD—Cain................18 — HOW LOVELY ARE THY DWELLINGS—Liddle.20... Eect 18 a IF CHRIST CAME BACK—O'Hara...20 an IF YE LOVE ME, KEEP MY COMMANDMENTS—Madsen_........-.-.----.20 — IN HEAVENLY LOVE ABIDING (SSAA)—Costa uuu.... Eceee ee eeneeeeeee eee 18 a LORD IS MY LIGHT—Allitsen.......20 — LORD'S PRAYER—Malotte.............25 _—— OPEN OUR EYES, O LORD— Hamblen oo... Cece eee eeeeeeeeeeeee.20 3 Al PRAYER FOR SERVICE—Gaul..........20 aa TEACH ME, O LORD—Hamblen.....20._ THY BLESSING ON THIS HOUSE, DEAR LORD—Madsen................----.20 a TWENTY-THIRD PSALM—Schubert.25 Music Sent On Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY: 15 E. Ist South: Salt Lake City 11, Utah Please send the music indicated above. (] On Approval O Charge (1 Meney Enclosed: Kiddies... I City & State G sabia Ast. On 145 WORTH UNIVERSITY, veo d 2200 woanseerihe RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1956 of today have superior rights to those of married men. For instance, in some states a married women is vested with a right to one-third of all property owned by her husband { during the marriage, but the husband does not have a corresponding interest in his wife's property. A wife, in these states, can convey her property without her husband's concurrence. It is not so with the husband, whose wife must join in his conveyances. Most states now give women, by statute, a preferential right to the custody of children in divorce cases. It is not the purpose of this lesson to suggest that there is or should be absolute equality between men and women. As we study the role of women in the Church, in succeeding lessons, it will be apparent that men and women are each important in the eyes of our Heavenly Father. 'Their assignments are so distinct and different it is obvious that neither occupies an inferior position to the other. Henry Wadsworth Longfellow seemed to have some understanding of the relationship and interdependence of man and woman when he wrote in "The Song of Hiawatha": As unto the bow the cord is, So unto the man is woman; Though she bends him, she obeys him, Though she draws him, yet she follows; Useless each without the other! The Gospel Plan is designed to stimulate the individual in personal attainment. The Prophet Joseph Smith, in his inspirational talks to the Relief Society, set forth in detail how the women of the Church, through service and _ obedience, might attain the choicest blessings LESSON DEPARTMENT of our Heavenly Father. Some of those teachings, suggesting ways by which women may grow in faith and perfection in God's kingdom will be discussed in future months. True Latter-day Saint women, grateful for their heritage, fully aware of their status in an enlightened society, are eager to learn of their responsibilities for service to their families, their communities, and their God. Supplementary Reference 1. "The Greatness of Relief Society" — President Belle S. Spafford, Relief Society Magazine, November 1954, page 716. Questions for Discussion 1. Describe the legal status of women as it existed under the common law in 1842. 2. Discuss other social problems confronting women of the early 19th Century. 3. Discuss some of the movements of the 19th Century which attempted to change the status of women. 4. Contrast present-day privileges of women with opportunities of the early igth Century. 5: Discuss the Prophet's foresight and vision in behalf of women in the light of his day. Discuss other reformers who made great contributions. J Need the Stars Grace Barker Wilson My soul yearns for wide spaces Uninhabited. I need not human faces, But, instead, The face of lofty upland In morning sun; Or glow on desert's gray sand When day is done. My normal life goes drifting To earthly bars; But for my soul's uplifting I need the stars. 567 SPECIAL RELIEF SOCIETY 'Type Class STARTS SEPT. 17 {i Class runs Mon. And Thurs., 6:30-8:00 p. M. 80-year-old student writes: "My regret is that I did not know that people as old as I could go to a place of learning. Now I see how much more I could have accomplished had I been to your school 20 years ago." LDS BUSINESS COLLEGE Branch of Brigham Young University 70 NORTH MAIN EMpire 3-2765 It's awaiting @ You... YES there is still a tremendous amount of outstanding instruction and use awaiting you in this and other copies of the Relief Society Magazine. Your editions may be handsomely bound at the West's finest bindery and printing plant for $2.50 cloth bound and $3.50 leather bound per volume plus postage for mail orders. All mail orders must be paid in advance. Follow these postage rates if you send your order by mail: Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles 35 150 to 300 miles.............2.....----- 39 300 to 600 miles...............-.-..-------- 45 600 to 1000 miles _.........0.... Me. 5 1000 to 1400 miles.... 1400 to 1800 miles............. Over 1800 miles Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-2581 31 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah ORDER NOW YOUR MUSIC FOR THE SINGING MOTHERS FOR SPECIAL EVENING SERVICE November 4th Teach Me, O Lord—S. S. A. By Hamblen __.20c each Plus Postage "Our Service Counts" GLEN-BROS. MUSIC CO. 74 So. Main, Salt Lake City, Utah Fences Thelma Ireland There is character in fences Shown in purpose and designs. Some are weighted with the beauty Of gay honeysuckle vines; Others strut around the premises, So very pompously, And some roam aimlessly like one Absorbed in memory. Some look neat, clean, prim, and tidy, White and scrubbed, each board in place. Others sag dilapidated, Bowed and cowed, bent with disgrace. Some formidable, unfriendly, Guarding vast estates with pride, But without a squeaking, swinging Gate that some wee tot could ride. Best of all, I like the fat ones, Fat with robins, girls and boys; Those not built to fence out friendship, But to fence in homely joys. HISTORIC TRAIN Leave Salt Lake City August 3, 1956, for the great PAGEANT AT THE HILL CUMORAH and all the other Church Historic points. PACIFIC NORTHWEST Simply fabulous trip for only $139.00. Leave August 8, 1956, from Salt Lake City. You will be in Seattle, Washington, for the great SEAFAIR, go into Canada and return by way of Portland, Oregon. HAWAII Plan on going to Hawaii this Fall. We sail on November 9, 1956, from Los Angeles, California. For Complete Details Write or Phone: VIDA FOX CLAWSON 966 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah Phone: EM 4-2017 Let Us Help You With Your Work Meeting Program Free Films to Show You How: 1. "The Art of Leathercarving" by Joey Smith One of the West's foremost leather carvers 2. Figure Carving' by Al Stohlman 3. Aluminum Designing Demonstration Copper Embossing and Enameling Free demonstrations at your meetings, if you are within reasonable distance from Salt Lake City All handicraft and leather supplies in stock Send for free catalogues TANDY LEATHER COMPANY Dept. RL 712 South State Street Salt Lake City, Utah Elgin 5-8239 Page 568 oun omnes bad ee iy The King James Version 1. Cherished Experiences FROM THE WRITINGS OF PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY Compiled by Clare Middlemiss From personal contacts with Saints throughout the world have come faith-promoting experiences that President McKay shares with Church members and other readers in this heart-warming book. Descriptions and incidents are a delight to read, and reflect a sincerity and reverence that is inspiring. $3.00 2. WHERE IS WISDOM? Addresses of Stephen L Richards A keen sense of the meaning and purpose behind the L. D. S. Church, its leaders, and its doctrines is revealed in this collection of addresses and excerpts from speeches given by President Richards. Much of the material is readily adaptable for preparing speeches or planning lessons. $3.50 3. WHY THE KING JAMES VERSION J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Every Latter-day Saint should know why the King James Version of the Bible is the translation accepted by the Church. In his powerful, easy-to-read style, President Clark gives the views of the best scholars and authorities on this subject. $4.75 4. COMMENTARY ON THE BOOK OF MORMON—Volume One George Reynolds and Janne M. Sjodahl A critical study of the Book of Mormon, from First Nephi through the Book of Omni, is made in this well-written reference book. Not only is a historical study of Lehi and his travels to the Land of Promise presented, but each event is considered from a biographical and archaeological point-of-view. Both beginning students and veteran scholars will find this commentary highly interesting and very informative. $5.00 44 East South Temple [-— i ] DESERET BOOK COMPANY | | 44 East South Temple | Salt Lake City, Utah | Gentlemen: | Enclosed you will find ( ) check ( ) money order I ( ) charge to my account the following amount $.................... | for the encircled (numbered) books: | 1 2 4) 4 | Name once cece cc cnenee cece cece cccensncectsneecececnessenserstecececsessessecseceeneeneeess | Po Address occ.... Cccceeceeccesessssessse cesecsecseseces secssenssesuesteeestsseeseeieecsevesesses! | 5 ene Zone..... State... | Residents of Utah include 2% sates tax. Don ree cs cee cre cre cs ee meee ce ms ees ee ee ee os oe How you can enjoy carefree leisure years...... Another benefit of a Beneficial "Planned Future." When the August breezes blow hot and humid, can you imagine how great it would be to get away from the stuffy office or house whenever you choose... Out to your favorite fishing spot, where the breeze off the ocean or lake runs glacier-cool and refreshing? Just day dreaming? It needn't be if you, like thousands of other Westerners, have provided for those retirement years BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. 47 West South Temple H Salt Lake City, Utah { | | | | | { } Please send free folder ''How's Your Financial House?'' No obligation, of course. Street or RFD.. City... Zone.... State with Beneficial's unique Planned Futures life insurance program. If you're in your 20's, 30's, 40's, or even early 50's, now is the time to set up a Planned Futures program to include retirement benefits that can make your fondest dreams come true. Just a few minutes spent with your Beneficial Life agent now can mean years of carefree happiness for you and your wife. But don't put it off too long. Those fish won't wait forever! Filled retirement years for you. "How's your Financial House?" BENEFICIAL LIFE Com any Salt Lake City, Utah VOL. 43 NO. 9 Lessons for December SEPTEMBER 1956 Sheirs to Hold | Alice Morrey Bailey They gather summer out across the fields When autumn purples and the year is late. Where plowshares slip beneath the loam, earth yields Her goodness to the harvesters. The weight Of orchard boughs is loosed. The April dawn, The pollened flowers of May are theirs to hold. The dews of June cannot be truly gone Where treasure lies in busheled red and gold. And they will never let the summer go Who capture it in bottles, row on row, Fruit and tuber caught in shining tin, And ripened stores in crock and pit and bin. When coming winter blasts the land with frost 'The season's root and leaf shall not be lost. The Cover: Harvest Time in Central Finland Photograph From the Finnish Travel Bureau Submitted by Hortense B. Robinson Frontispiece Photograph: Autumn in Yosemite National Park, California Photograph by Hal Rumel Cover Design by Evan Jensen From Near and Sar I want to tell you that the Magazine has been a blessed spiritual messenger in our home while we have been in this faroff land. We have used its messages in our lesson work, in our talks, and in our family hours. We all read the stories and the pocms and love every one. We have been holding our own little Church services here, as we are the only L. D. S. Family in 'Tabriz. —Lillic Argyle Tabriz, Iran I enjoyed reading the editorial '"Frontiers'' in the July Magazine (by Vesta P. Crawford), and I enjoy all the editorials of the Magazine. —Dora 'Toone Brough Tremonton, Utah We visited one family, and one of the first things the woman asked was: "How can I get The Relief Society Magazine?" She said repeatedly how much she _ has enjoyed the material contained in_ this little Magazine. We tried to interest them in some other Church literature, but all they want now is your little Magazine. —Elder Harold S. Barnes, Jr. Cattaragus Indian Reservation New York I must thank you for so kindly sending my Relief Society Magazine punctually each month. I have been receiving it for nearly twelve months now. I thoroughly enjoy all its contents, particularly the visiting teacher messages as I feel they bring a great deal to the families we visit. —Joan Burgess Manchester, England At the beginning of the year, my mother ordered The Relief Society Magazine and sent it to me. I have enjoyed the Magazine every opportunity that I was able to sit down and read it. I must say the Church has some choice literature. —Elder James L. Pedersen Selkirk, Canada Page 570 I so enjoyed Mrs. Parmley's article on family solidarity ('Outings and Family Solidarity," July 1956). The article by Preston Nibley about the Danish Mission is interesting, and, of course, Willard Luce's article on "Old Tucson" was a family favorite. It was nice to see our Idaho writers' contributions in the July number. Florence B. Dunford's story "Cathy and the Onions," and the poems by Mary Hess Hackney ("Each Day Is Mine") and Mabel Law Atkinson ("In the Quiet Harbor') are the kind that live.: —Frances C. Yost Bancroft, Idaho Thank you sisters for the help and strength and courage you send each month in your little Magazine. 'Thank you for your time and efforts that help everyone so much. —Jean H. Hall Fairborn, Ohio The Magazine is just bursting at the seams with the most wonderful articles and stories, lovely poetry, news, and other items of interest, as well as information to help us in our duties as homemakers and Church members, plus wonderful counsel and inspiration from our leaders. —Janice IF'. Esplin Orderville, Utah We are continually inspired with each issue of the Magazine, and hope to be able to share the pleasure it brings to us each month with the many new subscribers here in Hawaii during the coming year. We hope others will enjoy the information and pictures of the Hawaiian Mission (to be presented in November) as much as we have enjoyed the short visits to the other missions via The Relief Society Magazine so far this year. —Maurine Haycock President Hawaiian Mission Relief Society THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - - - - - - - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - - - First Counselor Velma N. Simonsen - - - - - Second Counselor Margaret C. Pickering - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Evon W. Peterson Alberta H. Christensen Edith P. Backman Edith S. Elliott Louise W. Madsen Mildred B. Eyring Winniefred S. Florence J. Madsen Aleine M. Young Helen W. Anderson Manwaring Leone G. Layton Josie B. Bay Gladys S. Boyer Elna P. Haymond Blanche B. Stoddard Christine H. Robinson Charlotte A. Larsen Annie M. Ellsworth Mary R. Young RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford Assistant to the Editor - - - - - - - - - June Nielsen General Manager - - - - - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Vol. 43 SEPTEMBER 1956 No. 9 Contents SPECIAL FEATURES A Happy Birthday to President David O. McKay............. Mildred C. McKay 573 Fueling the Flame of Testimony....... Bertha S. Reeder 574 The Finnish Mission..0.......... C0:: cecccccsesscseeeseseeeseseneeescnees.... Preston R. Nibley 578 Healthy, Happy, Lucky You! 22. Ccecec cee cs ceeecocnnceneeeecseceeeeseacensecotanceccecesseseseeseseseneessssesececseceennenssnesnesene 594 Promised Blessings to Word of Wisdom Observers cree oro oc 595 Helps for Accompanists: Roy M. Darley 598 The Chocolate Box o.. Cccccccccecseeecsseseesseecessereee _ ia Oakley Rea 601 Little Boy Reading a Book oo.... Cceccccecccccccescesteeeseeesseeseeeeeees a. Evelyn Dorio 603 Intentions and Actions......... CccesccececececeeeccoeseeneeecsecseseessuecseecssessensensesesunssucerseeasseseesessatsneorsecoeeasanessCelia Luce 603 Meeting Objections in Selling The Relief Society Magazime _20..0................ CcecccceececeeesClara Love 604 The Joy of Early Rising oo... Ceseeeccccesesececessseeeccersescssesscensencsceenecscareecessraseesensestees Mildred Higgins 638 FICTION Something Artistic spoepcocentacer i ee rrrFrances C. Yost 580 Heart's Bounty—Chapter 40 oiccccccecceceseceseeesecsestserceeeeecseceeees Deone R. Sutherland 610 GENERAL FEATURES Sixty Years Ago 7 ooo cnasccencsnccsensneacseistesseaevasensvencentonsusnssesentecenencs 590 Woman's Sphere SN cece nec om eee reve aeoeconnanrnscacstiensssenenenecdRamona W. Cannon 591 Editorial: 'And They Shall Teach Their Children" 2..... Ccecececcceeee cenceMarianne C. Sharp 592 Notes to the Field: Annual General Relief Society Conference and Dedicatory Service of Relief Society Building 2... Cceccesececcsscetescssecceceoceseescseseesenscesesersesarscescecseeesscessseeececscacesssseseeseeeeceaces 993 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities............... CcceecccceeseeeeeeeeeeeeMargaret C. Pickering 618 FEATURES FOR THE HOME Bulbs for Winter Blossoming Dorthea N. Newbold 586 Recipes From the Finnish Mission Hortense B. Robinson 596 Sarah M. Brown Makes Braided Rugs for Home Beautification 607 Refreshments for Entertaining Rhea H. Gardner 608 LESSON DEPARTMENT Theology: The Nephites and Lamanites Become a United People................ Leland H. Monson 624 Visiting Teacher Messages: 'But Charity Is the Pure Love of Christ, and It Endureth Forever'' Leone O. Jacobs 627 Work Meeting: Party Refreshments Rhea H. Gardner 628 Literature: Shakespeare's Poetic Power Briant S. Jacobs 630 Social Science: No Lesson Outlined 63 POETRY Theirs to Hold—Frontispiece Alice Morrey Bailey 569 Mother-Sculptor Mabel Law Atkinson 577 Autumn Tidings Elsie McKinnon Strachan 589 Solicitation Catherine B. Bowles 593 School Again Lael W. Hill 602 Mood Vesta N. Lukei 607 This Is September on... CececececenceeeentececseeecsanseoceenecaesessasesesessssensusseavaesesessessseseesesenesetsnseceseseeseacsceeeeZara Sabin 617 Rememberings Christie Lund Coles 623 The First Plum Kathryn Tanner 623 Flower of Light Eva Willes Wangsgaard 639 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 40 North Main, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, l5c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 8, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. From Near and Far ouu. Ceeecsesccscsecscssesssscsesscseesecesscscececscnsesensesensenscaensvasessareanssesee $70 Courtesy Z. C. M. I. Photo Reflex Studio PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY A Happy Birthday to President David ) McKay Mildred C. McKay [' is a pleasure to wish President David O. McKay a happy birthday, and an honor to be asked to pay a tribute to a father-in-law whom I love. I realize his greatness, his life of service, and his dedication to the Church, but I shall not write of these. Instead, I want to mention some of the little things that endear him to our family. Even a few words about President McKay must include Sister McKay because to us, as Papa Dade and Mama Ray, they exemplify ideal parenthood. There is graciousness in the way they include their sons-in-law and daughters-in-law in the family. We are all their children. It is just a little thing, but flattering, to have Papa Dade say, "Have you met our daughter Mildred and our son David L.?" They both love children, and the greatest event in the family is a new baby. When they visit the hospital to welcome a new grandchild, Papa Dade, with a twinkle in his eye, always greets the new mother with, "Many happy returns of the day." President McKay's thoughtfulness includes all ages. Our daughters are tall, and when they were at that adolescent age of all arms and legs, their grandfather never said, "My, how tall you are getting," but always, "What a queen you are becoming!" "A happy home is a heaven on earth" is one of President McKay's favorite comparisons. We all feel the love in his home, and know that he wants that same sweet spirit in the homes of his children. In the family gathering, Christmas Eve, after the carols are sung, Papa Dade always says, "And now sing 'Love at Home.'" I believe that he asks us to sing that song so that we will remember "Kindly heaven smiles above, when there's love at home." Page 5/3 Fueling the Flame of Testimony Bertha S. Reeder President, Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association LADDIN of Arabian Nights fame secured an old battered lamp of magical powers. By its aid he acquired great wealth. He bought a magnificent palace and became influential in his country. A wicked magician determined to gain possession of the lamp. He knew human nature very well; he bought bright new lamps and went to the palace, offering "new lamps for old." Aladdin's wife, knowing nothing of the magical powers of the old lamp, gladly exchanged it for the new one. Aladdin's palace, wealth, and influence vanished overnight. Each youth in the Church has within himself, waiting to be lighted, the fire of testimony, worth far more than any Aladdin's lamp. Once it is lighted, no one except himself can take its powers or blessings away from its possessor; but unless it is kept trimmed and fueled it may go out — because the owner has been careless. How this fire is lighted is a serious and difficult matter. Any fire to be lighted and made to burn has a pattern that must be followed. There must be tinder, kindling, fuel to keep the fire going, and a match to fire it. The tinder for a testimony must be laid by the parents, neighbors, teachers, and officers of the various units in which the young person moves. Oliver Wendell Holmes said that if you want to educate Page 574 hedrin, a man of wisdom. Someone you should begin with his grandmother. 'Thus heritage plays an important part in the life of anyone who wishes to gain a lasting testimony. Other things being equal, parents with a testimony impart that feeling for belief to their offspring. But we cannot stop with inheriting a good background in which to grow and develop a testimony. The tinder of inheritance may be there, but fuel for the flame must be added by the person who wishes to gain a testimony. 'There is no substitute for hard work and study in order to gain knowledge and truth. No magical powers can give youth a testimony, no Aladdin's lamp can make it glow. There have been only one or two cases where a testimony came as a bolt of lightning, bringing conviction instantaneously. 'The conversion of Saul of 'Tarsus was one such instance. Yet—as we consider all of the facts in the case, were there not preparation and study and work on Saul's part before conversion came? Saul, both a Jew and a citizen of Rome, born in cosmopolitan 'Tarsus, studied under Gamaliel, one of the SanIt was Gamaliel who said when Peter and the apostles were called before the council:... Ye men of Israel, take heed to yourselves what ye intend to do as touching these men.... FUELING THE FLAME OF TESTIMONY And now I say unto you, Refrain from these men, and let them alone: for if this counsel or this work be of men, it will come to nought: But if it be of God, ye cannot overthrow it; lest haply ye be found even to fight against God (Acts 5:35; 38-39). Even if misguided Saul fought against the Church, his training had been such that he recognized the truth of the miracle when it occurred. The youth of Zion also have been taught correct principles — the tinder has been laid on which they may build. When eight years of age, they have been baptized and confirmed members of the Church. With the confirmation came a great blessing: the Holy Ghost was given:. Even the Comforter, which showeth all things, and teacheth the peaceable things of the kingdom.... Which manifesteth all things which are expedient unto the children of men (D. & C. 39:6; 18:18). HE Holy Ghost affords the match which will light the testimony of young people. But they must be taught the power of this Personage of Spirit; they must have strong leaders who realize the importance of being true followers of God the Father and Jesus Christ his Son. 'True leaders will add to that which parents teach their young folk. Both will teach the true meaning of prayer, because it is through prayer that we come in close touch with our Eternal Father. Prayer becomes the compass that charts a true course back to our Father in heaven. Leaders help young people realize that our Father is a Personage such as we are, 575 and that he is interested in our welfare and eager to give us our blessings, if we but ask them from him. As Jesus said: If ye then, being evil, know how to give good gifts unto your children, how much more shall your Father which is in heaven give good things to them that ask him (Mt. 7:11). A boy in the service felt ashamed to kneel in prayer before his companions. He felt that they would deride him. So he would crawl into bed and then offer his prayers while lying down. One night he could stand it no longer. He knelt down by his bed and offered his heartfelt prayers to his Father in heaven. When he arose, he expected that the others would mock him. Instead, his companion said, "I am glad you are a boy who believes in prayer as I do." One must live with prayer to gain a testimony of the truthfulness of the gospel. 'The first thing in the morning a youth should offer up a prayer for the day ahead; and the last thing at night he should offer up his prayer of gratitude for the day's activities. He should pray without ceasing, if he wishes his life to reach the heights. He should add to his prayer, works. As the Lord revealed to the Prophet, there is no end to what we should learn: And as all have not faith, seek ye diligently and teach one another words of wisdom; yea, seek ye out of the best books words of wisdom; seek learning, even by study and also by faith (D. & C. 88:118). Teach ye diligently and my grace shall attend you, that you may be instructed more perfectly in theory, in principle, in doctrine, in the law of the gospel, in all things that pertain unto the kingdom of God, that are expedient for you to understand; Of things both in heaven and in the earth, and under the earth; things which have been, things which are, things which must shortly come to pass; things which are at home, things which are abroad; the wars and the perplexities of nations, and the judgments which are on the land; and a knowledge also of countries and of kingdoms— That ye may be prepared in all things when I shall send you again to magnify the calling whereunto I have called you, and the mission with which I have commissioned you (D. & C. $8:78-80). This comes as a commandment to all youth — as to all adults. The entire world is the object of a missionary program. Those who wish to participate in this conversion program will need to know the countries and the histories of countries, having understanding and love for all peoples, and adding that to their testimony of the gospel, which will bring added enlightenment to these peoples. HROUGH a. Study of these things which the Lord has commanded us to learn, we shall come to know truth. Joseph Smith revealed "... Truth is knowledge of things as they are, and as they were, and as they are to come..." 93:24). He said, furthermore, "... The truth abideth forever and ever" (D. & C. 1:39). Young people need to know the truth. As Jesus said, "And ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free" (John 8:32). If they seek the truth, young people will find that their testimony will be firmly founded. 'They will not then be swayed by every wind that blows, by every new fad that sweeps by them, by every disaster that may overtake them. They will weigh and consider, pray, and seek wise counsel, and they will come to know of a surety that this is the true gospel, re-established by our Eternal Father for the development and joy of his children. Thousands of our young people know that the Church is true, but sometimes they feel to follow the example of Aladdin's wife: they trade old lamps for new. They sell their precious heritage for a "mess of pottage," even as Esau sold his birthright to Jacob for food. A testimony is a precious thing; it grows by constant feeding, just as a flame must be constantly fueled in order to continue to live. It is interesting to watch a testimony grow in a young person's heart. When World War II was at its height, a chaplain in the service was assisted by a young woman who had been appointed his aide. Every Sunday morning he brought her to Sunday School. It wasn't long before a spark began to kindle. She attended sacrament meetings and firesides, upon invitation. Soon she began to seek the truth and ask questions. Arrangements were made for the missionaries in the area to hold classes with her. Since the young woman's mother had passed away several years before, the girl seemed to desire companionship and understanding. A year of study and investigation passed, and then she came one night to the mission headquarters and applied for baptism. She was very humble and had a firm understanding of the gospel, which she had acquired by study and prayer. She was bap- 576 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1956 FUELING THE FLAME OF TESTIMONY tized and confirmed a member of the Church. Since that time she has been married in the temple, is doing the work for her kindred dead, and living a good Latter-day Saint life. F I were a young girl or boy at the very threshold of life, I would resolve to have a plan or goal to follow in building that life; no great building or bridge or organization has ever been built by blind opportunism. I would not want to leave to chance the kind of life I wanted to build for myself. Although I could conceivably draw the plans for my life, after all, a person in his teens is not very well qualified for such a task. Surely such an important job would require the hand of a master architect, and I would want the very best, one who knows more about me and my possibilities than anyone else. Is such an architect available to young people in the Church? One such Architect is our Heavenly Father. He has drawn up for all a plan of salvation: the gospel of Jesus Christ. Obeying the blueprint of the principles of the gospel: attending sacrament meetings, paying tithing, keeping the Word of Wisdom, keeping the Sabbath day holy, serving 577 others, living by prayer, I would learn to know and trust in my Heavenly Father. Obeying these principles, I would go forth confidently to build my life, realizing as any builder must, that the end product will depend upon no one else but me, the builder, I would guard my actions, my thoughts, my time, so that I would build a good life, one in which a testimony could flourish and burn brightly all the days of my life. I would be alert to grasp every opportunity to improve myself, seeking help from many sources. 'l'o do less than my best in building my life according to the gospel plan revealed in these latter days, would be to let down myself, my parents, and my Father in heaven. The real goal in mortality is the achievement by righteous living of an eternal life in our Father's kingdom. By living a clean, chaste life through prayer, by study, by observation of the principles of the gospel, I would build a testimony that will endure through all the eternities to come. I would not exchange old lamps for new—but would find the fire of testimony lighting my path into a lifetime of happiness here and everlasting life hereafter. Mlother-Sculptor Mabel Law Atkinson How patiently she works with living clay, Molding with willing, tender hands and heart — Each pliant form, no thought of self or pay; But praying that the finished works of art Reflect the Master, and as time unrolls, Be flawless temples for immortal souls. JS; /; e Sin nN ts hi 7 ts ) 10 me Preston R. Nibley ILS C. Flygare, President of the Scandinavian Mission, with headquarters in Copenhagen, wrote a letter to Albert Carrington, President of the European Mission, at Liverpool, under date of November 20, 1875, in which he stated that two Elders had been sent from Sweden, to preach the gospel in Finland. "Two Swedish Elders have been sent to Finland, to open the gospel door for that nation. I have had very encouraging news from them; they have had a chance to hold meetings and the power of God has been greatly manifested in their behalf" (Millennial Star, XXXVII, 708). These two first missionaries to Finland were brothers, Carl A. And John E. Sundstrom, members of the Church from Sweden. Converts were made and the first baptism was performed on May 7, 1876, "in the vicinity of Nikolaistad." Four persons were baptized during the year 1876, and in December a branch was organized at Nikolaistad — the first branch in the mission. Other elders were sent to Finland in the years following and the missionary work was extended. Great difficulty was experienced by the missionaries on account of the severity of the laws. One law was to the effect From the Finnish Travel Bureau Submitted by Hertense B. Robinson LAKE SAIMAA, EAST CENTRAL FINLAND A Paradise for Boating and Fishing Page 578 THE FINNISH MISSION 579 From the Finnish Travel Bureau Submitted by Hortense B. Robinson A FINNISH SAUNA (BATH HOUSE) IN WINTER Bath houses are situated on the seashore or on lakes or bays, and are typical of Finland. A hot steam bath followed by a swim in either summer or winter is a favorite recreation. That when teaching the gospel they could not stand up; they were forced to remain seated. The number of converts grew slowly; in November 1890, the combined membership of the Church was thirty-five, including three elders and two priests. President Ezra Taft Benson of the European Mission visited Finland in July 1946 and at Larsmo rededicated the land to the preaching of the gospel. Finland remained a district of the Swedish Mission until it was organized as a separate mission on September 1, 1947, with Henry A. Matis as president. President David O. McKay and party visited the Finnish Mission in June 1952, and held a mission-wide conference at Helsinki. President Matis presided in Finland until December 1954, when he was succeeded by Phileon B. Robinson, who presides at the present time. On March 31, 1956 there were 613 members of the Church in Finland, located in fourteen branches. In December 1954, thirteen Relief Society organizations were reported, with 221 members. Hortense B. Robinson presides over the Finnish Mission Relief Society. Note: The cover for this Magazine is a view of Harvest Time in Central Finland. See also "Recipes From the Finnish Mission," page 596. Something Artistic Frances C. Yost County Fair Book carefully, but she thumbed through the Women's Division again: Needlecraft, Sewing, Canning, Baking, Remodeling, Arts, Crafts, Painting, and Sculpturing. Why, the highest prize of all was given in the field of sculpturing. Perhaps it was for encouragement. Romaine remembered that the needlecraft, baking, and sewing booths were overcrowded with fine displays last year. Every housewife sewed and baked and did handwork, Romaine thought, but almost no one seemed to sculpture. "What I could do with a prize like that!" Romaine said aloud. She fell to dreaming. She remembered her high school days when she had carved a tiny horse and colt from an ordinary bar of laundry soap. Miss Rembrant, the art teacher, had wanted her to enroll in an art school after graduation, but instead, she had married Sam Wuthrich of Swiss decent, as soon as Romaine and her mother could assemble a suitable trousseau. Romaine had then turned her artistic talents to homemaking. She looked about the home she had made. Surely she hadn't wasted her talent. Her home showed good taste. The entire house was attractive, though frugally furnished. Why she had refashioned the old cheerless kitchen until it resembled a Currier and Ives print, fragrant and wholesome. Page 580 R 'coms had read the entire Romaine had done lots of sewing and baking, and made flower arrangements for the fair. In all, she had taken seven blue ribbons for her homemaking accomplishments. "This year will be different." Romaine doubled her fist with determination. "This year someone else can take the blue ribbons for pies, petticoats, and petunias. I'm going out for higher stakes, the sculpture prize." Romaine knew if she were to have a piece of sculpture lovely enough to enter in the county fair, she must start working on it now. She had been making figurines from the children's clay for years, and she had tried her hand at whittling wood. But, to enter the contest, she should have something of size with which to work. Romaine remembered again the horse and colt she had carved from a bar of laundry soap. Good white soap was fine to work with, but you couldn't buy soap in a big brick. Could she make it? "That's what Pll do. Tll make a batch of soap this very day!" Sheer perseverance registered on her face. There wasn't time this morning to go to the store for lye, but her neighbor, Mrs. Barnes, had all sorts of things on hand. Things she hardly ever used. Would she have some lye? Romaine hurried next door to the Barnes' home. Mrs. Barnes, always obliging, mounted a kitchen stool and peered into the cupboard above the sink. Sure enough, from SOMETHING ARTISTIC the most remote corner, she drew forth a can of lye. "Thanks," Romaine said. "Tl get you a can the first time I go to the store. I must rush now. I left the little children alone." ACK in her own kitchen, Romaine sat down to read the directions on the lye can for making soap. "What are you doing, Momie?" The children hovered about her, Karen eight, and the younger boys, Kim and Kent. Romaine knew she just couldn't make soap with the children around. The two basic infredients for making soap, lye and grease, were far too dangerous to work with around children. "Look, Karen," Romaine spoke to her little daughter as if she were grown up, "if you'll keep the little boys outside in the yard until I call Pll make those doll clothes you want, after everyone is in bed tonight. Keep them busy and happy in the sand pile, but don't let them wander out of the yard. I've just got to make a batch of soap this morning." "Soap!" Karen was only eight, but she knew the importance of soap in keeping two little brothers and their clothes clean. She hustled the little boys out the back door. "Come, brothers, Sissie will show you a new sand pile game." "Bless her heart!'" Romaine smiled, watching Karen herding her little brothers like a hen clucking over her chickens. "I must remember to make the doll clothes tonight, even if I'm dead tired." Romaine locked the screen door to assure herself uninterrupted privacy while she worked. 'The 581 recipe on the can called for six cups of melted grease, five cups of water, and one can of lye. Well, she had everything, if she had enough grease. She saved all her grease drippings, and she had quite a little suet trimmed from steaks and roasts. Still, when melted, it wouldn't make six full cups. Romaine remembered the old home-cured bacon. Why they had had it two years or more. And no one in the family would eat it. Just the thing for my soap, thought Romaine, and she hurried to the deep freeze in the utility room, where she had tucked away the old bacon. Romaine watched the grease bubling and melting on the electric stove. 'The directions on the lye can said the grease should be eightyfive degrees. She would use her candy thermometer to test the temperature. When the grease was slightly beyond the melting stage, the mercury reached eighty-five, so she removed the kettle from the electric burner. Romaine poured five cups of cold water in her earthen crock, the directions had cautioned against using any galvanized container. Then, donning a long-sleeved shirt of Sam's and a pair of work gloves, and taking a long-handled wooden spoon, she carefully stirred in the lye.. She had heard that dry lye was comparatively harmless, but moistened lye was deadly. She kept her head turned and refrained from inhaling or letting the fumes get in her eyes, as she stirred it until the lye was thoroughly dissolved. OMAINE cleaned off the grease from the thermometer and tested the lye solution. The mercury quickly raised to seventy-five degrees. It was amazing that cold water and lye could reach such a temperature. But Romaine knew that even a cold solution of lye was not cold. In fact, it was hot and dangerous! And the hot grease was dangerous! She hoped the children would not come in now! She would be glad when she was through working with grease and lye. Soon she could miraculously turn them into white, lovely, sweetsmelling soap! Slowly, Romaine poured the six cupfuls of hot grease into the lye solution, stirring continually, yet very gently, lest the grease and lye separate. It took about five minutes of stirring, after the last cup of grease was poured in, for the solution to become a thick honey-like substance. She knew then the chemical process of lye-eating-grease had taken place, and in the doing the whole was transformed into soap. Romaine sighed with relief. She had finished the dangerous task with no interruptions from the children. Now she must hurry and clean up the mess. She rinsed the lye can in hot water, lest some particles of lye might remain and some little person get it out of the trash can. As she cleaned the utility room, she planned a quick nutritious lunch for the children and Sam. Soon she heard the children coming and unlatched the screen door. "Momie, is the soap 'bout done?" Karen asked. "I'm so tired watching them." "You're a good girl. All of you come in now and wash for lunch." a 6) Re is OMAINE opened her eyes to such a morning as Utah has on a rare and perfect day. It was the hushed moment before dawn. Somewhere in the mist-shrouded valley a cock crowed lustily. "No wonder I'm tired," Romaine sighed to herself. "Besides the regular routine, I made doll clothes until twelve o'clock last night, and a batch of soap in the morning." Remembering the soap, Romaine bounded from the bed, and _ grabbing a robe, almost ran to the utility room. She had turned the crock upside down last night, inside one of the sinks. Now she gently lifted the crock, and looked at the nice round mound of white soap. It was beautiful, and this very afternoon, while the children slept, she would start carving her figurine. As Romaine went about her morning tasks she thought of Cyrus Dallin, the sculptor, and the immortal statue of the Angel Moroni, high upon the Salt Lake Temple. She thought of the pictures of the figure of David, carved out of stone by Michelangelo. Vividly, in her mind's eyes, she saw what had once been a block of stone miraculously turned into head, body, and limbs, each seemingly able to move. Why Michelangelo had even been able to show sadness on David's face. While she washed the breakfast dishes and Karen dried the knives and forks, Romaine pictured in her mind the gentle curves and indentures she would make when she started carving her soap figurine. "There, we're through with the dishwashing," Romaine — spoke sweetly. "Karen, you go tidy your room. Make the bed real well, 582 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1956 SOMETHING ARTISTIC and T'll do the bunk beds in the boys' room." Romaine's hands were busy smoothing sheets and bed clothes, but her mind was prematurely busy, carving a soap figurine. "Momie, come and see." Kim and Kent rushed into the bedroom, and were swishing her skirts. "We have a surprise! Come see the surprise!" 'They hurried her to the utility room. "Look, Momie, we helped you. We cut the soap in bars," they chorused. "It's all ready for washday." "Yes, darlings, the soap is all ready for washday." Romaine managed to keep her voice calm while her heart thudded. She hurried from the house, lest the children see the tears she could not control. Later, she would gather up the crudely cut bars of homemade soap, and store them away for washing. Outside, the birds sang in the hedges and trees, or darted over helds on either side of her. Neither her children nor the birds knew that her hopes and dreams had been cut in pieces by several gashes of a butcher knife. ASHDAY and ironing day came and went, but Romaine could think of nothing but having something lovely to enter in the sculpture division at the county fair. There wasn't any more grease to make soap and, anyway, it was too dangerous to repeat with the children always underfoot. Then one morning Sam came in from milking and said, "Romaine, the hay is all up, and there's a little time now, I think I'll borrow a 583 mixer and get some cement and sand mixed, and pour the forms and floor for the chicken coop." Romaine looked at Sam as he stood in the doorway. Sam wouldn't be classed as handsome, but he certainly was attractive, even in work clothes, with his shock of thick dark hair and his features lean and sharply defined. What had he said? Pour cement for a coop. Why! Why! Romaine's mind was revolving like a second hand. She remembered that Miss Rembrant, her art teacher, had told of a man in Florida who did all of his carvings in cement. Not hardened completely, just set-up cement. If Sam poured the cement for the coop now, she could use some of it and carve her figurine for the fair! "What do you think about going ahead with the cement now?" Sam asked again. "Sam, I think that's a wonderful idea, pouring the cement now, I mean." Inwardly Romaine's heart was pounding with excitement, but she thought it best not to bring up her plans about the leftover cement. She and Sam had many things in common, but one of them wasn't a love of art. Sam, seeing the sparkle and excitement in her eyes, put his arms tenderly around her. "Gee, honey, I knew you wanted a chicken coop, but I didn't know it meant this much to you. I'll get things around right away." The clock was nearing the lunch hour when Sam finally had the floor of the coop perfectly level. Romaine had walked out to see how the work was coming along, and had taken her crock to fill with the remains from the mixer. The children were running ahead of her. "Why don't you let the little ones put their hand prints along the side, Romaine?" Sam asked. He was tired, but he had the satisfaction of knowing his was a good job well done. "Oh, chorused. Romaine stooped over the wet cement and_ started placing little hands on the surface. "Bill Martin wants to use this mixer this afternoon,' Sam called to her. "T'll take it to him right after we eat lunch. Guess I better wash it out before we go in the house." He reached for the nearby hose. "Wait!" Romaine ran to the mixer with the crock in hand. "I, I want some cement!" She ducked her head into the mixer, trying to salvage the last of the cement. "Look, honey, will you move so I can clean this thing up?" In his haste, Sam pushed her gently aside and turned the hose into the mixer. Romaine stood, empty crock in hand, and watched enough cement for two nice figurines washed away. She dared not look at Sam lest her face register a spark of hatred. She turned on her heel and went to the house. The house was dark, after being in the bright sunshine, and to Romaine it seemed a refuge for her grief. She told herself over and over, it was her own fault. She should have told Sam of her dream. She should have let him know what she wanted the cement for. But goodie!" the children things closest to the heart are often the hardest to share. "Are we going to raise chickens, Momie? Are we going to raise chickens to lay eggs?" The children pressed at her heels, leaving her no privacy. HEN Sam entered the door, she studied his face. No, he didn't know how deeply he had hurt her. His face showed only that he had had a hard day's work crammed into one morning. Romaine realized that mixing, pouring, and leveling cement all alone was hard labor. She served the dinner. If it killed her, she would never let Sam know what that little dab of leftover cement had meant to her. Sam and the children ate like hungry miners. Romaine nibbled at her food. She wasn't hungry. Inwardly, she complimented herself on being quite an actress, for nobody seemed to have the faintest notion that incased in her being was a broken heart. The children took their naps and Sam went to his work. The hours straggled on. Romaine knew that Sam was truly a wonderful husband and father, but, even so, she did wish that she could inject just a trifle of her artistic appreciation into him. Then, at last, it was night, and Romaine was listening to the little children saying prayers, and tucking them between clean, white sheets. Afterward, she gave a sigh and stretched herself out on her own bed. Later, she would get up and join Sam in the living room, and read or sew buttons on little play clothes, but, nght now, she would 584 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1956 SOMETHING ARTISTIC close her eyes and rest. It had been a long, weary day, but it was not physical exhaustion which had depleted her. Romaine had an early breakfast ready and waiting on the table for Sam when he came in from the milking. As she waited, she looked at the calendar hanging on the wall. She had circled the county fair, which was just two weeks away. She wondered what kind of pie she would enter this year. Last year she had taken the blue ribbon with a luscious raisin cream pie. Perhaps her hot mince pie would tickle the judges' palates. And the apple struddle which she had experimented with, why that would be a fine entry in the original recipe division! And she could enter Karen's coat in the made-over sewing division. Romaine picked up the fair book for further inspiration, but all she could see was the sculpturing, with the highest prize of all. "You dreamer!" She chided herself aloud. "Who's a dreamer?" Sam asked, coming through the doorway with a sack on his shoulder. She didn't need a sack of flour. "Sam Wuthrich, what on earth have you there?" Romaine asked, staring at the sack as he stood it up behind the kitchen door. "Bought this late yesterday, when I was in town, but didn't take the time to unload it," Sam answered. "And, pray tell, what is it?" Romaine asked again. "Honey, this is what they call sandcrete. 'here's a whole fifty pounds of it. It sets up like stone, they tell me. Real good for carving, which you like to do, if it's still sort 585 of wet. I'll bet if you tinkered with it you could do something real pretty. Now I'm not busy today, and if you'll fix up a picnic for us, ll take the children to the zoo and the park. Better throw in some wading togs, and we'll make a day of it." "But, Sam!' Romaine was too amazed to speak. She couldn't remember a day when she hadn't had the children hovering around, except when she was in the hospital with a new baby, and that time she went to help her father, when he was ill. "You can have the day to do as you please, honey. And I don't mean washing and ironing, or wallpapering and painting, something relaxing!" Sam nodded toward the sandcrete, standing in the corner. The words Romaine wanted to express seemed to form a big lump in her throat, but Sam seemed to read them as clearly as if they were written in the air. "Do you think," Romaine's voice was almost a whispered prayer, "that I can carve it?" "Of course you can carve it!" Sam replied with conviction. "You've had years of experience molding bread and pies and meat loaf. And when you get it finished, it'll probably take the sweepstakes ribbon at the county fair." Romaine's face lighted up with a heartwarming smile. Sam looked at her and saw a new inner beauty. He drew her to him and kissed her fully and completely. Romaine had to take deep, steady breaths, lest she glitter too much with happiness. Life was truly a thing of beauty! Bulbs for Winter Blossoming Dorthea N. Newbold Garden Editor, Deseret News - Salt Lake Telegram HE dreary days of winter can be brightened with a display of colorful, fragrant blooms of bulbs. Forced into flowering ahead of their usual blooming period, an early springtime can be enjoyed at close range by the apartment house dweller, or by the occupant of city or country home. Hyacinths, tulips, daffodils, crocuses, and paper-whites can be forced into early flowering in your window garden, providing a few basic rules are followed. For example, on daffodils you may have seen the leaves and stems form beautifully, and the flower buds begin to swell, but there the growth stopped, and the flowers never developed. This condition is termed bud blast or blasting. The main cause is lack of enough roots in the pot to enable the bulbs to carry out the full possibilities of flowering. Diseased bulbs will act in the same manner; but it is possible to buy excellent quality, disease-free bulbs. Early planting, to allow time for the proper development of a root system, is of prime importance. This period varies somewhat with each different kind of bulb. Simplest to grow are those bulbs which will flourish in pebbles and water. Possibly the best known of these varieties are the snowy paperwhites. The yellow Soleil d'Or and the white and yellow Chinese sacred lily are also good subjects for Page 586 growing in water. 'These are all classed as polyanthus daffodils, and successful flowering should be the tule, but unsatisfactory results are seen too often. First, secure firm top-size bulbs, as soon as they come on the markets. Store in a flat in a cool room until the last of October. Use containers deep enough to allow the bulbs to be set firmly in pebbles with two inches or more of space below for roots. Fill the bowls with water, room temperature, to one-half inch above the bottom of the bulbs. Thereafter keep the water level fairly constant at the base of the bulbs. You will need to add water twice a week. Add a piece of charcoal to keep the water sweet. A shaded shelf, either in a_basement or utility room, where the temperature does not rise above fifty-five degrees Fahrenheit, is the best place to keep daffodils while the roots are forming. The main items to watch during the rooting period are to keep the water at the desirable level, to keep the bulbs in a dark, cool place, and to provide ventilation. _ After three weeks, use a pencil carefully to push aside the pebbles to see if the bottom of the bowl is well filled with roots. When the bowl is full of roots, the daffodils can be brought into light. Avoid direct light until the foliage turns green. Then give as much sunlight BULBS FOR WINTER BLOSSOMING Dorthea "Newbold POTTED TULIPS as possible to promote quick growth, which will mean shorter, sturdier stems. For longer lasting blooms, remove from the sunlight as the flowers open. HE tender French Roman hyacinths can also be grown in water. These bulbs produce blooms that are a blue, white, or rose-pink. The bell-shaped blooms are not as closely packed along the central spike as are the bells of the Dutch hyacinths, but they are a lovely addition to the indoor garden. Allow them to make roots for about eight weeks in the same cool, dark place you have provided for the paper-whites. The familiar Dutch hyacinths are easily grown in special hyacinth glasses, but are difficult to manage in bowls of pebbles. The hyacinth glass is quite tall, and has a cupshaped top which holds the bulb. 587 Only enough water should be used to keep it touching the base of the bulb. Refill the glass as needed. Dutch hyacinths must be stored in a cool dark place, and usually it takes about twelve weeks for the bulb to fill the lower part of the glass with roots. Then it will be three or four more weeks growing in light before the large bloom opens. To be sure that the stems and leaves are sturdy and strong, place them in strong sunlight as soon as the foliage has turned green. While there are only a few bulbs that can be brought into flower by growing in water, there are many that can be forced in soil. Regulation-type clay pots, bulb pans, and glazed pots may be used successfully to grow the bulbs. Whatever the type of container you select, the soil and method of growing the plants remain the important part. You will need two parts good top soil and one part leaf mold or compost. Mix in enough sand so that the mixture crumbles in your hand when moist. Place an arching piece of broken flower pot over the drainage hole. For drainage material, use about a one-inch layer of small pebbles. Fill in with the potting mixture to the level at which the bulbs will rest. Of course this will vary according to the size of the bulbs. After the bulbs are placed, add more soil, making it firm as you work. Leave about one inch of space at the top to allow room for watering. HE early spring bulbs, grape hyacinths, crocuses, and snowdrops can be forced into blooming indoors. Plant the bulbs in shallow Photograph submitted by Dorthea Newbold A SPRINGTIME WINDOW IN WINTER pots with the bulbs half an inch apart and barely cover them with soil. They should be left in a cool dark place for eight weeks. Water every five days. They may be brought into the light early in January or February. Provide a moist, cold, storage place for tulips, daffodils, and hyacinth bulbs while they are filling the pots with roots. Place the pots in either a well-drained cold frame, or in a shallow trench. Dig the trench twelve inches deep and place a four-inch layer of cinders in the bottom for drainage. Place the containers in and fill in around the pots with peat moss or sharp sand. Add a covering of sharp sand, and cover with leaves or straw. 'This mulch makes it easier to get the bulbs out during the winter. Twelve weeks is a safe period to allow for the root-making processes. 'Then bring the pots into the house and place in a temperature of about fifty degrees. Remove any soil which may be clinging to the pale new shoots. Water plants enough to keep the soil moist, and, as the growth increases, more water will be needed. Water should be at room temperature. As soon as the foliage has started to spread, and the stems are well started, move the plants into bright sunlight. If you can keep the room temperature at sixty degrees, you will have much better results with the bulbs you are forcing. Always turn the plants so that they will grow evenly, and not be one-sided from drawing to- 588 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1956 BULBS FOR WINTER BLOSSOMING ward the sun. These directions are for all bulbs grown in soil. Tulips may be planted one-half inch apart and with just the tips of the bulbs exposed out of the soil. Water liberally before setting pots in the storage place. Some varieties which will force include: Brilliant Star, Prince of Austria, Price Carnival, General DeWit, Apricot Yellow, Ibis, and White Hawk. All of those listed above are the single early tulips. 'The double early tulips are not recommended for forcing. Others recommended are: Krelage's 'Triumph, Van der Erden, White Sail, Weber, John Gay, William Pitt, Red Pitt, William Copeland, Rose Copeland, Crater, and Princess Beatrix. Daffodils should be planted with the tips slightly above the soil in the pot. Water thoroughly and set in storage. If they are planted in late September or during October, then the first pots can be started into active growth by the middle of January. It takes about four weeks 589 for the plants to flower after being brought out of storage. 'Try these daffodils: Carlton, Early Perfection, Golden Harvest, Helios, King Alfred, Magnificence, Rembrandt, Scarlet Elegance. Dutch hyacinths are possibly the best liked of all the potted bulbs. Set a large bulb in a four-inch pot, or five bulbs can be set in an eightinch bulb pan. The tips of the bulbs should be out of the soil. Water thoroughly after planting. Store for at least eight weeks. When they are brought into the house, the new tips of growth will be blanched. Keep in indirect sunlight and in a fifty-five degrees Fahrenheit temperature until the leaves turn green. 'Then they can be given direct sunlight. They will flower in a seventy-degree temperature, but the flowers will be much better quality if they are grown in a lower temperature. Forcing varieties which are highly reeommended include Bismarck, L'Innocence, and Pink Pearl. > Autumn Sidings Elsie McKinnon Strachan Now migrant, feathered folk make noisy talk; Beneath my sill, their chatter Punctuating dawn; till, flight plans made, With a whir, they scatter. Now crispness marks the early morning air, And flowers fold their glory; While shadows lengthen toward that final page Of summer's story. The summer sun still reigns, round-faced and high; The crow maintains his chidings; But down these green-aisled hours, September brings Autumn tidings. Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, September 1, and September 15, 1896 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomeEN or ALL Nations" RELIEF SOCIETY IN CANNON WARD (SALT LAKE CITY): Sister E. B. Wells spoke briefly upon the educational benefits of the Society, morally and spiritually, and what she realized it had been to the women in these valleys, and the vast work that had been accomplished for mankind through the Society. Exhorted the young women to take hold of the work and help carry the responsibility, while there were yet some of those living who had labored so diligently in laying the foundation. President Horne gave some further instruction about the duties of the members, and told them that beside the record kept here the angels were silent notes taking, and they were recorded in heaven.... —KEditorial Report ELECTIONS: Let us have honorable men and women for our officers, and see to it that we get them. Don't let us shirk our duties. See that all women are registered and vote, and also attend the Primaries. Keep abreast of the times; stand for our rights and do not be daunted. —Editorial THOUGHTS On the Death of Mrs. Ellen C. Clawson Sing, dear one sing, and shout for very joy! In the world above the stars, where strife cannot annoy; The incense from this lower world, of work so nobly done. Will rise and bless thee ever, while countless ages come. —Lydia D. Alder WOMAN KNOW THYSELF: In these days when schools, seminaries, colleges and universities are being established to propagate the weal and wisdom of the world, let us not overlook a school for women wherein they can obtain a knowledge of themselves and the great scientific laws that govern their physical organization. This, indeed, should be made a point of every woman's education to fully qualify her for the crowning mission of life, that of motherhood. —Ellis R. Shipp, Md. CO-OPERATIVE STORE: The Woman's Co-operative Store has been temoved from Main St. To the Nauvoo Building, on First South St., West, where they have commodious sales-rooms, and have also been purchasing new goods, and are very desirous of the patronage of the ladies. The store makes a specialty of its millinery and burial clothing. The sisters of Relicf Society and others would do well to call before purchasing elsewhere, as it is hoped the store will be a success even though the times are a little hard. —KFEditorial Note OUGHT WOMEN TO WANT TO VOTE? There has never been a time in all our history when the American Republic so much needed the help of all who are interested in the perpetuity of this nation; women as a part of the nation ought to feel bound to give their best thought and work to its support.... —Ex. Page 590 TWENTY women are Members of Parliament in India's lower House of the People. In India a bill has recently been passed _permitting wives, widows, and daughters to inherit family property and to dispose of it as they see fit. This is a great forward step in the area of women's rights. Many men fought the proposition, but Nehru said, "I believe that if any great advances are coming to India, they will come largely through the women of India." ERMAN women still live up to their reputation for industry. All spring and summer, grandmothers, wives, and daughters have been working in the fields. Many young women are employed as translators in business firms. Many act as guides for foreign-speaking people. As a rule their English is excellent. Then, there are teachers and journalists. A surprising number of physicians' and dentists' signs bear women's names. 'Two German women physicians are on the staff of the United States Army in Frankfurt. HEN the medical school in Vienna first opened its doors after the war, a large number of Viennese women were among those who gained admittance. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon OR the first time American universities, ten of them, will enroll young women in Air Force ROTC courses this fall. Preparing to become women's Air Force officers, they will receive direct commissions upon graduation. ALCYON House, in Indianapolis, billed as a "school of personal arts," is giving a course to help wives to help their husbands advance in life. Such items are examined as tactful relations with employers and with co-workers (and their wives), the art of conversation, general propriety, and graceful ways of doing everyday things. IRTHDAY congratulations are extended to: Mrs. Mary Elizabeth Forman Calkins, Sheridan, Wyoming, ninety-nine; Mrs. Elizabeth Ann Glover, Columbia, South Carolina, ninety-nine; Mrs. Georgienne Walters, Anoka, Minnesota, ninetyfive; Mrs. Emma Lowder Webb, Parowan, Utah, ninety-three; Mrs. Elizabeth Wight, Brigham City, Utah, ninety-three; Mrs. Annie Newman Middleton, Ogden, Utah, ninety-three; Mrs. Laura Read Stephens, Salt Lake City, Utah, ninety-three; Mrs. Christine Graham Ericson, Salt Lake City, Utah, ninety-one; Mrs. Annie E, Gunn Joseph, Beaver, Utah, ninety. Page 591 DIT ORIAL a, VOL. 43 SEPTEMBER 1956 'And Shey Shall Seach Sheir Ghiliren c O one can rear a child today without often despairing over the little time that the child is in the home in his waking hours, especially after he enters school. Activities of all types are continually pulling and diverting his attention from the home. Section sixty-eight of the Doctrine and Covenants gives some instructions from the Lord to Latter-day Saint parents to guide them in the proper rearing of their children. 'The commandments are focused on training children before they reach the years of accountability, emphasizing the vital import of those first eight years. By the time children are to be baptized their parents are expected to have taught them " the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ the Son of the living God, and of baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of the hands..." (D. & C. 68:25) A love for his Lord and Savior should be a life-sustaining force rooted deep in a child's soul, never to perish. He should be carefully taught so that he understands that the Savior died for him and he should know the love Jesus showed in dying for him. 'The added knowledge of the nearness and dearness of his Heavenly Father to him at all times, as exemplified by his sending his Beloved Son into the world to die that everyone may go back to his heavenly home, may be recognized and expressed by the child in his prayers. Page 592 The soul of a child is so perfect that to enter the kingdom of heaven one must become as a little child. Childish faith, as one grows older, however, may shrivel if a mother does not continually see to it that it is constantly nourished. Family and individual prayers, family hours, reading of the scriptures together, attendance at sacrament meeting, at Sunday School, Primary, and, later, the Priesthood quorums and M. I. A., foster faith. Where a mother encourages her children's attendance she is nurturing their faith. Her own acceptance and example in supporting Church activities foster a kindred spirit in her children. Sometimes a mother fails to evaluate blessings at their true worth. 'This may be illustrated by the value placed by one mother on that great blessing to be married for time and all eternity in a temple of the Lord. She seemed to weigh eternal progression in a balance against the wearing of immodest clothing; and the clothing outweighed the eternal balance wheel. Her daughter had not been taught a true perspective, and she did not have a temple marriage. Another mother found it pleasurable to fritter away her time rather than to devote herself to the Church organizations. Her knowledge of the gospel shrank as she filled her mind with non-essentials. Another mother gave her services only to the community, which EDITORIAL crowded out and became pre-eminent over any effort on her part to build up the kingdom of God. Her daily living pattern shadowed the way for her daughters, who gradually lost interest in the ward activities and became inactive. Nevertheless, no woman is in a position to judge another. Only an all-wise Father can judge. It behooves every Latter-day Saint woman, however, to seek by loving, understanding persuasion and effort, to impress eternal values on her thoughtless sister and, at all 593 times, to set an example of righteousness in humility. The Lord must be pleased with the mother who always has time for loving attention, painstaking care, and faith-promoting unfolding of the great plan of salvation as a precious gift to her children. The early telling and living of gospel principles nurture the seeds of faith in her children and give to them sustenance until each child grows, by faith, his own tree of saving knowledge. —M. C. S. Votes TO THE FIELD Annual General Reliof Society Conference and Dedicatory Service of Relicf Society Building THE annual general Relief Society conference will be held Wednesday and Thursday, October 3 and 4, 1956. Highlighting the conference will be the dedicatory service of the Relief Society Building to be held Wednesday, October 3, 1956, at 2 p. M., to which Relief Society members and the public are invited. The Officers Meeting will be held Wednesday morning, October 3 in the Tabernacle. Departmental sessions will be held Thursday morning, October 4, 1956. > Si oO / tcitation Catherine B. Bowles Let your life be like a bud— Unfold with petals rare Tinted and shaped in God's design To become a woman fair. Be Honest with Yourself Healthy, Happy. Lucky You! LUC is the youth who has learned that health, success, and happiness come with clean living. Lucky is the youth who has learned that some things should not be touched or tampered with... That some things should be left alone. Lucky is the youth who learns this lesson early in life, from parents and from the teachings of the Church — and who doesn't have to learn it the hard way. Page 594 HEALTHY, HAPPY, LUCKY YOU! 595 Health and happiness and success are what our Father in heaven wants for us. And that is why he has given us commandments to keep — and not for any other reason. Health and happiness and success are what our parents want for us. And that is why they give us counsel and commandments — and not for any other reason. We have one mind and one memory — and it deserves to be clear and clean. We have one earthly body which must last for a lifetime. Our Maker planned it that way. He knows what is good for us. He knows what will give us health and happiness and success and peace inside ourselves. 'That is why he has told us how to live; that is why he has told us to leave some things alone. Lucky you; you don't have to learn everything the hard way. Lucky you; you can learn early from those who love you. Lucky you; you don't have to pay a painful price for learning how to live — you don't have to learn too late. Be smart. Be clean. Be virtuous. Be healthy. Be happy. BE HONEST WITH YOURSELF PROMISED BLESSINGS TO WORD OF WISDOM OBSERVERS "And all saints who remember to keep and do these sayings, walking in obedience to the commandments, shall receive health in their navel and marrow to their bones; And shall find wisdom and great treasures of knowledge, even hidden treasures; And shall run and not be weary, and shall walk and not faint. And I, the Lord, give unto them a promise, that the destroying angel shall pass by them, as the children of Israel, and not slay them. Amen" (D. & C. 89:18-21). Recipes trom the Maney tiie Submitted by Hortense B. Robinson KIISSELI Berry or Fruit Soup Cook berries or fruits with water until soft. The liquid may then be strained and only juice used, if desired. Add sugar to taste; then add about 2 tbsp. Cornstarch or potato flour per each quart of juice. (First mix the flour into cold water, however.) Stir until flour mixture is dissolved and remove from heat immediately. Do not overcook or overstir. Pour into platter to cool. Serve with whipped cream. Makes six servings. Kesa KEItTo 1 = qt. Water 3. Tbsp. Margarine or butter 8 small carrots 1 'tbsp. Fine wheat flour 1% c. Green field peas, podded t milk 1 small cauliflower ee c. Small potatoes 1 egg yolk: » ae 1% c. Cream ges radishes 1 tbsp. Salt little fresh spinach 1-1 tbsp. Sugar finely chopped parsley Clean and cut vegetables into small pieces. Cook in seasoned water until soft. Add spinach last. Add butter or margarine and then the boiling milk, finally, wheat flour beaten in cold milk. If you want it really delicious, beat egg yolk and cream in a soup tureen and pour soup over this before serving. Makes six servings. Care xian Por Roast % Wb. Beef 1 tbsp. Salt % \b. Mutton or veal hot water ¥y |b. Pork Different kinds of meat are used for Carelian Pot Roast. Provided pork is not too fatty, it may be used in the same proportions as the other kinds of meat. Cut meats into pieces the size of an egg, do not remove minor bones. Put pieces of meat into casserole or stoneware pot. The more fatty bits are placed uppermost. Pour enough hot water into pot just to cover meat. In the oven, the water evaporates, to some extent, and the uppermost bits of meat become brown. Let meat remain in oven for more than three hours. When done, the dish is served in a pot, in a casserole, or placed on a platter. Makes four servings. KALAKUKKO Large-sized Fish Pasty With a Hard Crust Crust Stuffing 1% tbsp. Salt 4.4 lbs. Whitefish, burbots, or perches 5% c. Water 2 tbsp. Salt 5% c. Or 3 lbs. Rye meal or ¥% Ib. Fatty pork partly wheat flour 3% tbsp. Butter or fat Knead dough well; it may be solid, but not very hard. Roll out dough into oval shape on a board sprinkled with flour; let the rolled-out dough remain a little thicker in the middle. Put scaled and cleaned, absolutely dry fish in a high heap on the rolled dough that has been sprinkled with flour, alternating layers of fish with layers or slices Page 596 RECIPES FROM THE FINNISH MISSION 597 of pork fat; salt each layer. Put the fish into pasty always with heads and bones, only clip fins with scissors. Cut big fishes into pieces. Liver, roe, and milt are also used for the pasty. Also miscellaneous fish or lake breams' heads may be used for the pasty. Fold coat of dough from two sides over the heap of fish and join the ends with water into one seam. Rub the pasty with rye flour and put it immediately into hot oven. When the pasty has formed a crust and becomes a little brown, brush the flour off from the surface of the pasty and rub the pasty at short intervals with a slice of pork fat. Let the pasty bake in a slow oven from five to six hours, which makes the fishbones perfectly soft. Near the end of the baking process the pasty may be wrapped into a moist towel or parchment paper, if you want the coat of the pasty soft. Thus wrapped, let the pasty mature in the oven for awhile. Serves 4. The "Kalakukko" pasty is served warm or cold, with butter, potatoes, and milk (or sour milk). RUTABAGAS IN CASSEROLE 2-4 Ibs. Rutabagas milk water, salt sugar to suit taste 2 tbsp. Margarine or butter 1 egg, beaten 1 tbsp. Wheat flour finely crumbed toast Peel and rinse the rutabagas and cook them in a small amount of salted water until soft; then mash them. Add butter or margarine to the mashed rutabagas with the flour and sugar to taste. Then-add milk and egg. Pour the mixture into a casserole, sprinkle finely crumbed toast on the top of the mixture, and bake in oven. Potatoes and carrots may be substituted for rutabagas. Makes six servings. LIvER AND RICE IN CASSEROLE 14 c. Rice " tsp. White pepper (powder) 1% c. Water "2 tsp. Marjoram 5% c. Milk 1 ¢. Raisins 1 egg 6 tbsp. Ground liver 2 tbsp. Margarine or butter 4 tbsp. Syrup 1 ~~ finely chopped onion salt to season. Rinse grains of rice, cook them in water and milk until nearly soft, and let the porridge cool. Mix beaten egg, browned onion, syrup, seasonings, rinsed raisins, and finely chopped or ground liver into porridge. Pour the mixture into a buttered casserole and let it bake in a moderate oven for about one hour. Serve with melted butter and cranberry sauce. Makes six servings. MamMIl An Easter dish in Finland, made of rye meal and malt 8-10 qts. Water 6 tbsp. Ground orange peel " Ib. Malt 4% Ibs. Rye meal 7 tsp. Salt Mix into two quarts of the water, one-quarter of the malt and a little rye meal. Sprinkle a thick layer of malt and rye meal on the surface, cover the kettle well, and leave it in some warm place for one hour. 'Then stir the meal and the water in the kettle so that they mix and add some more water. Sprinkle malt and meal on the surface, cover the kettle and let the mixture sweeten for about one hour. Continue this process until all the water and malt have been used up. The last portion of water is added boiling. So much meal should be used that "Mammi" resembles thin porridge; add seasoning and cook "Mammi' for awhile, stirring 'all the time. Beat it until it is quite cool. Fill small casseroles half-full and bake "Mammi" in a comparatively hot oven for about three hours. Boxes, instead of casseroles, made of birch bark give more flavor and are best. Serve "Mammi" cold with cream and _ sugar. Serves 6. Helps for Accompanists Roy M. Darley Assistant Tabernacle Organist [Address Delivered in the Music Department Meeting of the Annual General Relief Society Conference, September 29, 1955] HE subject given me to discuss this morning is of vital concern, for it is universally important in every meeting of the Church. The music rendered at the beginning of a Church service influences the spiritual level of the meeting that follows. The organist is the first to indicate the commencement of the Church service with the organ prelude and is also the last to exalt his listeners with the postlude. As a Relief Society organist, you hold a position as important as that of any other organist in the Church, and your preparation should be as careful and thorough as it would be for any other meeting. Keeping in mind that the prelude creates the spiritual setting for the meeting, use great care to select and master appropriate music. Use the prelude to improve your talent; make it an opportunity to perfect technique and registration, so that it becomes a song of praise to our Father in heaven. Careful consideration in selecting repertoire for your meetings will result in your raising the standards of your musical endeavor and, in turn, raising the standard of our Church music. You could use your monthly leadership meeting to good advantage by having the organists from each ward bring their very best preludes to leadership meeting and exchange suggestions for good prelude music. Eight organists conPage 598 tributing two prelude suggestions in leadership meeting would result in organists of that stake having sixteen preludes; in other words, enough preludes for four months' use. 'Title, composer, and publisher are important items in furnishing adequate information. As an organist, you are the righthand aid of the chorister. Remember, there can be only one head to any organization, and in Church music that is the chorister. Wise is the conductor who will bring the organist into her planning of the music. 'There is a joy in working together. On occasion, you will have the opportunity to play an organ solo. Use this as a challenge, a new goal to reach, an achievement to accomplish. Have the organists bring two or three favorite solo suggestions to leadership meetings. The organ solo is something very special and should have melody, beauty, and should fit into the spirit of the meeting. Avail yourselves of any and all opportunities to improve your talents. The Church provides excellent training through Church organ classes — a Course I and a Course II at $5 per course. Avail yourselves of this opportunity to join a class, for you can accomplish a great deal in this period of study. In working on preludes, solos, and hymns, the registration chart which follows has been designed to help HELPS FOR ACCOMPANISTS you with registration on the Baldwin, Connsonata, and Hammond pipe organ. As you will notice, a soft, mezzo forte (medium loud), and forte (loud) registration are given for all of these organs. This chart ORGAN ENSEMBLE REGISTRATION 599 is designed to give general helps and suggestions and in no way does it mean there are not other excellent registrations to be found. We trust they will guide you in your study of the instrument. For Pipe Organ, Baldwin, Connsonata and Hammond FIVE SET PIPE ORGAN Based On The Following: 8' Dulciana 8' Salicional 8' Voix Celeste 8' Gedeckt or Rohr Flute 8' Diapason PEDAL SWELL GREAT 16' Gedeckt 8' Dulciana 8' Salicional SOFT 8' Cello or Flute 4' Dulcet 8' Dulciana 4' Dulcet 8' Dulciana. 16' Gedeckt 8' Dulciana 4' Dulcet MEDIUM 8' Cello 4' Dulcet 8' Gedeckt 8' Flute 8' Salicional 4' Flute 8' Gedeckt 8' Salicional 4' Salicet 16' Bourdon 8' Dulciana 8' Diap. & 4' Octave FORTE 16' Gedeckt 4' Dulcet 8' Ged. & 4' Flute 8' Flute 8' & 4' Salicional 8' & 4' Salicional 8' Cello 8' & 4' Gedeckt 8' & 4' Dulciana 8' Diapason 8' Diapason BALDWIN ORGAN — MODEL 5 PEDAL SWELL GREAT SOFT 16' Dulciana 8' Salicional 8' Melodia 8' Great to Pedal 8' Dulciana 16' Dulciana 8' Stopped Flute 8' Diapason MEDIUM 8' Cello 8' Salicional 8' Melodia 8' Great to Pedal 4' Flute 8' Dulciana Swell to Great 16' Dulciana 8' Violin Diapason 8' Diapason 16' Bourdon 8' Stopped Flute 8' Melodia FORTE 8' Flute 8' Salicional 8' Dulciana 8' Cello 2 Plute 4' Octave Great to Pedal 4' Salicet Swell to Great 600 CONNSONATA ORGAN RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1956 | PEDAL | SWELL | GREAT SOFT 16' Gedeckt 8' Gedeckt 8' Dulciana 8' Great to Pedal 8' Salicional 4' Great to Great 8' & 4' Swell to Great 16' Bourdon 8' String Diapason 8' Open Diapason MEDIUM} 16' Gedeckt 8' Harmonic Flute 8' Gross Flute 8' Great to Pedal 8' Echo Salicional 8' Gamba 4' Great to Great 16' Gedeckt 8' String Diapason 8' Open Diapson 16' Bourdon 8' Harmonic Flute 8' Gross Flute FORTE 16' Major Bass 8' Viole de Gamba 8' Gamba 8' Great to Pedal 4' Swell to Swell 4' Great to Great 8', 4', 2' Swell to Gt HAMMOND ORGAN — CHURCH MODEL 006024000 — 8' & 4' Flute SOFT 002340000 — Kleine Erzahler 001233321 — Keen Strings also Swell D and Great D 005354222 MEDIUM 104503011 006755222 also Swell E, F and Great E 005645344 FORTE 306706015 226767554 also Swell G and Great G, F SUGGESTED ORGAN REPERTOIRE Collection of Postludes Holler 25 Pieces for Small Organ Schreiner Devotional Organ Album Asper Organ Voluntaries, Vol. I & II Schreiner Reed Organ Selections Forty-Three Organ Voluntaries Harkers Harmonium Collection Ninety-Three Pieces for the Hammond Organ (compiled—Jackson) Gems of Masterworks (compiled—Paul Tonner) Chancel Echos for the Organ (compiled—W. M. Felton) Treasures from the Masters (edited—Wilfred Tromblay ) At The Console (with Hammond Organ registration Felton ) Landon Organ. Melodies Ten Original Compositions For the Organ H. W. Gray Co., Inc. Ditson Lorenz Schirmer Schirmer Presser. Presser Ethel Smith Music T. Presser T. Presser O. Ditson aoa oO She Chocolate Box Dorothy Oakley Rea piano, a new car, and a television set. Still the greatest luxury that came into our lives was the pink box of chocolates... The one with the picture of the laughing Gibson Girl on top. It was Mama's habit of economy that made the night of the chocolate box such a shining memory. It was Saturday night. Mama had put on her good broadcloth coat, her plumed hat, and her inherited fur piece. "You may go to the store with me and carry the shopping bag," she told me. We left the other six children playing cylinder records on an old music box. I can see Mama now, walking down the boardwalk of the mining town in her high-buttoned shoes. The general store, a two-story rock structure in the middle of town, stood with smoke-darkened houses huddled around it like frightened puppies. Whenever Mama entered the store, the miners would pause in their loud laughter and remove their caps. Mama was very pretty. I thought she looked like Pearl White standing there with her plumed hat held high above her slim, straight shoulders. She bought our Saturday night supplies, carefully inquiring into the price of each item. My tongue felt dry when she asked for the regular package of Kickapoo Indian worm lozenges. Mr. Graham put everything in S INCE then we've had a player the shopping bag and said the bill was two dollars and fifteen cents. Mama started to pay him, when she saw the box of chocolates on the shelf. It was a big box with a pink bow and gold letters. 'There was a picture of a beautiful girl on the top. Mama just kept looking at it. It seemed as if she were remembering the days before all the children, when Papa could afford to bring home candy and flowers. It seemed as if she wanted to forget for a moment, that Papa's job was long on work and short on pay and that the forty-hour week was far in the future. She kept staring at the box of chocolates. Mr. Graham said, ""That's a right nice box of candy for only a dollar." Mama stood fingering the coins in her small knitted purse. She looked around the store. I knew she was figuring how much flour or calico a dollar would buy. Suddenly, her pretty cheeks were crimson to her hairline as she saw the miners watching her. She laid the money on the counter. "T'll take the candy," she said, with a sidelong glance at my shining face. CUR feet had wings as we carried the groceries up the incline to our house. "Wait until you see what Mama's got," I called as I bounded through the front door. Out of the mesh shopping bag came the shining box. Large-eyed children whispered, "However did you get it, Mama?" Page 601 both loved and regretted spending that dollar. It was likely her one cherished extravagance in the long years of having and rearing children. This I know, no other chocolates were ever so creamy, so sweetly brown, and so long to be remembered. I can't forget the silken luxury I felt every time I looked at the pink box on Mama's sideboard. However drab the house, the town, or the day—the Gibson Girl smiled, the gold letters sparkled, and neighbor children were impressed. The box stayed with us almost as long as Mama did. It moved with us from one small town to another through Papa's years of railroading. It always went with "the careful things," like Mama's heirloom dishes. "MOTHER IN HER PLUMED HAT" — and most prosperous years. With the abandon of an heiress used _ held in turn, paper dolls, valentines, Looking back now, I know Mama _ est wisp of a wedding veil. School Again Lael W. Hill Beyond the heavy doors, the stolid walls, The last of summer lingers lonely-hearted On paths where even now a bright leaf falls, Whence even now the robins have departed. Where once the children's gamin laughter pealed, Where once their dusty feet and freckled faces Starred summer ways like daisies in a field, Approaching autumn threads her frosty laces. Within the stolid walls, the heavy doors, Hands patter restlessness, whispers run swishing, Rows of small feet fret across worn floors; Each wistful pair of eyes, remembering, wishing, Turns from the leaf-like rustle of a book To give to summertime one last long look. 602 BISaeEasH edie by Dorothy Oakley Rea "IT wasted a dollar," Mama said to squandering fortunes. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1956 It even moved into the big brick house where Mama spent her last The box was never empty. It love letters, and, finally, the sheer- Littl Boy Reading a Book Evelyn Dorio I there a more wonderful sight anywhere than a little boy reading a book to himself? Listen to the chuckling sound he makes! It isn't included in the musical keyboard, because no one ever captured it long enough to place it properly. It isn't quite a sharpened flat sound nor yet a flattened sharp sound; it isn't in proper fifths or ninths; yet it is a most natural sound — that reading chuckle! The reading chuckle is different from the shout of football or baseball; diffcrent from the "peanut crackling" of the Wild West matinee, or the "roof-raising ha-ha"' of television. No, indeed, the reading chuckle is rather elegant in parts, an educated sound! " Close observation reveals that the reading chuckle begins with a mild "H'm, h'm, and then adds up toa slur of "h'mmmmm, h'mmmmm," as a boy keeps chasing words across the page. Then the whole chuckle may disappear except for the background of bubbles that float out of his open mouth. The boy now turns the page and opens his eyes wider the better to devour the words! "Hey! Heyeyeyey!"" he warns the hero who is scrambling from paragraph to paragraph. The boy adds a piccolo whistle and "Yeeeeeow! Yeeceowowowow!" This means danger to the hero, and the boy switches on a little red counterpoint beneath his voice. "He, he! Ho, ho!" he pipes from the top of his head (where little boys always hoard their favorite squeaks!) and then a broad and yellow-colored "Ahahahah!" which blows directly out of his relaxing lips, tells you everything came out all right. Notice, next, the reading position a little boy assumes while he's reading a book to himself! It's a jackknifed and two-story-sprawl position! First the book is over his head, then his head is over the book. Or the book's forward, no, it's backward, no, it's two-way animation! Now the book's an incompleted forward pass over his ears, and then it's a straight pitch, unless it could be behind the catcher! Now he slaps down the book or maybe slaps his own tummy in the tumult! So that when he groans "Oh, chohoh!" you can't tell whether it's for his tummy or for his book! 'Then he'll surprise you by settling down to the forward look: elbows anchored, book anchored, mind anchored. But don't miss that special star-spangled face a little boy wears while he's reading a book! You can observe this best, if you speak to him. "It's bedtime, Son!" you say. But he doesn't really hear you. He may look at you, all right, but through a pair of clear and sparkling marbles, and he doesn't see you at all, even in the electric light. You feel as though you're talking to a star; as though you're disturbing a new star. There isn't a more wonderful sight anywhere than a little boy reading a book to himself! _ Gatentions and Actions Celia Luce WE see only the actions of other people, but we judge ourselves by our intentions. Our intentions are usually much better than our actions. We could improve our world if we would take the trouble to find out the intentions of others, and consider their actions in the light of their intentions. And how much better a person I might be if I would take myself to task for my actions, and be very sure that they are my best possible effort. Page 603 Meeting Objections in Selling the Reliof Society agazine Clara Love Magazine Representative, Granite Stake (Utah) [Discussion Presented in the Magazine Department Meeting, Annual General Relief Society Conference, September 29, 1955] HE Magazine representatives have a specific mission. We are striving to place in the homes of the people in our wards and stakes The Relief Society Magazine. We must also help the women to receive full benefit from it. The Magazine must be read, or it cannot fulfill the purpose for which it is published. This may not be an easy task, but if we value our calling and have a love for the work we are doing, we can accomplish much. If the Magazine means much to us and we enjoy reading it, then we can encourage others to do the same. We should know what our Magazine contains and be prepared to tell others about it. We must know the worth of it and what an influence for good it can be in the home. We want to make friends for our Magazine, and so each visit we make should be a pleasant and happy experience for those we contact and for ourselves. When we meet our subscribers we should be interested in them. Ask if they are receiving their Magazine and how they are enjoying it. Always have something interesting to pass on whenever the opportunity presents itself. We will meet objections from time to time, and so we must prePage 604 pare ourselves as best we can to meet them. One objection: I haven't time to read. If we have a little advance information about the family we are to visit, and know something of their interests, their needs, and, possibly, a little about their Church activities, this might help us in our approach. Perhaps we discovered that poetry was the thing a certain woman was most interested in. Let her see what our Magazine has to offer along these lines. Thumb through the pages and point out just how many poems each issue contains. Offer to leave one of the Magazines with her for a few days, so she can more fully enjoy the reading of the poems. Appeal to her in other ways. Every woman loves to receive a new and interesting recipe. Choose one that you particularly enjoyed and share it with her. If you have tried the Chicken Casserole that is in the September 1955 issue of the Magazine (page 596), tell her what a hit it made with your family and suggest she try it. You might ask if she is keeping the Magazine in a place where it can easily be picked up, maybe on a table close to her favorite chair, where, during the day, when she MEETING OBJECTIONS finds a moment to relax she can have her Magazine handy and read something from it. She might enjoy reading just before she retires. If her Magazine is on the night stand next to her bed, it will be easy for her to pick it up and read a short story that will only take five or ten minutes. If she continues this practice, her Magazine will prove valuable to her, and she will want to read it. In the course of her reading she might find an interesting article that some member of her family would enjoy reading, too. She could leave the Magazine open to this particular page, and, when the opportunity presented itself, without any fuss in trying to find the page or even trying to find the Magazine, there it would be for her to give to the interested members of her family. NOTHER objection: We Have an Excess of Magazines. How can we arouse this person's interest? First of all, be interested in the publications she now has in her home. Compliment her on the fine choice of reading material she has selected. Then let her see your Magazine. People like to see what they are buying. Be enthusiastic about it. Point out some of its fine features. For example: the attractiveness of the cover, the quality of the paper, the clear and readable print, and the limited but high type advertising it contains. All mothers want their families to enjoy the best books and magazines so they can cultivate good reading habits, and so we know she will want to include our Magazine in her collection. 605 I was talking to a young mother last week, and in the course of the conversation she told me that her son had come home from school with the assignment to bring a copy of the Preamble to the Constitution to class next morning. It was too late to get to the library; she had looked through all the current magazines she had, but was unable to find it. Suddenly she remembered attending a Relief Society class and the lesson was on the Constitution. She recalled that they all recited in unison several times the Preamble. She immediately gathered her Magazines together and in just a few minutes she found what she was looking for. She hadn't been too interested in the Magazine before, but this little incident aroused her interest enough so that she began reading the material contained in the Magazine. She was delighted at what she found, and I know that The Relief Society Magazine will have preference above the other magazine from now on in_ her home. Another objection: Why Not Have One Church Magazine? This might be a fine idea, but think how hard it would be to carry this large book to our meetings and, inasmuch as the Relief Society lessons are in the Magazine, it would be necessary to take it. Don't you think our present Magazine is a much better size? It is small enough so that it can be easily tucked into our purses, and wherever we go, we can always have good reading material at our fingertips. How privileged and blessed we are to have a Magazine of our very own, edited and published by inspired women who bring to us the gospel ideals along with the counsel and advice we need in our daily living. Think how difficult it would be for a child to handle such a large book. If he has to thumb through several pages to find the section he is interested in, naturally the pages become soiled and possibly torn; some could even be torn out and lost, and then the magazine would lose some of its value, and, as most women take pride in keeping their Magazine clean, so it can be bound for future reference, it would lose its attractiveness and value. Another drawback would be the expense of compiling and mailing such a book. It could be possible that we would not be able to afford this type of publication. Another thing, three or four members of a family might want to use the magazine at the same time. Father might need it to get a little information for his Priesthood lesson; Johnny might need it because he must give a talk in M. I. A.; Mother would just have to have it to prepare her Relief Society lesson! You can see this could present quite a problem. I can't afford it is another objection we hear from time to time. Have we ever stopped to consider just how little the Magazine actually costs? For twelve and one-half cents a month we can have the finest reading material available delivered directly to our homes. Where else can one find such value for so little? With a little planning, we can save our money very easily. We could obtain a small dime bank and each month place ten or fifteen cents in it, and in this way our money would be ready for our Magazine representative when she calls for our renewal. When the Magazine was first published the price of the publication was $2. This was really a lot of money to those women, but they worked and struggled to earn the price of the subscription. Today, we receive our magazine for $1.50. How wonderfully blessed we are! One sister keeps a little glass jar handy, and every time she finds a penny or a nickel on the floor, into the little jar it goes. In a short time, with little effort, and no extending of her budget, she has the money for our Magazine. We must have a goal and our goal must be high. We must labor diligently to reach it. If we are successful in reaching our goal, let us not stop, but always have the incentive to do just a bit more. We must never be satisfied, but always have the desire to climb higher and higher. Again, let us consider our calling an important one, and as we go from door to door, our first interest should be to make a friend for the Magazine and a friend for Relief Society, and always keep uppermost in our mind, that we buy our Magazine to read. Time travels in divers paces with divers persons. I'll tell you who Time ambles withal, who Time trots withal, who Time gallops withal, and who he stands still withal. Shakespeare—From As You Like It, Act III, lines 326-29. 606 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1956 mey" and attrac 1 Often says, «y U always braid much > Nd you put More than thread Into the Stitches __ you make Sister Brown, Who r Members wel] the Ploneer days o Juab Co nty, has been Widow for Ore than fifty years, unng the busy times of Tearing Seven children SNE served devotedly In Relief Society and acted 4s Counselor to hree Presidents. Sh a'SO served as Relief Society Secretary Many years All her Jif she has love Poetry and has en and giving tg On poet / Poems and sh © gatherings bY "reciting" ears » She is able to Tecall man "T, Poetry is a Mirror of |; fe, enriched ——— Mood Page 607 Ores and dreams and ideals _ lNd always yo hink of home," Refreshments for Entertaining Rhea H. Gardner One-Dish Party Refreshments The beverages served with the first three recipes could be a light fruit punch, however, a glass of water is all that is needed. Date PuppING Bring to boiling point in baking dish: 1 c. Brown sugar and 1 c. Water Mix together in mixing bowl: 2 tbsp. Butter % tsp. Salt 2 tbsp. Sugar % ¢. Milk 1 egg beaten 1 c. Chopped dates 1 c. Sifted flour "2 ¢. Chopped nuts 1 tsp. Baking powder Drop pudding mixture by spoonfuls into boiling syrup. Place in oven heated to 350° F. And bake for 25 minutes. Serve warm with whipped cream topping. Ice-Box CAKE Bring to boiling point: 1% c. Milk Pour over one Ib. Marshmallows cut into small pieces. Stir until they are all melted. Add: 1 c. Crushed pineapple. When cool, fold into the mixture: 1 c. Cream, whipped % c. Maraschino cherries 2 diced bananas % c. Nuts Line an 8" x 8" baking dish with graham cracker or vanilla wafer crumbs. Save % c. Crumbs. Pour fruit mixture into pan. Top with remaining crumbs. Put in refrigerator until ready to serve. Serves 10 to 12. Fruir SALAD Melt 30 marshmallows over hot water with 2 tbsp. Milk. Cool. Fold in: 1 c. Grated cheese % ¢. Salad dressing mixed with 1 c. Crushed pineapple 1 c. Whipped cream % c. Nuts Place in tray in refrigerator overnight. Cut into squares and serve with hot rolls, cinaamon toast, or nut bread. Serves 10. Few party refreshments are more refreshing than a bowl of fruit. You may use all fresh, or fresh and canned or frozen, with or without a scoop of fruit sherbet in the center. A slice of nut bread makes it complete. Party Breads and Cookies OrancE-Nut Breap 1 egg, well beaten % tsp. Lemon rind grated % c. Strained orange juice 2 tbsp. Melted shortening 1 tbsp. Orange rind grated 2 ¢. Flour Page 608 REFRESHMENTS FOR ENTERTAINING 609 "2 tsp. Salt "4 ¢. Sugar % tsp. Soda "2 ¢. Walnuts, chopped Sift dry ingredients together. Add to liquid. Mix until just blended. Bake in 350° F. Oven 1 hour and 15 minutes. DaTE BreAD Cook on low heat for 15 to 20 minutes: 4 c. Dates 3 ¢. Boiling water 3 tbsp. Butter Beat until of smooth consistency. Cool. Mix together 3 eggs well beaten and 2 c. Sugar. Add to date mixture. Sift together and add: 5 ¢c. Sifted flour 2 tsp. Soda " tsp. Salt 1 tsp. Vanilla lc. Walnuts (chopped) Mix just until flour is blended in with the other ingredients. Bake at 325° F. For 1 hour. Makes three loaves. A slice of either of these breads, spread with butter or creamed cheese and served with a fruit salad, makes a delicious party refreshment. Pecan Purrs Cream: Add: Y% c. Butter 1 c. Cake flour, sifted 2 tbsp. Granulated sugar 1 c. Pecan meats, ground 1 tsp. Vanilla Roll dough into small balls and place on well-oiled cookie sheet. Bake in 300° F. Oven 45 minutes. Roll puffs in confectioner's sugar while hot and again when cold. Serve with a beverage or light dessert. PINEAPPLE COOKIES 1 c. Brown sugar 1 c. White sugar 1 c. Butter 1 c. Drained crushed pineapple 2 eggs, well beaten 1 tsp. Vanilla 4 c. Sifted flour "2 tsp. Soda 2 tsp. Baking powder % tsp. Salt 1 c. Walnuts (chopped) Mix and chill in refrigerator, then drop by teaspoons onto oiled cookie sheets. Bake at 350° F. 10 to 12 minutes. Party Eggnogg Ho. Uipay Eccnoc 6 well-beaten eggs 2 qts. Orange juice "% c, sugar % c. Lemon juice % tsp. Each of ginger, 1 qt. Vanilla ice cream cinnamon, and cloves 1 qt. Ginger ale nutmeg To the well-beaten eggs, add sugar and spices. Stir in chilled orange and lemon juices. Cut ice cream in chunks. Put in punch bowl. Pour gingerale over ice cream. Stir in egg mixture and sprinkle with nutmeg. Serves about 20. Heart's Bounty CHAPTER 4 Deone R. Sutherland Synopsis: Annie Griffith, whose father, with his family, has been called on a mission to the mountains to cut stone for the temple, is living with the Williams family in Salt Lake City, where she is studying, with Marie Williams, under the direction of a private tutor. Light-hearted Marie is an_ indifferent scholar, but Annie makes a fine record in all her studies. Both girls are interested in Parker Josephson, a neighbor, who has been for three years in an eastern university studying to be a teacher of the sciences. Marie has assumed that she is the one whom Parker loves, and that they will eventually marry, but at Parker's homecoming party, it is Annie whom he seeks out. HE arrangements for Parker to teach at the University were completed. He made frequent excuses to come over to the Williams home, and he greeted Marie and Annie warmly when he happened to meet them outside. Marie always hurried to see him while Annie darted away. Both girls rode with him to Sunday School when Sister Williams was indisposed, and Brother Williams had another meeting to attend. But Annie was very careful to avoid giving Parker any opportunity to speak to her alone or to see very much of her. Then, suddenly, there was something in the air that the adults knew about and hadn't told the girls. Annie laughed at Marie's curiosity. 'Then Parker came over one evening, less than two months Page 610 after his return from his studies in the East. He talked very quietly to Brother and Sister Williams. "Yes, it is true," he told them. "The Church has called me on a three-year mission to the Hawaiian Islands." Marie and Annie had been sitting very quietly in the window seat, but Marie jumped up. "Oh, no," she cried, "you can't go; you've just come back from being away. It isn't fair." "Now, now, Marie," liams soothed her. "Marie, Parker has been honored and blessed to receive this call. There is no question about whether or not he is going. He is here to tell us simply that he is going." Brother Williams cleared his throat. "Tll miss you all doubly now," Parker said. "It seems I haven't been at home long enough to get acquainted all over again this time. Were you going to say something, Annie?" "We'll miss you, Parker. Marie and I have surely. Annie stumbled and could not go on. "Of course you must go," she finished. Marie tossed back her head. "Of course it's all right for you to say that, Annie," she blurted out. "You're not going to be waiting the next three years for him to come home. Well, if you go, Parker, maybe I won't be waiting either." Sister WilI know " HEART'S BOUNTY Parker blushed to the roots of his hair. "Why, Marie, I wouldn't dream of asking such a thing from such a lovely young girl as you. I'm sure you'll do the right thing. Please don't make any threats. I'm going on a mission, and any personal life I have must be left behind." Marie ran from the room, and Sister Williams followed _ her. Brother Williams shook Parker's hand and told him not to worry. Annie said goodbye and tried to slip by, but Parker begged her to wait a moment. "IT hope you have not misunderstood anything by what Marie has just said; I never...." "T have misunderstood nothing." Annie could not loosen her hand. "Annie, Annie," Parker mutrmured. Then he squared his shoulders. "I have no right to say anything to you at this time." "No, you have not," Annie flared briefly, thinking of Marie upstairs crying her heart out. "You just said you were leaving your personal life behind." "You know I am doing what is right," Parker urged. "Yes," Annie answered oa: "Marie isn't quite as strong. "Where will you be when I come back?" "T don't know — with my_parents," Annie said. "But Marie can write, for most certainly I will come to your wedding." This time she was free and almost to the door before Parker could say, "That's what I really want—you to come to my wedding." ARKER Josephson left on his mission to the Hawaiian Islands. 611 Marie cheered up almost immediately. "It is better not to be really promised to a person in this situation," she told Annie. "If I were, I'd have to miss all the fun this winter." "There're lots of other fish, you mean," Aunt Agnes remarked dourly. Marie laughed, "That's not what I meant, but you wouldn't want me to miss the dances and parties with the other young people, would you?" "Not to be thought of." Aunt Agnes dropped a peeled potato in the salted water. Annie stood by the window watching the snow fall. This was to be her last winter with the Williams. She really shouldn't let herself think about it, for her emotions were now so mixed up. She would be so happy to be with her family again and to see her brothers every day, but now she was sure she would be homesick for the Williams, her second family. The time had passed so much more quickly than she had dreamed it would, when she had run after her father's wagon that early dawn almost four years ago. She and Marie had grown up together. She had never had a sister, and now she had had one she was going to lose her. She looked at Marie with affection. She was like a gay butterfly haphazardly helping Aunt Agnes with the dinner. Annie decided she'd better get busy herself and quit mooning at the snow. After all, her family would be living close enough to Salt Lake City so there would be visits sometime. Annie and Marie both received letters from Parker Josephson, though the mail took such a long time coming the letters were months old before they heard. Annie hid her letter away with another older letter and refused to think about it. Marie read her letter aloud to the family and showed everyone who called. Parker obviously wrote with affection and high regard for her. There was no question but that Marie regarded Parker as belonging to her. Annie felt she had no right to think of Parker, and did not answer this letter as she had not answered that other letter. Nevertheless, there were many nights when Annie watched the shadows on her window, waiting for sleep to come, while Marie lay curled up like a ball, her dimpled fist tucked beneath her sheet, oblivious to everything. Professor Peterson gave Annie a lovely scroll indicating the years' study she had completed, and commenting on her unusual abilities as a student. But the biggest surprise was yet to come. "The Walter Academy has_selected Annie as a teacher for next year. It is a great honor for a girl as young as she." Professor Peterson beamed at Sister Williams. Marie squealed with delight. "Annie, you won't have to go away, after all. You'll stay in Salt Lake City. You can even live with us, if you don't have to live at the Academy!" Sister Williams smiled with relief. "Annie, my dear, we won't be losing you after all. You'll still be able to visit your parents occasionally, but you'll have all the comforts that you have been used to." ANNIE thanked Professor Peterson; her mind was in a turmoil. This was a way, an opportunity for her future, most certainly. But what of her parents? After all these years, surely they would be disappointed if she didn't return to their home with them. Sister Williams saw the hesitation in her eyes. "Annie, dear, of what use could you be to your parents on a farm? You can be so much more use here in a lovely school. Think of the privations your father's farm has to offer a brilliant, lovely girl who is prepared with a fine education to teach in one of the best educational establishments available. There is no question, my dear, but that you must accept this opportunity." "There is no question but that I'm thankful for this opportunity, and that I am indeed tempted to accept it without question, but I must counsel with my parents before I can give any definite decision." Annie forced herself to consider the possibility that she would not be able to accept it. "There, there." Professor Peterson wiped his brow. "I'm sure there is no unreasonable hurry. Of course, if you must wait until you have seen your parents, then you must. I will find out what reasonable length of time I can obtain for you before you decide. It is, after all, only a month or two until your father moves his family down from the mountains." That night Annie buried her face into her pillow. 'There was another reason she yearned to remain in Great Salt Lake City. A reason she must not admit even to herself. 612 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1956 HEART'S BOUNTY She got up and found Parker's letter in her little trunk. It was too dark to read it, but she knew the words off by heart. "Annie, you are the one I am counting on seeing when I return. May all the blessings of heaven go with you." These two lines in a long letter recounting the wonders of his mission and the blessings he was _ receiving day by day had emblazoned themselves on her mind. But what of Marie? Her heart's tumult slowly subsided. She was faced with important decisions that she must make soon. She knelt by her bed until thoroughly chilled but, comforted, she felt enough at peace to sleep. ITH the coming spring, Annie's parents moved from the mountains with their sons to their small farm north of Great Salt Lake City. Brother Griffith took his family straight there, so they might begin repairs and start work. The first necessary trip to Salt Lake came shortly after, when he came to the Williams' house to take Annie home. The long hours of work repairing their home and barn had made her father seem more weary and older than Annie expected. But she greeted him with a surge of joy. How could she wait to see the rest of her family? "We'll start right off tomorrow morning. I expect you don't have much to pack?" "Why, Father, I have a whole trunk of things. Brother and Sister Williams have been most generous." Annie smiled at him. "We've no better friends in the whole world. It must be a sad 613 wrench to your heart to be leaving them. But I've wonderful news to cheer you up. I have been to see the Davis family on my way down. Old Sister Davis is starting a school for the children in Davisville, and I've told them all about you. There's no question but that you can teach there next year, and it will be not such a long ride that you can't stay at home, though if the snow gets too bad in the middle of the winter, you may, on occasion, sleep in the old Davis home where there's plenty of room. But you'll be able to help your mother now, and _ that will be a real comfort to her. Oh, she'll be surprised at the young lady I'm bringing home. She's not been so well this last year. 'This mountain living has taken its toll of her health, no question." Annie buried her face in her father's rough coat. "T''ll be ready in the morning. I'm a fast worker, you'll see." After her father had gone, Marie cried out that Annie was silly not to have, at least, mentioned the other offer to her father. But Sister Williams told her to hold her peace. "Annie knows what she must do," Sister Williams said firmly. "There'll be too much work, I'm afraid, for your family on the farm." Annie straightened her shoulders. "They've been counting on me to help, Sister Williams. I'm glad you see how it is; why I couldn't hesitate to go home." She put her arms around Sister Williams' shoulder. "How will I ever be able to say goodbye?" Aunt Agnes abruptly tried to leave the room, but not before Annie had kissed her also. "It will be almost more than I can bear to leave you, Aunt Agnes, for truly, if you were my real aunt, you couldn't have been a better friend to me." Aunt Agnes buried her face in her apron. "Annie, Annie," came her muffled voice. "We'll miss you, my girl." HE ride home was beautiful, though the wagon floundered in ruts and jerked them unmercifully. Spring hovered in the valley. Willows budded green, and birds sang on and on. The house was much, much smaller than Annie remembered, and the farm truly looked abandoned and in need of much work. Her father was already more than anxious to be home to start on the planting. Long before they reached the house, the boys and her mother had seen them coming and came running to meet them. The soil on their farm was rich and dark, and Annie and her mother soon had vegetables pushing upward in straight, green rows. They worked on the house, more often than not alone, since the boys and their father spent every spare moment in the fields. There was little music except on Sundays for the Griffith family that year. Annie looked at her hands, which had browned and hardened from the hard work. She was often too exhausted to do more than wash her face. "It's a shame, Annie, for you to have to work so hard. You will be too tired to teach in the fall.' Her mother, exhausted, had had to let Annie take over the heavy scrubbing of the clothes. "Nonsense," Annie exclaimed, "I can rest all winter. 'Teaching won't be difficult; it will be fun." To herself, however, she vowed to get out some of her books. She thought she must be forgetting everything she had ever known. The long ride to the Davis home where the school was held, was beautiful in the fall, but it soon became apparent that Annie could not continue using the small wagon, as it was often needed by the Griffith family. She began riding her horse, which, as winter came, floundered through the drifts, but always brought Annie safely to school. The long ride and the care of the rooms where the school was held, began to wear on Annie, and the teaching itself proved much more strenuous than she had imagined. She had sixteen children in almost half as many grades, and all her inventiveness was soon put to use to keep them all working at the same time. Her brothers and some of the children and she chopped the wood for the two stoves in the two rooms that they used, and often Annie stayed after the children had gone home to clean the rooms for the next day. As the days grew shorter, it was more often than not long after dark before she rode up the lane to the Griffith house. Her father worried about Annic because, as he expressed it, "Annie, you were slim before, but you're like a willow-wand now." And Annie worried because she was unable to relieve her mother as much as she had during the summer of the heavy household work. It was in November that Annic received a letter from the Williams family. The letter from Marie she 614 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—-SEPTEMBER 1956 HEART'S BOUNTY read first of all. It was full of blots and dashes, but the import sprang from the page. Marie was to be married to Billy Johnson at Christmas time! Christmas time had been chosen especially so that Annie would be free to come for the reception. For Marie could not be married unless Annie was there. Of course, the whole Gniffith family was invited. Annie was to stay with them, and if there wasn't room for the whole family there, the others could stay at friends' homes who would be happy at the privilege of having them. "Annie," the letter concluded, "you can't possibly know how happy I am!" Annie sat at the kitchen table and re-read the letter. There was no mention of Parker Josephson. "Of course you must go. They are your second family, and Marie has been a true sister to you." Annie's mother pushed more wood into the stove. "Perhaps we all can go, but, if not, at least you and Papa will make the trip. Let's see, December twenty-second. You can even make it home again without any trouble at all in time for Christmas. If you leave the day after the reception, you'll have an extra day in case you are stopped anywhere by heavy snow." Annie nodded her head. It would be wonderful to see the Williams again, but she could not think of Marie as married. Marie seemed so young, but, perhaps, she seemed so because they had always treated her so. Her heart couldn't still its excited pounding. One thing spoke itself again and again to Annie. Marie was not going to marry Parker. 615 Annie and her father made the trip quite comfortably to Salt Lake City in December. This was one of the few winters when the snow was not heavy, and the team made good time all the way. Marie overwhelmed Annie with her bubbling excitement. They had had a dress made for Annie, as she was to stand up with Marie at the reception. Annie protested that she had brought her good dress the Williams had been kind enough to have given her the year before, but Sister Williams insisted with such gentle firmness, that Annie decided it would be bad taste not to yield to her pride at such a time. Once she had seen the dress, there was no question of pride. The dress was yards and yards of pale blue sky with a creamy cloud of tucked lace at the throat. Slight alterations were made to give the bodice a perfect fit. "Annie, you've lost almost an inch at the waist," Aunt Agnes exclaimed disapprovingly, with her mouth full of pins. Annie slept in their old room with Marie the night before the marriage in the Endowment House, and the reception which was to follow in the evening. Marie wanted to talk and talk about her beloved Billy, but Annie had strict orders that Marie was to go to sleep at once and get her rest. "You should see the beautiful crystal the Josephsons have given me," Marie exclaimed. Annie waited. "Sister Josephson said that Parker would want his little sister to have a beautiful gift. Her very words. Parker was always so wonderful to us. We both had such silly crushes on him. Do you remember, Annie, when he...? "Marie, dear, I promised your mother not to talk, but to let you sleep." "That's all right, Annie; anyway, you're not talking, I am. Then I'll go straight off to sleep. What was I saying?" "Something about Parker?" Annie lay staring into the darkness. "Remember how [I always insisted I'd marry Parker when I grew up. It's funny when you really grow up, you find out that you don't decide whom you're going to marry in such a cold-blooded way. I fell in love with Billy. Annie, remember how mean I used to be to him when we were little. He says now I'll have all time and eternity to make it up to him for teasing him so. Oh, I want to be the best possible wife. I know I've been terribly lazy and inefficient as a girl at home, but I'm going to be a real wife to Billy. Do you believe I can be, Annie?" Annie slipped out of her warm covers and took Marie's hands in her own. "I know you can, Marie. I know you can." 'Then she kissed her goodnight, and the two girls fell asleep at last. HE day of Marie's wedding was to remain a blur of excitement for Annie. The house had been polished until it shone and was redolent with delicious odors. The dark, heavily fruited wedding cakes made one's mouth water. But still women continued feverishly to prepare for the reception—last minute flower arrangements, the chairs (many borrowed), the candles, the gowns. 'Through it all Marie clung to Annie. "I want you near me, Annie. You've always given me some of your strength." The trip downtown to the Endowment House at last commenced. There was a difference in Marie as soon as the ceremony was actually over. As Marie back at home rested in her room for the reception, Annie sat by the window quietly. Marie did not need her now. Annie had seen her come out of the Lord's House with her arm in Billy Johnson's. Solemnity of wifehood for all eternity rested upon her. Billy Johnson had grown up considerably since Annie had noticed his early infatuation for Marie, and Marie's constant teasing had nearly broken his heart. His chin was firm now, and his slight build had filled out. How well he looked in his black wedding-day suit! His square shoulders would prove a helpful companion, but not a crutch. Billy took Annie's hand at the reception. "I have no words proper enough to thank you for the friendship you've shown Marie. I hope our home will be as much yours in the future as the Williams' has been in the past." Annie only could cling to both their hands for a moment. At last the waltzing began. 'The drawing room and dining room floors shone like mirrors in the light from the chandeliers. Bully and Marie led the first waltz. Only then did he seem the old Billy to her. He had lost none of his grace on the dance floor. Marie's face was pretty as a flower, and there were bursts of applause as they circled the room. 616 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1956 HEART'S BOUNTY Again the evening blurred for Annie. Someone had put a cup of punch in her hand, and she tried to sip it. She wasn't prepared for such festivities, for such a wonderfilled day, for saying goodbye to the girl Marie. A i HE day after the reception the Griffiths started home. Again they were able to make good time, though this time the back of the wagon was loaded with supplies and packages, many of which were Christmas gifts from the Williams and other friends. 'They unloaded the wagon after the boys were safely 617 in bed, since some of the gifts were Christmas surprises for them. Sister Griffith caught Annie's hand and held her a moment after their family prayer. "Annie, I almost dreaded tonight. I thought you might come back dissatisfied or unhappy with your hard life here, but you have a sweet peace in your face tonight. Your father and I appreciate that, Annie. You are a dear, good daughter." I have peace in my heart also, Annie's thoughts sang to herself as she kissed her mother goodnight. Peace in my heart. (To be continued) <> Shis Ys September Zara Sabin It was springtime on the Devon Downs... We rambled in the rain, scarce knowing And not caring, that the grass Crushed by our feet, was lush and sweet; That buttercups and daisies flecked The meadows where we passed. You took my hand to lift me from the stile; Then, hard arms held me and I turned My glowing face to meet the old And timeless question which was asked And answered as I raised my head. Clear, across the world, We heard the vesper bells tell out the hour... Suddenly the air was cold. A lone lark sang, as it soared away, A sad and lonely roundelay.... Our close-pressed lips clung closer yet And with more than rain our cheeks were wet. Spring's fires linger like a slow-burning ember... Linger and haunt me, though this is September! | Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1950, page 278, and the Handbook of Instructions, page 123. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Fanny S. Kienitz UNIVERSITY STAKE (SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH) CONDUCTS WORK MEETING May 29, 1956 Front row, seated, left to right: Sarah Barrett, Second Counselor; Ethel Goates, First Counselor; Belle S. Spafford, General President of Relief Society; Fanny S. Kienitz, President, University Stake Relief Society. Second row, seated, left to right: Elsie Belliston, literature class leader; Etta Cowles, Magazine representative; Flora Woolf, theology class leader; Eva Heaton, Secretary; Erma Kunzler, social science class leader; Clara Swan, work meeting leader; Annie Jensen, chorister; Beth Warnick, organist. Back row, standing, left to right, ward presidents: Olive Coombs, Elizabeth Zwahlen, Johannah Simmons, Florence Wiseman, Virginia James, Annie Ballantyne, Mae Brunker, Maud Woolley. President Kienitz reports a successful and happy work meeting: "All eight wards Page 618 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 619 were represented. The day began at ten a. M. Invocation was offered by Grace Colton of the University Ward presidency. Each ward planned its own work, which included: quilting, textile painting, crocheting slippers, making flowers, hot pads, animal toys, etc. The stake board displayed articles which could be made by the Relief Societies, if they desired. There was also a display on food preparation. Book binding was under the direction of the stake board. Stake chorister Annie Jensen played her accordion and led the women in community singing while they worked during part of the morning hours, We were pleased to have Blanche Stoddard of the general board of Relicf Society with us in the morning. General President Belle S. Spafford met with us at the lunch hour, and also our Stake President, W. W. Kirton Jr. The stake board served lunch to approximately 225 women.... After lunch the women of the University Ward sang a song they had composed about the shirts they were sewing for welfare. Two numbers, one a novelty song, were presented by the West Twelfth Ward trio, Violet Reese, Lillian Holmberg, and Rosa Phillips. Sister Holmberg then played two violin selections. "President Kienitz presented President Spafford with an orchid and a check for $370 to be used to help furnish the new Relief Society Building. We were honored to have President Spafford tell us some of her experiences in regard to the building." Photograph submitted by Della H. Teeter DENVER STAKE (COLORADO) PRESENTS NARRATION "THE NEW WITNESS FOR CHRIST" AT VISITING TEACHERS CONVENTION May 29, 1956 Front row, seated, left to right: Gladys Rusk, visiting teacher message leader; Mollie E. Richardson, First Counselor; Della H. Teeter, President; J. R. Barnes, narrator; Leona Haslam, Second Counselor, director of the narration; Amy Novokarich, narrator, literature class leader, Aileen Brown, organist; Reta Beck, chorister and director of Singing Mothers. President Teeter reports that the summer visiting teacher messages were introduced at this convention, and the Singing Mothers presented the music and choral readings. 620 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1956 Photograph submitted by Eva H. Jensen MORGAN STAKE (UTAH), MILTON WARD VISITING TEACHERS ACHIEVE A ONE HUNDRED PER CENT RECORD FOR EIGHT YEARS Front row, seated, left to right: Helen Daw; Eunice Lake; Nettie Gordor; May Thurston; Norine Giles, President; Clara Mecham; Reta Mecham, visiting teacher message leader; Alice Mecham; Annie Taylor. Back row, standing, left to right: Verna Nelson; Olga Hannum; Ella Barnum; Catherine Madson; Hazel Spendlove, Second Counselor; Laura Spendlove, First Counselor; Larrine Preece; Helen Nelson; Ada Mecham; Ireta Jenson; Ida Mae Clark; Della Spendlove; Lola Gordor; Ella Jones. Eva H. Jensen is president of Morgan Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Nettie P. Smoot NORTHERN STATES MISSION, NAUVOO (ILLINOIS) RELIEF SOCIETY ORGANIZED Left to right: Melinda Flake, Counselor, Nauvoo District Relief Society; Nellie Gano, Counselor, Nauvoo District Relief Society; Rena B. Custer, President, Nauvoo NOTES FROM THE FIELD 621 District Relief Society; Annie R. Call, Second Counselor, Northern States Mission Relief Society; Nettie P. Smoot, President, Northern States Mission Relief Society; Betty Cahoon, First Counselor, Northern States Mission Relief Society; Reva Wicker, Second Counselor, Nauvoo Branch Relief Society; Mary A. Busard, President, Nauvoo Branch Relief Society. Margie Cox, First Counselor, and Naomi Cox Payne, Secretary of the Nauvoo Branch Relief Society, were not present when the picture was taken. President Nettie P. Smoot reports this historic event: " "The Spirit of God Like a Fire Is Burning' has served as the opening song for two historic Relief Society meetings in Nauvoo. In 1842, this grand hymn was sung as the opening song of a meeting in which the Relief Society was first organized under the direction of the Prophet Joseph Smith. And now, many years later, it has again been used to open a meeting of Relief Society sisters. This event is deeply significant, for it makes the first time in over a hundred years, yes, the first time since that cold winter evening when the Mormon settlers were driven from their Nauvoo homes, that there has been a Relief Society organization in this historic city. "At this time eleven sisters gathered and, with the approval of President Isaac A. Smoot and Nettie P. Smoot of the Northern States Mission, they organized the Nauvoo Branch Relief Society in the old John Taylor home." Photograph submitted by Ethel E. Blomquist SWEDISH MISSION, STOCKHOLM DISTRICT, DISPLAY OF HANDWORK Sister Edith Nilsson, Stockholm District leader, is shown with the district handwork display, which she supervised. Exquisite figurines, a lovely quilt, beautiful embroidery, and other types of fine needlework are represented in the picture. Ethel E. Blomquist is former president of the Swedish Mission Relief Society. The new president is Ruth T. Oscarson. 622 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1956 Photograph submitted by Emma L. Stephens LORIN FARR STAKE (UTAIT), OGDEN SEVENTH WARD RELIEF SOCIETY HONORS FORMER PRESIDENTS AT ANNIVERSARY PARTY Front row, seated, left to right: Ora Macfarlane (1939-1941); Trilbie Nicholas (1936-1939); Annie Slater (February to May 1936); Mamie Stone (1931-1936). Back row, standing, left to right: Maurine Christensen (1954- ); Marva Ralph (1949-1954); Mary Radmall (1946-1949); Hattie Read (1944-1946); Hazel Owen (1941-1944). Insets: Deceased Presidents Rosetta Shaw, left, and Julie Farr, right. All of the living presidents of this ward still reside within the ward boundaries, Emma L. Stephens is president of Lorin Farr Stake Relief Society. BIG HORN STAKE (WYOMING) VISITING TEACHERS CONVENTION, June 5, 1956 Helena D. Belnap, President, Big Horn Stake Relief Society, reports an unusually successful convention which featured several talks on the various phases of the work of the visiting teachers. Music was presented by the Singing Mothers and a special scriptural reading was given by Plet Avery, President, Basin Ward Relief Society. Sister Vada Tirrell, stake visiting teacher supervisor, in her address of appreciation, honored a number of the visiting teachers who had served for many years: Julia Despain (fiftynine years); Malita Jolley, Elizabeth Snell, Salley Griffin, Ann Meeks, and Myra Allphin (fifty years). 'Thirteen sisters were reported as having served between forty and fortyeight years, and forty sisters as having served from thirty to thirty-nine years. Sister Belnap reports: "'As a special recognition to the sisters who had served from forty-five years through fifty-nine years, we presented each one of them with the official Relief Socicty pin; and a white carnation was presented to those who had served from forty to forty-four years. The song "How Lovely Are the Messengers," sung by our Singing Mothers, was dedicated to all of our visiting teachers. "We paid tribute to all our visiting teachers and to all of the Relief Socicty sisters for their love and devotion to this work.... Each of the wards exhibited some of the loveliest handwork that we have ever seen. It was wonderful the way each of the wards responded to our request for such displays, and it was simply grand to be together in this convention.' > — rings Christie Lund Coles Each of us bears his rememberings Of the valley's slope or the mountain's cleft; Each carries the memory in himself Which leaves him sustained or bereft; You may recall the geese returning, I, how they left. I, how the autumn curved above The lake in frail and transient tulle; The way the muted music sang In lowering streams... That once were full; Aware of the misted air above me, Swift now, and cool. I will recall the swallows leaving, How fragrant summer turned to pass Over the meadow, dark and fallow, Over the seared and withered grass, Aware, aware of the soft leaves grieving, Like tinkling glass. She First Plum Kathryn Tanner Its equal anywhere. Was proof enough to me When my two youngsters brought it in, Our efforts in the orchard Their faces all alight— Had turned out successfully. You get the biggest bite!" I said a little prayer I viewed that plum, then thought of when 'That the saplings God has given me NOTES FROM THE FIELD So red, so round and beautiful— We handled it with care, And felt that we had never seen "Look, Mom, a plum; it's off our tree! We'd planted just a stick 623 And watched the tree develop; Now the trunk was firm and thick. The luscious fruit we tasted then And as I munched with my young sons, May grow as straight and fair. LESSE a N DEPARTMENT Sheology—Characters and Teachings of The Book of Mormon Lesson 43—The Nephites and Lamanites Become a United People Elder Leland H. Monson (Text: The Book of Mormon: Fourth Nephi) For Tuesday, December 4, 1956 Objective: To show that peace and happiness come to individuals and nations through living the gospel of Christ in unity. Church of Christ Flourishes N Fourth Nephi, Mormon who abridged the Plates of Nephi as The Book of Mormon, which we know, summarizes in four pages the history of the Nephites and Lamanites from about 35 A. D. To 321 A. D., a period of about two hundred and eighty-six years. Details concerning their religious, social, and political life were eliminated. 'The original history of the period under discussion was written by four prophets: Nephi, son of the disciple Nephi; Amos, son of Nephi; Amos, son of Amos; and Ammaron, brother of Amos. Ammaron "... Being constrained by the Holy Ghost..." (4 Nephi 48) hid all the sacred records "... Up unto the Lord..." (4 Nephi 49). Page 624 All Things Had in Common Nephi, son of Nephi, one of the disciples of Christ, was historian from about 34 A. D. To 111 A. D., a period of about seventy-six years. It was a period of righteousness which resulted in peace and_ happiness among the Nephites and Lamanites, who became a united people. The ability to unite was a result of their having transformed their lives by living the gospel Jesus had taught them. "... Every man," wrote the historian, "did deal justly one with another. And they had all things common among them; _ therefore there were not rich and poor, bond and free, but they were all made free, and partakers of the heavenly gift" (4 Nephi 2-3). It resulted in a period of great growth and development. The peo- LESSON DEPARTMENT ple rebuilt many of the cites that had been destroyed at the time of the crucifixion of Jesus on the eastern hemisphere, including the great city of Zarahemla. They were not able to rebuild all of the cities, however, because some had been covered by water. "... 'The people of Nephi did wax strong, and did multiply exceedingly fast, and became an exceedingly fair and delightsome people" (4 Nephi 10). And they did not walk any more after the performances and ordinances of the law of Moses; but they did walk after the commandments which they had received from their Lord and their God, continuing in fasting and prayer, and in meeting together oft both to pray and to hear the word of the Lord (4 Nephi 12). With a united people serving God by doing that which was just, the disciples of Jesus did many marvelous works; they healed the sick, raised the dead, made the lame to walk, the blind to see, and the deaf to hear, "... And in nothing did they work miracles save it were in the name of Jesus" (4 Nephi 5). Two Hundred Years of Righteousness When a hundred years had passed away, "... The disciples of Jesus, whom he had chosen, had all gone to the paradise of God, save it were the three who should tarry; and there were other disciples ordained in their stead..." (4 Nephi 14). Fourth Nephi, impressed with the blessings God had given his people, wrote: And it came to pass that there was no contention in the land, because of the love of God which did dwell in the hearts of the people. 625 And there were no envyings, nor strifes, nor tumults, nor whoredoms, nor lyings, nor murders, nor any manner of lasciviousness; and surely there could not be a happier people among all the people who had been created by the hand of God. There were no robbers, nor murderers, neither were there Lamanites, nor any manner of -ites; but they were in one, the children of Christ, and heirs to the kingdom of God. And how blessed were they! For the Lord did bless them in all their doings; yea, even they were blessed and prospered until an hundred and ten years had passed away; and the first generation from Christ has passed away, and there was no contention in all the land (4 Nephi 15-18). Amos, son of Nephi, in 111 A. D. Became historian and kept the records in his father's stead. He was historian for eighty-four years. Summarizing what Amos engraved on the plates of Nephi, Mormon wrote:. And there was still peace in the land, save it were a small part of the people who had revolted from the church and taken upon them the name of Lamanites; therefore there began to be Lamanites again in the land (4 Nephi 20). This is all we know about this great people during this period of time, 111 A. D. To 194 A. D. Amos, Son of Amos, Keeps the Record Upon the death of Amos in 194 AD., his son Amos became the keeper of the record "... And he |also| kept it upon the plates of Nephi' (4 Nephiig). During the one hundred and twelve years he served as historian (194 a. P. Through 305 A. D.) "... The people had multiplied, insomuch that they were spread upon all the face of the land, and that they had become exceeding rich, because of their prosperity in Christ" (4 Nephi 23). But wickedness crept in among them in the form of pride, "... Wearing of costly apparel, and all manner of fine pearls, and the fine things of the world" (4 Nephi 24). From this time of wickedness they ceased to have their goods in common and they divided into classes. Some of the people denied the true church of Christ and built up other churches, "... To get gain..." (4 Nephi 26). Members of the iniquitous churches soon "... Did persecute the true church of Christ, because of their humility and their belief in Christ; and they did despise them because of the many miracles which were wrought among them" (4 Nephi 29). They threw the disciples into prisons, into furnaces of fire, and into dens of wild beasts, but the disciples, "... By the power of the word of God, which was in them..." (4 Nephi 30) came forth unharmed. Degeneracy Among Nephites Increasing wickedness among those who did not belong to the true Church of Christ led to a great division among the people in 231 Av. The first group, the Nephites, included the Nephites, Jacobites, Josephites, and Zoramites. Among them were the "... Three disciples of Jesus who should tarty..." (4 Nephi 37). The second group, those who rejected the Church of Christ were called Lamanites, Lemuelites, and Ishmaelites. "... 'They did not dwindle in unbelief, but they did wilfully rebel against the gospel of Christ..." (4 Nephi 38).... And they were taught to hate the children of God, even as the Lamanites were taught to hate the children of Nephi from the beginning (4 Nephi 39). They soon exceeded in number the Nephites and "... Began again to build up the secret oaths and combinations of Gadianton" (4 Nephi 42). And the Nephites "... Began to be proud in their hearts, because of their exceeding riches, and become vain like unto their brethren, the Lamanites" (4 Nephi 43), which brought to the disciples "... Sorrow for the sins of the world" (4 Nephi 44). By 300 ap. "... Both the people of Nephi and the Lamanites had become exceeding wicked one like unto another" (4 Nephi 45). The robbers of Gadianton flourished and "... Spread over all the face of the land; and there were none that were righteous save it were the disciples of Jesus.. / (4 Nephi 46). The people had gold in abundance, and "... Did traffic in all manner of traffic' (4 Nephi 46). Ammaron, Keeper of the Record It was at this time that Amos died and the record was given to his brother Ammaron. Ammaron, fifteen years later, constrained by the Holy Ghost, buried the records in Hill Shim and instructed Mormon concerning the plates. During the two hundred and eighty-six years covering this period, the people experienced peace and prosperity and the Church flourished as long as they were living the commandments of the Lord and dealing justly with one another. Then they fell from the heights of 626 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1956 LESSON DEPARTMENT happiness to the depths of wickedness when pride and other evils developed among them. We know God rules in the affairs of men and nations cannot sin with impunity because when they become ripe in iniquity their sins destroy them. Mormon concludes the Book of Fourth Nephi with the words about the record: And he [Ammaron] did hide them up unto the Lord, that they might come again unto the remnant of the house of 627 Jacob, according to the prophecies and the promises of the Lord. And thus is the end of the record of Ammaron (4 Nephi 49). Questions on the Lesson 1. Why did the united Nephites and Lamanites prosper for two centuries? 2. What kind of economic order existed among the Nephites and Lamanites in the first and second centuries after Christ? 3. What factors contributed to the decline of the Church of Christ? 4. How can this evil that ushered in the decadence of the Nephites also ruin our individual lives? Visiting Seacher ITlessages— Book of Mormon Gems of Truth Lesson 43—"But Charity Is the Pure Love of Christ, and It Endureth Forever; and Whoso Is Found Possessed of It at the Last Day, It Shall Be Well With Him" (Moroni 7:47). Leone O. Jacobs For Tuesday, December 4, 1956 Objective: To stress the great importance of developing charity. UCH has been said and written concerning charity, but Mormon's definition, as recorded by his son, Moroni, is clearly expressed. We are deeply moved by Mormon's earnest appeal that his people seck this divine attribute, and we reahze how diligent we, too, should be in cultivating this quality. If charity is the pure love of Chnist, or even might we say if it is the kind of love that Christ has, then nothing could be more precious than its possession! Surely if we love Christ with a pure love and thus acquire the kind of love he has, all will indeed be well with us. Mormon reminds us that to gain faith and hope one must first be meek and lowly of heart, and in order to be meek and lowly of heart, one must have charity. Paul the apostle tells us that of the three—faith, hope, and charity— charity is the greatest. It seems, then, to be one of the paramount qualifications for a righteous life. Paul's inspiring discourse on the subject of charity always stirs within us an appreciation for this virtue. 'l'o quote in part: Charity suffereth long, and is kind; charity envieth not; charity vaunteth not itself, is not puffed up, Doth not behave itself unseemly, seeketh not her own, is not easily provoked, thinketh no evil; Rejoiceth not in iniquity, but rejoiceth in the truth; Beareth all things, believeth all things, hopeth all things, endureth all things (I Cor. 13:4-7). In order to possess the pure love of Christ, we cannot be calloused to the needs of others, nor unmindful of rendering any loving service. Charity is unselfishness and a willingness to forgive. It is the underlying principle of the Golden Rule. Giving of our substance to those in want is just one phase of charity, and the giving must be performed ungrudgingly to be worthy this word. It is possible for one to comply with the letter of the law, and yet be lacking in charity. The spirit of the law of charity covers all who possess it with a mantle of compassion. Mormon tells us, if we have not charity, we are nothing — our words, our deeds, our offerings — none are acceptable unless clothed with charity. Charity is the dominant theme of the Relief Society, and it is expected that members of this organization abound in feelings and works which are characteristic of this quality. Visiting teachers, particularly, are commissioned to exercise this blessed attribute in their visits. Said Jesus, "Ye shall do the works which ye see me do." These are the grand key words of the Relief Society as declared by the Prophet Joseph Smith.. Wherefore, cleave unto charity, which is the greatest of all... (Moroni 7:46). By so doing it shall be well with us. Work MM leeting— Food Preparation and Service (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 3—Party Refreshments Rhea H. Gardner For Tuesday, December 11, 1956 WHOLESOME party refreshments should do just what the name implies; they should refresh those who partake of them. They need not be elaborate, highly decorative, nor unique in composition. Simple foods, prepared tastefully in attractive ways, and served in an atmosphere that is unhurried and undisturbed, do more to make refreshments refreshing than all the elaborate details. Before planning — refreshments, therefore, it is important to thoughtfully consider: who will attend the party; what time of the day will the refreshments be served; how much time can I afford to give to the prepreparation, and the preparation just prior to serving time; and 628 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1956 LESSON DEPARTMENT healthwise, what will my guests enjoy most? A gracious hostess knows that there is an attractive way to serve everything, and that all foods could be party foods if prepared and served daintily and at the right time and place. In planning her party, she thinks first of the pleasure of her guests. One hostess served the birthday party guests of her five-year-old son, cream tomato soup sprinkled with finely chopped parsley and animal cutouts of cheese-flavored biscuit dough. For dessert, she cut the tops off oranges, scooped out the center, then refilled them with diced fresh fruits. The fruit basket was topped with a small scoop of ice cream and a maraschino cherry. If your guests are teenagers, who never seem able to get quite enough to satisfy their ravenous appetites, plan to serve hearty dishes. Plenty of good tasty food means more to them than the daintiness of it. | As we grow older, our needs for food decrease, and our ability to digest some of them becomes somewhat of a problem. It is at this age that many party-goers almost dread the time to come when refreshments are served. In many cases they are too rich, too hard to digest, and just plain-too-much. The time planned for serving refreshments must also be given consideration. If you plan to serve a complete meal, notify your guests of it and plan the serving time as near the time of regular meals as possible. Note: issue of the Magazine. 629 Choose refreshments that are to be served after ten in the evening, except to teenagers or persons with exceptionally hearty appetites, that are light calorie-wise and easy to digest. Miudafternoon refreshments seldom need to consist of more than one or two items, both of which should be more refreshing than filling. The time needed for last-minute preparation of refreshments is important. Too often, hostesses spend the greater part of the party time in the kitchen or hurrying back and forth. Plan refreshments that will require a minimum of last-minute preparation. Beverages are usually important for party refreshments. Choose a kind that will help to give balance to the rest of the meal. A cup of rich chocolate is almost a meal in itself. A too-sweet or too-sour punch served with a too-sweet dessert is not in good taste. The dominating flavor of any fruit drink should be the natural fruit flavor. Punch made from a blend of fruit juices with little or no sugar added, makes a refreshing drink. In many instances, the only beverage that is needed is clear, cold water. Apply the same rules in planning refreshments for your party as are recommended for regular meals. Don't be afraid to personalize your refreshments by doing something different. Make entertaining a challenging, refreshing experience by serving refreshments that your friends haven't thought of. Whatever your refreshments may be, make them truly refreshing. "Refreshments for Entertaining," by Rhea H. Gardner, page 608, in this ol iterature—Shakespeare in Our Lives Lesson 3—Shakespeare's Poetic Power Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: Shakespeare Major Plays and the Sonnets, by G. B. Harrison, Harcourt, Brace & Company, 1948) For Tuesday, December 18, 1956 Objective: To feel more profoundly the peculiar power and mystery of Shakespeare's poetry that we might read his works with enlarged understandings and hearts. New approach to Shakespeare has been the major contribution of 20th century scholarship. It holds that plot and character are important but secondary: the dramatic intensity of the play itself is best sensed in the dense verbal texture of the words as spoken by Shakespeare's characters. 'The emotion lying deep within the situation is evoked by the words, not by plot or character, which themselves come to the reader through Shakespeare's poetic concentration and imagery. We cannot remind ourselves too often or earnestly, then, that Shakespeare the poet, is the very heart of Shakespeare the dramatist. To understand Shakespeare we must constantly work downward from the surface of his poetry, phrase, image, and symbol. In his words lies the key. The Nature of Poetry Macaulay says, "By poetry we mean the art of employing words in such a manner as to produce an illusion on the imagination, the art of doing by means of words what the painter does by means of color." Page 630 Hallmarks of poetry are brilliance, freshness, power, condensation. It has a high singing all its own which can no more be defined than denied, as in: When the sweet wind did gently kiss the trees And they did make no noise. Merchant of Venice, V. 2.3 These beautifully simple lines catch the tranquil silence as only lovers of nature can hear it. Likewise it is the words which reveal Macbeth's. Fears that Duncan, whom he is to murder, had lived so meek and clear a life as king that:... His virtues Will plead like angels trumpet-tongued against The deep damnation of his taking-off. And pity, like a naked newborn babe, Striding the blast, or Heaven's cherubin horsed Upon the sightless couriers of the air, Shall blow the horrid deed in every eye That tears shall drown the wind. Macbeth, I, 7. 18-25 Again, this passage itself embodies Macbeth's eloquent fear in exalted, LESSON DEPARTMENT A Perry Picture BIRTHROOM, SHAKESPEARE HOUSE, STRATFORD impassioned imagery. Note the similarities between such a passage and one of Shakespeare's best sonnets: Let me not to the marriage of true minds Admit impediments. Love is not love Which alters when it alteration finds, Or bends with the remover to remove. Oh no! It is an ever-fixed mark That looks on tempests and is never shaken. It is the star to every wandering bark, Whose worth's unknown, although his height be taken. Love's not Time's fool, though rosy lips and cheeks Within his bending sickle's compass come; Love alters not with his brief hours and weeks, But bears it out even to the edge of doom. If this be error and upon me proved, I never writ, nor no man ever loved. Sonnet 116 Here Shakespeare blends together into a perfect oneness—concise statement (first sentence); play on 631 Copyright 1903 words (love-love, alters-alteration, remover, remove); simile Love is mark, or star; not a fool); personification (Father Time with his sickle); intellectual wit-turn (last couplet). So skilled is Shakespeare's craft that we are scarcely aware of what blends the whole together; namely, rhythm (it is the star to every wandering bark); and thyme (at the ends of alternating lines: minds-finds, love-remove, mark-bark, shaken-taken, etc). Yet each blender, each part, though definable on the surface, speaks to something deep within us, something which can be expressed in no other way. In Shakespeare's sonnets we find some of the best and purest poetry in our literature. Yet, for those familiar with these poems, careful attention is required when they are Copyright 1924 A Perry Picture WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE reread. For those experiencing them for the first time, they may seem difficult. Here the standard recipe holds: read and reread aloud, then to oneself, relating each difficult line or image to that which precedes and that which follows, until its relation to the whole becomes apparent and the poem as an artistic unit "jells"' into completeness. At the risk of stating the obvious, let us then paraphrase the above sonnet, realizing as well that the entire poem is the only acceptable summary of itself. The theme of the poem is love's constancy despite adversities and the ravages of time. "Marriage of true minds" makes love a spiritualized blending of like forces rather than a physical union. That love is not true which changes when it finds in the lover changes or flaws not at first apparent, or which— instead of resisting one who belittles or removes charm or beauty from the beloved—actually joins with the remover in the very process of taking away. By contrast, true love cannot be shaken by tempests; it is the star which guides every small craft at sea as the mariner sights the star and records its height in appreciation and trust, disregarding the detail of whether it is a star named or unknown. Though Time's sickle harvests rosy lips and soft cheeks, it can never harvest love, which is not Time's lackey or fool, because true love is not changed by Time's passing, but remains unchanged until judgment day. Should any skeptic succeed in proving this view of love false, he must also disprove the obvious fact that I (Shakespeare) have just written this poem, or, more impossible, prove that no man has ever been in love. Equally famous, and _ perhaps somewhat easier to understand on first reading is sonnet 55: Not marble, nor the gilded monuments Of princes, shall outlive this powerful thyme. But you shall shine more bright in these contents Than unswept stone, sluttish time. When wasteful war shall statutes overturn, And broils root out the work of masonry, Nor Mars his sword nor war's quick fire shall burn The living record of your memory. 'Gainst death and all-oblivious enmity Shall you pace forth. Your praise shall still find room Even in the eyes of all posterity That wear this world out to the ending doom So, till the judgment that yourself arise, You live in this, and dwell in lover's eyes. Besmeared with 632 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1956 LESSON DEPARTMENT Herein the theme is the immortality of love, preserved not in the beloved, nor in stone monuments, but hereafter in the sonnet itself as well as in all lovers' eyes. Shakespeare's beloved will be immortalized in bright memory by the sonnet, while gilded monuments or monuments scarred by time's neglect will have passed on. Neither war nor the fires of war shall destroy the loved one who shall prove victorious: over death and indifferent fate, to be praised by all posterity. Note the accumulative power Shakespeare achieves by repeating the letter s in the following lines: But you shall shine more bright in these contents Than unswept stone, besmeared with sluttish time. The image in the last line is irresistible, largely because Shakespeare chose exactly the right words working in harmonious combina-- tion of visual and aural image until it registers forcibly on our inner self as the bulky, awkward paraphrase or a more literal rendering never could! Note also how much force is contributed to the following line by the key word wasteful, which, in turn, blends in alliterative harmony with When and war; likewise in the next line the two strong words are the noun broils and the verb-adverb root out. "Living record of your memory" is a combination far more powerful than any of its key words spoken separately. Thus poetry gives a charm, a delight, and a penetration to intuitive, perceptive depths of the mind such as can come from no other experience in life nor from any other art- 633 form. These preceding examples are poetry, all containing the same material—words—and_ appealing to the same object. They speak of the deep-smouldering fires and unconscious realities within us all which are so rarely acknowledged and fed as only the greatest poetry can feed them. As we have just proved, the texture and resonance of true poetry is undefinable, yet two tools are common throughout: condensation and imagery. Often these are the same. Poetic Imagery Just as Shakespeare is useful on the common level of our normal small-talk, so he becomes indispensable whenever a larger emotion or conflict or characterization is to be communicated. To effect these miracles in words, Shakespeare uses imagery, composed of metaphor and simile, which are two forms of comparison. Metaphor simply says one thing is another: "Our bodies are our gardens" (Othello I. 3. 324). Simile is a figure of speech in which like or as is always present: "His nose was as sharp as a pen" (King Henry V. II. 3.17). Here lie some of poetry's most powerful tools. The poet's most vigorous, creative impulse finds expression in metaphor, which not only gives fresh expression to his inner self, but, by his new association, he endows dead objects with life, animals with human traits. Conversely, on every hand his images reveal truths or likenesses which ordinarily lie dormant beneath the shallow levels on which we live. Metaphor deals in wordmagic, for it goes beyond or below our logic or reason to appeal to other realms and values in us, we know not why or how. As L. C. Knight states in his Wheel of Fire: The Shakespeare world is not the world we see, but it is... The inner world we experience, the world we live and fear.... Excerpts From Plays To illustrate Mr. Knight's point, let us examine various images from the plays, reminding ourselves that, literally, a play is only a certain combination of words which is unique within itself because it obeys its own inner laws; for reasons not to be expressed, a metaphor within a play is "right"; and this "rightness" occurs frequently in Shakespeare. Analyze and communicate, if you will, the following famous image from Troilus and Cressida: Time hath, my lord, a wallet at his back Wherein he puts alms for oblivion. IIT. 3. 145-146 The first thing we learn about experiencing this image is that, in order for it to speak to us, we must give it our complete concentration. Here Shakespeare's words mean so much more than they say: is he telling us that hypocritical Time will accept our bribes which we childishly believe will guarantee our being remembered, while actually only darkness lies ahead? Regardless, we'll agree that such. A marvelous image provokes us to project our thoughts into realms as difficult to acknowledge and solve as our own personal tensions. Food is useful to Shakespeare in defining moral qualities, as when he has a character in As You Like It point out that, though "honesty coupled to beauty is to have honey a sauce to sugar," yet "to cast away honesty upon a foul slut" is "to put good meat into an unclean dish" (IH. 3). Such a comparison sings in Our memories; we see it in our mind's eye. Again his comparison deftly sums up the heart of truth. While we must constantly be aware that we must not be nearly so concerned with what Shakespeare made his poetry out of as what he made it into, it is nonetheless interesting to observe how many characters and fields of knowledge he had to know intimately in order to create the following images. Consider Lear's terrible description of his daughter Goneril: Thou art a boil, A plague sore, an embossed carbuncle, In my corrupted blood. King Lear, II. 4. 226 Juliet, awaiting Romeo, finds her vigil wearing: So tedious is this day As is the night before some festival To an impatient child that hath new robes And may not wear them. Romeo and Juliet III. 2.28 "Love comforteth, like (Venus and While sun-shine after rain," Adonis), Love is: like a child, That longs for everything that he can come by. Two Gentlemen of Verona III. 1.124-125 Foolish love is: like a testy babe, will scratch the nurse, And presently, all humbled, kiss the rod! Ibid., I. 2.58, 59 634 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1956 LESSON DEPARTMENT And how deceived is Othello when he speaks of his beloved Iago as "an honest man" who:... Hates the slime That sticks on filthy deeds. Othello, V. 2. 148 | How tender is young love as spoken by Juliet: how fully her imagery gives expression to her emotion: Give me my Romeo; and when he shall | die, Take him and cut him out in little stars, | And he will make the face of heaven | so fine That all the world will be in love with | night, And pay no worship to the garish sun. Romeo and Juliet II. 2. 21-25 | But for sheer power, and expres- | sion of the surging vitality which is Shakespeare's greatest enduring gift, nothing compares to the violent images of the near-maddened King Lear as he wanders grief-crazed in the open fields during a storm, which but prepares us for Lear's own terrifying outbursts of pain as he defies nature to rival the intensity of his own heart-struck injuries. Listen as Lear speaks: Blow, winds, and crack your cheeks! Rage! Blow! You cataracts and hurricanoes, spout Till you have drenched our steeples, drowned the cocks! You sulphurous and thought-executing fires, Vaunt-couriers to oak-cleaving thunderbolts, Singe my white head! And thou, all-shaking thunder, Smite flat the thick rotundity o' the world! Crack nature's molds, all germens_ spill at once.... Rumble thy bellyful! Spit, fire, Spout, rain! King Lear, III. 2, 1-8, 14 635 Seed Whasic 2, LADIES THREE PART CHORUSES. An Evening Prayer (SSAA) —Helmund..............--.---.18. Holy Lord God—Cain.....18. If Ye Love Me, Keep My Commandments — Mad- 0.20. Lord Is My Light—Allit- — a a a.20. Lord Bless You and Keep You — Lutkin -_...............20. Lord's Prayer—Malotte...25... Prayer For Service—Gaul.20. Teach Me, O Lord—HamNo) (=).20.... Twenty - Third Psalm — Schubert ~2..2..-....2........ 20 Music Sent On Approval Use this advertisement as your. Order blank Peer errr eer rrr err rrr er Trrrrrrrrrrrr Terr er Tet teers!: DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 4 15 E. Lst South; Salt Lake City 11, Utah Please send the music indicated above. DO On Approval O Charge LC] Money Enclosed: Name Address City & State Da Mi., m 7 rm Wee 4: Sal 145 Hoar UNIVERSITY, pROVO ef 2860 WaSMuifOTON BHD. Coben Inexpensive GROUP PROJECTS are our specialty Free CRAFT CLASSES in our store. Free help in your meetings. Free Patterns and Instructions. ALUMINUM TRAY ETCHING BASKETRY COPPER AND BRASS TOOLING FLOWERMAKING "ENAMEL-ON-COPPER", SHELLS, GLO-CANDLE WAX, TEXTILE PAINT, ETC. Send for Price List ZIM'S HOBBIES 240 East 2nd South Salt Lake City, Utah Locally owned and operated, our new, larger quarters enable us to serve you even better. SPECIAL AUTUMN TYPEWRITING CLASSES FOR RELIEF SOCIETY AND GENEALOGY WORKERS Classes to run 6:30-8:00 p. M., Mondays and Thursdays. Includes both beginning and advanced students. Watch for September opening or call EMpire 3-2765 today. LDS BUSINESS COLLEGE Branch of Brigham Young University 70 NORTH MAIN SALT LAKE CITY Were the most vivid images or words to have been underlined, almost a solid black line would have been necessary. But three seem most piercingly to communicate Lear's defiant frustrations: a) "You sulphurous and thought-executing fires.' Who can react to raw, open blaze other than emotionally? B) "Smite flat the thick rotundity 0' the world!" This image gives to Lear's wrath the stature, the vast cosmic power of thunder so potent as to flatten the curved, thick earth; c) "Rumble thy bellyful!" Rumble contains within itself the very sound it defines, while bellyful is not so much vulgar as expressing a rude, healthy awareness of reality which no synonym can begin to approximate; the two words together in their aural and visual images crescendo to the point of fury and contempt which Lear felt. Spit! Spout! In their staccato brevity further drive home the climax-nail with Thor hammer-blows. All in all, this passage contains the essence of ravaging, naked fury—not done with scenery, nor costume, nor brassy sound-effects, but with words. Shakespeare's Songs To end on a calmer note, we should recall that Shakespeare live in the golden age of English music when almost everyone played an instrument, just as all of us now play the radio or TV, and hired musicians played for patrons who were at the barber's: The man that hath no music in himself, Nor is not moved with concord of sweet sounds, Is fit for treasons, stratagems, and spoils. The motions of his spirit are dull as night, 636 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1956 LESSON DEPARTMENT And his affections dark as Erebus: Let no such man be trusted. Merchant of Venice, V. 1. 83-88 Shakespeare's music is best expressed in Romeo and Juliet and, excluding the sonnets which contain some of our most exquisite poetry, in the songs from various plays: "Who is Sylvia?" (from Two Gentlemen of Verona, IV. 2. 39); "Spring" and "Winter" (When Icicles Hang by the Wall) (from Love's Labor's Lost, V. 2. 904); "Under the Greenwood Tree (II. 5); and "Blow, Blow, 'Thou Winter Wind" (from As You Like It.) The Tempest contains almost enough music to justify likening it to a symphony. For evoking a mood of eerie mystery nothing can surpass: Full fathom five thy father lies, Of his bones are coral made, Those are pearls that were his eyes. Nothing of him that doth fade But doth suffer a sea change Into something rich and strange. Sea nymphs hourly ring his knell: (Burden.) Dingdong! Hark! Now I hear them—Dingdong, bell! The Tempest, I. 2. 396-404 Shakespeare loved nature as he loved music. The two are combined in one of his best-loved lyrics, also from The Tempest, which for simple beauty and gentle peace, is unrivaled: Where the bee sucks, there suck I. In a cowslip's bell I lie, There I couch when owls do cry... After summer merrily. Merrily, merrily shall I live now Under the blossom that hangs on the bough. The Tempest, V, 1. 88-94 637 ENVIRONMENT... And College One of the most important factors in selecting a college is the environment offered at the school. The standards, the ideals, the associations can have a profound and lasting effect on the lives of the students. The University of Utah, your state university, offers a wonderful home environment and the opportunity to study with students who have the same principles, standards, ideals and religious beliefs. The University of Utah also offers a wide selection of courses of study and one of the finest faculty groups in America. There are advantages and opportunities at the "U" that cannot be matched at any other school. See what the "U of U" has to offer you. Check these dates: Sept. 20—Registration for all entering Freshmen. Sept. 21-22—Registration of all former students and transfers. Sept. 24—Classwork begins. For full information, write Office of the President UNIVERSITY of UTA SALT LAKE CITY — UTAH HAWAII Plan on going to Hawaii this Fall. We leave Salt Lake City November 8th. Sail from Los Angeles November 9th. Lurline Boat is strictly a pleasure boat. If you wish to fly, you may do so. Early reservations are advisable. Write or phone: Vida Fox Clawson 966 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah Phone: EM 4-2017 It's awaiting @ You... YES there is still a tremendous amount of outstanding instruction and use awaiting you in this and other copies of the Relief Society Magazine. Your editions may be handsomely bound at the West's finest bindery and printing plant for $2.50 cloth bound and $3.50 leather bound per volume plus postage for mail orders. All mail orders must be paid in advance. Follow these postage rates if you send your order by mail: Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles 35 350 to 300 miles —W...... Ee 39 300 to 600 miles.........2.....2---.. Eee 45 600 to 1000 miles...............------------ 54 1000 to 1400 miles... Ic 1400 to 1800 miles....... A. 16 Over 1800 miles.& Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-2581 31 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah Thoughts for Discussion 1, Discuss the values and dangers of reading Shakespeare vs. Reading about him. 2. Why is it that our greatest dramas are written in poctic form? 3. As a key to understanding Shakespeare, which is more important: words, plot, or character? 4. Why do Shakespeare's images and comparisons tell us more about ourselves than we can ever know otherwise? > SOCIAL SCIENCE LATTER-DAY SAINT FAMILY LIFE No lesson is planned for December in this department, due to the holiday season. > Sie Gow, oP Gane Rising Mildred Higgins E are told in the Doctrine and Covenants that we should arise early, that our minds and bodies may be invigorated. I am, by nature, an early riser. To slip quietly out of bed while the rest of the family lies sleeping in the early morning hours, is the privilege of a mother. It is my privilege, and I am eternally grateful for it. I dress hastily and walk through the back door into our yard. The air is so filled with the songs of birds that they seem to be trying to outdo each other in praising their Creator. The green leaves are lightened by the far-reaching rays of the sun which is not yet above the horizon. The air at this hour is so fresh that I can scarcely breath deep enough to do it justice. At their very best are the roses — suspended perfectly in the crosscurrents of rising dew, descending sunlight, and the crisp but gentle breath of the morning itself. They, like the honey- 638 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1956 THE JOY OF EARLY RISING suckle, send their lovely aroma heavenward in praise of their Creator. It seems as if the earth itself is saying; "This is my most perfect hour — drink of it, for it is a tonic which will carry you through the heat of the noonday with a light step and a joyful heart. Now go into the midst of those who love you and minister to their needs, rejoicing and starting this day right!" Looking upward at the clear blue of heaven, my heart holds a prayer of gratitude and petition that I might not mar the remainder of a day that begins so perfectly. That, instead, I may be granted the wisdom to enhance it somewhere along the way. Much has been spoken and written about the place of the woman in a home to make her home a haven of rest for her returning husband and children. It seems to me that something may be said about the joyful responsibility that a woman has in the morning — to help her family face the day with high courage and a splendid faith. Many hundreds of years ago King Lemuel had something to say about this in his praise of a virtuous woman. One of his statements reads like this: "She riseth also while it is yet Hg and giveth meat to her houschold. (Proverbs 31:15). —<- Flower of Light Eva Willes Wangsgaard My father walked at chore time Within a flower of light; A lantern's smoky petals Befriended him at night. And when the chores were finished He held the little bloom Till an oil-lamp's golden tulip Shone softly round the room. No garden I remember Could yield such lovely flowers As these that shed their radiance On childhood's evening hours. 639 ELECTRIC W ATER HEATING —— costs the average family only about a dime a day ® Buy from Your Dealer or Plumber Be Modern... Live Electrically UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. THE WORLD'S FINEST PIANOS Mason & Hamlin The Stradivari of Pianos EVERETT Finest Toned Spinet Piano Built Cable-Nelson Finest Low Priced Piano Built —/_ Obtain your November 4th music— "Teach Me O Lord," price 20c per copy. Please order early! Beesley Music Co. Pioneer Piano People 70 S. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Accounting Agricultural Economics Agronomy Air Science Animal Husbandry Archaeology Art Bacteriology Bible, Modern Scripture Botany Business Management Chemistry Church History Clothing and Textiles Economics Economics, Home Management Educational Administration Educational Instruction Educational Research, Services Educational Values, Programs Engineering Sciences: Acoustical Civil Chemical Electrical Geological Mechanical English Finance and Banking Food and Nutrition Geography Geology PUBLIC SERVICES DEPARTMENT (| ) Admission application ( ) Housing application Brigham Young University, Provo, Utah BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY prepares you for tomorrow's leadership under outstanding faculty, with finest teaching equipment in many departments: Health Education and Safety History Homemaking Education Horticulture, Landscaping Housing and Design Human Development and Family Relations Industrial Arts and Drawing Intercollegiate Athletics and Intramural Athletics Journalism L. D. S. Church Organization and Administration Library Science Marketing Mathematics Modern and Classical Languages Music Nursing Physical Education for Men Physical Education for Women Physics Political Science Psychology Radio and Television Recreation Scouting Secretarial Training Sociology Speech and Dramatic Arts Theology and Religious Philosophy Zoology and Entomology — CLIP AND MAIL FOR FREE INFORMATION — Please send me free of charge the following: ( ) ROTC information ( ) Scholarship information Information about the following departments: Name... Street...... Page 640 1. HOME MEMORIES OF PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY Compiled by Llewelyn R. McKay Rich, personal glimpses into the life of President McKay... His home in Huntsville, his years of experience as a teacher and guide of youth, his love of people and animals, his day-to-day notes on his World Tour with Hugh J. Cannon... All this and more is contained in this warm, human approach that reveals true character of the highest integrity. $3.75 2. WHERE IS WISDOM? President Stephen L Richards The basic philosophy of President Richards and other leaders of the Church is expressed in this fine collection of excerpts from addresses and speeches given to both religious and business groups. Readers will find this book a "treasure chest" of material for lesson-giving, talks, and personal reading. $3.50 3. WHY THE KING JAMES VERSION? President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. In his masterful and beautiful style, President Clark gives the views of the most prominent scholars and authorities on various Biblical translations and offers valid reasoning as to why the L. D. S. Church accepts the King James Version of the Bible over the Revised Version. Contents reveal a lifetime of research... Presented in an interesting, easy-to-read manner. $4.75 4. MAN, HIS ORIGIN AND DESTINY President Joseph Fielding Smith The Theory of Evolution and other scientific and philosophical ideas on man's origin and destiny are discussed in light of religious revelations by the Church's foremost theologian. This book is written to bring greater understanding to those who are confused by the modern, scientific approach, and to show that scriptural truths remain constant, regardless of the approach taken. $4.00 hy The King James Version st South Temple "Galt Lake City pcan sy D DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temp''e Salt Lake City, Utah Gentlemen: Enclosed you will find { ) check ( ) money order ( ) charge to my account for the encircled (numbered) books: 1 2 3 4 City... -...../- wee Zone... State... Eee Residents of Utah include 29% sales tax. | | | | | | Amount enclosed $..0..0...00... Cceccccscceese ssc ceeseeeneeee5 | | | | | LL and I Sugar or €aSier-to-yge C Keb Pea eee eay ee SOS eS OE al a ee i en ae: at aa Pr © =] c © 4 - 2] = un < fe) " w @ a ge eas Li Wk L3 j sy tt _ +. Se ee ae nea naeatin. 2 ~ Slat.. Y 3 fs; VOL. 43 NO! 10 Magic Call Catherine E. Berry How many autumns past my heart has yearned With restless hungering for any trail That wandered off where maple fires burned, Beneath October's amethystine veil. This urge to go, though tempered in the spring, And lulled to sleep when summer walks the land, Besets my heart with constant bickering The moment autumn shows its golden hand. No hill that lifts a torch against the sky But I would climb the bronze trail to its height, No winding lane where windblown leaves now lie But I would follow it in happy flight. There is no cure for wandering, I know, Except to heed its magic call—and go. The Cover: The Eiffel Tower, Paris, France Photograph by Josef Muench The Eiffel Tower, 984 feet high, is one of the most conspicuous monuments on the Paris skyline. Frontispiece Photograph: Jackson Lake, Wyoming Photograph by Hal Rumel Cover Design by Evan Jensen From Near and Sar Congratulations to the authors of "Written at Sunset," by Dorothy J. Roberts; ""Woodland Wonder," by Elsie McKinnon Strachan; and "I Need the Stars," by Grace Barker Wilson — such lovely poems in the August issue of the Magazine. —Thelma Ireland McGill, Nevada I want to express my appreciation for the wonderful Relief Society Magazine. There is so much wisdom and joy to be gained from each issue. 'The things I have learned from the Magazine are proving very valuable in rearing my two babies, twenty-seven months and eleven months old. —Mrs. L. E. Olson Inglewood, California I think the plan of having recipes and pictures from the missions of the Church is a wonderful idea. No doubt we will all learn something to spice up our meals and appetites. —Rachael L. Lee President French Mission Relief Society Paris, France I enjoy The Relief Society Magazine very much. It is always a wonder to me that we can get so much for so little. I am so thankful that, through the Magazine, even though I cannot attend meetings, I can still keep up with the lessons and helps. —Flo Whittemore Soda Springs, Idaho The Relief Society Magazine has been a part of our home life for a long time. It has been of continued genuine worth to generations of our family. —Elder Morris D. Shields St. Albans, Vermont Page 642 Your wonderful Magazine is always appreciated, but as I read ""Home'"' (frontispiece poem) in the August issue, by Catherine Berry, tears filled my heart and spilled out of my eyes. I have been especially homesick this summer for Montana, and the poem expresses so perfectly how I feel, and, after so many years away, "the haunting need of it that calls you back." Thank you for every fine issue, but mostly for this poem. —Brucia Gordon Crane Mink Creek, Idaho I have taken the Magazine for years and enjoy every page very much. I want to thank you especially for the pictures and messages from the wives of the General Authorities of the Church (August 1956). I know everyone was very pleased to see them and to read their sweet messages. It made me feel I could say "Hello" to each of them. 'The majority of the Church members seldom, if ever, get to see these dear women. —Pearl Evans Salt Lake City, Utah I love The Relief Society Magazine. It is filled with so many lovely poems, inspiring teachings, interesting lessons, stories, homemaking ideas, as well as news of sisters in other parts of the world. I first became acquainted with the Magazine when my mother subscribed to it. At Brigham Young University I first enjoyed Relief Society activities. —Sylvia Bigler Caldwell, Idaho I was very pleased when my husband picked up my Relief Society Magazine to read the other night. He has glanced at it occasionally, but this time it was read. My _ ten-year-old daughter and twelve-year-old son found my past issues of several years ago and read them from cover to cover. We all enjoy the Magazine. —Mrs. Mildred Stowe Ogden, Utah THE RELIEF SOCIETY MA GAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford Marianne C. Sharp Velma N. Simonsen Margaret C. Pickering Florence J. Madsen Aleine M. Young Helen W. Anderson Leone G. Layton Josie B. Bay Gladys S. Boyer RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Editor Associate Edito Assistant to the Editor General Manager President First Counselor Second Counselor - Secretary-Treasurer Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Elna P. Haymond Annie M. Ellsworth Mary R. Young Marianne C. Sharp Vesta P. Crawford June Nielsen Belle S. Spafford No. 10 Contents SPECIAL FEATURES Charity Never Faileth The French Mission Kettelands ==. Ae Brave Men and Worthy Patriots Healthy, Happy, Lucky You Our Cabin Had a Porch My Guiding Light So Dear to My Heart... The Lord's Unit Last Summer and Beth C. Johnson Early Present...... Helping Hands... Heart's Bounty—C ha From Near and Far George H. Mortimer 644 650 Preston R. Nibley 654 Celia Luce.. Samuel Chandler.. Nell Murbarger Lucile Tournear aRuth Young Janice Stock Christie L. Coles =Shirley Sargent hittemore. Sutherland Sixty Years Ago Ae) sXe be SEES) ©) 01 =) - Editorial: Study Courses Availeth Much _....00........ Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities Recipes From the French Mission.. Ramona W. Cannon Margaret C. Pickering 660 686 June Nielsen Recipes for Bread and Rolls 0.... N....2cececececeeeceeceeeseceececececcueneeeseneceneceeeeoceseecsenseseeeeeeeeses Harriet McNeil Bradshaw Enjoys a Life of Creativity Through Hobbies Winter Table Arrangements LESSON DEPARTMENT Theology: The Fall of the Nephite Nation As Recorded by Mormon Elizabeth Williamson Leland H. Monson..... Rachael L. Lee Rhea H. Gardner 662 668 669 712 692 Visiting Teacher Messages: 'And Wo Be Unto Him That Will Not Hearken Unto the Words of Jesus, and Also to Them Whom He Hath Chosen" Leone O. Jacobs 697 Work Meeting: Breads none. CececccececececcecesececcsesceseeneseescteccenceatessceceseceseceecensneseceessececesecsensesRhea H. Gardner 698 Harvest Wotrring ancien cece ecccceeccceceseeseesseseseesececesersceseeseescevevanscnsesacavanensnseacseeeeesEva Willes Wangsgaard 648 Autumn Pageant ooiececcccceccceecececeeccccesecceeeececececevececseescessasseerseeuvensensessnguseteseasateeeceesesneeeGrace Barker Wilson 649 Wile! W/o Cel eeDorothy J. Roberts 654 Night Inciert 22... Cceccececeececece cece cuceesecsceceneeeecenecscevoceenenesseusevseseesesesesneapessavaveuseeeseveceeseeseaeeeesLael W. Hill 665 WS ClS rere ocean ac ceccncseeslececeeceranecececueeessnenssercenenenenscarcunecasevepueuesaasbesscusssussesuvesssucucecevesesevereIda Isaacson 675 Prelude to Wimter o.. Ce.. CccecceecccsecccceeccceecesececeessesecseceesesecssesaeeesesseesenenssessesesesesesasaceeesMiranda Snow Walton 680 SUM GWerse een. AsLuella N. Adams 691 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 40 North Main, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Payable in advance. Single copy, 15c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Foreign, $2.00 a year; No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt the Act of March 3, 1879. Lake City, Utah, under Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Blanche B. Stoddard Vol. 43 Literature: The Moral Shakespeare 20.0... Social Science: The Key Is Turned 220... 5 Magic Call—Frontispiece oo... Scscsecescceeeseceeceeececeeeeceveveeceesees To a Pioneer Grandmother 0o....... O. Eccsececceeeeeeeeee I Thank Thee 000. COVES) SES ce ee: Evon W. Peterson Louise W. Madsen Christine H. Robinson Charlotte A. Larsen OCTOBER 1956 Briant S. Jacobs 700 John Farr Larson 706 POETRY Catherine E. Berry 641 Elsie McKinnon Strachan 663 Caroline Eyring Miner 685... Vesta N. Lukei 691 Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; Charity Never Faileth George H. Mortimer President, New York Stake HE apostle Paul would disagree strongly with the oftheard adage that nothing is certain but death and taxes. And rightly so, for he was inspired to instruct the saints in Corinth that "Charity Never Faileth." Charity is a composite of qualities or attributes which everyone who desires to live in accordance with the principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ must earnestly strive to acquire. 'Their acquisition is predicated upon an understanding and proper application of the divine laws governing human relations which must be obeyed in order to obtain this blessing. Conscious, prayerful, and devoted striving toward this goal is one of the most rewarding pursuits in life, for it assures us the most favorable and successful results of all our worthy activities. The approach to all our problems by the path of charity is as Paul states "a more excellent way" than any other. It is particularly appropriate for the sisters in the Church to meditate upon the way of charity, not only because the slogan of their Relief Society is Charity Never Faileth, but more importantly because they, by teaching and by example, exert the predominant influence in shaping the thought and response patterns of young children through their close association with them in the home, the school, and the Church. Page 644 Let us consider the attributes of Charity as Paul lists them. Charity Suffereth Long. 'The quality of long-suffering is that of long patience of offense. 'There are not many people who pass through life without being subjected to offenses of greater or less degree. Some of them may arise in the home — a wayward child, an inconsiderate parent or brother or sister. 'They may arise in school — an undisciplined pupil, an unfair teacher, cheating classmates. 'hey may arise in business — people who take unfair advantage in dealings, an ambitious co-worker who stoops to every device to gain advantage, a tyrannical boss. Instead of meeting the offenses in kind, as most people impulsively tend to do, the more excellent way, the charitable way, is that outlined by the Savior of not resisting the wrong, of turning the other cheek, of giving the cloak to him that sues for the coat, of going the second mile with him who compels you to go the first, of loving your enemies and praying for those who despitefully use and persecute you. 'Thus patience of offense, which leads to peaceful human relations, contrasts strongly with the spirit of avid and aggressive defense of every right and privilege, which leads to contention. "Blessed are the peacemakers: for they shall be called the children of God." CHARITY NEVER FAILETH Charity... Is Kind. Kindness is the quality of gentleness. It goes beyond good will toward others, which is benevolence, and embraces the actual doing of good to others, which is beneficence. It characterizes the compassionate service of the Relief Society. Not only is kindness the quality which endears one to others in this life and motivates giving meat to the hungry, drink to the thirsty, shelter to the stranger, clothing to the naked, and visiting of the sick and imprisoned, but it will be, as the Savior so impressively taught, a factor which determines who is admitted to the kingdom of God and who is cast into the kingdom of the devil. Charity Envieth Not. 'To envy is to feel discontent at another's possessing that which you want. It is not the desire for good things and the righteous striving to acquire them for use in doing good to others that is inconsistent with the charitable approach to life's problems, but rather the coveting of things, position, and power for the gratifying of pride and vain ambition and the resort to unrighteous means to achieve them. 'The Lord created the good things of life to delight those who use them with thanksgiving. Envy makes gratitude impossible, It precludes contentment and joy. Charity Vaunteth Not Itself. To vaunt oneself is to make a vain display, to be hypocritical. Against no sin did the Savior speak more strongly than against hypocrisy. "Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For ye are like unto whited sepulchres, which indeed ap- 645 pear beautiful outward, but are within full of dead men's bones and of all uncleanness. Even so ye also outwardly appear righteous unto men, but within ye are full of hypocrisy and iniquity." He wants us to appear as we really are, to be genuine and sincere. Charity... Is Not Puffed Up. This is to be conceited, to have an exaggerated opinion of oneself. It is the antithesis of meekness and humility. The parable of the Pharisee and the publican who went into the temple to pray contrasts the vanity of a boastful prayer with the justification won by a sincere and humble prayer. It is to the meek, not to the braggarts, the Lord promised the inheritance of the earth. Charity... Doth Not Behave Itself Unscemly. A charitable person exhibits the quality of decorum, doing and saying the right thing at the right time and place. It is the foundation not only of good manners, but also of reverence in sacred places. It is a manifestation of consideration of the feelings of others which lies at the basis of good human relations. Charity.. Seeketh Not Her Own. This is the quality of unselfishness, of losing oneself in the service of others. 'The rewards of this attribute are: "He that findeth his life shall lose it: and he that loseth his life for my sake shall find it.. Whosoever will save his life shall lose it: and whosoever will lose his life for my sake shall find it.... Whosoever will be great among you, let him be your minister; and whosoever will be chief among you, let him be your servant." 646 Charity... Is Not Easily Provoked. One who is provoked displays annoyance and vexation. It is a characteristic of a child quickly to display annoyance and vexation at physical pain, when his feelings are hurt, or when he does not get his way. He has a difficult time projecting himself into the position of another person as a basis for understanding the behavior that gives offense. In strong contrast to the immature response of a child, is the example of the Savior between the time of the great intercessory prayer in Gethsemane and his death on the cross. Not only did he curb any expression of annoyance at the unjust abuse which was heaped upon him, he rebuked Peter for using a sword and prayed forgiveness for his executioners. 'The degree to which we are able to respond to provoking situations in this Christlike manner is a measure of our maturity of thought and action. Paul expresses the maturing process of his own life by saying, "When I was a child, I spake as a child, I understood as a child, I thought as a child: but when I became a man, I put away childish things." It is not the times when we curbed the impulse to do or speak spitefully that we remember with regret, but the times when we hastily said or did an unkind thing. Charity... Thinketh No Evil. Those who think no evil are the pure in heart. "Blessed are the pure in heart: for they shall see God." Solomon recognized the power of thought on character when he said, "as he thinketh in his heart, so is he." 'The importance which the Savior placed on thought is RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1956 seen in these teachings, "for out of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaketh. A good man out of the good treasure of the heart bringeth forth good things: and an evil man out of the evil treasure bringeth forth evil things... For out of the heart proceed evil thoughts, murders, adulteries, fornications, thefts, false witness, blasphemies: These are the things which defile a man...." By thinking no evil, and using our minds for good thoughts, the dreadful consequences of evil thinking can be avoided. Charity... Rejoiceth Not in Iniquity. 'The vice of rejoicing in iniquity may manifest itself in two ways. One is in finding pleasure in doing sinful acts; the other in having "pleasure in them that do them." There should be little misunderstanding on the part of members of the Church about the importance of finding joy and satisfaction in personal righteousness rather than iniquity. But there are many people who successfully resist the temptation to commit certain sins who seem to find pleasure or satisfaction in those who commit them. It is this trait which underlies gossip, for the gossiper rejoices not only in hearing the account of another's sin but also finds pleasure in spreading the story. The quality of charity demands that there be no rejoicing in iniquity on our own part or on the part of anyone else. Charity... Rejoiceth in the Truth. 'The gospel of Jesus Christ is the truth. The attitude you take toward the commandments and revealed will of the Lord which are CHARITY NEVER FAILETH an integral part of the gospel will determine, quite largely, your response to temptation. If you resent such commandments as thou shalt not steal, bear false witness, covet, or commit immoral acts, or if you view the negative aspects of the Word of Wisdom as encroachments on your personal liberty, you are much more likely to succumb when tempted than if you are sincerely grateful for these principles and regard them as an armor. "Blessed is the man... (whose) delight is in the law of the Lord; and in his law doth he meditate day and night." Charity... Beareth All Things. To bear is to support, sustain, carry. Every man or woman who has had the privilege of working in a position of authority in the Church which involves calling others to serve, knows the importance of the quality some members possess of bearing all things. 'These are they who accept calis willingly, who are anxiously engaged in learning their duty and in doing much good, and who do not limit their activity when they have done their fair share. 'They carry on their appointed tasks to the end and lend enthusiastic support in word and deed to the programs sponsored by the local and General Authorities. This quality is of particular importance to the married women of the Church who are instructed of the Lord to "provoke" or motivate their husbands to good works. The wife who gladly accepts a standard of living which makes the payment of tithes and offerings possible, properly supports her husband in obeying these commandments. She can 647 make it easy for him to perform the ministerial duties that take him from the home, such as ward teaching, administering to the sick, missionary work, council meetings, if she adapts her schedule to his and lets him know by word and deed that she willingly sacrifices his companionship on these occasions. On the other hand, so great is her restraining influence on her husband's success in business and Church affairs, if she puts a barrier in his way, that he rarely passes through it. While the wife of an active Latter-day Saint man necessarily foregoes much in companionship with him, it is a sacrifice that calls forth the blessings of heaven. No other woman can have quite the peace of mind when her husband is away from home that a woman can have when she knows that her husband is engaged in the Lord's work. Charity... Believeth All Things. This is the attribute of faith—in God, in fellow men, in oneself. It characterizes those who declare with Nephi, "I know that the Lord giveth no commandments unto the children of men, save he shall prepare a way for them that they may accomplish the thing which he commandeth them." 'Those who possess this attribute meet and deal with others without suspicion and are quick to forgive those who repent of breaches of the confidence that had been placed in them. Charity... Hopeth All Things. To hope is to desire something with the expectation of getting it, with faith that it can be obtained. Hope is the quality that enables people 648 to surmount discouragement, to maintain zeal and enthusiasm in the face of reverses and failures, to make the best use of things at hand, to resist resentment against conditions which cannot be changed. It sustains the mother through the months of discomfort during pregnancy, through the agony of delivery, through hours of anxiety when illness strikes, through bereavement when loved ones go. It is the way to serenity rather than despair. Charity... Endureth All Things. To endure is to bear great and lasting hardships and evils. 'This quality makes it feasible to be in the world but not of the world and to withstand being persecuted for righteousness' sake without resentment. By cultivation of this quality you can rejoice when men revile you and persecute you and say all manner of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1956 evil against you falsely for Christ's sake. It makes you immune to the scorn and ridicule of the unrighteous. And the promised reward is that "he that endureth to the end shall be saved." These, then, are the qualities that constitute charity which never fails in any situation. While Bible scholars do not agree as to the correct rendition of Paul's thought Charity Never Faileth, we can certainly agree that these attributes are based on eternal principles and therefore never end. They are, moreover, divine attributes which all those who hope to gain the celestial kingdom will have to acquire in this life. In acquiring these qualities by application of the relevant eternal principles, we may have complete confidence that we are meeting each situation in the best way, the way of charity, and Charity Never Faileth. Harmest Warn ing Eva Willes Wangsgaard Unwanted grapes should never be Left drying on the vine, For starlmgs swoop on them with glee All shrilling, "These are mine." Though starlings soften brittleness When wecks are long and white, Henceforth your garden they possess And hold by squatters' right. Who ties his heart from winter's sting With a noisy starling tether Yields nghts to azure song and wing And golden note and feather, Willard Luce THE SOLITUDES OF MONUMENT VALLEY Utah-Arizona Border A ete: Pageant Grace Barker Wilson The hills again are dressed for autumn's show Of pageantry. Time was I used to know Almost the hour the curtain would arise Upon the first act. Now my mind and eyes Try reconstructing that familiar scene. Last night, the friendly summer hills were green. Dawn came; the first touch of the sun was gold That stayed and deepened as the day grew old. The sunset added brilliant paints of red, And left bright oaks and maples there instead. So well had nature planned, an hour, a day, And autumn's pageantry was underway. Page 649 She French Mission Preston R. Nibley Ta conference of the British Mission, held at Manchester, England, on August 14, 1848, and presided over by Elder Orson Pratt of the Council of the Twelve, it was resolved "that Elder William Howell, of Aberdare, South Wales, late a Baptist minister, go across the British Channel to Bretagne, France, and offer the gospel to the people of that country" (M. S. Vol. 10, p. 254). Elder Howell thus became the first missionary to fill an assignment in France. However, he was delayed in reaching his field of labor, and it was early in July 1849 when he arrived at the port of Le Havre. There, on July 30th, a few weeks after his arrival, he baptized his first convert, a young man thirty years of age, named August Saint d'Anna. At the October conference of the Church held in Salt Lake City, in 1849, Elder John Taylor of the Council of the 'Twelve, was appointed to preside over a new mission to be known as the French Mission. Elders Curtis E. Bolton and John Pack were called to accompany him. These brethren arrived at Boulogne-sur-Mer on June 18, 1850, and began their missionary labors. The Book of Mormon was translated into the French a Josef Muench ST. BENEZET BRIDGE, RHONE RIVER, FRANCE This famous bridge arches only part way across the Rhone River. It owes its fame to a French folk dance song. It was built in 1177-1185 and has been in ruins since 1669. A chapel stands part way out on the bridge. Page 650 THE FRENCH MISSION 651 co Mlle. Lausier de Mannoury Direction Generale du Tourisme Paris, France Submitted by Rachael L. Lee THE CHATEAU OF CHAUMONT ON THE LOIRE RIVER, FRANCE language in 1851 and published in 1852. In 1851 Elder Taylor established a publication in Paris named L'Etoile du Deseret. Branches of the Church were organized in Paris, Boulogne-sur-Mer, and Le Havre. At a conference held July 24, 1853, at St. Heliers, Isle of Jersey, nine branches of the French Mission were represented with a combined membership of 337. The French Mission did not prosper as much as had been hoped, due to severe restrictions and other factors, and in 1864, it was made a district of the British Mission. This condition continued until 1912, when the French Mission, consisting of parts of Belgium, Switzerland, and all of France, was reorganized, with Elder Edgar B. Brossard as president. The work of proselyting has been actively continued since that time. There are today thirty-three branches of the French Mission with approximately 1,300 members. Elder Harold W. Lee is the president, with headquarters in Paris, where the Church has purchased a beautiful mission home. Twenty-seven Relief Society organizations were reported in December 1956, with 231 members. Rachael L. Lee presides over the French Mission Relief Society. Note: The cover for this Magazine is a view of the Eiffel Tower, Paris, France, See also "Recipes From the French Mission," page 662. Last Summer Christie L. Coles and Beth C. Johnson HE day was parched and dust filtered. Leaves and foliage at the side of the gravel road were covered with a thick, gray film. The air was still as a waiting breath. Mina sat on the dirt-packed bridge and dangled her feet in the plastic-clear stream, wriggling her toes in its coolness. The sunlight stenciled arabesques upon her brown arms. "Are you really going away, Virginia?" Mina asked her friend who lay flat on her stomach by the stream, cupping water into her hand and catching "skaters" to place on the sand, then watching them hurty back to the water and their endless sliding. Virginia rolled over on her back, the light struck her fair face, and her voice seemed to lie on the dry air, husky and low, as she said, "Seems as though I've been watching these bugs all my life." "We have," Mina murmured softly, "every summer." 'Things didn't seem to change. There were always the celebrations in July, the same hot days, the same coming up here, wading, talking.... As she spoke, Mina had a strange feeling that she was quite invisible, seeing all this with ommniscience. She saw her friend's soft, petulant mouth, and purple-blue eyes; the long, blond braid that lay like a shining rope between her shoulders. An ache went through her for the skinny-legged little girl who used to Page 652 come here with her and later the bigger girl, when the talk had changed from paper dolls, to school, to boys. As though sensing her friend's thoughts, Virginia jumped up quickly and said in a strained voice, "Let's go pick some apples." Mina jumped to her feet, "Let's," she cried. The two of them made a vivid contrast as they ducked through the nearby fence: Mina, small and dark, with dimples that came and went in her tanned cheeks; Virginia, tall and blonde. They came back to the stream with their pockets filled with the red fruit, washed the apples in the stream and rubbed them dry. This is just as it has always been, thought Mina, every motion, the first bite into the crisp apple.... But it wasn't as crisp as it had seemed once, nor as juicy. Virginia must have noticed, too, for she said, "These apples don't taste the same. Do you think the trees are getting old? Maybe they haven't been pruned as they should have been." "What do you know about pruning apple trees?" Mina asked her, leaning against a poplar tree trunk where she could watch the stream, and see her friend. "Me? Why, I'm _ the world's greatest authority, don't you know?" she laughed, and Mina joined in the laughter, until they were laugh- LAST SUMMER ing uncontrollably, as they had often laughed over nothing whatever, until they were rolling over on their stomachs, gasping for breath. For a moment, each of them lay still. Mina saw the brightness in Virginia's eyes as they gazed briefly up the sandy shore at the clear water, the bushes, the deep foliage. She wondered if it could be only laugh-tears as they called them, or if this girl who had suddenly become almost a stranger, knew an ache similar to the one within herself. Why didn't Virginia answer her question? Why didn't she tell her? Papa had heard uptown that her folks were going to move, but Mina had been sure it was a mistake, assuring him, "But Virgie would have told me." INALLY, knowing Mina's thoughts, Virginia raised herself to her elbows, and cupped her chin in her hands. She said, softly, "Dad says we're going.... I couldn't tell you because I didn't believe it.. I still don't. I thought if I said it wasn't so, it wouldn't be." "You can stay with us," Mina suggested, brightly, "at least until they're settled. Oh, please do, Virgie. 'They won't mind." "Maybe I will, at least till school starts," her friend said slowly, "maybe I will. Starved." They washed their hands, dried them on the edge of the dish towel which covered the square, wicker basket; reached for the sandwiches and the hard-boiled eggs; the two bottles of root beer, and began to eat. Let's eat our lunch. I'm 653 "Member the first picnic we ever took," Virginia asked, "when we asked the folks if we could come down here, and they said, 'no,' and we got a lunch anyway, and took it to the Court House lawn?" "Yes, I remember. We weren't more than five, were we? And when they missed us, they had everybody out hunting, and almost dragged the river." The story was usually good for a really big laugh, but they only smiled now and went ahead with their eating. When they had finished, Mina said, ""Let's get some sun." "You're as brown as a nut now," Virginia told her. "I know. And you're just golden. Want some oil?" Mina asked. "In a minute." When they were lying flat, facing the sky, the worn blanket beneath them, neither spoke. It was as though they were already separated, or as though neither dared to speak. They rolled over, closed their eyes sleepily. After awhile Virginia said, "I guess we'd better go. I've got to help Mom pack." Mina picked up the cups, aware _ of the perspiration on her forehead and the dull thudding of her heart. "You will ask them to let you stay?" Virginia nodded, there was a frown between her eyes. And each knew it would not be so. Virginia leaned against a tree and looked into the distance at the little town where she had spent all sixteen of her summers. Her voice was soft 654 and sad as she murmured, "I'll miss all this. I'll miss you most, Mina eel ale. @ Mina didn't need to wonder about the tears now. She knew they were as teal as when Virgie's dog had died, or when her finest doll had been broken. 'Tears filled her own eyes. Her inclination was to throw herself back to the familiar sand, to weep, to hang onto the past, the fun, the goodness that seemed passing in this very instant. She sobbed, "Nothing will ever be the same again. Oh, Virgie." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1956 For a brief second they clung to each other, then dropped their hands as though aware they were too big for this sort of thing. Virginia bent and picked up the picnic basket. Mina kicked a pebble, and they started toward the toad, the sand rising about their feet. When they had gone a short distance, a car of boys they knew from school passed. The boys waved, and the girls waved in return. Their steps quickened ever so slightly. <> Metal World Dorothy J. Roberts Lost in a metal world, the tardy bee, Thirsting, is refused the nectar's drop. Copper, are the clusters on the lilac tree, And bronze, the billowed weeds' unscented crop. The final gold of flowers is pollenless In the Midas-touch of autumn's chilling spear. Through brittle stems and blossoms, bleached to brass, Platinum frost unweaves the petaled year. Wrought iron, are the elms, their lean boughs, black; No honeyed leaf sways in the cold, lead air. Rain is silver threaded through a place of lack; In pewter dusk, only street lights bloom and stare. Left Hands Celia Luce IN right-handed persons, the left hand is a pampered hand. It wears beautiful rings, and it is not expected to do a great share of the work. It mostly just holds things and assists. The night hand gets the callouses. It gets the hard part of every job. But it is also the efficient hand, the useful one we treasure. It does the important work and is the leader. Are too many of us training our children to be like the left hand? Do we do all the work for them, give them beautiful clothes to wear, and make all their decisions for them? If so, they may grow up to be pampered individuals, and then we may wonder why they never become leaders, why they remain selfish, unhappy persons who are making a failure of life. Brave Men and Worthy Patriots (A Narrative Account of Utah's Contribution to the American Civil War) Samuel Chandler Science Librarian, Bigham Young University narrow line of troopers A wound its way out of the West, leaving a thousand miles of telegraph wires and a stream of immigrants to the mercy of a savage wilderness. Soon a hundred grim messages were dumped upon the already loaded desk of the President of the United States. As the President read them, the furrows in his dark brow deepened. "Listen to this, Thomas," he called to his adjutant, " 'March 20, 1862: Indians have destroyed the telegraph station at Pacific Springs!' Here's another, dated April first: 'Renegades have burned the mail stations at Split Rock on the Sweet Water!' And, here's another: April third: "Yesterday a tribe of Blackfeet under Pocatello massacred an immigrant train south of Fort Hall!' " "Why that's terrible, Mr. President," the adjutant said. The President's mouth settled into a hard, firm line. "This situation must be controlled immediately!" "But, Mr. Lincoln," the adjutant sighed, "we can't send men to the West. Already the Southerners outnumber our forces from Kansas to the Potomac." "True," the President replied. "Nevertheless, serious consequences will result, if we lose communication with California and the territories out there." "T wish the Westerners would protect themselves, Sir." "That's it, Thomas," cried the President. "Send a telegram to Colonel Connor in San Francisco ordering him to recruit and train a battalion of men from California and Nevada. Send another to Brigham Young in Salt Lake City requesting him to muster a company of Utah volunteers into the United States Army. Tell him to arm and equip them immediately and send them to protect the area along the North Platte." "Did you say Brigham Young, Sir? Do you really think the Mormons would send men to help the United States Government?" "Yes, yes, I'm sure they will. Brigham Young himself assured me that Utah will remain loyal to the Union. Now hurry!" "Yes, Sir." Upon receipt of the adjutant's telegram, Brigham Young called three officers of the Utah Militia to his office: General Daniel H. Wells, Colonel Robert Burton, and Captain Lot Smith. "Because it is our duty as Americans to obey when our country calls," he said, "I think General Wells should recruit two companies at once, one for Captain Smith to lead to the North Platte immediately, and the other for Colonel Burton to train so that it may protect the area near our territory." Three days later, one hundred six men under the command of Captain Smith marched towards their headquarters at a way station on the Platte River in Wyoming. When they reached the mouth of Utah's Emigration Canyon, they Page 655 656 stopped briefly to hear Brigham Young speak. I desire of the officers and privates of this company, that in this service they will conduct themselves as gentlemen, remembering their allegiance and loyalty to our government, and also not forgetting that they are members of the organization to which they belong, never indulging in intoxicants of any kind, and never associating with bad men or lewd women, always seeking to make peace with the Indians. Aim never to take the life of an Indian or white man, unless compelled to do so in the discharge of duty, or in defense of your own lives, or that of your comrades. Whenever and wherever you can hold councils with their sachems, or peace chiefs, do not fail to embrace the opportunity, and thus win their friendship and prevent the shedding of blood if possible. Another thing I would have you remember is that, although you are United States soldiers you are still members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and while you have sworn allegiance to the constitution and government of our country, and we have vowed to preserve the Union, the best way to accomplish this high purpose is to shun all evil associations, and remember your prayers, and try to establish peace with the Indians, and always give ready obedience to the orders of your commanding officers. If you will do this, I promise you, as a servant of the Lord, that not one of you shall fall by the hand of an enemy (Margaret M. Fisher, Utah and the Civil War, Salt Lake City, the J. O. Knowlton Post of the G. A. R.. 1920, pp. 25-26). During the next three and a half months this little band performed deeds unsurpassed in American military history. With little thought of personal safety or hope for national acclaim, they tamed Indian tribes that had previously destroyed trained troops of the United States Army. They distributed the United States mail over a vast area. 'They RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1956 rode with immigrants over terrain infested by treacherous _ thieves. They built bridges, erected wayside stations, and constructed roads along the Oregon and California trails. Of them Brigadier General James Craig said, "The Utah cavalry are the most efficient troops I have in the service, and I propose their service be extended an additional ninety days (Ibid., p. 36). NE of their most interesting experiences started when Captain Smith detailed Lieutenant John Quincy Knowlton and nine others to apprehend five dangerous escapees from Fort Leavenworth, Kansas. The trail left by the criminals led Lieutenant Knowlton and his men to the foot of a grassy knoll near Bear Lake. While resting in this spot, they heard a_blood-curdling scream that sent them to cover where they remained while a band of painted Indians rode past them and out of sight. 'Then the troops moved to the other side of the knoll and found there the massacred bodies of the men they sought. "I guess our work is done," the lieutenant said, "might as well go back to headquarters." Even as he spoke the Indians reappeared, and they proved to be in a nasty mood. Luckily, however, the lieutenant noticed that one of the Indians carried a freshly killed elk behind his saddle. 'Through a soldier who spoke the Bannock language, he said. "You furnish meat, and we'll furnish bread for a feast of peace." 'The Indians looked at the bread and agreed. Notwithstanding the feast, the peace was short lived. As the soldiers BRAVE MEN AND WORTHY PATRIOTS were about to leave the Indians, a sergeant recognized an excellent horse belonging to a citizen of Salt Lake City. "That's Brother Richard's mare," he said to his comrades, and then, without considering the consequences, he roped the animal around the neck. Quickly, while one of their number tackled the sergeant, the Indians moved into a circle around the soldiers. "Get up," the leutenant said to the sergeant. "Now listen all of you, we're in a mess. 'There's no time to mount, so leave your horses and follow me and don't be afraid. If you've lived as President Young directed, you'll be protected." Then, throwing his head high, he walked toward the thick underbrush near the position taken by four or five braves. As the others followed him, they heard the twang of bowstrings and the click of gunlocks. Upon each man's lips was a silent prayer, and in his heart Brigham Young's words rang loudly: "I promise you, as a servant of the Lord, that not one of you shall fall by the hand of an enemy." With this assurance to buoy them, these men walked past the Indians and into the thicket. Hours later when they had reached the camp of Washakee, the peace-loving Chief of the Shoshonies, they knelt and thanked God for his protection. Washakee, upon hearing of their misadventure, sent some of his own braves to recover the horses and to punish the Indian who had stolen Brother Richards' mare. Days later, when Lieutenant Knowlton and his men arrived back in camp, they learned that Captain Smith had led another party into Idaho to recover some property that 657 the Indians had stolen from the Government. For days this group lived upon dry bread and the roots and berries they found. As they attempted to cross a mountain stream, a horse fell into a deep pool, and its rider was drowned before his comrades could reach him. His was the only death sustained by the entire company. While the Smith group was still in Wyoming, the company commanded by Colonel Burton was mustered into the service of the United States by the Governor of Utah Territory. While on duty, this company escorted several notable Westerners across the plains. Because of the spring thaw, their task was extremely arduous. At one point the snow and slush were so thick that they had to accompany a Congressman through an area tuled by a band of lawless renegades, some red, some white. In this area they found over a dozen deserted and pillaged way stations, from which they gathered many sacks of mail and sent them to Salt Lake City for distribution. After turning over their command to Colonel Connor and his soldiers, these brave and peaceful men teturned to their homes, taking with them the thanks of the United States Government. Of them some latter-day chronicler might have written as Helaman wrote of that similar group of Americans whose story is related in the Book of Mormon. 'Never had I seen so great courage.... Now they never had fought, yet they did not fear death; and they did think more upon the liberty of their fathers than they did upon their lives... (Alma 56:45, 47). Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, October 1, and October 15, 1896 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE Women or ALL NATIONS" RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL CONFERENCE: The General Conference of the Relief Society was held in the Assembly Hall in Salt Lake City, Oct. 3, 1896... Mrs. Zina D. H. Young presiding.... President Adeline H. Barber of the Cache Stake Relief Society spoke against murmuring, referred to the recent high wind, said it occurred immediately after a woman's meeting in which the sisters had complained so much of hard times... Lorinda E. Thompson of the board of Millard Relief Society gave an excellent account... And alluded to the distressing sickness (Diphtheria) that had prevailed at Scipio, out of one hundred cases, however, only eight had died... Which seemed remarkable. President Emma J. Bennett, Bingham Stake... Spoke highly of the country, they had rich ranches and lovely fields of grain... Sisters would come eight or ten miles to attend Conference, and bring babies with them. President Ann C. Woodbury of St. George Stake spoke of the great losses sustained in that locality by floods, but did not feel discouraged... Spoke earnestly of the silk industry.... —E. B. Wells, Secretary WEDDING BELLS So solemn bells ring out the sound! The love of God doth here abound; Like burnished gold gleams all around. Slow from the altar rise the pair, Who have pledged before their God Each joy and ill of life to share. —Lydia D. Alder JEAN INGELOW: Jean Ingelow, the charming English poetess and novelist, is seriously ill and has been very feeble for some time. She lives in a quaint little cottage in Kensington with her bachelor brother, surrounded by her birds and flowers. Her conservatory is twice the size of her dwelling, and one of her favorite pastimes has been to liberate her feathered friends among the flowers while she writes at her desk.... In addition to her books of poems, she has written four novels and various works for children. Her poems are refreshing and sparkling, among the best known of which is "We Are Seven." —Selected HELENE OF MONTENEGRO: Princess Helene of Montenegro who is to marry the Crown Prince of Italy, is a poet, and many of her verses have been set to music and are sung by the peasants in all parts of the principality. —Selected AUTUMN: As the cool weather approaches the pleasure seekers forsake the mountain retreats and lake resorts, and are reopening their houses and making ready for in-door pastimes and amusements. The theatre has already opened its doors and some most delightful plays have been given and two very charming concerts are promised for the present week. —Editorial Note Page 658 GRAND DUCHESS CHARLOTTE is the much-admired tuler of Luxembourg, a grand duchy of 300,000 population, where Mrs. Perle Mesta was the former United States Minister. In 1919, after World War I, the people demanded that Grand Duchess Marie abdicate in favor of her sister Charlotte. That same year the right to vote was granted to both women and men past the age of twenty-one. Charlotte and a cabinet of eight ministers hold the executive power in this spirited country, which is very democratic. Grand Duchess Charlotte is married to Prince Felix of Bourbon Parma and has six children. RS. MARGUERITE — RAWALT, National President of the Business and Professional Women's Clubs of the United States, was one of seven attorneys and judges (three women and four men) from widely separated parts of the United States, to be invited by the Bonn Parliament to make a nation-wide visit to the courts of Germany. 'There she found many eminent women engaged in the legal profession. Among them were noted Frau Dr. Kruger-Nieland, a judge on a ranking patent law court of the Republic, and Frau Dr. Erna Scheffler, a member of the Supreme Constitutional Court. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon RS. LUCY NORDEN, some years ago, fled from Nazi Germany to the United States. A remarkably skilled pianist, she had accompanied opera singers and great instrumentalists in her native land. She soon became a member of the teaching staff of the New York Conservatory of Music, and now, at the age of eighty-four, still teaches sixteen pupils and plays the piano herself with exquisite artistry. IRTHDAY congratulations are extended to Mrs. Anne Jarvis Milne, Murray, Utah, one hundred and eight; Lydia Butterfield Cole, Salt Lake City, Utah, ninety-five; Mrs. Anna Meier Gubler, Santa Clara, Utah, ninety-four; Mary Ann Jones Rhodes, Ogden, Utah, ninety-four; Mrs. Alice Rose 'Tucker Berryessa Blair, Ogden, Utah, ninety-three; Mrs. Elizabeth A. Juchau, Virginia, Idaho, ninetythree; Mrs. Angeline Deem Hansen, Tremonton, Utah, ninety-three; Mrs. Ellen Lovell Rowe, Salt Lake City, ninety-one; and the following women who have reached _ their ninetieth birthdays: Mrs. Lovina Carroll Heaton, Orderville, Utah; Mrs. Eliza Jane Foote, Morgan, Utah; Mrs. Margaret Delia Taylor, Mrs. Elnora Staker Thomson, and Mrs. Alice Stevens Holliday Hansen, all of Salt Lake City. Page 659 CD EDITORIAL <c—~©2 VOL. 43 OCTOBER 1956 NO. 10 Study Courses Availeth Much GAIN with October, comes the opportunity for women to participate in a formal-type of education as offered in the study courses of Relief Society. Relief Society classes provide women an academic atmosphere in which to gain knowledge in the theological, homemaking, literary, and social science areas of study during the years when their opportunities to attend formal classes are seemingly past. The stimulation which the mind receives in the formal learning process is often neglected as a mother's responsibilities increase with her family. In her busy, unselfish life of meeting the needs of her family, she may be unable to find time to devote to gaining mental growth in some of these various areas of learning. 'Through participating in the weekly classes of Relief Society a woman not only gains mental growth for herself, but acquires knowledge which she can share with her family. Her attitudes concerning her responsible position in the home, which is an important factor involved with the family's happiness, may broaden as she achieves a stimulation in her thinking through the avenue of learning available at Relief Society, and which is designed especially for her. It is a true prinPage 660 ciple as the physical body attains its goals likewise must the spiritual body achieve successes. By studying the literature lessons an insight into the writings of the greatest authors and poets is gained. Information is imparted which will stimulate the mind to a greater enjoyment and comprehension of the masterpieces of literature. The factors of a secure family life and other social aspects are incorporated for study in the social science lessons. Challenges to learning of theological principles are presented. Home management problems, similar to those which often confront a mother in her own home, are discussed and studied. Integrated with the Relief Society study courses are projects and programs in which much of the gained knowledge can be applied. With the acquisition of knowledge comes an eternal blessing. To the Prophet Joseph Smith was revealed: "Whatever principle of intelligence we attain to in this life, it will rise with us in the resurrection" (D. & C. 130:18). The Relief Society presents unlimited opportunities for claiming blessings during this life and through eternity. ~J. N. Healthy, Happy, Lucky You AN UNENDING DEBT 'Be Honest with Yourself | T was the day before Mary's marriage. Her mind was flashing over the exciting occurrences of the day and foretasting the joys of her life ahead. As she anticipated the rich promise, the words of the poster in the ward meetinghouse last Sunday seemed to speak themselves aloud, "Healthy, Happy, Lucky You! Be Honest with Yourself." Never had Mary felt healthier, happier, or luckier than tonight— although she did not feel that the "luckier" was by chance. It was the last four words that caused her mind to check itself and concentrate. "Be Honest with Yourself." Mary's heart sank and then lifted in gratitude as she relived an experience of two years ago. That night had been a turning point in her life. Mary again seemed to hear the warning counsel of her mother, counsel which, until that night, had never called for action on Mary's part. Counsel which then had aroused Mary and brought her through to safety. Mary's heart sang with joy as she realized that the clean, healthy body she had inherited from her parents had been kept pure by her. Being honest with herself made Mary wonder what her life might have been without the teachings of the gospel. And beyond her parents' example she recalled herself as a young child kneeling in family prayer at her grandparents' home. Ahead. For Mary lay health and happiness. She knew she was indebted to many people for this blessed opportunity. Before sleep faded the picture of Bob, the temple, and her family, Mary decided she had found the honest answer. The obligation for obtaining health and happiness was a never-ending chain of conduct and_ teaching, reaching forward to generations unborn. Mary resolved that she and Bob would try honestly to pay their debt in their turn. Page 661 Recipes From the French WMlission Submitted by Rachael L. Lee NormManpy F isu tbsp. Butter tbsp. Flour 1 lb. White fish (halibut, sole, or haddock) hard-boiled egg c. Water small can shrimps tsp. Lemon juice or vinegar small can mushrooms " cream c. Shell macaroni eee ep ae we oe Melt the butter in a kettle. Add the flour and mix well. Add the water and lemon juice or vinegar and stir well until the mixture boils. Add the fish, egg, cut into small pieces, shrimps, mushrooms, and cooked macaroni. Cover and cook for ten minutes. Just before serving add the cream. Makes four servings. Onion Soup medium-sized onions 1 qt. Water 2 tbsp. Butter 8 slices of toast Slice the onions very fine and lightly brown in the butter. 'Then add water and boil gently for ten minutes. Into each of four baking dishes place a slice of toast covered with grated cheese and a little of the onion soup. 'Then put another slice of toast covered with grated cheese and the rest of the onion soup into the baking dish. Top with grated cheese and place in a moderately hot oven for ten minutes. Serve in the baking dishes. Makes four servings. FRENCH MAYONNAISE 2 egg yolks 1 tsp. Mild prepared mustard 1/6 tsp. Salt 1 tsp. Vinegar 1/8 tsp. Pepper vegetable oil 1/4 tsp. Strong prepared mustard or Beat the egg yolks slightly, then add liquid vegetable oil in a very thin stream while constantly beating the mixture until desired texture and flavor are reached. When half of the desired amount is reached, add the vinegar. Continue beating and adding oil until the desired amount of mayonnaise is reached. As much as a pint can be made from two egg yolks. This mayonnaise should be used soon after making, as it does not store well. It may be served on any vegetable salad, with fish, cold meats, asparagus, or artichokes. VEAL PAUPIETTES 4 small veal steaks, flattened very thin 4 thin slices of uncooked ham Mix together the following dressing ingredients: % Ib. Sausage % ce. Milk "% |b. Liver (pork or beef) ground 2 slices bread 2 tbsp. Chopped onions % tsp. — salt % tsp. Chopped garlic (if desired) % tsp. Pepper % tsp. Nutmeg Page 662 RECIPES FROM THE FRENCH MISSION 663 On each veal steak place a slice of ham and one fourth of the dressing mixture. Roll each paupiette and tie in two places with a string. 2 tbsp. Cooking oil 1 ¢. Water 1 tbsp. Flour 1 tsp. 'vinegar Put the cooking oil or other fat in a kettle and lightly brown the meat rolls. Add the flour and stir well into the oil. Add water and vinegar. Cover the kettle tightly and cook over very low heat for one hour. Then add the following ingredients: 1 small can mushrooms ~ 1 cc. Diced carrots 1 ¢. Green peas % ¢. Light cream Replace lid and cook for one half hour or until vegetables are tender. Add light cream. Serve hot. Makes four servings. CHOCOLATE MoUSSE % \b. Bar sweet, dark chocolate 1 egg yolk 4 egg whites Melt the chocolate over hot water in the top of a double boiler. When melted stir in the egg yolk. Beat the egg whites until very stiff, and then beat the chocolate mixture into the egg whites. Place in a jello mold or bowl and let stand in a cold place for at least two hours before serving. Makes four servings. Elo a Pioneer Grandmother Elsie McKinnon Strachan You pioneered for a richer tomorrow. Holding firm reins, high on the plow, You guided oxen, cut the straight furrow; You nurtured saplings that fruit today's bough. You planted the rose and the jacaranda, Hung brave baby-banners across the blue air. With no book, save one, you patiently tutored, And your man found his hclpmate lovely and fair. Assisting at birth, assuaging sorrow, Proffering love and the helping hand, All this, Grandmother, we will remember When we dream at the hearth of this western land. Early Present Shirley Sargent 66 HAT do you want for Christmas?" Neal Hendrickson asked casually on the morning of December eighth, as he watched his wife brush her dark hair. He prided himself on being thoughtful, and last year this foresightedness had paid off in the form cf a mink stole Nan had admired extravagantly. "You." Her reply so disconcerted him that he dropped a cuff link. "Me? You mean you want me to troop downstairs Christmas morning and have the children discover me in a stocking?" "That's about the size of it." Nan's voice was low, grave, and definitely unamused. "Size is right." He tried to recapture the light touch for which he was noted. "Exactly five feet and eleven inches of it and all me. You don't want much." She turned, and her brown eyes were as grave as her tone. "Seemingly too much to ask." "Ask for the moon, my lady, and,"... He hesitated. "You want me for Christmas?" "Something like that, Neal, but you figure it out." At lunch time he tried to do just that. What had Nan meant? He recalled other years' gifts — the mink stole, matching luggage, golf clubs, jewelry, a painting — things he'd bought since the business was successful. Nan was talking nonsense. He could take her away. A weck's cruise perhaps? Then he remembered that last season he had Page 664 arranged for the children to go to his parents while he and Nan had attended a house party. "Never again," she had said on their return. "But those people were important, influential to business." "Your children are more important to me than any position or salary in the world." She hadn't been so sober then; she had sounded angry and impatient. "At least we weren't routed out of bed at five, but, back to the barbarians!" He hadn't meant it to sound that way when he had said it. 'They had two sons, Neal Jr., eleven, and Howard, eight. They were both good boys, but Neal was too busy to see much of them. The remark of Nan's that morning was as imperative as the buzzer that rang on Neal's desk. Was that what Nan wanted, he wondered, later in the day, more of his time? He dictated some letters, then dismissed his secretary. How long had it been since he'd helped the boys with homework or joined them in their home workshop? Neal didn't like the conclusions his thoughts led up to—neglect. But business was for the family. Before, too? And Nan, how often had he done anything with her that wasn't social lately? Not many quiet evenings, nor Saturdays in the yard, his work had swallowed such time. "You figure it out," she had said and, now that he had, he was ashamed that he hadn't realized what he was letting business do to him—to them, EARLY PRESENT It was just two-thirty when he stalked out of the office. Although it was December, the day was warm —even for Califorma. He was parked in front of the boys' school when Howard came out. ""T'axi?" "Gosh, you sick, Dad?" UDDENLY he did feel a little sick. This wasn't going to be easy. His gesture had been impulsive, but his son was obviously disconcerted. W hy, why had he neglected being a father for so long? He tried to sound casual. "No, Son, just thought I'd knock off early. Ready?" "Well.... No. I mean we were going across to the playground and play ball. You... You wouldn't want to, would you?" Neal's answer was heartfelt. "TI sure would." Two hours later, Neal, minus coat, hat, and cuff links, led a raid 665 near—Neal, where? All dirty." "That's because he stole third," Neal Jr. Explained proudly. "I saw Dad slide in when I came out of school. He was terrific." Nan regarded her husband steadily, but there was a light in her eyes that dispelled the gravity. "Dad helped me with pitching." Howard was aglow with excitement. "Hey, Dad, would you coach Little League next spring?" "T'Ml sure try," Neal promised happily. He'd get someone else in the office so he'd have his evenings free. "How's my batting average?" he questioned when the boys cleared out. "Sensational," watch out for slump." He nodded gravely and took her in his arms. The light touch was Why, you're she smiled, "but that midseason "Two cookies apiece," Nan said, presents, darling — the _ lasting "and milk. Nothing else, it's too kind." —~-<—-- Night J ncident Lael W. Hill The littlest one, who never quite gives up motion, After awhile squirms out of her tucked-in blanket Into the cold uncover of night's dark stream; Then, being chilled, whimpers and stirs position Till she is enough aware, enough awakened To come small-mouse-creeping into the parents' room. Softly she clambers over their lift-and-lower Of breathing, over bone and the yielding ridges, Till she finds the narrow valley they hold between; There she hunches, tight-curled as bud of flower— Yet, seeking still with stretched foot or elbow, reaches For something more than mere hollow on a plain. Now one of the sleepers, disturbed, draws her into the quilt-cave; And there, close against the parent warmth soft-rising, Slowly the small tight bud opens in drowsing, Having found, for all hours, comfort and certain love. On the kitchen. Gone. "I believe in early Christmas Our Cabin Had a Porch Nell Murbarger OST homestead shanties M were about the size and shape of a railroad box car, and just about as inelegant in appearance. A single door, one or two small windows, an unsheathed stovepipe; and not one in a hundred had felt the stroke of a paintbrush. But our homestead home — even though it conformed closely to the general pattern — was a home of distinction. Our cabin had a porch! We always referred to it as "The Front Porch" — a high sounding phrase which seemed to imply that somewhere in the immediate environs there might be also a back porch. But, of back porches there was none; and even The Front Porch was not exactly pretentious. Its roof, tar-papered like the house, ran the full length of our fourteenfoot cabin, and was supported by undressed two-by-four studdings; its front was enclosed by woven wire netting, stretched from floor to roof, and its pine board floor sloped a little to the outer edge so water might drain off more quickly after summer rains, or following the vigorous weekly scrubbings Mother gave it with a broom. After serving through the winter as a semi-protected storage space for stovewood cut in the cedar breaks, The Front Porch came into its own with the first warm days of early summer. Before the end of May, the wire netting front would be Page 666 covered with a heavy green curtain of wild cucumber vines and morning glories. Butterflies and bees, in their everlasting search for pollen and nectar, utilized the vines as their central headquarters; and even tiny hummingbirds _ occasionally sought the cool seclusion of the greenery. After several weeks of coaxing, supported by all sorts of ten-yearold logic, Mother finally would concede that the season was well enough advanced that a little girl might sleep safely out of doors — a decision followed immediately by the delightfully adventuresome business of moving my cot to the narrow, green tunnel of The Front Porch. I doubt if any explorer embarking for darkest Africa was ever more thrilled by that prospect than I would be on this first night of summer freedom as I donned my nightie in the cabin, then hurried outside to slip between the delicious coolness of the smooth muslin sheets! A yellow square of lamplight, pouring through the cabin's east window, would spread across the middle of my cot until Mother and Father sought out their own bed, and the flame in the kerosene lamp was extinguished. FTER that, I would be alone by myself, in my little leafy world; alone, yet never alone. All my friends of the prairie night would OUR CABIN HAD A PORCH be there to keep me company. From the stock dam, in the draw, would be issuing the throaty croak of frogs, and, under the porch boards, crickets would be strumming their fiddles. There would be the gentle, satisfied sounds of cattle and horses stirring in the nearby feed lot; and, if a coyote voiced his lonely wail in some distant coulee, there would be a low, answering whine from Zip, the collie — a sad little whine which seemed to say that she heard and understood this strange call of the wild, and might have responded, could she have done so without forsaking her post of duty at the foot of my cot. Every rustle of leaves meant that some prairie mouse was foraging for crumbs and seeds, or that a drowsy bird was changing his position in the vines; and sometime, during each night, would sound the plaintive, hesitant call of a billy owl. Placing my cupped hands to my lips, in the way Father had taught me, I would answer the little brown creature; and for several minutes we would "talk" back and forth — a prairie girl to a prairie bird. One night, when I was still a very small girl, my mimicry was good enough that I succeeded in calling one of the little owls to the house. Approaching, closer and closer, he finally settled on the porch floor with a soft flutter and turned his head to regard me quizzically, almost as though he were wondering what sort of creature it might be who spoke his language in such atrocious fashion, yet was forever trying to converse with him! Our homestead was situated not 667 far from the Black Hills, and electrical storms occurred frequently throughout the summer months. Mother and Father had exercised great care in impressing upon me the beauty and majesty of a storm, and had never represented it to me as a matter for dread or alarm. As a consequence, I felt no fear of those nocturnal displays of might — not even when jagged lightning snapped and crackled and filled the air with tingling static that seemed to creep into one's very flesh. And bones; nor even when great volumes of thunder rolled across the dark prairie hills to engulf our little cabin in a windy world of fury and violence. These electrical storms generally abated quickly and unproductively; but, now and then, one would bring rain or hailstones. When the windhurled drops began to beat through my leafy curtain, I would hop out of my cozy nest, roll my bedding, and retreat hastily to the dry interior of the cabin. With sunrise, next morning, we would look upon a spanking new land! 'The wild cucumber vines and The Front Porch would be washed clean and bright; and all our small empire would be steeped in the fragrance of wet pine boards, and steaming tar-paper, and rainfreshened prairie grass. I loved the sound of the rain, and the clean, sweet smell it brought to the land. But more than all, I loved the bright mornings that followed after.... A bright morning meant that once again my bed could come out on The Front Porch. Recipes for Bread and Rolls Rhea H. Gardner ENRICHED WHITE BREAD Makes Two Loaves 7 c. Sifted enriched white flour % cake yeast, softened in % c. Lukewarm water 80° to 85° F. Place in mixing bowl: 2%-¢. Scalded milk. 3 tbsp. Sugar 3 tbsp. Shortening 1 tbsp. Salt When milk mixture has cooled to go°F., add 4 c. Sifted flour and beat well. Add the softened yeast. Add more flour, enough to make a soft dough. Mix until the dough forms in an elastic ball in the bowl. Cover and let rest 10 to 15 minutes. This will make the dough easier to knead. Put % c. Flour onto the kneading canvas and tub it into the portion where you will do the kneading. Knead 10 to 15 minutes. Cover the bowl or crock tightly. Keep the fermenting dough in a warm place, 80°F., away from drafts, until it is almost tripled in bulk. 'This will take about one hour and forty or fifty minutes for white dough. Punch it down, turn it over, cover, and let rise for about 1 hour. Mold into loaves and put into pans. Part of the white flour may be substituted with whole-wheat flour. Keep wholewheat dough as soft as you can possibly handle it. Whole wheat dough ferments much faster than does white dough. If it once gets too light, the finished bread will be coarse and crumbly. FounpatTion REciPpE SWEET YEAST DovuGu » yeast cake softened in "4 c. Lukewarm water lc. Milk, scalded 1% tsp. Salt % to % c. Sugar % to % c. Shortening 1 OF 2 eggs, beaten 1 tsp. Grated lemon rind, if desired 4% c. Sifted flour (use as much as % whole wheat flour, if desired) Soften the yeast in the lukewarm water. Scald the milk,. Cool to go°F. Add shortening, salt, and sugar. Add flour to make a thick batter. Add yeast, eggs, and lemon rind. Beat well. Add more flour, enough to make a soft dough. Cover and let rest 10 to. 15 minutes. 'Turn out on a lightly floured canvas-covered kneading board. Knead well until the surface is smooth and satiny, and is covered with tiny blisters. Place in an oiled bowl. Cover tightly and let rise till slightly more than doubled in bulk. Punch down and let rise 30 minutes. This second rising makes rolls with finer texture. Punch down and let rest 10 minutes. Shape into desired rolls. Cover and let rise in a warm place 80°F to 85°F. Until doubled in bulk. Bake in a moderate oven 375°F. 20 to 25 minutes for small or medium-sized rolls, or about 35 minutes for coffee cakes. Toppincs FOR SWEET ROLLS Streusel: "4 c. Butter "% Cc. Sugar % c. Sifted flour % tsp. Cinnamon Almond: % c. Sliced almonds uc. Sugar % tsp. Cinnamon Orange: 4 c. Grated orange peel 1 Cc. — sugar Grate the yellow peel from the oranges. Rub into the sugar. This will keep indefinitely in your refrigerator if it is covered tightly. Page 668 RECIPES FOR BREAD AND ROLLS 669 Butter Scotcu PEcAN ROLLS One recipe Foundation Sweet Yeast Dough "% c. Melted butter or other shortening 1% c. Brown sugar lc. Pecan halves Put % tsp. Butter, 1 tsp. Brown sugar, and three or four pecan halves into each cup of the oiled muffin tins. Roll sweet yeast dough into long narrow sheets one-half inch thick and 8 inches wide. Brush with melted butter and sprinkle with brown sugar. Roll up, jelly roll fashion. Cut into 1-inch slices. Place slices with cut edge down into prepared muffin tins. Cover with a damp cloth and let rise in a warm place (80° to 85°F.) away from drafts until doubled in bulk. Bake in 375°F. Oven 20 to 25 minutes. Let rolls stand in pan one minute before turning out. Harries McNeil Bradshaw Enjoys a Life of Creativity Through Hobbies HE hobbies of Harriet McNeil Bradshaw, seventy-nine, of Salt Lake City, Utah, have provided a satisfying source of creativity. Many of the pieces which she has started as hobbies have been inevitably given to her family and friends. Other articles beautify her home. Ten years after her marriage to John Bradshaw, she owned thirty quilts of her own making, and during the years she has made nearly one hundred and fifty quilt tops. The homes of her six children are beautified by her quilts and other articles of exquisite handwork. She embroiders and crochets pillow cases, doilies, hot pads, and chair sets. A crocheted bedspread is one of the loveliest pieces of her handicraft. Her own designs are worked into many of the articles. She also mends and upholsters furniture and makes rugs. Sister Bradshaw has been active in Relief Society for many years, having served as a counselor in the Francis Ward Relief Society, South Summit Stake, Utah. She has been a visiting teacher for nearly fifty-four years, My Guiding Light Lucile Tournear Y mother was so quiet and unassuming that many of her closest neighbors never really learned to know her; yet she was truly a friend to the friendless, and a comfort to the lonely hearted. My early childhood would have been desolate indeed without her love and devotion. How clearly I remember a conversation that went something like this. "Mamma, will you read to me now? Just a few pages, Mamma." I would carry a book into the kitchen where my mother was ironing, or to the dining room where she sat at her sewing machine. Sometimes I followed her to the back porch where she scrubbed clothes on a washboard. Her explanations that she must first finish her work, were always gentle and patient. Never did she raise her voice in anger or impatience. More often than not, she would leave her work only to finish it later in the evening when I was tucked safely into bed. Due to her kindness and tact, I was eight years old before I realized that I was blind. When a teacher was found to teach me braille, Mother learned braille with me. Since we could see the teacher only once a week, Mother felt that my progress would be too slow with so little help, so my education became another of her many tasks. When I did enter a day school for the blind, I was able to go into the fifth grade with the children in my own age group. Had she merely been the traditional busy housewife, this would have been noteworthy enough, but since Page 670 she was the sole provider for four children, it was remarkable. By taking in washing and sewing, working in the homes of neighbors, and remaking second-hand clothing which friends and relatives contributed, we were able to manage. My mother was often asked why she did not send me away to school. In those days, practically all blind children attended special state institutions. Tio such questions Mother would say: "I want Lucile to have the same love and care that my other children have. Now that she has learned to read, we can manage until the class for the blind in Los Angeles is ready." When the class was finally organized, Mother sold our home in the small town of Compton, where we had always lived, and moved to Los Angeles. This was in 1919, shortly after the close of World War I, and houses were scarce and rents were high. Even in those days people were not anxious to rent to families with children, and widows with children presented a real problem. Then, too, they were afraid the little blind girl would fall and get hurt, and they did not want to be responsible. However, finally we were able to rent an apartment, with the understanding that we would move as soon as possible. Within a month we found a house. I know now that Mother's great faith and fervent prayers were responsible for this. EOPLE wondered how Mother would earn our living in a strange community where we knew no one. She had told no one what MY GUIDING LIGHT her plans were, and, to this day, I am not sure whether she had made any definite decision as to what she would do. However, the problem seemed to solve itself, and on her long walks during the househunting period, she had discovered that many people were renting their spare rooms, and that such rooms were in great demand. Since the school I was to attend was near a university and many students. Needed living accommodations, Mother opened a rooming house. S I made friends with the blind students in my school, we also took some of them into our home. There-was Marguerite the little girl whose parents were in the restaurant business, and were busy until late in the evening. 'Could someone care for the child after school hours until her parents could come. For her? I told my mother what the situation was, and Marguerite practically, became a member of the family. 'This resulted in a beautiful friendship for me which will never die. Marguerite became much closer to my mother than to her own, because she was with my mother during the years of adolescence when a girl needs a mother's companionship most. Since we lived only four blocks from my school, our home became the favorite visiting place for my friends. Mother never minded their noise. She loved the piano playing and singing, no matter how long the music sessions lasted. I know that she was terribly disappointed that I never became a musician, but she never mentioned her disappointment. My friends were sure that when they came to our house, refreshments would be in 671 order.. Mother's homemade cookies and chocolate cake were always a delight. Whenever there was a school picnic, there were always two or three friends ready to share my lunch with me. Mother's deviled eggs and well-filled sandwiches were always popular. I never could have finished high school and college without Mothers help. In the late twenties and early thirties, there were very few textbooks to be had in_ braille. Mother did most of my reading. She also spent long hours dictating French to me, and I transcribed page after page of it into Braille. I wonder now why my teachers did not assign certain paragraphs to me, so that Mother would not have had to spend so many hours dictating the long lessons. Mother never complained, however; she wanted me to read just what the class was reading. She read French beautifully. Though she had only gone to a small country school which took her through the Fifth Reader only, she had learned to speak French at home as her parents spoke no English. Because Mother had read French prayers in her childhood, she never learned to pray in English. Marguerite and I used to tell her she had two voices, one for French and one for English. The French voice had a nostalgic tenderness in it like soft, sad music. Mother never liked to go to bed until all of us were safely tucked in. When I sat up late typing my college notebooks, she would sometimes drop off to sleep out of utter weariness, but before I finished my work, she would always wake up and bring me a steaming cup of cocoa. 672 "You're so tired," she would say anxiously, "you'll kill yourself working so hard." It never occurred to her to say "I'm so tired." Since we had to take in roomers, we never had much privacy as a family. Strangely enough we didn't mind this too much, because Mother had a way of making them seem a part of the household. They all loved her because she was friendly without intruding in their affairs. Mother loved all people. She took Ester Lo, a lonely Chinese girl student into our home, and did what she could to make the strange girl feel at home in a foreign country. She encouraged Ester to bring her Chinese school friends in, and our house often reeked with the odors of strange Chinese foods which she cooked in our kitchen. The unfamiliar guttural sounds of the Cantonese dialect they spoke made us feel that we had indeed been shifted into a strange new world. When Ester presented Mother with a box of candy at Christmas, and a Christmas card came from her boy friend, Mother's holiday season was complete. Though Mother was much too busy to attend clubs or to have hobbies, she did love to go to shows, both the movies and stage plays. We saw some wonderful pictures and plays together. People used to ask my mother how I could enjoy them. "I tell her the pictures and read her the titles on the screen," she answered simply. "The stage plays are easier because she can learn the voices." When talking movies came in, Mother's task was much easier, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1956 and the pictures took on new life. Nevertheless, due to Mother's careful descriptions, I was able to follow the stories of the silent pictures and enjoy them perfectly. Often we could discuss these pictures at home, and Mother would laughingly tell friends that she had tried so hard to make the pictures clear to me that I could tell the story better than she could. HEN my sisters and I had all married, Mother gave up our old home and divided her time among us. We tried to persuade her to live with a friend, or rent an apartment so that she could have a permanent home, but she would not do this. Her life had been lived so completely for her children that she seemed totally incapable of creating a life for herself. I felt guilty when she lived with my husband and me because she insisted on doing all of the housework. I was always to her "her little girl." It wasn't that she wanted me to be dependent upon her; on the contrary, she was very anxious for me to become self-reliant, knowing that there would come a time when she could not be with me. She went to her heavenly home on a thirty-first of December. How fitting that she should start a new life with a new year! Her work on earth was well done; she would not have wanted to stay here any longer. Because of her, I have never known a world of darkness. Because of her, I have been able to live a busy and happy life. With her as my inspiration, I shall continue to do so. As she always has been, she always will be my guiding light. Helping Hands Flo Whittemore had not invited her to come into my home that morning. I had not even been wishfully thinking (as I have so often since) that she would come. Yet, at nine o'clock, there she Was, energetically scrubbing away on my dirty woodwork and looking as cheerful, | thought to myself, as though she enjoyed it, "Why?" J questioned almost aloud as I watched her from the davenport where I was lying. Then, as if an effort to discover "why" was too much exertion for a body weakened by illness and a mind Weary of trying to solve problems, I said a bit querulously to myself, "Oh, well, if she wants to do it, it's perfectly all tight! Only I don't see why she should enjoy doing it!" She was our very capable, very much loved Relief Society presiWhen I had answered her knock on my door that eventful day, she had smiled pleasantly as she asked: "How are you this morning?" Glad to have anyone come in, | quickly bade her enter. But before I could tell her of my aches and pains and discouragement, shé had said: "TI think you'd better just lie down again and take it easy. You've been pretty sick, you know. [ didn't have anything in particular to do today, so I thought I'd just slip in here and wash your woodwork and clean your windows for you. I know it must be hard to he there and look at all these things that need oing," All of a sudden, a spark of inter. Est stirred inside me. "[t will be nice," | acknowledged, "to have the windows washed, especially this one in front of me. It's so smoky, everything looks gray outside." "I know. Almost gives you a gloomy aspect of life, doesn't it?" she replied cheerily as she proceeded to undo the bundle of cloths she had brought. Hmmm! J thought, "almost!" Why shouldn't I be altogether gloomy just lying here day after day. And I retired again into my morbid thoughts. I had known Lola as president of Relief Society; I had been a visiting teacher for nearly two years. When I became ill, she had called, bringing me a bouquet of blooms from her rose garden. | loved those! But why should she suddenly take a notion to come into my house and clean it up? My conscience was beginning to prick a little—but | don't care, I told myself, how dirty it is. It doesn't matter to me; I'm just too tired. But she doesn't need to act as if she so much enjoyed doing it. I'm sure | shouldn't enjoy cleaning up somebody else's dirty house. Oh, well! People are different, | guess, And then I became fascinated as I watched her quick, vigorous movemeuts: up and down and across, not a stroke wasted. Lola was hike that in everything she did. Without saying a word, she radiated life and good cheer. Deftly, almost gracefully, I thought, she bent to wring the water out of the scrub cloth as she wiped the clean white wood Page 673 674 with clear water before polishing it with a dry cloth. E. Didn't talk; I was too tired. But it seemed to me only a matter of a few minutes until all the woodwork in the living room was spotless. "Tt does look better," I acknowledged aloud; "I didn't realize it was so dingy." "Well, with a coal fire, it doesn't take long," Lola answered as she picked up the pans of dirty water. Then, stepping quickly into the kitchen, she got a smaller pan of clean water and soap and returned to the living room window. "Oh!" I exclaimed, as she squeezed some of the water out of the cloth and started washing the glass, "I have some window-cleaner. It's easier." But before I could get my slippers on, she stopped me. "Never mind," she said, "I like this way better. Guess I'm just old-fashioned." And she laughed good-naturedly. Then, as an afterthought, she added: "Unless you'd rather I used the glass-cleaner." "Oh, no! It makes no difference to me," I replied, and sank back with a sigh onto my pillow. Secretly, I thought: That's strange. She not only enjoys working, but evidently likes to do things the hard way.. But hard way or not, in a very short while she had both of the windows and the glass in the door so clean and shining that one could almost believe there was no glass in the frames at all! For the first time since she had come, I think I smiled, and something deep down inside me fluttered RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1956 ever so slightly. I felt it, but refused to give happiness a chance. Instead, I pulled down the corners of my mouth again and turned my face to the wall. If Lola was disappointed, she gave no sign; but resolutely filling her pans with clean, warm water, she began scrubbing the woodwork in the bedroom, all the while whistling or humming a cheery accompaniment to the rhythmic movements of her hands. Listening, my thoughts went back many years to a sunny morning at my grandmother's home in a little town in Utah when I had first met Estella Wight, who became a cherished and lifelong friend. She was gaily singing as she scrubbed out a wash on the board. A girl of ten years, I looked at her with wonder, to be singing on wash day! Now I was far away from Estella, but here was another person much like her, cheerily singing her way into my life, whether I would or not. Then I happened to glance at the clock. It said "11:30." Lola will be hungry, working as she has all morning, I thought. Maybe I could get some lunch ready. I arose and went into the kitchen, and, by the time lunch was on the table, Lola had finished the woodwork and windows in bedroom and bath. I don't remember what I prepared for lunch or what we talked about as we ate; nothing very personal, anyway. Then Lola washed the dishes while I wiped them. HELPING HANDS "Now you'd better lie down again," she said, "you've been sick a long time and you are not strong yet. You must remember to take it easy for awhile. Don't try to do everything all at once when you can get up and around." Her smile, her sympathy, warmed my heart, and I went back to the davenport gladly, with not the least desire to argue. (How I'd changed! ) Two hours or so later, my small kitchen was spick and span: walls, cabinets, floor, doors, and windows. As Lola prepared to leave, I got up to thank her. I expressed appreciation, in a matter-of-fact way, for her efforts to help me, and I was glad to have my house clean, too. "It was nice of you to do it," I said. And then, as she chatted happily about making some bright ruffled curtains for the kitchen windows, the miracle happened. I glanced down at her hands that must have been lovely when she came to my house that morning. I could see that they were small and beautifully shaped with tapering fingers that looked more like they 675 should be skimming over piano keys than scrubbing dirty woodwork. But now they were red, rough, and scratched, the nails cracked and broken. Dismayed and ashamed, I would have cried out, but before I could say a word, Lola was gone. Remembering the diamonds in the bands that circled her finger, I knew she did not have to do the menial tasks that she had done so willingly in my home. For me—to help lift me up out of the discouragement and despair into which I had fallen and give me a new hold on life for love of me, she had scrubbed and scoured, not caring, not thinking for a moment what was happening to her hands. They looked so sore, they must have hurt her, but there was no word of complaint—just song! At that moment, it was as though a spring shower had suddenly descended upon my spirit and was cleansing it of all the accumulation of doubt and despair and weakness that had piled up during months of illness. And in the swift upsurge of spirit, I prayed to be worthy of the ministry of hands! Words Ida Isaacson Tablets of stone may waste away— Leaving an image of decay. A word leaves an imprint on the mind That may inflame or bless mankind. An innocent child hears an evil word, And forever after his memory is stirred. Words are the stepping stones of thought, And over a word battles are fought. The mind selects the intent it will use; The tongue reveals the mind's hidden views. So mighty are words they never die; And time makes no difference to a lie. So Dear to My Heart Ruth Young revisited you, old chapel, out at West Jordan last night. Fortyone years you have served the people—you dear, rambling, old chapel. Some have called you ugly —with your steep narrow stairways and four stories of classrooms. To me you have ever been beautiful and comforting—my Balm of Gilead —with your stone entrance ways thrown wide like arms stretched forth to greet me. My ancestors helped to build you, hauling granite stones by wagon down from nearby Little Cottonwood Canyon for your huge foundation. By the way you were constructed, they must have believed you would endure forever. But now —just a stone's throw south of here—there stands a splendid, shiny, very, very modern new chapel, with stairs designed for easy walking, lower ceilings, and a good heating system. But you have a personality —you dear, old, friendly building. Once you had three huge stainedglass windows one to the east... One to the north... And one to the south. Their subject was an ebony bowl of sky-blue flowers against an amber and violet and green background. How easy it is to remember long years back when I was a skinny little girl sitting on a bench—feet not quite touching the floor. It had been a Fast Day—and my tummy was being gnawed by hunger pains; but the people kept getting up "bearing their testmonies." I had long ceased to listen, and was eagerly watching the floor beneath my bench. When the Page 676 sun shone upon a certain section of brightly colored green glass in the window it would appear on a certain section of the wood floor. Then it would be time for the bishop to stand up and end the meeting. I had learned this through many Fast Days. It was my own private sundial long before I could read a clock. Then—one Sunday morning just four years ago, we were shocked to discover that some boys had spent the night throwing boulders through your beautiful sky-blue flower windows, absolutely destroying the north and south ones, Next week you were repaired—but with plain, ugly glass instead; but, the glory that once was yours still looked eastward toward the morning sun. I was baptized in your little "boiler room" and confirmed on the front bench of your chapel, one lovely morning in May. I remember sitting there awaiting my turn, looking upward at the peaceful figure of Jesus in the big oil painting which Your malt assembly too™ was magnificent, ith its SO igh ceiling ay way UP Je sat on long wooden The visibility was perfect! The bishopric and choir sat © row, rounding stairwayWhat mys rerious things might be there! { married the boy! Sat next to down in your missi So that room holds sweet memories 677 sang surely must have become eme meant I can't embroide cakes taste like leather he only thing left was MY sketch of yOu: It sold! Orders cam dozens j | The money is gOhelp buy the | hope you W % mind, deat old chapel. You will be tom down shortly This way, all the ones who She Lord s Unit Janice Stock world. I call it Rho Sigma. But why the blank looks? Had I said N. L. U. Or Idaho Club or Y. C.'s there would have been recognition in your eyes. You may think that it is a new unit. It is, here on the Brgham Young University campus. 'This is its third year, but I am surprised that you haven't heard of it, for it has been in existence since 1842 and is known all over the world! Yes, I mean world, for there are few countries and languages which do not know Rho Sigma. It is not a religious unit, or a service unit, or a departmental or social unit, but is a well-balanced combination of all four. In fact, we may say that the Thirteenth Article of Faith is our creed: "We believe in being honest, true, chaste, benevolent, virtuous, and in doing good to all men...." Indeed, true charity is the soul of our unit.... "If there is anything virtuous, lovely, or of good report or praiseworthy, we seek after these things." In this unit I have found those things which every true Latter-day Saint seeks: a strengthening of my testimony through reading and studying the Scriptures, and an appreciation and deepening of my testimony through hearing the testimonies and experiences of others. Have you ever heard of a unit which converts others to the Church? Mine has converted many. One of our members had her Page 678 [ von to the best unit in the testimony strengthened and renewed by attending our meetings. She enjoyed our unit and used the principles to such good advantage that her roommate who was not a member became curious and was impressed to ask more about the Church. After attending some of our meetings and being thrilled by what we were doing, she gradually became better acquainted with the Church and soon joined it. But this is more than a religious unit, we offer service, too. In fact, service is emphasized at all times. We are interested in the welfare of the individuals in our group and in helping them we strengthen the group as a whole, for we are not just a name but an active organization. 'Those who receive as well as those who give in this unit are benefited morally and spiritually. UT, in addition to these praiseworthy characteristics of religion and service, we offer a departmental program. We _ better ourselves through the great literature, sociological, and domestic knowledge of the world. Over a period of time we cover the world's best literature. In the field of sociology we have studied ntan's problems, psychology, politics, and our relations with others. We prepare ourselves to be better wives and mothers through the best ways to manage a household and understanding what constitutes a real home. We were given an example one day in meeting THE LORD'S UNIT of how an economical, practical, and versatile wife can be a profit to her husband. He would have to invest $40,000 in order to receive in dividends each year the money his wife could save him. That shows how important a capable wife is. ES, here we learn of those things virtuous, lovely, and of good report. But what of some recreation and social life? Doesn't all work and no play make Rho Sigma a dull unit? Oh, but we have a social side, too. Almost any day of any week we can join with members of the Phi Epsilon unit in making and preparing articles for those who are less fortunate than we. We have an organized singing group which sings at parties and programs. We have dinner dances, buffet suppers, bake sales, and exchanges with the PhiEpsilon unit. So, you see this unit combines all the good of the social, departmental, religious, and service units into one well-balanced whole which keeps the unit always interesting, yet always changing. This well-balanced combination of social activities, service, and knowledge is not just for my benefit here at school. I can belong to my unit and benefit from it the rest of my life. It will broaden my spiritual and mental capacity, and thus make me a fitting partner for my companion and help me become a worthy Latter-day Saint. It. Has been said, "When you educate a man, you educate an individual, but when you educate a woman you educate a family." Men need to 679 learn specialized work to enable them to support their families, but we women should learn all we can in the most important fields, if we want to take our part well and strengthen our husband's place in the community. We are the hub of the home, and our duties are to rear families, to teach our children correct principles to live by, and to give them broad backgrounds and strong foundations with which to meet the world. We are prepared for this very well by my unit, for it gives us many opportunities to become well-rounded individuals. Through my affiliation with this unit, I will find members wherever I go during my life, for we can belong all our lives wherever we are, and can receive instructions from headquarters and induce others to join. One of our members, after graduation, was married to a man whose work took them to a foreign country. They didn't know anyone and had no connection with the community except through the husband's work. 'The wife was very lonesome and bored, and you can imagine her joy and surprise, when members of the unit called on her and invited her to join them in the same effective, uplifting program she had known during her college days. Surely, such a comprehensive unit with all these benefits, should be very selective and limit its members. It doesn't. Every girl on campus can belong. 'There needs be no selection, for this unit appeals to only the best girls. There is no initiation; the lack of money is no barrier; in fact this unit is the least expensive of any unit or sorority in 680 the world. A half dollar will pay for all the activities in one year. There are no "secret sisters"; all will be "helpful sisters," who will help me be my best and not hinder me because they want the higher positions. 'There will be no falling away because of the demands of families or because we grow old and do not resemble so much the former coeds; no disappointments at college reunions that others have grown so old and uninteresting or seem to be pursuing their lost youth. For those who grow old in this unit gain wisdom and knowledge and hidden stores of spiritual beauty which grow more lovely and desired with the years. The unit does not weaken at graduation with a few alumni meetings which become fewer and fewer with the affiliation becoming RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1956 smaller. Instead, it grows stronger and stronger with the years, and the membership grows with it. It grows into a true sisterhood, with love and charity for all, and those who temain true to this unit remain true to the ideals of Christ. You can see I really have something! A unit which is a combination of social growth, education, religion, and service. It is so beneficial that its effects will be with me forever, and every woman in the Church can belong to it everywhere. Where else would you get a combination just like this, to interest a girl in her teens and a wife and mother in her later years? To promote the common good and personal welfare of all? Where else but in Rho Sigma, or by its better known name: RELIEF SOCIETY. —e Po Prelude to Winter Miranda Snow Walton The purple grapes hang heavy on the vine, A pumpkin patch lies bursting with its load: The pasture fence is blue with columbine, And goldenrod grows tall beside the road. The whir of combine and of reaper calls Across the ripened fields, and sheaves of wheat Stand waiting, while the hazy sunlight falls Upon a land whose harvest is complete. But when the ground lies barren in the snow, And ghosts of roses only dream rebirth, When frost has seared the fields, and wet winds blow, What recompense can winter bring to earth? The answer comes with each succeeding day: The joy of work well done, the quiet peace Of softly falling snow, the hearth fire's ray, And faith which gives a saddened soul release. Yes, he who sows good seed, need have no feat When harvesting is done and winter near. Heart's Bounty CHAPTER 5 Deone R. Sutherland Synopsis: Annie Griffith, whose father, with his family, has been called on a mission to the mountains to cut stone for the temple, is living with the Williams family in Salt Lake City, where she is being educated, with Marie Williams, under the direction of a private tutor. Light-hearted Marie is an _ indifferent scholar, but Annie makes a fine record in all her studies. Both girls are interested in Parker Josephson, a neighbor, who returns from three years of study in the east to find the girls grown up. Marie has assumed that Parker is in love with her, and that eventually they will marry. However, it is Annie whom he seeks out. Arrangements are made for Parker to teach at the university, but he receives a call to fulfill a mission in the Hawaiian Islands, and leaves for three years. Annie is offered a teaching position at Walton Academy in Salt Lake City, but, since her parents have moved back from the mountains to their farm north of Salt Lake, Annie returns home and becomes a teacher in the Davisville school. At Christmastime Annie attends Marie's martriage to Billy Johnson. HE following winter Aaron Davis, old Mrs. Davis' grandson, returned home from a mission to England. His grandmother had once been employed by the Queen of England. After she and her husband had joined the Church and decided to travel to America and then West to Zion, the Queen reluctantly had let her go. But she gave Mrs. Davis a pension for life, and even now old Mrs. Davis received her publications and mail from England. So she was more than thrilled when one of her favorite grandsons fulfilled a mission in her native country. Needless to say, she was proud and happy to see him return home. His father operated a small mill and farm in the settlement just below the old Davis house. Annie grew more used to her role as school mistress for her little school. The children were alert and responded eagerly to Annie's guidance. The second year was offering more rich rewards than Annie had hoped. She really felt that these children would someday bring credit to their heritage. Aaron Davis stopped in at the school to bring his thirteen-year-old sister home with him on his horse. Sister Davis had introduced him to Annie. At first Annie had felt great timidity toward the crusty, stiff little lady from England, but, gradually, she had found the generous heart beneath, "T want to present my grandson, Aaron." The old lady had smiled. "Annie has heard us talk of nothing but you for months, Aaron." "T've heard very nice things about Sister Griffith," Aaron had replied in turn. After that there were frequent accidental meetings between Aaron Davis and Annie Griffith. She greeted him at church, and he met her family. He asked once if he might accompany her to church, but she assured him that it would be out of his way, and, since her parents always attended, there was no necessity for him to make the long trip. Aaron Davis danced with Annie as many times as she allowed at the ward parties, but there was no quesPage 68] 682 tion but that she would just as soon dance with her brothers. One afternoon Annie sent her brothers home immediately after school to help their father with the chores. She remained as she felt the room should be straightened and some work made ready for classes on the next day. After some time she looked up with a start and realized that it was almost dark. By now, no doubt, her father was carrying in the milk pails and helping her mother spread the cheesecloth and strain the milk. She thought of the steam curling up from the pans on the back porch. They would certainly be finished with dinner before she got home. She put on her coat and mittens and wound her heavy woolen scarf about her head and throat. The snow had been coming down intermittently all day. She had better get started at once. UDDENLY, Aaron Davis was standing in the schoolroom door. "I've been waiting to ride home with you, Annie. The snow might be a little deep for your Baldy to cope with." "There's no need,' Annie protested, feeling the color in her cheeks. "I've ridden home in deeper snow than this." "Grandmother said you should stay the night, but doubted if you would. So it will really make her feel better, if I don't let you go off alone. It's a little later than you usually leave, and she's afraid it will be quite dark before you get home." Aaron Davis wound his muffler tighter and pulled on his gloves. There was nothing for Annie to do RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1956 but follow him out to the barn for their horses. The snow was deep, and, except for shouted comments on the best path to follow and how deep the snow in the gulch looked, there was little conversation. When Annie reached her own home, both she and her horse were quite exhausted. "Will you come in and warm up a little before you start back?" Annie asked. "With pleasure. Care of the horses." Aaron put them in the barn while Annie removed her boots on the back porch and went in to warm herself. In a few minutes Aaron Davis followed. The boys enjoyed Aaron's jokes, and her mother and father appreciated company any time. When he was asked to eat supper with Annie, he never hesitated. The boys were shooed off to: bed, and Brother and Sister Griffith sat in their rockers by the fire and enjoyed the stories Aaron had to tell about England and the many converts he had met. When he rose reluctantly to start back, Annie's parents spoke warmly of how much they had enjoyed his company. "T should like to come again," Aaron said to Annie at the door. "T'm sure my parents would be very happy to have you visit any time."" Annie could not look at him. "What of you, Annie?" Aaron Davis waited a moment for her reply. In a very low voice Annie said, "IT am not sure that it would be honest of me to urge you to visit " me, y Here, Ill take HEART'S BOUNTY "You are engaged to someone else?" Aaron asked in surprise. "No, but I met someone else once, and I haven't forgotten him. I have little reason to hope that he remembers me, but it wouldn't be fair to you to let you think...." "T'm willing to take my chances," Aaron said firmly. "T can't do anything else except wait for him," Annie said miserably. "T'm sorry, Aaron." "Tm going to say goodnight," Aaron said. "But I can't pretend that I don't hope that things will turn out differently from the way you indicate they may now. I have had a wonderful, if dashing, evening anyway." He managed to smile and shake her hand briefly in parting. ANNIE worked very hard with her teaching the rest of the year. One of her most promising older students was beginning a preparatory course for higher education. He hoped someday to become a doctor in order to serve his community, and Annie worked very hard with him, giving him personal help far beyond her strength or time allowed. She wanted him to be able to go out as well prepared or better prepared, perhaps, than other students with whom he might compete. — "You are wearing yourself out," Mrs. Davis said indignantly to Annie when she was later and _ later getting away from the school. Annie's face had paled, and her thinness showed in her face and hands. "Summer will be good for you. All work and no play is not what our Church recommends for anyone, young lady. You are not 683 being fair to yourself. And you are not fair to the young men who would enjoy dancing with you and calling at your home. You know I have the finest grandson...." Annie spoke in a very low voice, "That's what my parents tell me all the time, Sister Davis." The old woman cleared her throat. "Well, don't let me add to any of the problems you're already wrestling with. 'The spring sunshine, perhaps, will change your heart." Annie rode her horse slowly home. Her solitary figure going through the fields of snow had now become an accustomed sight for the farming people. 'Tonight she rode slowly because she felt she must think. The snow was at last beginning to thaw. It was a late spring. Her parents had begun to urge, more strongly than ever, that she be not so blind to the good qualities of Aaron Davis. And, if to him, then not to be blind to the virtues of other young men who were equally worthy. Marie had written of the many undreamed joys she had discovered with the birth of her first baby. And now she was expecting her second. Annie knew she could not deny herself the richness of life that was to be found only in a family of her own, but what of Parker? It was already a month past the expected date of his arrival home, and there had been no word of him, no sign. Annie felt somehow that if he really had come home to Zion, her heart would know it. He had been delayed. Perhaps they needed him in Hawaii for a longer time than was expected. It was a long time to 684 remember a person anyway. She should have forgotten him as he must have forgotten her. How untroubled he had been over Marie's marriage; how did she know but that he would be equally untroubled over her own? Her heart protested at the thought. NNIE corrected papers at the kitchen table while her mother fried mush for their supper. None of them claimed it as a favorite dish, but, when too much was made in the morning, they had to eat it at night. No food was ever wasted. Annie leaned her chin on her palm and closed her eyes. She was almost too weary to see the columns of figures before her. 'The children were so discouraging sometimes, and then, at other times, so rewarding they made her want to shout for joy. This was one of the discouraging times. Perhaps her own hidden agitation reflected somehow in the work her students had done that day. "The ward is having a May Day picnic and a dance in the evening." Her mother leaned over the stove. "TJ think we should all go and enjoy ourselves." "Of course," Annie said. The waiting must come to an end sometime. On Saturday Annie drove her father's team and wagon into the settlement to pick up a part of his plow he was having repaired. He could not spare the time, and Annie had an errand to do for her mother, anyway. The spring thaw had really set in now, spring had rushed upon them pell-mell in its eagerness to make up for lost time. The mud in the roads was more than RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1956 ankle deep in places. She walked carefully along the board sidewalk holding her dress up from the brown spattered path. The blacksmith loaded her father's plow repair on the back of the wagon, and then helped her up. Just as she swung into her seat, Sister Showers from the General Store hurried out, tying her bonnet as she came. "Annie, Annie, wait a moment." She stopped at the edge of the sidewalk. "Brother Showers says there was a man here not more than an hour ago asking for you. He asked where you lived, he did." Sister Showers' eyes were bright with curiosity. Annie's heart had given a sudden leap, but then she forced back the surge of joy she had felt for a moment. "Thank you very much. It was probably someone about Talbert Wilson's scholarship next year. Yes, that must be it." Sister Showers nodded her head slowly. "Probably that was what he wanted. Said he'd come from Great Salt Lake City. He was a mighty fine looking fellow, Father said. He's probably on his way out to your farm now. So long, see you May Day, Annie." Annie backed the wagon slowly and started the trip back. The plow part rattled lonely in the back of the wagon. She refused to let herself consider that it might be Parker Josephson. And yet she could not bear to think that it might not be he. NNIE heard Parker's voice the moment she entered the house. She leaned against the back door listening to the murmur of voices coming from the little parlor. Her HEART'S BOUNTY heart hammered so that she could not trust herself to move forward. Her hand brushed at her windblown hair. She was standing like that when Parker came to the door and saw her. Her mother was calling out. "Annie, is that you? Here's a friend of yours who has come quite a distance to see you." Parker stood in the doorway, looking across the kitchen, across three years into her eyes. Annie leaned against the door, with the color high in her cheeks and her dark hair curling against her forehead. She was filled with incredible shyness. 'Then Parker came to her and took her hands in greeting. Why, Parker's hands were as cold as her own! She looked up to meet the laughter dancing in his eyes. 'The day was full of joy. Parker was home, really home. 'T've been telling your mother about myself. It seems you haven't told her nearly enough about me. Or perhaps I took too much for granted?" "No, you did not," Annie replied softly. She tried to move away, 685 but Parker still held her hands. He was peering so intently at her face that she could not look away. "Well. " Annie's mother stirred in her chair. "I'll just go start our dinner. I hope you'll stay and join in our dinner with us?" "I would like to very much," Parker said, as he followed Annie into the parlor. "I've been looking forward to this meal for over three years, so you can see how much I'll appreciate it." "Well, you just make yourself at home." Annie's mother was already thinking about what vegetables she would need out of the dirt cellar. "T have a feeling I'm home at last," Parker smiled at Annie. "Come on, we'll help your mother cook a homecoming dinner." Annie's mother watched them making their way to the dirt cellar, jumping the puddles hand in hand. Such young laughter, thought Annie's mother. She nodded her head contentedly. So full of happiness that sound was that it made her smile to hear it. She now understood why Annie had had no interest in other young men. (To be concluded) <> FL Shank Shee Caroline Eyring Miner I thank thee, Lord, for little things: The kettle on the stove that sings; A baby's cry; the dimpling pool Where raindrops splatter; and the cool Dark shadows when the day is bright; The stars that prick the cloak of night, And pin the sky so it won't fall; 'The wondering eyes of children; all The little seeds that lift the sod And tell the secret that is God. be [LFROM THE FIELD [~~ Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1950, page 278, and the Handbook of Instructions, page 123. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES ia Lc ic. E E (ile Photograph submitted by Luana C. Heaton SOUTHERN FAR EAST MISSION, CLARK AIR BASE (PHILIPPINE ISLANDS) RELIEF SOCIETY ORGANIZED Front row, seated, left to right: Maxine Taylor (Ogden, Utah), Second Counselor; Marlene Gifford (Emmett, Idaho), President; Verda Rice (Mesa, Arizona), First Counselor. Back row, standing, left to right: Hazel Jensen (Great Falls, Montana); Nina Staples (Mesa, Arizona), Secretary-Treasurer; Darleene Masonheimer (Blackfoot, Idaho). The first meeting of this group was held at the home of Maxine 'Taylor, and plans for the work of the organization were outlined. The members, coming from widely separated areas in the United States have found a common sisterhood as Relief Society women united in friendship and service. Luana C. Heaton is president of the Southern Far East Mission. Page 686 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 687 Photograph submitted by Vivian R. McConkie ENSIGN STAKE (SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH), NORTH EIGHTEENTH WARD VISITING TEACHERS DINNER Seated, center: Eva B. Groesbeck and her sister Bell Barton. Seated, left to right: Louise Widmer, a convert from Germany; Georgia V. Stam, a convert from Holland; Hazel Spencer, visiting teacher message leader; fifth from the left: Charlotte Spencer, a convert from Germany, in charge of lunches; twelfth from the left: Noonie V. E. Garfield, a convert from South Africa; sixteenth from the left: Mary Schindler Neilson, guest reader; seventeenth from the left: Dorothy Y. Dye, guest soloist; eighteenth from the left: Susanna Kruys, a convert from Holland, Magazine representative. Standing, left to right: Annie M. C. B. Overdick, a convert from Holland; fifth from the left: Nina W. Poole, chorister; left to right, from Sister Poole, Relief Society officers: Maud 'T. Harrison, Secretary-Treasurer; Blanche $. Haymond, First Counselor; Ruth Lillian W. Harris, President; Virginia D. Young, Second Counselor; Elva T. Cowley, Stake Relief Society Counselor; Katherine S. Smith, work meeting leader, and twentieth from the left: Donna Y. Cook, author and reader of original poem. President Harris reports: ""I'wo former visiting teachers, Eva B. Groesbeck, eightynine years old, and Bell Barton, eighty-seven years old, were honored on this occasion. Both have served the Church throughout their long useful lives. Sister Groesbeck has given sixty-eight years of service as a visiting teacher, commencing her Relief Society work at the age of seventeen, at which time her mother was released as president of the Eighteenth Ward Relief Society. Bell Barton learned to sew at the age of seven years, using the first sewing machine brought to Salt Lake City. She is a former instructor in sewing at the University of Utah, and still finishes the edges of our quilts as they are taken off the frames. Both Bell and Eva were born in the little home that still stands on the corner of ""B" Street and Third Avenue in Salt Lake City, and have lived there until two years ago, when they moved to a small apartment nearby. "All present were inspired by Sister Groesbeck as she expressed her gratitude for her early training in righteous living, and we counted our blessings as we listened to stories of carrying water from the well and milking cows on the grounds where modern apartment houses now stand. "Donna Y. Cook, in an original poem, paid tribute to the visiting teachers. There are eight foreign-born converts to the Church among our visiting teachers, but several were absent when the picture was taken." Vivian R. McConkie is president of Ensign Stake Relief Society. 688 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1956 Photograph submitted by Alta Fuhriman NAMPA STAKE (IDAHO) WORK MEETING, April 19, 1956 Kneeling in front, left to right: Clara Adamson; Ella Fair Foster; Helen Young. Standing, left to right: Vella Moon; Mary Ferrell; Winnie Andrews; Mavis Humphreys; Margaret Hook; Carrie Pierce; Larue McKnight; Melba Reynolds, Work Director Counselor; Hyla Clopicr, with baby; Oneta Burman; Gladys Egbert, project supervisor; Anna Peay, work meeting leader; Alta Fuhriman, President, Nampa Stake Relief Society. Sister Fuhriman reports that this all-day work meeting was spent in refinishing furniture. Meetings of this type are held in Nampa Stake four or five times a year during the lesson months of Relief Society. Each work director counselor and work meeting leader is invited to attend. Each meeting features a different art or craft, which is later presented in the wards by the ward work meeting leaders. Photograph submitted by Mona H. Brown TWIN FALLS STAKE (IDAHO) VISITING TEACHERS LUNCHEON AND CONVENTION, June 5, 1956 Front row, seated, left to right: Clois Owens (a visiting teacher for thirty years); Katie Clawson (thirty years); Jeweue Cook (twenty-eight years); Jennie Hansen (forty years); Ellen Owens (forty-two years); Jane Gardner (fifty-five years); Lenore Carroll (forty years); Bertha Mae Hansen (thirty-three years); Emma McArthur (forty years); Geneva Moyes (thirty years). Back row, standing, left to right: Goldie Tolman (twenty-eight years); Zenia Egbert (thirty years); Winiefred Whitehead (thirty-four years); Emily Anderson NOTES FROM THE FIELD 689 (thirty-four years); Robina Adamson (thirty-four years); Maude Crump (forty years); Mary Stanger (thirty-five years); Nettie Jenkins (thirty-five years); Wera Holland (thirty-one years). Mona H. Brown, President, Twin Falls Stake Relief Society, reports: "The Twin Falls Stake and twelve ward Relief Society organizations held a visiting teachers luncheon and convention, June 5, 1956, in the Twin Falls stake house. Musical numbers and four skits showing the correct method of visiting teaching and presenting the stake visiting teacher message for the summer months comprised the program. Eighty per cent of the total number of visiting teachers (320) in the stake were present. All visiting teachers with twenty-eight or more years of service were honored. Phot graph submitted by Rue Del Makelprang NORTHERN CALIFORNIA MISSION, ORLAND BRANCII CLASS LEADERS AND VISITING TEACHERS HONORED AT CLOSING SOCIAL, June 12, 1956 Front row, seated, left to right: Theresa Sims; Neola Hallows; Mary Williams; Nadine Crisaffi; Joan Watson; Lizzie Johnson. Second row, standing, left to right: Martha King; Marna Linzy; Vearl Hassard; Irma Angus, recently released as president of the Shasta District Relief Society, now a class leader; Vada Malnar; VerLee Schenk; Hannah Bihler; Goldie Tracy. Back row, standing, left to right: Leola Jacobson, First Counselor and visiting teacher; Mabel Heaton, President; Jennie Parker, Secretary and visiting teacher. 'This small Relief Society. With a membership of fourteen, has a Singing Mothers chorus, and every member sings in the group. Amelia P. Gardner is former president of the Northern California Mission Relief Society. The recently appointed president is Hazel Sperry Love, Photograph submitted by Minnie L. Angus ROOSEVELT STAKE (UTAH), NEOLA WARD RELIEF SOCIETY HONORS ELDERLY MOTHERS Front row, seated, left to right: Amanda Duncan; Addie Peterson; Eliza Mitchell; Hattie Gurr. Back row, standing, left to right: Elizabeth Prescott; Christa Leavitt; Jennie Woodward; Catherine Whitmore. These mothers, all of them more than sixty-five years old, were especially honored by the officers of the Neola Ward Relief Society and each was presented with a lovely handmade corsage. Minnie L. Angus is president of Roosevelt Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Celeste D. Millerberg EAST JORDAN STAKE (UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS UNITED FOR TWENTY YEARS Front row, seated, left to right: Retta Griffiths; Edith Beckstead; Hazel Anderson; Anna Drake; Sarah Sjoblom. Back row, standing, left to right: Hattie Scoggan; Nina Larson; Merle Nickleson; 690 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1956 NOTES FROM THE FIELD: 691 Elsie Peckham; Lodema Jensen; Amanda Johnson; Eddly Peckham; Ethel Jackson; Connie Mathews; Mary Orton; Vera Jenkins. These Singing Mothers have been united in musical activities for twenty years. However, the original ward in which they began their activities has been divided so many times that it is now impossible for them to sing as representatives of a particular ward, but they are continuing their musical activities in the wards where they reside. They meet together three or four times a year for socials and renew the ties of music and friendship which have so long bound them closely together. Members of the group not present when the picture was taken are: Merle Stow, Vasta Wanberg, Jane Thomas, and Bertha Eggleson. Celeste D. Millerberg is president of East Jordan Stake Relief Society. October Vesta N. Lukei The white oak flings autumn fire Against the mountain slope, Its leaves as bright as young desire That burns with dreams and hope. This flaming hour is gold and brief, As fragile as first love. Keep love alive, though soon the leaf Falls softly from above. Sunflowers Luella N. Adams Along the highways and byways Blooming in profusion gay, The cheery, sturdy sunflowers Brighten each summer day. Their faces aglow with sunshine, These common yellow flowers Expect no tender care, they flourish Through drouth or freshening showers. In summer, nectar for honey bees; Come autumn, their precious seeds Provide a feast for chickadees; In winter, squirrels feed. Sunflowers, commonplace, you say, Blooming in wild profusion; The Creator with common things This miracle world did fashion. LESSE N DEPARTMENT Sheology—Characters and Teachings of The Book of Mormon Lesson 44—The Fall of the Nephite Nation As Recorded by Mormon Elder Leland H. Monson (Text: The Book of Mormon: Book of Mormon, chapters 1-7; Moroni, chapters 7-9) For Tuesday, January 8, 1957 Objective: To show how continued wickedness destroys a nation when it does not repent. HE Book of Mormon which follows Fourth Nephi was written by Mormon, the son of Mormon, who was a descendant of Nephi. This same Mormon abridged the large plates of Nephi on gold plates which he himself made and thence the entire abridgment of the history of the Nephites which was translated by the Prophet Joseph Smith goes by the name 'The Book of Mormon. In Mormon's writings on the history of the Nephites which he personally witnessed (from about 322 A. D. To 400 A. D.) Mormon recounts the fall and virtual extinction of the Nephite nation. Records Entrusted to Mormon Mormon was born into an environment that could have made him an unbeliever, a skeptic, a man of the world. During his lifetime the Nephites and the Lamanites Page 692 were living in sin and abomination. Mormon says, *. A continual scene of wickedness and abominations has been before mine eyes ever since I have been sufficient to behold the ways of man" (Mormon 2:18). It was a period of superstition, idolatry, and_ self-indulgence. Witchcraft, sorcery, and magic abounded among the people. It was in this world of magic, human sacrifices, and unrestrained indulgence that Mormon lived, not an environment to encourage the elevation of the human spirit or the expansion of the human mind. Mormon was born about 311 A. D. He was named after the land of Mormon where Alma baptized and established the Church. (See 3 Nephi 5:12.) In 321 a. V. Ammaron, keeper of the sacred records, came to Mormon, who was then ten years of age, and said: LESSON DEPARTMENT I perceive that thou art a sober child, and art quick to observe; Therefore, when ye are about twenty and four years old I would that ye should remember the things that ye have observed concerning this people; and when ye are of that age go to the Jand Antum, unto a hill which shall be called Shim; and there have I deposited unto the Lord all the sacred engravings concerning — this people. And behold, ye shall take the plates of Nephi unto yourself, and the remainder shall ye leave in the place where they are; and ye shall engrave on the plates of Nephi all the things that ye have observed concerning this people (Mormon 1:2-4). The following year when Mormon was eleven, his father took him southward to the land of Zarahemla (Mormon 1:6). It was a densely populated area, with a people who are described as being "... As numerous almost, as it were the sand of the sea" (Mormon 1:7). Mormon Forbidden to Preach Because of the Nephites' Wickedness In that year, a war broke out in the borders of Zarahemla by the waters of Sidon between the Nephites and the Lamanites. The Nephites, with an army of over thirty thousand, overcame the Lamanites and restored peace for a period of four years. Concerning the state of wickedness that existed at that time among the Nephites, Mormon wrote that:.. Wickedness did prevail upon the face of the whole land, insomuch that the Lord did take away his beloved disciples, and the work of miracles and of healing did cease because of the iniquity of the people. And there were no gifts from the Lord, and the Holy Ghost did not come upon 693 any, because of their wickedness and unbelief (Mormon 1:13-14). At fifteen years of age amidst these conditions, Mormon "... Was visited of the Lord, and tasted and knew of the goodness of Jesus" (Mormon 1:15). Mormon tried to preach to the people, but he was forbidden because they had willfully rebelled against God. The Nephites suffered because of the hardness of their hearts and the Lord ¥ cursed the land for their sake." Their treasures ''... Became slippery..." as the Gadianton band was renewed. And it came to pass that there were sorceries, and witchcrafts, and magics; and the power of the evil one was wrought upon all the face of the land, even unto the fulfilling of all the words of Abinadi, and also Samuel the Lamanite (Mormon 1:19). Mormon, large in stature in his sixteenth year, was called to lead the armies of the Nephites. The Nephites retreated before the armies of the Lamanites and lost a fortified city and other lands. Finally, they gathered in the land of Joshua on "... The borders west by the seashore," (Mormon 2:6) in one body. They still refused to repent, even in the midst of "... A revolution throughout all the face of the land" (Mormon 2:8). In 330 a. The Nephites, with an army of 42,000, defeated King Aaron of the Lamanites with an army of 44,000. Then followed a period of repentance from which Mormon took joy: But behold this my joy was vain, for their sorrowings was not unto repentance, because of the goodness of God; but it was rather the sorrowing of the damned, because the Lord would not always suffer them to take happiness in sin. 694 And they did not come unto Jesus with broken hearts and contrite spirits, but they did curse God, and wish to die. Nevertheless they would struggle with the sword for their lives.... My sorrow did return unto me again, and I saw that the day of grace was passed with them, both temporally and spititually; for I saw thousands of them hewn down in open rebellion against their God, and heaped up as dung upon the face of the land. And thus three hundred and forty and four years had passed away (Mormon 2:13-15). Mormon Leads the Nephites By 345 a. P. The Nephites were again fleeing from the Lamanites, this time to the Land of Jashon, near the place where Ammaron had hid the records in the Hill Shim. By this time Mormon had taken the plates of Nephi and had engraved thereon a full account of all the wickedness and abominations, but upon "these plates" [the abridgment] he engraved only a_ part (Mormon 2:18). In the future, Mormon tried to encourage the Nephites to fight. With thirty thousand they defeated a Lamanite army of fifty thousand. By 349 A. V. The Nephites again had possession of the lands of their inheritance. A treaty of peace in 350 A. D., however, divided the inheritance and gave to the Nephites ".,. The land northward, yea, even to the narrow passage which led into the land southward..." (Mormon 2:29). Mormon records: And it came to pass that the Lord did say unto me: Cry unto this people — Repent ye, and come unto me, and be ye baptized, and build up again my church, and ye shall be spared. And I did cry unto this people, but it was in vain; and they did not realize that RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1956 it was the Lord that had spared them, and gianted unto them a chance for repentance. And behold they did harden their hearts against the Lord their God (Mormon 3:2-3). In 360 aw. The king of the Lamanites sent an epistle to the Nephites telling them that they were preparing to attack the Nephites. Three times Mormon "... Delivered them out of the hands of their enemies..." (Mormon 3:13), but they still refused to repent. In fact, they swore:... By the heavens, and also by the throne of God, that they would go up to battle against their enemies, and would cut them off from the face of the land. And it came to pass that I, Mormon, did utterly refuse from this time forth to be a commander and a leader of this people, because of their wickedness and abomination (Mormon 3:10-11). Nephites to Be Destroyed At this time the voice of the Lord came to Mormon, saying: Vengeance is mine, and I will repay; and because this people repented not after I had delivered them, behold, they shall be cut off from the face of the earth (Mormon 3:15). Mormon writes:... I utterly refused to go up against mine enemies; and I did even as the Lord had commanded me; and I did stand as an idle witness to manifest unto the world the things which I saw and heard (Mormon 3:16). Mormon Addresses Future Generations Therefore, Mormon then says:... I write unto you, Gentiles. Unto you, twelve tribes of Israel, who shall be judged according to your works by the twelve whom Jesus chose to be his disciples in the land of Jerusalem... LESSON DEPARTMENT unto the remnant of this people... That ye may know that ye must all stand before the judgment-seat of Christ, yea, every soul who belongs to the whole human family of Adam... To be judged of your works, whether they be good or evil. And also that ye may believe the gospel of Jesus Christ, which ye shall have among you; and also that the Jews, the covenant people of the Lord, shall have other witness besides him whom they saw and heard, that Jesus, whom they slew, was the very Christ and the very God (Mormon 3:17-21). Nephites Wage War of Revenge In 363 a. V. The Nephites went to battle against the Lamanites, otherwise "... The Lamanites could have had no power over them. But behold, the judgments of God will overtake the wicked; and it is by the wicked that the wicked are punished..." (Mormon 4:4-5). Now Mormon wrote: And it is impossible for the tongue to describe, or for man to write a_ perfect description of the horrible scene of the blood and carnage which was among the people, both of the Nephites and of the Lamanites; and every heart was hardened, so that they delighted in the shedding of blood continually. And there never had been so great wickedness among all the children of Lehi, nor even among all the house of Israel, according to the words of the Lord, as was among this people (Mormon 4:11-12). A Mormon. Seeing that the Lamanites were about to overthrow the land..." (Mormon 4:23) went to the Hill Shim and_ removed ",.. All the records which Ammaron had hid up unto the Lord" (Mormon 4:23). Mormon repented of the oath he had made that he would not help the Nephites any more and again he led their armies. Mormon, 695 however, was without hope, for they would not even call upon God. Record to Testify of Christ Mormon wrote he could not describe the bloodshed and carnage, but he said that:.. These things are written unto the remnant of the house of Jacob.... And behold, they shall come forth according to the commandment of the Lord unto the unbelieving of the Jews; and for this intent shall they go—that they may be persuaded that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of the living God; that the Father may bring about, through his most Beloved, his great and eternal purpose, in restoring the Jews, or all the house of Israel, to the land of their inheritance, which the Lord their God hath given them, unto the fulfilling of his covenant; And also that the seed of this people may more fully believe his gospel, which shall go forth unto them from the Gentiles; for this people shall be scattered, and shall become a dark, a filthy, and a loathsome pcople, beyond the description of that which ever hath been amongst us, yea, even that which hath been among the Lamanites, and this because of their unbelief and idolatry (Mormon 5:12-15). Nephites Fight Last Battle Around Hill Cumorah In 380 aw. The Lamanites came in such great numbers that they defeated the Nephites. When 384 years had passed away since Christ's birth, Mormon, by means of an exchange of letters with the king of the Lamanites, had gathered in all his people around about the Hill Cumorah. 'The Nephites, 230,000 strong, were soon engaged in deadly conflict with the Lamanites. Mormon writes:. When we had gathered in all our people in one to the land of Cumorah, 696 behold I, Mormon, began to: be old; and knowing it to be the last struggle of my people, and having been commanded of the Lord that I should not suffer the records which had been handed down by our fathers, which were sacred, to fall into the hands of the Lamanites, (for the Lamanites would destroy them) therefore I made this record out of the plates of Nephi, and hid up in the hill Cumorah all the records which had been entrusted to me by the hand of the Lord, save it were these few plates which I gave unto my son Moroni (Mormon 6:6). A dreadful battle was waged and, at the conclusion of the battle, all the Nephites had fallen except twenty-four who were with Mormon (including his son Moroni), and a few who had escaped into the south countries and a few who had joined the Lamanites. Mormon uttered an anguished lament as he saw the fallen of his people. (Read Mormon 6:16-22.) Mormon Admonishes Lamanites of Latter Days The seventh chapter of Mormon is addressed to the Lamanites of this day, calling upon them to repent and be baptized and "... Lay hold upon the gospel of Christ, which shall be set before you..." (Mormon 7:8). Chapter eight of the Book of Mormon begins the writings of Moroni, the son of Mormon, who tells us that his father Mormon was killed by the Lamanites. Moroni tells us "Behold, my father hath made this record, and he hath written the intent thereof..." (Mormon 8:5). Mormon's Teachings on Faith, Hope, and Charity In the Book of Moroni, we find that Moroni presents some teachRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1956 ings of his father, Mormon, on faith, hope, and charity in Moroni, chapter seven. These teachings and writings reveal the great revelations which came to Mormon on the subjects of faith, hope, and charity, culminating in the statement not found in Paul's epistle to the Corinthians: But charity is the pure love of Christ, and it endureth forever; and whoso is found possessed of it at the last day, it shall be well with him (Moroni 7:47). Two Letters of Mormon to His Son Moroni In addition to writing his abridgment of Nephite history and attaching the small plates of Nephi to his record, Mormon wrote seven chapters of the Book of Mormon and the "Words of Mormon." The Book of Moroni also contains two letters which Mormon wrote to Moroni found in Moroni chapters eight and nine. In chapter eight Mormon states that little children have no need of repentance or baptism; and in chapter nine Mormon, after relating atrocities committed by the Lamanites, gives to Moroni "A Father's last and affectionate admonition." Mormon's Abridgment of the Plates of Nephi Mormon abridged the large plates of Nephi. Making the abridgment was a tedious process. Using the large plates of Nephi as source material, Mormon compiled the _history of the Nephites and Lamanites from the time they left Jerusalem in 600 B. C. Until 385 A. D., a period of almost a thousand years. Mormon did not claim perfection for his work. (See 3 Nephi 5:8-26; LESSON DEPARTMENT Mormon 9:32, 33.) Moroni, Mormon's son, relates that his father used reformed Egyptian because Hebrew required too much space. He further states that if Mormon could have used Hebrew there would have been no imperfection in the record. To Mormon, the saints today owe an eternal debt of gratitude for his work in their behalf in the latter days. 697 Questions on the Lesson 1. Discuss the fulfillment of the prophecies of Samuel and Abinadi. 2. What kind of sorrowing did the Nephites express for sin? 3. What work did Mormon do with records? 4. When does God withdraw his spirit from us? What is the result? 5. Discuss Mormon as a_ scholar? A leader of men? A religious leader? Visiting Seacher Nlessages— Book of Mormon Gems of Truth Lesson 44—"And Wo Be Unto Him That Will Not Hearken Unto the Words of Jesus, and Also to Them Whom He Hath Chosen and Sent Among Them; For Whoso Receiveth Not the Words of Jesus and the Words of Those Whom He Hath Sent Receiveth Not Him; and Therefore He Will Not Receive Them at the Last Day" (3 Nephi 28:34). Leone O. Jacobs For Tuesday, January 8, 1957 Objective: To point out that hearkening to the words of Jesus and to the words of those whom he has chosen to lead the Church are required of Latter-day Saints. N the above quotation Mormon gives us two closely related principles fundamental to our Church. The first one is that if we accept Jesus as the Christ, we must also accept his words and his doctrine. Jesus and his words are inseparable. He is what he has taught. Secondly, it is required that we wholeheartedly accept those who are ordained to act as his representatives and that we accept their words. This acceptance is an indication that we accept the Lord and his words. In the General Church Conference of April 1955, Elder George Q. Morris stated:. It is our most serious duty in life to know him [the Lord] and love him... The Lord Jesus Christ is not on trial before the world.... The world is on trial before the Lord Jesus Christ, and we will have to account for the attitude taken toward him and his message, and we cannot accept him without accepting his principles and his doctrines. Another thing that the world must understand if they will know the truth... Is that those who receive or reject the teachings and testimonies and admonitions of the servants of God receive or reject the Lord Jesus Christ. He said to the seventy when he sent them out to preach the gospel: "He that heareth you heareth me; and he that despiseth you despiseth me..." (Luke 10:16. 125th Annual Conference With Report of Discourses, pp. 101-102). 698 Sometimes the payment of tithes is mentioned as being an indicator of faith and adherence to the commandments of the Lord. Likewise the sustaining of the Authorities of the Church is an indication of faith in the divinity of Christ. It has been stated that the first step to apostasy is criticism of the Authorities. In Discourses of Brigham Young we read: When a man begins to find fault, inquiring in regard to this, that, and the other, saying, "Does this or that look as though the Lord dictated it?'' you may RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1956 know that that person has more or less of the spirit of apostasy.... If the people would live their religion, there would be no apostasy and we would hear no complaining or fault-finding (Discourses of Brigham Young, pp. 83-84). Let us rejoice that in the Church we have great and good men to lead us — men chosen of God who have his authority to further his purposes. In the Doctrine and Covenants we read:. My word shall not pass away, but shall all be fulfilled, whether by mine own voice or by the voice of my servants, it ls the same (D. & C. 1:38). Work Tleeting— Food Preparation and Service (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 4—Breads Rhea H. Gardner For Tuesday, January 8, 1957 HE smell of freshly baked bread in the home once was a common occurrence. 'Today, comparatively few homemakers take the time to make bread, in spite of the fact that homemade bread is still one of the surest routes to a man's heart, and very nutritious. Anyone who is willing to practice and follow a few simple directions can make good bread. Equipment and Supplies Needed The right kind of equipment will help to assure good results. You will want equipment for making accurate measurements. An earthenware bowl or plastic crock helps to keep the temperature of the dough more nearly constant than do metal containers. Fill the container with warm water when you start to make the dough, so it will be warmed through when needed. A canvascovered kneading board makes it easier to work dough without sticking. Keep the dough as soft as possible for each handling. A soft dough makes better bread and rolls than does a stiff one. Rub flour into the canvas or on the board before you start kneading. Ingredients Good bread may be made from hard or from soft wheat flours. Allpurpose or family flours are made from a blend of wheat. Breads made with milk have more food value than do those made with water, and they stay fresh longer. LESSON DEPARTMENT Moreover milk gives the bread a more velvety texture. Fresh liquid milk, evaporated milk, or powdered milk, all make good bread. Fresh milk should be scalded, but evaporated and dried milk do not need to be. Yeast grows best in an even temperature of 80° F. Try to have all the liquids which are used near this temperature and keep dough as near this temperature as possible at all times. Shortening makes the gluten mesh-work of the dough more elastic, so the gas can expand freely and easily. Salt helps control fermentation and improves the flavor. Sugar is the food from which the yeast plant makes the leavening gas and also aids in the development of a good brown crust. One tablespoon for each cup of liquid is sufficient for plain bread. Kneading Proper kneading makes the cell walls thin and tender, as well as more elastic. If you will let the dough rest ten or fifteen minutes after you mix the ingredients together, and before you start kneading, the dough will be less sticky and easier to handle. Learn to knead the dough quickly and easily. If the dough seems tense and hard to handle during the kneading, instead of elastic and pliable, pick it up and throw it hard onto the kneading board a few times. 'This will relax the dough and shorten the kneading time. Continue the kneading rhythm ten or fifteen minutes or until the dough is smooth and satiny and has many little blisters just under the surface, and it feels springy and elastic and does not 699 stick to the canvas nor to your hands. Oil the inside of the bowl or crock with a thin film of melted fat. When the kneading is finished, put the dough into the oiled bowl or crock. Turn the dough over, so there will be a film of fat on the top. Cover tightly and keep away from drafts. 'The dough is ripe and ready to be punched down when doubled in bulk. Punch the dough, all around, a few times with the hand, then turn it over with the smooth side up. Let double in bulk again. Molding Do not put fat on your hands before molding the loaves, or you may have streaks of fat where the dough will not seal together. 'This will leave cracks inside the finished loaf. Place the molded loaves into oiled tins. Cover with a thin damp cloth and let rise until ripe for baking or double in bulk. Keep the cloth moistened while the loaf is rising, so the dough will not dry out. Bake in preheated oven. Baking Time The baking time varies with the altitude. The higher the altitude, the longer will be the baking time. Sweet breads and fancy rolls require a lower baking temperature (375°) than that recommended for plain bread (400°). When bread has baked long enough, it will shrink slightly from the sides of the pan and sounds hollow when you thump it. Remove it from the tins onto cake racks and, when thoroughly cool, store in a cool place. In the mean- 700 time, however, if at least part of a loaf disappears, ask no questions. Hot bread, in company with fresh RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1956 butter, honey, cold milk, and anyone with an appetite for the best in food, just doesn't keep long. Note to class leader: If possible, arrange for the following: 1. Have the ingredients ready for making a dough to use to demonstrate before the class; 2. Have one batch of bread already mixed ready for kneading; and 3. A loaf of baked bread to show the results of the correct methods of baking. Note "Recipes for Bread and Rolls," by Rhea H. Gardner, page 668, in this issue of the Magazine. Ob iterature—Shakespeare in Our Lives Lesson 4—The Moral Shakespeare Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Text: Shakespeare Major Plays and the Sonnets, by G. B. Harrison, Harcourt, Brace & Company, 1948) For Tuesday, January 15, 1957 Objective: To show that in his plays the artist Shakespeare reveals himself as a typical Elizabethan who, among many other values, knew and loved the Bible and its moral teachings; therefore he defined Truth truly. 667 ET'S play house." Thus in unashamed delight our children escape into the never-never world of play. And "make-believe" for them is so charmingly simple, since it comes with complete spontaneity. Without doubt, the world of fantasy feeds their deepest, most real hungers, and the chant, "Mommy, tell me a story" echoes down the ages as proof that humankind, at least, in its unspoiled innocence, has no question about the superior values of living in the play-world which is only a miniature of grownup actuality. Why else do little girls cherish dolls and tiny stoves "that really light up," while little boys mirror their fathers almost to make fathers ashamed, demanding saws and hammers, model trains and planes, submarines and _torpedoes and, now, jets? The Function of Art Whenever we yield and tell our children a story, we fulfill the same relation to them as our artists do to us. It has ever been thus, and, to judge from the booming presentday sale of classical records, radios, TV's, magazines, and books, and attendance at movies and concerts, that need is a consistent one. As modern man's leisure increases, so does his need for entertainment, most of which is concerned with recreating reality in a more personal, condensed, memorable form than our rather monotonous, daily life. Yes, indeed, this is the timeless function of art: to recreate (or to interpret) the shapeless, massive reality which surrounds us, into a new form, which is colored by the artist's own personal perspective and values. Or in Shakespeare's own LESSON DEPARTMENT words, his purpose is "to hold the mirror up to nature, as 'twere." And, inevitably, this mirroring of nature includes his own nature too. A play is more than anything an art-form: it mirrors reality as the author sees it, neither as good nor bad, but as real. Shakespeare is our greatest writer, not because he is our greatest thinker or philosopher, but because he is the fullest, best artist; that is, he understands all humanity deeply, and can express his understanding in living images and language within his chosen medium of expression. But the characters whom he has created are not great because they are true to life: they are immortal because they fulfill their artistic function in the passage or play in which they appear. Most important, the play, as Shakespeare well knew, must be true to its own nature. A great play is "an expanded metaphor," to use Wilson Knight's excellent term. It has a soul, a purpose, a reality of its own which are not the same as those we know in life. In real life we rarely speak soul-to-soul with each other; compared to figures in a drama, real people are quite silent and retiring. And it is the very function of plays to erect this art-work which in fery phrases, sings out in the language of the soul which most of us conceal. Hamlet, for example, could never occur in real life, yet he is the greatest success on the stage, for there he exemplifies within himself almost all human emotions, bewilderingly yet really condensed. Like all of Shakespeare's greatest dramatic creations, he is the poetic, artistic shape given by his creator to 701 a universal conflict, emotion, or thought. Shakespeare's Sources Perhaps the most popular but distracting hobbyhorse in the study of Shakespeare is the attempt to "explain" him. Since he was relatively unschooled, not a nobleman, and had no power nor influence outside the theater, it becomes a great temptation to point out what influences dominated him, and to reveal the sources of his ideas, skills, and beliefs. In Lesson Two a scant introduction into this world was attempted, not in an effort to give Shakespeare sources, but to give ourselves sympathy and understanding. Only after such an introduction can we begin to see that Shakespeare, like every successful artist, cannot escape recording the spirit and texture of his day, but he does this secondarily; all his art and power begin in his own emotion and vision. As he succeeded magnificently in recording himself, then, did he record his age? Yes, evidences of Plato, Ovid, Plutarch, Holinshed, Dante, Copernicus, Machiavelli, Montaigne, Chaucer, and the Bible, have been found in his work; he incorporates all these, and he is none of them only. It is worth noting that, of all these books, only Holinshed's Chronicle and Chaucer are "English"; all sources of his knowledge were derived from other cultures, including the Bible. Although more than ten different translations of the Bible had been made into English since William Tindale's first translation in 1526, the Geneva 702 translation (1560) was the one Shakespeare undoubtedly knew best. We cannot know with certainty whether the Bible was taught in Stratford grammar schools, — or whether he came to know the Bible so well through attending church services and travelling cycle plays, which dramatized those episodes from the Old 'Testament which Shakespeare' used in his __ plays; namely, Dives and Lazarus, Adam and Eve, Cain and Abel, Solomon, Job, Daniel, Herod, Judas and Pilate, the fall of Lucifer, the serpent in the Garden, the Flood, Moses and the Red Sea, etc. Most commentators agree that, as did the average Elizabethan gentleman of his time, Shakespeare knew his Bible well (actually he quoted from or made allusion to forty-two books of the Bible and six of the Apocrypha); they also agree that his images drawn from Biblical history were few in comparison with his extensive use of other image-sources, but that his frequent allusion to Biblical phrases and figures of speech is often passed over by the reader who does not know his Bible as well as Shakespeare obviously did. For example, Shakespeare does not mention Joshua when in King John he alludes to the sun's standing still, or when, in The Tempest, Caliban recalls Jael's driving a nail into the head of Sisera. Richard III prays that the Lord may not hear women complaining with God's appointed leaders in the same tone as Shimei had cursed King David; Richard II contrasts Christ's reception of little children with his advice to the rich young man who asked what he must do to be saved. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1956 When Bottom, in A Midsummer Night's Dream, says, "The eye of man hath not heard, the ear of man hath not seen, man's hand is not able to taste, his tongue to conceive, nor his heart to report, what my dream was" (Act IV. 1:216), he' makes an absurd comparison to I Corinthians, 2:9. In 2 King Henry VI, Il. I.34, the king says "For blessed are the peacemakers on earth," obviously referring to the Sermon on the Mount. Richard IT paraphrases Luke 18:25: As hard to come as for a camel To thread the postern of a small needle's eye.... V.5 Job, Ecclesiasticus, Proverbs, and the Psalms—by the frequency of his quotations from them—seem_ to have been Shakespeare's favorite readings, surely for the pleasure he found in the word, as well as for the beauty of the truth which they contain. And while Shakespeare did not quote from the Bible in any such quantity as did his contemporary, Bacon, Shakespeare's genius is again revealed in the use he did make of quotations used, as exemplified above. Never does he misinterpret the Bible, as did Bacon, but, so accurately did he sense its intent and absorb its spirit, that his writings preserve its original flavor as well as the truth of its great teachings. Shakespeare was also greatly indebted to his predecessors and contemporaries in the history of the English theater—the morality and cycle plays, the interludes, Seneca, Lodge, Nashe, Green, Kyd, Marlowe, Beaumont and Fletcher, but, though he borrowed from some and LESSON DEPARTMENT imitated others, they are not Shakespeare, individually or collectively. His plays are loaded with references to contemporary events and personalities. His largest, most pressing concern was to please a penny-paying audience next and every 'Tuesday; this he succeeded in doing only by making his plays contain the throbbing heart of Elizabethan England. How else could he appeal through the years to a zestful people who loved laughter, boldness, courage, display, and sensation, who were prosperous, hot-headed, industrious, devout, patriotic individuals? The age gave Shakespeare his materials and themes. Yet it was his own high gifts as poet and _playwright which gave these "things" shapes and identities. As he himself tells us of the function of a poet, "And as imagination bodies forth the forms of things unknown, the poet's pen turns them to shapes, and gives to airy nothing A local habitation and a name" (A Midsummer Night's Dream, V. 1:14). The "Real" Shakespeare Genius speaks to genius. One of the most piercing critical comments on Shakespeare is that of John Keats: "Shakespeare led a life of allegory; his works are the comments on it." 'Thus the "real" Shakespeare is the sum total of his plays, his poems, and his sonnets. The "real" Shakespeare is the comprehensive, universal observer who saw into all men's hearts and transmuted his living, contemporary values both of personality and of belief, into immortal art. Surely contemporary accounts are 703 "real." Without exception each recorded description refers to him as "our Shakespeare" or "my Shakespeare." Aubrey, the son of one of his fellow-players spoke of him as "a handsome, well-shaped man, verie good company, and of a verie ready, and pleasant and smooth wit." Ben Johnson disagreed fiercely with Shakespeare's dramatic theories, yet Shakespeare was one of the few friends with whom Ben _ never quarreled, and he said of him, "I loved the man and do honor his memory, on this side idolatry, as much as any." It is important to know that Shakespeare's plays fall into three groups which reveal much of his personal outlook. The first large, experimental period, ending in 1601 when he was thirty-seven, contained Senacan spectacle plays, light comedies and romances, and_histories. 'The second, or dark period, extended from 1602 to 1608, when he wrote but two comedies and all his great tragedies, including Timon of Athens, so bitter in its denunciation of humanity that it is not considered a successful stage-play and is rarely presented. The final period, ending in 1612, includes Cymbeline and The Tempest, two of his happiest, warmest works; this, then, is a period of reaffirmation and expanding belief in the goodness of man, nature, and life. That he stopped writing when he was only forty-eight, right at his peak, when honor, success, and material return were sweetest, is worthy of note. But we must go one step further. If the "real" Shakespeare is to be found only in his plays, to 704 which real Shakespeare do we refer? 'The common error in eighteenth and nineteenth century criticism was to create Shakespeare in the image of the critic's own personality and prejudices, which makes much of this criticism worthless. Even in the present day, he is claimed by every group, but, for every claimant, evidence can be found in the plays which cancels out any such slanted approach. For, if the plays are acceptable evidence, Shakespeare knew Catholicism and Anglicanism and Puritanism; he could have been all or none. No one has been more in love with love, yet no writer has so heartily condemned the shortcomings of woman. Some find in him the stirrings of democracy, yet none feared the undisciplined mob more than he: it merited his entire contempt. His Henry V has been described as the pure epic of English patriotism, yet he uses Falstaff to poke the bitterest fun at all those who honor the military. If Shakespeare is the characters he creates, then in one creation he is honest, in another lying and _ treacherous. In one play he is mad, in the next a fool. But why go on? Any and all are his creations; and insofar as each makes his soul-language contribution to the artistic whole, that character should be considered part of the "real" Shakespeare. The Moral Shakespeare These moral laws Of nature and of nations speak aloud.... Troilus and Cressida, II. 2.184 The more one reads Shakespeare, the more one realizes that: RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1956 It is not enough to speak, but to speak true. A Midsummer Night's Dream, V. 1.120 In his estimates of what is true in nature and man, Shakespeare has offered that as good which most men who define humanity as optimistic and noble also call good. Often as artist he has been concerned only to present every shade and depth of life without pronouncing moral judgment, yet from his tone and from the imagery which fulfills his unconscious intent, we come to feel that we can know the inner spirit of the man. Not only could he see more of life's contradictions, pleasures, and pains than other men, but he had courage to present with balanced fairness all phases of life. Often in the most dismal of tragic scenes he uses humor as a means of interpreting life and adjusting to it, for instance, the grave digger dialogue in Hamlet. Often, like the Elizabethans for whom he wrote, he has his characters laugh at their own weaknesses. But, in contrast to most of his contemporaries, he is always, in the final analysis, wholesome. Always in Shakespeare: Love surfeits not, lust like a glutton dies. Venus and Adonis, 803 Never is illicit love presented as healthy, nor even as cause for jokes and amusement. Samuel 'Taylor Coleridge, certainly the most important Shakespearean critic of his time, understood who Shakespeare was, for he wrote: Shakespeare has no innocent adulteries, no interesting incests, no virtuous vice; he never renders that amiable which religion and reason alike teach us to detest.... LESSON DEPARTMENT If he occasionally disgusts a keen sense of delicacy, he never injures the mind; he neither excites nor flatters passion in order to degrade the subject of it; he does not use the faulty thing for a faulty purpose, nor carries on warfare against virtue by causing wickedness to appear as no wickedness through the medium of a morbid sympathy with the unfortunate. In Shakespeare vice never walks as in twilight; nothing is purposely out of its place; he inverts not the order of nature and propriety.... Shakespeare saw evil in the world and depicted it honestly as evil. He does not blame sinners; instead he pities them, holding their sins, and indeed, all evils as corrupting diseases on the body of the world, which must be stamped out if the world is to remain normal and good. How well he knew that: The web of our life is of a mingled yarn, good and ill together (All's Well That Ends Well, IV. 3). Yet in his impersonal artist's approach, he could depict Shylock's cruelty and greed and cunning—all of which Shakespeare hated most— with such sympathy for the man they controlled, with such self-identification with Shylock's suffering that, despite Shylock's brutality, Shakespeare brings us to feel that he was wronged. Such compassionate identification with the vile and evil in man is one of Shakespeare's surest qualities of greatness. Centures before the cult of lipstick triumphed, Shakespeare had Lear's wise fool observe that: There was never yet fair woman But she made mouths in a glass. King Lear, III.2.35 Anyone who knows woman-na- 705 ture this well, cannot surprise us with insights into human nature's moral depths. Sometimes he states his point almost flatly, and often he clothes his abstract concepts of right and wrong in vibrant, cutting imagery: Plate sin with gold And the strong lance of justice hurtless breaks. Arm it in rags, a pigmy's straw does pierce it. King Lear, IV.6.169 How well the perceptive Shakespeare knew the frailty of human justice, which is easily blinded by the sins of the wealthy, but prone to jump onto the tiny sins of the defenseless, uninfluential poor. Shakespeare thus remains our greatest writer, not only because of his superb word-skill, but because, knowing mankind so deeply, he defined the true moral truths of man and God as the truths he honored; likewise his definition is that of all moral men in the western tradition of man. Had it been otherwise, Shakespeare could never have become the supreme spokesman for the enduring heart of mankind. In truth, his judgments constantly reflect the great moral values of justice and compassion and humility which represent the English Bible at its best. Perhaps the greatest tribute to Shakespeare is that, increasingly, we feel his constant humility before the task of depicting all humanity. And because he succeeds so well in subduing his I-ness, his works are left free to speak for themselves. Never, as Christopher Marlowe observed, have we had such "infinite 706? Riches in a little room." And perhaps, in this discussion of the soul of Shakespeare, Coleridge, because of his insight and high seriousness, again deserves the last word: I speak reverently, does God choose idiots by whom to convey divine truths to man? RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1956 Thoughts for Discussion 1. Why may the artist's truth seem truer than "actual" day-to-day truth? 2. Prove that Shakespeare knew the Bible well. 3. Can the "real," enduring Shakespeare ever be pinned down in a definition? 4. How can a writer who is held to be moral still see evil in the world about him and present it unflinchingly in his art? Soca, Science—Latter-day Saint Family Life Lesson 3—The Key Is Turned Elder John Farr Larson For Tuesday, January 22, 1957 Objective: To show significant steps in the organization of the Relief Society and the opportunities for service found in its objectives. And I now turn the key in your behalf in the name of the Lord, and this Society shall rejoice, and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time henceforth.. HE organization of the Relief Society, under the hand of the Prophet Joseph Smith, was in fulfillment of a revelation of the Lord. That its organization was inspired is evidenced by its accomplishments over a century of service. Within its stated objectives are found unlimited opportunities for personal improvement and _ service. The year 1842 was one of great progress for the Latter-day Saints. It is described, in part, by the Prophet Joseph Smith. On March 1, 1842, he wrote his now famous "Wentworth Letter' (Ibid., page 536). In response to a request of Mr. John Wentworth, editor of a Chicago newspaper, the Prophet sketched the history of the Church, and, in summarizing our beliefs, set. (Joseph Smith, April 28, 1842, D. H. C., IV, page 607). Forth our "Articles of Faith." After describing the terrible mob attacks of 1838 he wrote:. We arrived in the state of Illinois in 1839, where we found... A people who were willing to be governed by the principles of law and humanity. We have commenced to build a city called '"'Nauvoo"... We number from six to eight thousand here, besides vast numbers in the country around.... We have a city charter granted us, and charter for a Legion... For a University, for an Agricultural and Manufacturing Society, have our own laws and administrators, and possess all the privileges that other free and enlightened citizens enjoy (D. H. C., IV, page 540). Brief review should now be made of the last lesson in which is described the status of women in the early part of the 19th Century. It LESSON DEPARTMENT was in this setting of limited legal, social, and economic position, with persecution and violence resting, that on March 17, 1842, eighteen women were organized as the Female Relief Society of Nauvoo. Shortly before this time, some of the women had expressed a desire for an organization of their own, and some preliminary steps had been taken by them, even to drafting a constitution and by-laws for a proposed organization. None of them, however, had contemplated the breadth of the Relief Society as envisioned by Joseph Smith. Latter-day Saint Women Unusual Early latter-day Saint women were superior women. Nowhere could there be found another group of women who had endured so much persecution and sorrow, who, in spite of this, were so well tempered by the gospel. The calibre of the women is well described in the Prophet's Annals of March 24, 1842: Our women have always been signalized for their acts of benevolence and kindness... In the midst of their persecution, when the bread has been torn from their helpless offspring by their cruel oppressors, they have always been ready to open their doors to the weary traveler, to divide their scant pittance with the hungry, and from their robbed and impoverished wardrobes, to divide with the more needy and destitute (Ibid., pp. 567-568). He further writes:.. And we are well assured from a knowledge of those pure principles of benevolence that flow spontaneously from their humane and philanthropic bosoms, that with the resources they will have at command, they will fly to the relief of the stranger; they will pour in oil and wine to the wounded heart of the dis- 707 tressed; they will dry up the tears of the orphan and make the widow's heart to rejoice (Ibid., page 567). Characteristic of the Latter-day Saints, complete minutes were kept of the organizational meetings of the Relief Society and much of the information in this lesson has been taken from this source. Significant Observations Three significant observations are noted in the organization of the Relief Society: (1) The importance of authority is shown in its organization under the direction and after a pattern of the Priesthood. (2) Within the circumstances © surrounding the organization we find another principle, that of revelation. (3) The purposes and objectives of the Relief Society, as stated by the Prophet, indicate a keen understanding of the needs of people, and, in light of present-day problems, demonstrate their practical durability. Organized By Priesthood The Relief Society was organized under the direction of the Priesthood of God. The Prophet Joseph Smith, who held the "keys" of the Priesthood, personally conducted the organization. He requested John 'Taylor, who later became President of the Church, to assume © the chair, and appointed Willard Richards to act as scribe. President Smith gave detailed instructions to the women in parliamentary procedures. How strange this would have seemed to other women, not members of the Church, who were seldom recognized in this way. Each person who became a member was voted upon by all other members, thus stressing the importance at- 708 tached to membership and underlining common consent. Emma Smith was selected as President of the Relief Society, and she chose Sarah M. Cleveland as her first counselor, and Elizabeth Ann Whitney as second counselor. Eliza R. Snow was selected secretary. (For further interesting details of the organization see Ibid., pp. 552, 567; A Centenary of Relief Society, pp. 14-18.) Fulfilled Revelation The organization of the Relief Society fulfilled a revelation of the Lord. In addressing the newly organized Female Relief Society— and this was often his forum—the Prophet referred to Section 25 of the Doctrine and Covenants, dated July 1830. This was a revelation of the Lord for the benefit of Emma Smith who at that time was a young woman of twenty-seven years. In the revelation the Lord referred to Emma as an "elect lady" and said that she would be "... Ordained under his hand to expound scriptures, and to exhort the church, according as it shall be given thee by my Spirit" (D. & C. 25:7). The Prophet at the pigenieanen of Relief Society said: I gave much instruction, read in the New Testament, and Book of Doctrine and Covenants, concerning the Elect Lady, and showed that the elect meant to be elected to a certain work, &c., and that the revelation was then fulfilled by Sister Emma's election to the Presidency of the Society (D. H. C., IV, pp. 552- 553)- Other significant words of the Lord are found in this revelation as follows: And verily I say unto thee that thou RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1956 shalt lay aside the things of this world, and seek for the things of a better.... Wherefore, lift up thy heart and _ rejoice, and cleave unto the covenants which thou hast made. Continue in the spirit of meekness, and beware of pride. Let thy soul delight in thy husband, and the glory which. Shall come upon him. Keep my commandments continually, and a crown of mghteousness thou shalt receive. And except thou do this, where I am you cannot come. And verily, verily, I say unto you, that this is my voice unto all (D. & C. 25:10, 13-16). Although this revelation was given to Emma Smith, note the Lord's word "... That this is my voice unto all."" These words and this experience must have given great encouragement to these women. Purpose of Relief Society The purposes of the Relief Society, as stated by the Prophet Joseph Smith, have endured the test of time, and today still stand as worthy objectives. At the meeting on March 17, 1842, the Prophet said the Relief Society was organized:. That the Society of the sisters might provoke the brethren to good works in looking to the wants of the poor, searching after objects of charity and in administering to their wants—to assist by correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of the community, and save the elders the trouble of rebuking; that they may give their time to other duties, etc., in their public teaching (Relief Society Minutes, March 17, 1842, Centenary of Relief Society, page 15). Subsequently he mentioned other objectives, including _ self-improvement, that of reforming individuals, and the practice of holiness. LESSON DEPARTMENT It is interesting to observe that the purposes of the Relief Society are stated in the affirmative while a characteristic of most of the early women's organizations, usually reflected in their name, was that of being ''anti" to some thing or condition. Possibly this might explain why so many of these organizations have long since dissolved and one reason why the Relief Society has continued to be a vital organization through the years. In spite of great sociological advances in the 114 years since the organization of the Relief Society, seldom have there been greater opportunities for service than today. Many service areas, _ particularly those of a temporary nature, have changed very little over the years. For example, the necessity for help when death attends, for encouragement when sickness and sorrow are present, and for teaching the gospel to others, are as vital today as at any previous time. Neither has the need for stimulation to good work and approbation for accomplishment abated. Latter-day Saints have made tremendous inroads in solving many of the social problems of the day. The Gospel Plan throws light upon the solution of others. The challenge of the Relief Society objectives is shown by a consideration of some problems upon the American scene. The comments to follow are intended only to demonstrate the existence of some current vital problems and to stimulate thought on Relief Society objectives. Some Objectives Applied "In looking to the wants of the poor" are we sensitive to needs other than financial? Placing food in 709 the stomach and clothes upon the back should be only the beginning of our concern. What of character, self-reliance, and encouragement? Are all needy receiving attention? If we are truly "searching after objects of charity and administering to their wants" we will lend our stimulation to the search for knowl edge with which to help man. In stretching the life span, new problems have been added to those of the aged. We need to examine their needs in light of our time. The prevalence of mental illness today suggests the need of further research. Little progress has been made in eliminating causes of mental illness, although treatment facilities and technique have made great strides. Disease, as known a century ago, is almost gone, but even a casual observation reveals "gaps" for which knowledge is greatly needed. The development of transportation and communication media have had the effect of breaking down the influence of the home and consequently accentuating the need "to strengthen the virtues of the community." Many communities show a distressing lack of interest, to say nothing of the absence of "know how," in changing or eradicating those conditions which give rise to many evils of this day. The break-down of family life is at a new high, both in divorce and near divorce, with all the heartaches and misery that attend such tragedies. The high incidence of crime, particularly among young people, is a distressing challenge to all. In most communities are found destructive influences, the elimination of which would do much to reduce youth's 710 TWO AND THREE PART Christmas Cantatas FOR WOMENS VOICES icienz) = a a aes.90 pall CHILD OF BETHLEHEM (2)— Walter oo... Eee.90 = CHIMES OF THE HOLY NIGHT 0) oo) | -) 90 Ps CHRISTMAS MESSIAH (2)— Handel ooo. Lee ee eects 90 secon DAWN OF CHRISTMAS (3)— oe —.90 -. HEAVENLY CHILD (3)—Hamblen..1.00 co MUSIC OF BETHLEHEM (2)— Holton..... A.90 ae PREPRAE HIM ROOM (3)— a Coke | (-\.90 ae SAVIOUR IS BORN (3)—Gray........75 aa SONG OF THE HOLY NIGHT (2)—Wilson _........ Eeee esse eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee 90 _ SONG OF THE HOLY NIGHT (3)—Wilson _o. Eee eects ene 90 = THIS IS NOEL (3)—Davis.0..........1.25 ae WONDROUS STORY (3)—Kountz...60 Music Sent On Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY; 15 E. Ist South i Salt Lake City 11, Utah Please send the music indicated above. (J On Approval O Charge Cl Money Enclosed Name Address: City & State Daynos Mice | TTT ls E. Lst South. Sal Labs 145 NORTH UNIVERSITY, PROVO of 2860 WASHINGTON GUD. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1956 problems. As a democratic society, we lack an awareness of the power of personal influence, for good and evil. 'The influence of a true Latter-day Saint is more than that of suggesting good conduct, and this is important, but the greater value comes in stimulating inquiry into | the gospel, thus opening the door for others to obtain a knowledge of the truth. Mothers of the Church, who are keeping the commandments, are "practicing Holiness" and personify all of the noble virtues. It is their influence that exerts a tremendous impact "in strengthening the virtues of the community." In a complex society, such as ours, the need for self-improvement is felt by most people. 'The very essence of the gospel suggests self-improvement. Not only in the sense of doing right as opposed to doing wrong, but in being able to do all things better. Whether this is in the art of homemaking, of understanding our children and_ their problems, or of improving our skills and knowledge, it is basic in the Gospel Plan. Self-improvement is consistent with perfection, a goal of the Gospel Plan. Much has been accomplished since the organization of the Relief Society. Much is left to be done. The door of service is open to all who desire to enter. The objectives of the Relief Society have been declared by the Lord, through the Prophet Joseph Smith and his successors. For each member, under the inspirational direction of leaders of the Church, there are limitless opportunities for service and personal growth. LESSON DEPARTMENT Supplementary References 1. "A Visit to Relief Society Headquarters" — Leone O. Jacobs, Relief Society Magazine, March 1953, page 150. 2. '"Woman's Influence" — President David O. McKay, Relief Society Magazine, December 1953, page 790. Questions for Discussion 1. Describe the legal, social, and ecclesiastical setting for the Relief Society organization. 2. What were the distinctive characteristics of Latter-day Saint women at the time of the organization? 3. Why was the organization such a significant step forward? What new opportunities did it open up for Latter-day Saint women? 4. Discuss the three significant observations made of the Relief Society organization. 5. Discuss the purposes of the Relief Society and how they have stood the test of time. Do the objectives offer challenges today? COSTUMES We will be able to supply any of the costumes for Relief Society plays and pageants. Mail orders will be promptly filled. American Flag We are also the headquarters for the American Flag. Please write or phone THE SALT LAKE COSTUME COMPANY 248 South Main Street Salt Lake City, Utah Phone: EM 3-1031 or EM 3-9842 7a HAWAII Sailing from Los Angeles November 9, 1956 Why not join this fine group? Write for Program ~ THE LOS ANGELES TEMPLE Christmas Tour Cr»! Our 1957 Program Will Soon Be Out Write or phone for complete details. VIDA FOX CLAWSON 966 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah Phone EM 4-2107 CAMPUS SEARS ROEBUCK AND. CO. | Saddle Oxfords Girls' classic in fine soft leather. Sizes 5 50 e 812 to 4. 712 ORDER NOW YOUR MUSIC FOR THE SINGING MOTHERS FOR SPECIAL EVENING SERVICE November 4th Teach Me, O Lord—S. S. A. By Hamblen....20¢ each Plus Postage "Our Service Counts" GLEN-BROS. MUSIC CO. 74 So. Main, Salt Lake City, Utah It's awaiting @ You... YES there is still a tremendous amount of outstanding instruction and use awaiting you in this and other copies of the Relief Society Magazine. Your editions may be handsomely bound at the West's finest bindery and printing plant for $2.50 cloth bound and $3.50 leather bound per volume plus postage for mail orders. All mail orders must be paid in advance. Follow these postage rates if you send your order by mail: Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Up to 150 miles 150 to 300 miles.... 300 to 600 miles.... 600 to 1000 miles.... 1000 to 1400 miles.......-..........200--0-- b 1400 to 1800 miles................------.--0+ A Over 1800 miles...................-.-------- 4 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-258] 31 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1956 Winter Table Arrangements Elizabeth Williamson OW is the time to think about making winter arrangements and dried bouquets for your home. Try to get out before the heavy rains begin and the snow covers the dry summer weeds and grasses. Gather armfulls of materials, tie them in bundles, and hang them from the ceiling of your storeroom for future selecting. Look for unusual and interesting pieces of dead wood. If you are near the sea, pick up driftwood. If you are not entirely inspired by nature, drop by the library and look through the innumerable and beautifully illustrated books on dried flower and plant arrangements. Some of the recent Japanese arrangement books are helpful. Simplicity is the key word. Remember this, and you will select from your har- | vest a few choice specimens and arrange them so that they become part of your home and your personality. You will find the effort to be worth the field trips. Often in your home among your possessions you will find choice pieces of china, pottery, or glass which may be used as accessories with your arrangements. A tiny blue horse with a piece of | gray weathered driftwood and stalks of dried barley or wheat in an old glass pitcher are unusually attractive. Try different effects. The colors of dried plants, wood, and grasses are neutral, so they will blend harmoniously with many color schemes. Remember, too, that a few sprays of 'wheat or grass are a lovely accent with late-blooming fall flowers, Two important NEW ARCHAEOLOGY! An AND THE BOOK OF MORMON Book of N Mormon President Milton R. Hunter President Hunter relates exciting experiences and enlightening discoveries made "Book of Mormon Lands" interest. Exact publication date will be announced later. His recent tour of Mexico and Central America. His findings support the truths in Book of Mormon scriptures. Numerous photographs, in both color and black and white, pack this book with timely ~ Archaeology and the $4.50 2 connate RESEARCH IN AMERICAN GENEALOGY E. Kay Kirkham This wonderful new guide offers excellent suggestions on how to start the genealogical record, make and take notes, do research by correspondence, and many other aids. It contains county histories for all 48 states, a special treatise on State census records, and additional or sie =a | DESERET BOOK COMPANY | | 44 East South Temp'e | Sa't Lake City, Utah USE CONVENIENT | Gentlemen: Enclosed you will find ( ) check ( ) money | bered) books: 1 2. BY MAIL I | OPEN A HANDY NEU ccccsccececeseeeseceeneevecetcessenerenecteeeeneenteertnneunenetanseceegptnte CHARGE ACCOUNT J Address ooo. | | City oe cece ee eceeeee ee eeeeeeceeeeenenee Zone...... State... Eeeeeeee! I Residents of Utah include 2° sales tax. Information for immediate finger-tip use. $4.00 | BOOK PUBLISHERS 44 East South Temple -- Salt Lake City. Utah COUPON TO ORDER | Amount enclosed $..........2... Cccccccecesseeeececeeeceeeenee I order ( ) charge to my account for the encircled (pum- | | | | The football suit — sizes too big; the skinned knees and bruised cheeks suggest greater things to come. It won't be long before he'll desert the backyard scrimmage for the crowd-filled stadium. He may be a backfield star, a cheerleader, or the mascot... But he'll be in college, and sooner than you think. This thought needn't frighten you if you've provided well beforehand — and the best time is now — with Beneficial's Planned Futures Life Insurance Program. Give your friendly Beneficial agent a call soon, and let him help you work out your own Planned Future. FREE BOOKLE Send for your free copy of the booklet, "Planned Futures." "= It tells how you can best help your child plan and train for the career of his choice. Prepared in cooperation with staff members of the Student Guidance Center, University of Utah. BENEFICIAL LIFE Company Salt Lake City, Utah BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. Beneficial Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Please send me a copy of your free | \ \ I \ 1! Booklet, 'Planned Futures." | i \ ' Street or RFD.. — | Susurance ot 5. Zone.... State.............. | David O. McKay, Pres. Motherhood... A PARTNERSHIP WITH GOD Compiled by Harold Lundstrom Every Latter-day Saint mother will want to read this delightfully inspiring book, the first book ever written entirely for ted Oe Morel benitabery mothers. This authoritative volume contains the words of the General Relief Society Magazine and The Children's Friend which deal with chastity, how to dress to conform to LDS standards, courtship and marriage, wifehood, responsibilities of motherhood, and many other pertinent topics. BOOKCRAFT PUBLISHERS TO THE L. D. S. TRADE 1186 SOUTH MAIN e IN 7-7911 +3 50 Authorities and choice editorials from the solve your gift problems... Learn from America's foremost instructor, "INEZ" @ classes begin nov. 7 @ continue for 4 days @ 10 a. M. To noon @ 2 p. M. To 4 pom. This is a real opportunity with Christmas juste ahead! A chance to learn the art of Textile Painting in a few short lessons. It will help you solve many of your gift problems for the holidays. Learn to paint onalmost anything, including: cloth, wood, ceramic, etc. Enroll now! Classes are free! Come in now and register in the art-needlework department, second floor November Afternoon Margery S. Stewart What is this golden tide of life That flows and falls In golden shallows and the flaming leaf? That spins and curves, Turning and reaching on the crimson vine? These shaken fields, harvested, Hold as in cupped hand the invisible Fountain and the springing air. What is this never-ceasing miracle That holds and molds The autumn, yet frees it from Chains and boundaries and labor? Shocks in the field murmur In wind-whispers, pumpkin carries Its own secret of being, The oak tree shakes down tomorrows. This beautiful moving power Builds and breaks And will not have done with beauty, But burns on hills a thousand Candles, shimmers in nooks, leaps Purple in the evening bracken, moves Through the day-shine, pushing Aside leaves to begin building April. The Cover: Kalau Valley, Kokee, Kauai Photograph by Charles M. Kaneyama Submitted by Caroline Kilauano Frontispiece Photograph: "Autumn Field," Photograph by Josef Muench Cover Design by Evan Jensen From Near and Sar A friend of mine obtained a copy of the August Relief Society Magazine to tread "Navajo Flute" (the August frontispiece poem). Now, I have reread the poem a number of times. It intrigues me, it is so outstanding — an excellent specimen of rhythmical euphony. It is so typically Indian that one feels it could have been written by one of that race. As Alice Reynolds (former editor of The Relief Society Magazine) would have said, "It has poetic essence." I desire to congratulate Hazel Loomis on the production of such a beautiful achievement. —Grace Ingles Frost Provo, Utah When I opened the August issue of The Relief Society Magazine, I was so impressed seeing the pictures of the wives of the General Authorities of the Church and reading their messages to the women of the Church. I wished that I could tell each one how much I appreciated her contribution. The Magazine has been in my home since the first publication and has been read and appreciated through the years. I enjoy every department and look forward each month for the next issue to come. —Lulu H. Bringhurst Lovell, Wyoming These wonderful Magazines! From them I glean inspiration, hope, and courage. The editorial page alone is worth more than I can mention. "Frontiers" by Vesta P. Crawford, in the July issue, gave me courage to go forward in pioneering a cause long neglected: that of calling the family members of Lorenzo Hill Hatch together to do honor to this faithful, courageous grandfather who was a great pioneer of several states: Utah, Idaho, New Mexico, and Arizona. —Blanche H. Woodland Logan, Utah I can't tell you how very much we enjoy your wonderful Magazine. It is filled with inspiration. We read it from cover to cover. —Rose D. Hardy Minneapolis, Minnesota Page 716 We all love the Magazine and have such a high regard for the material which has been published that we have over a period of years collected the back Magazines for binding. Many kind sisters have helped us by donating their Magazines, until we now have a copy of every number which has ever been published, excepting February and June of 1915. If any sweet sister has these numbers and would be willing to part with them, we will be more than willing to buy them and will be forever grateful. —Alice I. Ferrin President Gridley Stake Relief Society 545 West - 8th Street Chico, California The August issue of the Magazine was an inspiration to me. The faces of the General Authorities are quite familiar to me, so now I have had the added opportunity of seeing the faces of the good women who are their companions. The light of faith shines radiantly from every loving countenance. 'Thank you so very much for everything that is published each month. The Magazine is truly an inspiration. —Mary Y. Stokes La Mesa, California Here, in Madrid, Spain, we are without a Relief Society as yet, but the Magazine helps to take its place. I look forward to it and receive much comfort from the leaders of our wonderful organization. I especially enjoyed the August issue, with the wonderful thoughts from the wives of our General Authorities. Each issue is filled with ideas and lessons for better living and for teaching our children to become good men and women. —Thora A. Youngberg Madrid, Spain I would like to thank you for the wonderful Magazine. It gives me so much help and inspiration. I couldn't do without it. —Marilyn Giles Idaho Falls, Idaho THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - - - - - - - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - - - First Counselor Velma N. Simonsen - - - - - Second Counselor Margaret C. Pickering - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Evon W. Peterson Alberta H. Christensen Edith P. Backman Edith S. Elliott Louise W. Madsen Mildred B. Eyring Winniefred S. Florence J. Madsen Aleine M. Young Helen W. Anderson Manwaring Elna P. Haymond Annie M. Ellsworth Mary R. Young Leone G. Layton Christine H. Robinson Charlotte A. Larsen Blanche B. Stoddard RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford Assistant to the Editor - - - - - - - - June Nielsen General Manager - - - - - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Vol. 43 NOVEMBER 1956 No. 11 Con tents SPECIAL FEATURES Delbert L. Stapley 718 Preston R. Nibley 724... Belle $. Spafford 8 Developing Safeguards for Youth The Hawaii Mission Report and Official Instructions Beauty Is More Than Skin Deep FICTION One Bright Star Heart's Bounty—Chapter 6... Myrtle M. Dean 730 Deone R. Sutherland 750 GENERAL FEATURES From Near and Far Sixty Years Ago Woman's Sphere. Editorial: A Home for Relief Society Ramona W. Cannon 737 a. Vesta P. Crawford 738 Dedication of The Relief Society Building to Be Featured in December Magazine - 740 Birthday Congratulations....... C. Ecccccssscsesecesecceneeseesececeseescesceessesssonsecseensnsasecasacenssnaeecaree 740 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities FEATURES FOR THE HOME Rozella Stringham Grant Makes Rugs of Intricate Designs Recipes From the Hawaii Mission Candy Recipes Recipes for Cheese Dishes Margaret C. Pickering 756 741 Maurine M. Haycock 744.. Mary J. Wilson 746 Rhea H. Gardner 754 LESSON DEPARTMENT Theology: Moroni Explains Principles and Ordinances of the Gospel............ Leland H. Monson 761 Visiting Teacher Messages: ''And It Came to Pass That There Was No Contention in the Land Because of the Love of God Which Did Dwell in the Hearts of the People"'.-Leone O. Jacobs 767 Work Meeting: Cheese Rhea H. Gardner 768 Literature: The Merchant of Venice Briant S. Jacobs 770 Social Science: Women and the Priesthood John Farr Larson 777 POETRY November Afternoon—Frontispiece Mountain Range Anniversary in Chrysanthemums The Tatted Lace Not Just the Heart Autumn Far Are These Ways Sketch for November The Almighty Autumn Mood Perennial Reluctant Season Margery S. Stewart 715 Leslie Savage Clark 722 Maryhale igelsey 723 Norma W. Wrathall 735 Catherine E. Berry 739 Gene Romolo 741 Alice Morrey Bailey 743 Lael W. Hill 755 Jessie Dagsland Johannessen 760 Vesta N. Lukei 766 Dorothy J. Roberts 783 Eva Willes Wangsgaard 784 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 40 North Main, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Josie B. Bay Notes to the Field: New Address for Relief Society 2.0.0 tesseececeeseeeeeeeeeeeeee Relief Society Souvenir Plate Available --2...... Cc: c: c-cccccesssessesesneneeeeeessuee Gladys S. Boyer 740 740 Developing Safeguards for Youth Delbert L. Stapley Of the Council of the Twelve Or of the serious problems confronting parents today is a growing tendency of moral laxity among youth. 'Too many parents are not fully aware that such a condition exists. 'Therefore, blind to the evils to which their children are exposed, unsuspectingly, therefore thoughtlessly, they contribute to an increase of immoral and sinful practices among them. Satan is not asleep during this age of freedom from restraints and fast living. But knowing his time is short and how best to attack the weaknesses of youth, he has cunningly schemed to take advantage of them. In a period when their developing emotions and physical attractions for the opposite sex begin to unfold. It is a new sensation and experience for which, with rare exception, young people are not prepared by proper and wise teaching to understand, therefore they have not developed adequate safeguards to control. Yes, Mothers, factual cases reveal an alarming breakdown of the true moral concepts of virtue so sacred and important to Church youth. The concepts of true modesty are disappearing in our present era of freedom in boy-girl relationships with abbreviated styles of dress which expose parts of the bodies that should be clothed as a protection against persons of evil mind and intent, who unscrupulously would take advantage without thought of cost to purity and cleanness of life, also of conscience. Page 718 May I suggest to you mothers the dressing of your daughters modestly. Give your daughters the protection modest dress invites. Immodesty is suggestive and in poor taste for the daughters of Zion. Encircle them always in the armor of righteousness to keep them free from undesired advances. The unrestrained freedom in early association of boys and girls without good teaching, counseling, and controls encourages familiarity and an open display of affection which leads too often to the intimacies of necking, petting, dare games, self-abuse, and immorality. Boys and girls are not only dating at very tender ages, but are pairing off as steadies and doing things together constantly, as monopolizing each other's dances, which build up familiarity, intimacies, and liberties that should signal caution to every parent. A police officer talking to a group said, "If you keep two young people close enough long enough, you are going to have difficulty." Desiring thrills is rather predominant in the lives of youth today. Automobiles used for parking on highways, in lonely places, and even in front of homes, are natural conveniences for necking and petting which induce youth to transgression and sin. Cars can be a curse as well as a blessing and are one of the greatest contributing factors to the downfall of youth in morals and the sacrifice of virtue. Cars and drive-in theaters can and do become DEVELOPING SAFEGUARDS FOR YOUTH brothels of sin to young couples alone in such darkened surroundings, with doors closed and windows up. So many of the motion pictures shown are of poor standard, emphasizing shapeliness of figure and are full of sordid and sexy scenes, which, in such an environment, arouse the physical emotions, and with the example before them on the screen cheapening morality, weaken the powers to resist the urge to sin. Young people are subjected to an abundance of trashy bookstand literature and novels that utterly disregard the commandments of the Lord relative to the relationship and association of the sexes. Modern philosophies of thinking tend toward materialism. As a result, youth become confused and frustrated. Many mothers, worried about the modern ways of courting in cars, are not wisely meeting the problem and question their right to limit and infringe upon the activities and social life of their children. Parents and Church leaders shy away from teaching young people the place of sex in dating and in growing up. Therefore, when emotional conflicts arise in the boy-girl relationships, and being without proper knowledge or understanding of moral principles and good standards of behavior nor fully realizing the consequences for violation of God's law of chastity, they, in a moment of weakness, commit sin. Later, they awake with an alarming realization of its seriousness, causing their souls to be filled with sorrow and remorse. Often they are unable to account for the act, for- 719 getting the emotional situation they had allowed themselves to get into. HIS soulful statement by a young girl is so often true: "We are not taught what chastity and morality really mean until it is too late." 'Then added, "When we girls were little and would ask questions about such things our mothers would say, 'shh, be quiet. You are not supposed to talk about such things.' So we read what we could from whatever source, then exchanged notes and ideas with each other. By the time we had developed physically, and had the urge to experiment and go out with fellows, we didn't go to our folks for help and information — we were afraid of being slapped down — so we just experimented some more until we had gone too far, or at least had guilt feelings, with no place to turn for help." Another girl explained, "Just a simple, honest answer to a few of my questions and problems which were so vital to me then may have made the big difference." Youth who sin often blame parents for not teaching them properly — the home failing to assist them in growing up emotionally, physically, and sexually. The subject is difficult to approach and somewhat distasteful, therefore it is neglected. Parents, no doubt, feel that they are inadequate to discuss such matters with their children because they lack an adequate vocabulary of moral terms that they can employ to advantage in such teachings. The primaty teaching place for standards of morality and chastity is the home. Therefore, parents cannot escape the responsibility of qualifying themselves to inform their children wisely, intelligently, and with understanding on these important, delicate matters, rather than permit them to learn from those whose concepts of right and wrong might be warped. OUTH should be taught early how to handle their emotions, parents revealing to them such facts as good judgment dictates they should know. The gospel with all of its truth should be put to work in a big way by parents when teaching children about these matters. Sex has a place in the gospel, and it is the job of parents properly to interpret it for the understanding of their children to encourage them to keep their bodies clean and pure and used only for the purpose for which God created them. Good teaching and proper motivation are essential in this important area of service to youth. Parents must teach morality as a gospel concept to their children. Virtue is in the great scheme of life as God has furnished the pattern. 'Therefore, teach. The value of the body, that it is an eternal habitation of the spirit. Young people should understand that truth, and thus gain the desire to keep the body clean, morally pure, and always clothed in righteousness, honorably fulfilling the purpose of its creation and thus be assured the joys of purity of life and clean conscience. Teach youth the reasons for the why of living a clean life. We are living in a modern world which cannot be changed. Young people must learn how to live in the presence of these modern conditions and still express a wholesome, integrated response to them. We should help build in each young person a set of standards and life objectives that would cause him to cut out the things that destroy and cultivate those that build security and happiness. Build up meaningfully the value of a clean life and make it desirable, attractive, positive, and inviting. Morality should not be taught always in a negative manner with emphasis upon its evils and _ remorses, but from a positive approach extolling the beauties and satisfactions of a virtuous, clean, moral life, for virtue is its own reward. Parents must recognize that their children are exposed to multiple kinds of activities in this modern world of amusements and commercialism that invite the temptation to sin. So many activities are shining allurements that appear attractive, but whose pathway, if followed, will undermine the _ basic qualities of good character and virtue. Somehow parents must succeed in teaching their sons and daughters chastity as a way of life despite the existence of these and other temptations to which they are constantly subjected. Young girls like to be popular and sought after. Often they falsely assume that in order to "arrive" they must yield to advances and intimacies of boys. What an indictment against parents who fail to teach and fortify their children to resist all advances and thus retain their honor, virtue, and good character which will be to their everlasting joy and happiness, 720 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1956 DEVELOPING SAFEGUARDS FOR YOUTH Mothers, how close are you to your daughters? Do you pal with them? Do they share their problems and secrets with you, knowing that they shall receive sympathetic understanding and helpful counsel and guidance? Or do they prefer to go to young people of their own age and social group or clique to unburden their hearts concerning personal problems and seek counsel and advice that should come from the home? 'Too many young people are afraid to discuss intimate matters with parents because they are shrugged off for lack of interest, or time, or it is something not to be talked about, when to youth it is important and maybe a pressing matter, a problem with which they are presently faced. A satisfying answer and wise direction may be needed to protect and safeguard them against pitfalls that might be imminent in their lives. Youth require understanding and help in the process of growing up, for it is the most critical and important time in their lives. ARENTS should constantly analyze the home to be sure it is an ideal home according to the highest Church standards, with a proper environment conducive to joyful and fruitful living. Does the home promote love and affection? Is there respect of children toward parents and parents toward children? Are the teachings of the gospel fully lived in the home? What about daily family prayer? Is the recommended weekly family home night religiously followed? Is the family home program of activities and functions occasionally revised 72) to meet the changing needs of children in growing up to enliven interest and promote development and progress in family and social relationships? Is the gospel taught and the principles of morality discussed in language that will interest youth and give them understanding to help them obtain the basic, wholesome satisfactions in life which include deeper fundamental loyalties such as love of God, love of the Savior, love of the gospel, love of the Church, love of fellow men, self-respect, the attainment of a happy marriage and an ideal family life, which provide a bulwark against material and worldly things? Are parents counseling, guiding, and assisting their children to find and cultivate wholesome Church companionships that will as far as possible assure dating with Latter-day Saint boys and girls that eventually will lead to their marrying within the Church, and properly in the temples of our God? Have parents worthily set the example of temple marriage before their children and honorably fulfilled all covenants and obligations received and accepted in the house of the Lord? Can these important responsibilities and opportunities for blessings mean any more to children than to parents? Parents should reflect back upon their own youth and activities. Problems are not so much different between then and now except in today's more modern world of fewer restraints and less inhibitions they are found in diverse and various dress which parents are not excused from knowing if they desire to give wise counsel and guidance to their sons and daughters. Can immorality be a contributing cause to fewer temple marriages? Do young people, and particularly those who have sinned, understand the principle of repentance and how it applies to obtain forgiveness for sins? If not, they may ignorantly assume all is lost and continue in their sins and thus lose opportunity for a fruitful and happy life. Parents should practically apply religion into family relationships and life, developing the art of living with children in love and helpfulness which represents a functional side of our religion. Religion should be on an_ understanding, practical plane where children can live and enjoy it. Parents should be careful not to domineer and unnecessarily restrict the wholesome and beneficial activities of Church, school, and the social life of youth. Admittedly, however, some restraints and rules of conduct for good behavior are required. There also should be a controlled pattern of parent activities to provide a rich home life and full association with children. If parents are out of the home too frequently or do not find opportunities for joint recreation and other satisfying activities with children, the teen-agers of the family are cast adrift and may seek satisfactions elsewhere which may not always be wholesome. Mothers, unless absolutely necessary, Should not obtain employment, but rather fulfill honorably their chief mission of wife, mother, and homemaker. What is more important or could pay greater dividends? 'The answer is obvious. Children should possess a constant feeling of security in the home. Strained relationships within the family or a feeling of insecurity within the home often leads a boy or gitl to seek associations where they feel they are loved and wanted, which could be among questionable associates. Permit children to feel free to bring their friends home to parties and socials after dates, and then the parents welcome and cordially help entertain them when wisdom dictates. It requires kindness, love, and comradeship on the part of the parents to solve the problems of youth. There should always be a close parent-child relationship, one where confidence rules supreme and where the rights and views of children are respected and listened to courteously in the spirit of helpfulness. Parents always must be alert to the needs of their children, and also wisely counsel them on how to protect themselves against sinful advances or compromising situations. > Mountain Range Leslie Savage Clark Silence Is here, and peace; Unmarked, the long years go, And time seems but a gust across The snow. 722 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1956 Don Knight CHRYSANTHEMUMS FOR THE LATE SEASON Anniversary in Chrysanthemums Maryhale Woolsey Bright in the rain of this November day They stand, their gold and bronze and ruby-red A brilliant canopy above the dead And sodden corse of summer's lush bouquet. They glow like gems among the leaden-gray Enshrouding mists of sunless afternoon; The rhythm of the raindrops' tuneless tune Is measured in their small, reluctant sway. I watch through tears—remembering how last You walked the paths chrysanthemums made gay: Caressing every bloom along your way, Smoothing its fringe of petals as you passed. "Childish..." I smiled—not wise enough to tell Your each touch coded parting, marked farewell. Page 723 Me Hemi Thission Preston R. Nibley HE work of preaching the gospel in the Hawaiian Islands began in the fall of 1850, when ten elders, who were temporarily located in California, were called to open a mission for the Church in what was then known as "the Sandwich Islands." 'These elders were: Hiram Clark (designated as the mission president), Henry W. Bigler, Thomas Morris, John Dixon, William Farrer, James Hawkins, James Keeler, Thomas Whittle, Hiram Blackwell, and George Q. Cannon. The missionaries sailed from San Pacific Skyways, Ltd. Submitted by Maurine M. Haycock Francisco on November 22, 1850, and arrived in Honolulu harbor on December 12th, after a voyage of twenty days. The day followin their arrival they climbed to the top of "Punch Bowl Hill," an extinct volcano near the harbor, where they built an altar of stones and dedicated the land to the teaching of the gospel and the establishment of the organizations of the Church. The first baptism took place on February 10, 1851, when Elder Clark baptized a native boy about LAUPAHOEHOE (LAVA LEAF), ISLAND OF HAWAII The homes shown in this picture were all swept away during the April 1946 tidal wave. The house on the end of the peninsula belonged to the branch president, Brother Akiona. Page 724 THE HAWAII MISSION Pacific Skyways, Ltd. Submitted by Maurine M. Haycock SNOW-CAPPED MAUNA LOA, ISLAND OF HAWAII sixteen years of age. Other baptisms followed, performed principally by Elder George Q. Cannon on the island of Maui. On August 6, 1851, the first branch of the Church was organized at Kealakou, island of Maui, by Elder Cannon. It was known as the Kula Branch. By September 1, 1851, the membership of the Church in the islands numbered 220; this number increased to 4,000 by the end of the year 1853. In 1854, while still on his mission, George Q. Cannon, assisted by several educated natives, translated The Book of Mormon into the Hawaiian language. The book was 725 published the following year in San Francisco. The work prospered and a temple was built, between 1915-1919, near the settlement of Laie, on the island of Oahu. Two stakes have been organized in recent years, Oahu and Honolulu. Today, there are approximately 7,000 members of the Church in the Hawaii Mission, located in fortythree branches. D. Arthur Haycock is the Mission President. Forty-one Relief Society organizations, with 810 members, were reported in December 1955. Maurine M. Hlaycock presides over the Hawaii Mission Relief Society. Note: The cover for this Magazine is a view of the Kalau Valley, Kokee, Kauai. See also "Recipes From the Hawaii Mission," page 744. Report and Official Instructions President Belle S. Spafford [Digest of an Address Delivered at the Officers Meeting of the Annual General Relief Society Conference, October 3, 1956] of the general Relief Society conference, is to present a brief report of the status of Relief Society as a whole as shown in the annual report, and to give to you sisters who are guiding and directing the work in the stakes and missions of the Church, a few instructions to aid you in the conduct of the work in the units over which you preside. Figures from the 1955 annual report are, in most instances, gratifying to us, as I am sure they will be to you who are responsible, in such large measure, for them. Ox of the important purposes General Board The general board has a present membership of twenty-four sisters, devoted to the work of Relief Society and tireless in their efforts to fulfill their many assignments. Since our last general conference we have lost by death, one of our number, Sister Mary Grant Judd, who served as a member of the general board for sixteen years. We mourn her passing, we miss her association and services, but we express our gratitude for her life and for her magnificent contribution to Relief Society. Organizations and Reorganizations We are gratified by the steady increase in the number of Relief Society organizations. At the close of Page 726 1955 there was a total of 223 stake Relief Societies. There were forty reorganizations in the stakes and seventeen in the missions. We acknowledge with appreciation the services of the sisters who have been released. We welcome those now called to these positions, and wish for them success and joy in their calling. Missions The work of Relief Society is progressing in the missions of the Church. Leadership among the local sisters is being developed. Effort is being made to standardize the work. Relief Society members are gaining in testimony and are happy in the work, according to reports from mission Relief Society presidents and others. Membership Figures for 1955 show a membership of 163,513, an increase over 1954 of 7,213. This was a somewhat smaller increase than was shown on the previous annual report. Our total enrollment represents only 48.82 per cent (less than half) of the potential membership. Average attendance at regular meetings for members represents 35.86 per cent of the enrolled members, a slight decrease under 1954. Membership and attendance are giving us some concern. REPORT AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS Educational Program I am sure we all recognize that the quality of the regular Relief Society meeting depends, in large measure, upon the quality of the lesson work. Courses of study are carefully planned to meet the needs of Relief Society women and to accomplish the purposes set for the educational program by the general board and the Church. Generally speaking, the more than 13,000 Relief Society class leaders throughout the Church are doing excellent work. The general board notes that an increasing number of classes dealing with Relief Society subject matter are being conducted by persons and organizations other than the general board. While we are happy to have class leaders increase their knowledge of subject matter through study and instruction, we remind you that attendance at special classes is entirely an individual matter, and not a requirement of the Relief Society.. This should be made clear to class leaders. Directives to be followed in teaching the Relief Society lessons come from the general board, approved by the Church Publications Committee, and should not be set aside in favor of instructions from other sources. No instructions should receive consideration over those given by the general board. Subscription to Instructor Not Required There is some misunderstanding with regard to the necessity of Relief Society class leaders subscribing to the Instructor. This is an excellent publication and one that would 727 be helpful to class leaders and profitable reading for all of us. However, it is not required that Relief Society class leaders shall be subscribers to this publication. Book of Mormon Reading Program The theology lessons for 1956-57 mark the conclusion of a six-year course of study on the Characters and Teachings of The Book of Mormon. It was the aim to have every Relief Society member read The Book of Mormon during this period of study. A record has been kept each year of the number of women who, during the year, read the section of The Book of Mormon covered by the year's lessons. The reports on 1955-56 show that in 1956 there were 49.7% of the sisters who read The Book of Mormon assignment—an increase of 51%. Next year you will be asked for two reports on The Book of Mormon reading program as follows: 1. The number of women who have read during the year the section of The Book of Mormon covered by the lessons for the year. 2. The number of women who during the six-year period or any portion of it have read the book in its entirety. This coming year is the last year to achieve our goal of having every Relief Society member read the entire Book of Mormon during the period of our study of it. We urge you to lend your earnest efforts toward the realization of this goal. Work Meeting Your efforts in behalf of the work meeting continue to bear fruit. For the second successive year it has been second only to the theology meeting in attendance. Visiting Teaching Visiting teaching figures for 1955 show an increase in family visits of more than 163,000 over 1954. Close to three million visits were made— an average of 8.35 per cent of our goal of twelve visits to each Latterday Saint family annually. This is an excellent record. Welfare Compassionate Services: The report of the compassionate services shows that careful attention is being given to these basic services of Relief Society. While there was an increase of only ten in the number of days care of the sick, it is attributed to the present-day trend of hospitalization for the sick. 'There was a decrease of twenty-two in the number of dressings for burial. 'This, too, is in line with decreasing requests for this service. Visits to the sick and homebound, however, showed, as we would expect them to do, a substantial increase of 12,421 or a total of 247,878 visits. Relief Society women are giving continued support to the Church Welfare Program, participating as they are called upon in sewing, in food processing, and in working on other welfare projects. Presidents are assisting the Welfare Program by taking storehouse inventories. Ward presidents made a total of 38,611 initial and follow-up visits to families in need under the direction of their respective bishops. It is important that the Society shall continue to meet its responsibilities in this important program. New Record Book Provisions A new Record Book will go into use in January 1957. With regard to recording participation in the Welfare Program, the new Record Book will call for some new information. In the space provided in the minutes of the monthly work meeting, you are asked to record the number of hours contributed to the Church Welfare Program by all females upon assignment by Relief Society. In crediting hours, any activity, the end result of which is for the General Church Welfare Program, should be counted; i. E., fund-raising events, sewing, food processing. (Hours spent at welfare meetings or in custom canning should not be counted.) Count as one hour any portion of an hour that is thirty minutes or more. Time less than thirty minutes should not be counted. The work director counselor should be made responsible for reporting to the secretary monthly, the total number of hours contributed. This information may be obtained at the completion of an assignment from the chairman or supervisor of the activity, or from the person filling the assignment. In past years, minutes of the last regular meeting in May, all summer work meetings, together with minutes for the October theology and work meetings, have been read at the October literature meeting. This infringes upon the time of the literature lesson in October and does not tend toward precise recording of minutes, since it is difficult for persons attending a meeting to retain details of it in mind for a long 728 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1956 REPORT AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS period of time. Therefore, the new Record Book is set up to allow for the reading, at each meeting, of minutes of the meeting immediately preceding. It is recommended that at work meeting, minutes be read following the opening prayer. March and November Sunday Night Programs The program to be presented later in this meeting will be sent to you to distribute to the wards for optional use on the Fast Sunday evening of March 1957. Instructions for presenting the program will be included. This will allow Latterday Saint women everywhere who have been unable to attend the Dedicatory Service of The Relief Society Building, to sense the significance of it and to partake of the spirit of this historic event. We hope the program will be enjoyed by the sisters everywhere who have so loyally supported the building program. The question has been asked as to what may be done where two or more wards meet in the same meeting house and, due to a Fast Meeting being held on the evening of Fast Sunday, time is not available to Relief Society to present the March or November programs. Issued by the general board. Sisters, sacrament meeting or Fast Meeting time has not been granted to Relief Society by the First Presidency. So where time is not available to you on the Sunday evening because of a Fast Meeting being held, you may have to forego the program unless you can present it at some other time. The program for March 1957, to which I have re- 729 ferred, could be used in the weekday Relief Society Anniversary observance. Magazine We are grateful for the excellent services of the Magazine representatives. As of December 31, 1955, there was a paid subscription list of over 138,096, an increase of 8,218 over the previous year. 'There were 204 stakes and 1,453 wards on the Magazine Honor Roll; fourteen missions and 486 branches. Music We are happy to report that there was at the close of 1955 a total of 2,005 Singing Mothers choruses in the stakes and missions. This is a delightful and satisfactory activity which brings with it spiritual and cultural benefits. 'The general board lends its full support and encouragement to Singing Mothers choruses. Correspondence Sisters, the individual general board members are anxious to be of help to you in your callings. However, we will appreciate having you address any correspondence related to Relief Society work to the general board and not to individual board members. Following _ this procedure places in our files a record of your requests and also of our answers to you. 'This is very important in the conduct of our work. We appreciate your service; we recognize your capabilities; we love you for your devotion to Relief Society, and we pray for you continually that the choice blessings of our Heavenly Father may be with you in your responsible callings. One Bright Star Myrtle M. Dean OE realized with a start that he J had lingered too long, and he had made a promise. He had promised Benjy and Maria, his little brother and sister, that he would hurry home after delivering his papers to help finish the Christmas decorations. They would be disappointed if he were late, for tonight was the last night for the Christmas decoration contest. It was all this brightness and beauty of the Christmasy things in the town that had made him forget; forget to go back to the dim little valley where he lived. It was all the glittering lights and shiny tinsel, the holly wreaths, and the loveliness of the carolers' voices on the streets, and the sight of the wonderful toys in the wide windows of the big stores. All these things had made him forget about Benjy and Maria, but now he suddenly remembered his promise about the star. "Oh, Joey, if we could only have just one really, shiny decoration from the store," Maria had said. "Just one — what would you choose, Maria?" Joey had asked. After a thoughtful moment, Maria had spoken, and her eyes had been wide and luminous. "One bright, silver star, Joey; one that we could put on the top of our tree." "No, we would place it high above our stable door, just like the star of Bethlehem," Benjy had said solemnly. Joe had promised then that he Page 730 would save enough money for a star. 'They would fix the stable, where they had kept a cow when their father was alive, to look like the stable at Bethlehem where the little Christ Child was born. All afternoon before Joey had gone to town for his papers, he and Benjy and Maria had scrubbed and brushed the cement floor until it was as clean as their mother's shining kitchen floor. Old Mr. Shelby had let them have fresh, golden straw to fill the manger and scatter like a carpet over the floor. They had made a shade of pretty blue crepe paper to go over the old lantern, and hung it to the rafters in the stable to cast a soft glow all around. In the manger they had placed a clean, soft blanket, and Maria had suggested that she wrap her big, old doll in her little quilt and place it on the soft straw in the manger. It would seem as if the Baby were there. Tonight was Christmas Eve, and they were going to play that they were really shepherds. Their mother had fashioned shepherd's robes from old bath robes of their father, and had found three bright scarves that she had worn when she was young, to wind about their heads like turbans. 'The boys had carved tall staffs from long oak sticks. "But I'm not a shepherd, I'm only a little girl," Maria had said, with a troubled face. ONE BRIGHT STAR "You can be a little shepherdess," her mother told her, smiling. "Six lambs don't make a very big flock of sheep for three shepherds to tend," Benjy had mused. "Well, we couldn't expect anyone to give us a whole herd of sheep. We were lucky that six orphan lambs strayed from the herd near our place, and the herder let us keep them to raise for our own," Joey declared. At home when they had been planning all this together, Joey had thought what fun it would be and had helped plan with enthusiasm, but now all the loveliness and sparkle, all the eager, bustling crowds in the town carrying gaily wrapped parcels, made a hollow emptiness inside him. He felt a drabness about the little house in the valley that was his home, the valley that was so dim and quiet compared to this bright town. | io forced himself to turn away from the lovely window and hurried inside to buy the silver star. He had carefully kept a quarter to pay for it. He chose a large star and turned it over and over to catch the light upon it. It looked shiny and beautiful. As he hurried down the street homeward, he held the thin parcel tightly in his hand, thinking of Maria's shining eyes when she had asked for the star. At the edge of town he paused briefly to look back. The lights had all been turned on now and the town looked like a Christmas fairyland. Outside the town many of the homes were beautifully decorated. One large place now held him spellbound. Myriads of colored 731 lights were strung over the house and flooded the evergreens and shrubs about the grounds. 'There were groupings of figures about the lawn; shepherds watching — their sheep, three camels carrying Wise Men, who were richly robed. On one side of the walk was a manger scene. In the background soft music was playing recordings of sacred Christmas songs. Joe's spine tingled as he saw it all. He inched closer and stood close to the house with solemn eyes. "Don't come bothering here," he heard a stern voice speaking. "Oh, I didn't mean to bother, Sir, I only wanted to look. It is so pretty." The man leveled an unkind gaze upon him. "You had better be on your way. It's time you were home on Christmas Eve. I don't want anyone standing around. 'The contest judges should be here any minute now." Joe turned away and thought bitterly, why did we think that we could make a decoration for a contest? It takes lots of money to make a beautiful decoration like this one. Maybe the judges won't even come out to the valley. 'There are so many lovely places to see here. Joe hated to have Benjy and Maria disappointed, but now he was hoping that no one would know about their decoration, the old stable, the orphan lambs. Now it seemed silly to call that a decoration. As he neared the sidewalk he almost bumped into three men. He hoped it wasn't someone else who would chide him. He started to hurry on. "Is this your house, Sonny?" one of the men asked. "This is a very nice decoration you have here." "No. Oh, no. This is not my home." The thought of this nice place being his home left him almost speechless. "But I think it is real elegant," he said, stammering over the unfamiliar superlative. "We like it, too. You are a good judge. Have you an elegant decoration at your house? Where do you live?" The man who spoke smiled down at Joe and laid his hand gently upon his shoulder. "I live about a mile down the valley south of here. We couldn't fix a fancy store-bought decoration. Ours is just a stable." Joe's voice was hesitant and slow, as though he were ashamed to tell it. "Just a stable, huh," the man said. 'There was a significance in his voice that the boy did not grasp. "What is your name, lad?" one of the men asked. "Joey Adams, and my brother and sister are Benjy and Maria Adams. Then there is my mother, but my father has been dead now six years." | aoe turned away and moved hurriedly, for the red sun was dimming in the sky, and dusk was gathering over the valley. Soon he turned from the main highway, down the winding road that led to his home. The way seemed lonely and silent, and night was hurrying in over the bare, brown hills, leaving them shadowy. 'The trees stood tall and bare along the roadway, their leaves banked beside the road against the bushes. 'The only sound was the crunching of the dry leaves under Joey's scuffed, roundtoed shoes. A queer, twisting ache stirred in him as he thought of their little house in the lonely valley. He thought of the brave way his mother tried to make Christmas a happy time for all of them. There had been only the bare necessities since their father had gone. Mother works too hard, and sometimes, she looks very pale, Joey thought. Out here in the dusk he felt very unhappy and helpless and young. As he neared the house he saw the shining, white Christmas angel. It was the one decoration they had had for all the years that he could remember. His mother always placed it near the window, and the light shining down upon it made it look almost heavenly. Now it was there, all lovely with its stiff, white dress, edged with shiny tinsel bands. ENJY and Maria stood in the doorway anxiously watching for Joey to come. His mother stood close behind them. She was tall and beautiful, with her blue eyes and raven hair. "Oh, Joey, we thought you would never come. It is almost dark. Did you get the star?" Maria called, then, seeing the parcel, she reached to take it. A look of joy and eagerness was in her eyes. They all watched anxiously as Maria tore away the wrappings and held it before them. Their bright laughter caroled through the room as they caught sight of it. "It came from the big store in the town, didn't it? Now we won't have to cut one from pasteboard and have it uneven at the points. This one is so pretty, Joey," Benjy said. 732 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1956 ONE BRIGHT STAR Joey watched their delight and thought how dim this star would look to them, if they had seen all the big, brighter stars and all the shining colored lights and the glittering beauty of the town. He started to speak, his words a swift burst of emotion. "The town is so pretty, and there are so many wonderful toys in the store...." The sight of his mother's face checked his words. In her eyes was the hurt of not being able to give her children the joy and satisfaction of all the fine things. A troubled look clouded Joey's eyes for a moment, but his mother placed her arm about his shoulder. She gave him a smile of tenderness and understanding. "Come, we must hurry and place the star above the stable," Benjy said. "But Joey must be hungry, and there is warm stew waiting." His mother hurried to the stove to set him something to eat. "No, Mother, it is getting late. I will go with them to place the star," Joe told her. They fastened the star to a tall, thin willow and nailed the willow stick to the roof of the stable, but in the twilight dimness it did not shine nor sparkle. For a moment, disappointment showed in_ their faces. "It doesn't shine at all like the star of Bethlehem. It is supposed to be brighter than any other star," Benjy spoke dejectedly. "But we know the star is there," Mania tried to cheer them. "Now, if we put on the shepherds' robes and drive the lambs 733 out, we will look like real shepherds, anyway," Joey told them. Their mother helped them don the robes, and when she had wound the scarf turbans about their heads, their bright laughter filled the room, as they paraded before the mirror. The lambs scampered back, startled by the strange figures that came to open the gate of their pen. The children spoke to them, calling them by name. "Come on lambkins; don't be afraid." HE lambs soon quieted and came slowly to the gate, as they heard the friendly, familiar voices. The boys drove them out, and they began nibbling the dry grass near their pen. Suddenly, a bright moon peeked over the hill to the east of them. A white light spread all around, and the sheep looked snowy white and clean. "Oh, see our star, how brightly it shines," Maria cried. "The valley is so beautiful and the lambs are so white," Joey said. He felt happiness and peace creeping into his body. He breathed deeply, and said, '""This is almost like the real shepherds of Bethlehem; the light shining down so brightly and everything so peaceful." 'Then Joey began to repeat very softly, the words his mother read to them from Luke every year. And there were in the same country shepherds abiding in the field, keeping watch over their flock by night. And, lo, the angel of the Lord came upon them, and the glory of the Lord shone round about them: and they were sore afraid. And the angel said unto them, Fear not: for, behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy, which shall be to all people. For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Saviour, which is Christ the Lord. Joey's voice was very solemn, and Benjy and Maria stood silently with lighted faces, their hands clasped tightly together. "Out here it sounds even more beautiful than when Mother reads it to us in the house each Chnistmas," Benjy said. "It is like Bethlehem, only there aren't the angels and the singing," Maria told them. Then they all heard the sound of the music. Softly the strains came to them on the night air. For a moment their eyes turned heavenward, as though they expected to see heavenly angels singing. 'The tune was very familiar. 'They had sung it many times around the fire at Christmas time. It was "Silent Night," and the words were being sung softly, "Silent night, holy night. All is calm, all is bright...." "Tt is Mother," they all chorused with awed voices. "She is playing the organ and singing. It sounds as sweet as an angel.". They looked toward the house where the door was open, and the music coming out to them. "That is Mother's part. We had forgotten Mother would be helping us. Hers is the best part of all." "T feel it all, deep in here," Joey said, as he pressed his hand to his heart. "It's like maybe the angels can really see us, and can hear Mother playing the 'Holy Night' song." VEN the lambs stopped browsing the grass and stood quietly listening. The children had been so engrossed in their own pageantry that they had not noticed three men who had left their car and now stood near the house. 'They had taken off their hats and were silently watching the scene. "Maybe they are the three Wise Men," Maria whispered. No one moved until their mother had finished the song. Then Joey started to move toward the strangers. One of them held up his hand and spoke, "Please, don't move. Let us look longer at this beautiful scene." They all turned toward the stable, and it seemed that the star shone even more brightly, now with the moon full upon it. 'The men came toward the stable and the little shepherds with the sheep. "Are you the really Wise Men?" Maria asked in an awed voice. "No, child, not the really Wise Men, but we hope we are wise enough to recognize the real spirit of Christmas." The man who spoke smiled down at Maria and touched her golden curls that fell below the blue turban that she wore. "Come and see our stable and our star," Benjy invited. "But there is no Christ Child here," he said innocently. They all stood at the stable door. The look on their faces was almost expectant. "No, the Christ Child may not be here, my dears, but his spirit is surely here. We can all feel it in our hearts." It was the oldest of the men who spoke, but the other two nodded their heads in silence. "Why, you are the three men that I saw at the pretty house on 734 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1956 ONE BRIGHT STAR the edge of town," Joey exclaimed. Now, close to the light, he could see their features plainly. "And you are Joey Adams, the boy who told us about his decoration. 'It is just a stable,' you said. But it is more than that, Joey. We are the judges, you know." Joey looked at them for a moment before he could speak. "I'm glad you took the trouble to come way out here to our place," he said seriously. "I'm sure the lovely place where I saw you got the prize. Is it the one that got it?" "That place was very beautiful, all that art and money could make 735 it, but money cannot buy what we have found here—love and _ peace and good will." It was the kind, older man who spoke again, and the others nodded their heads once more. Joey's eyes were as shining as the lights suddenly turned on a Christmas tree. Now he forgot the brightness of the town and all the toys and gifts. He looked at Benjy and Maria, and the silver star over the stable. He remembered only the words of the angels who sang, "Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good will toward?? Men. She Satted Lace Norma A. Wrathall The lamplight holds in circled radiance The rocking chair, the floor, the fireplace, And finds its sheen upon her head bent low, As in and out her shuttle weaves the lace. Her work-worn fingers move with quiet skill, She smooths the lace across her knee, and then Pauses, plucks faulty stitches, winds the thread And makes the pattern true and fine again. So, through the years, the handmade lace adorned A petticoat a happy bride might wear— A loving gift of doilies—pillow slips— A baby's dress—a handkerchief's white square. And who might guess what dreams or plans were in Those wheels of filigree her shuttle traced? Or know what cares, like broken stitches, were Pondered, and with serenity replaced? I like to think that from a ball of thread Her fingers cast the pattern of her days; And that the tatted lace, of quaint design, Held love, forbearance, faith, that marked her ways. Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, November 1, and November 15, 1896 "For THE RicgutTs oF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE Women oF ALL Nations" CLARA BARTON'S WORK IN TURKEY: If you ask of our mission what we found and what we left, there is really but this to say: We found want, desolation and suffering, and relieved them so far as we were able. In spite of all, these are still there, and they have grown since. Winter is approaching and unless the open hand of charity, not of this country alone, but of all civilized countries, is reached out to them and access be secured, hunger and cold will gather the victims in by the tens of thousands, and bury them like the fallen leaves beneath the snow. —Clara Barton, President of the American Red Cross THE SPIRIT OF SLEEP He seals the eyes that are wet with tears, And those where gladness beams, And by a wave of his scepter-wand We soar to the land of dreams.... In the silent gloom of the midnight hour His standard is unfurled; With his misty crown he reigns supreme The monarch of the world. —Julia Bowring Maltese QUEEN VICTORIA: Queen Victoria has been queen of Great Britain during the administrations of Van Buren, Harrison, Tyler, Polk, Taylor, Fillmore, Pierce, Grant, Hayes, Garfield, Arthur, Harrison and Cleveland. —Selected THE EXPONENT: The prestige the Exponent has given the women of this Church in the outside world is little realized; it has broken down mountains of prejudice, it has gone into the homes of the rich, and the famous, poets, writers, philosophers, people of rank and title; besides it affords opportunity to the Elders who are out preaching the Gospel to allay much prejudice they have to meet.... —KHditorial BOOK OF POEMS: The book of poems to be issued by Mrs. E. B. Wells is now in course of publication... More than one third of the pages have been prepared, and it is expected the book will be ready for subscribers before Christmas. —FEditorial Note THE NATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN: The Executive meeting of the National Council of Women of the United States will be held this year in Boston on December 2, 3, and 4th. Notices have been sent to each society belonging to the Council to send delegates, but this year Utah organizations cannot conveniently send representatives on account of the great distance and the scarcity of means. —Editorial Note Page 736 LLEN C. HENDERSON, Salt Lake City, Utah, is the author of You Can Teach Your Child That Reading Can Be Fun, a new book which includes many of the excellent techniques which Mrs. Henderson has developed during a long and distinguished teaching career in the speech arts. ILDRED (BABE) DIDRICKSON ZAHARIAS, forty-two, greatest American woman athlete of all time, died in 'Texas, September 27, 1956. An Olympic recordholder, she excelled in many sports and was also noted for feminine accomplishments. Her marriage to George Zaharias was a classic story of romance and devotion. LBERTA H. CHRISTENSEN, a member of the general board of Relief Society, was awarded first prize by the League of Utah Writers at their annual Round-up in September, for her poem "To the Framers of the Constitution," which was published in The Relief Society Magazine, September 1955. Mrs. Christensen also won the second prize in the unpublished poetry division. Vesta P. Crawford, Associate Editor of The Relief Society Magazine, placed first in the unpublished poetry division, and was awarded a citation. Maryhale Woolsey was awarded second prize for her story "Now Is a Man Grown," Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon which won first place last year in the Relief Society Short Story Contest and was published in the Magazine in January 1956. Another contributor to the Magazine, Rosa Lee Lloyd, was awarded third prize for her story "Who Sings the Lullaby," which was published in the Magazine in May 1956. Other contributors receiving citations and awards were Olive Woolley Burt, Eva Willes Wangsgaard, Alice Morrey Bailey, Dorothy J. Roberts, Lael W. Hill, Christie Lund Coles, Leone E. McCune, Mabel Harmer, Ethel Jacobson, Sarah O. Moss, and Mary Ek Knowles. LICE CAPORALE, ninth grader, thirteen years old, of Livingston, New Jersey, sent to a famous hat manufacturer some designs of the kind of hats her age would like to wear. One was put into production, and Alice receives a royalty on every sale of this model. BLIZABETH YATES, an author of children's books, says that children require the satisfaction that comes from creativity for good, safe, and competent growth. But it must be something with functional usefulness — a dainty cooking dish, artistic decoration, handwork. However, she asserts, "Hurry is death to creativity. 'That is a process which requires time." Page 737 ITORIAL c~—9© VOL. 43 NOVEMBER 1956 NO. 11 A Home for Reliof Society When we build, let us think that we build forever. Let it not be for present delight nor for present use alone; let it be such work as our descendants will thank us for... (From Seven Lamps of Architecture, by John Ruskin) HE Relief Society Building now stands completed, "a splendor in the sun." Dedicated October 3, 1956, with prayers of gratitude and devotion, hallowed with music, and blessed by prophetic words, this building represents the world-wide sisterhood — their home — and the symbol of the ideals and accomplishments of Relief Society women everywhere.* Built in the beloved valley of Deseret, circled by the high hills and towered mountains, the building rises as a fulfillment of promise "in the shadow of the temple." Strength and beauty are evident in the simplicity of outline and in the shining surface of the polished stone. The steps are wide and inviting, the halls spacious and welcoming, the offices commodious and tasteful, yet expressing in their appointments refinement and immaculate order. The building is designed to meet the needs of an ever-growing society, expressing the ideals and purposes of the many women who believe that "charity never faileth" and strive to live according to the requirements of their high mission. In all the world there is no other building planned by women, constructed in large part by the offerings of women, built for the work of women, yet directed by prophetic counseling of the Priesthood. As Relief Society members, we are grateful to be of the house and of the lineage of eternal builders. As the present guardians of a dearly loved heritage, we stand today in the brief, bright moment of accomplishment, rejoicing in this time of fulfillment. We are as gleaners who have harvested from the past, and we are as sowers who plant the seeds for tomorrow's reaping. We honor and remember those devoted sisters who accepted with humility and thanksgiving the key which the Prophet turned for them. Nauvoo, the barrier plains, the desert valleys, the faraway frontiers— these are the pictures of the past. We look forward to the future, when our daughters and our granddaughters shall be Relief Society builders and shall receive from our hands the precious gifts of sisterhood and service. In that time, in another era, they shall say: "This house our mothers built for us." We are that golden link in time which binds the historic days to the *The proceedings of the dedication of the Relief Society Building will appear in the December issue of The Relief Society Magazine. Page 7/38 EDITORIAL ever-widening years to come. We know that many of the builders of this edifice will never see its shining walls, its spacious rooms, its lovely gifts and adornments which have been sent from afar, but all Relief Society women everywhere will feel the joy of the builders, and the spirit of the house will flow forever into all the stakes and missions, into the far-off branches to the great cities and to the towns — to all places where faithful women meet in the name of the world-wide sisterhood — in all those places where devoted women build the structures of their earthly lives for an everlasting purpose. The replicas of sheaves of wheat which adorn the marble panels on the outside walls of the building are more than decorative motifs. The sheaves are as a joining of large and small treasures, harvested, perhaps, from abundant fields, or smaller garnerings from regions of small 739 harvests. Yet all the sheaves are tich in fulfillment. Even as the faithful sisters once gleaned in the desert fields and stored their wheat for a time of need, even so the women of Relief Society joyfully through all the years have gathered their sheaves of spiritual sustenance and have stored them for a time of need. The sheaves of wheat are a symbol of fulfillment, and they are like the precious grain which will be for the seeding of other fields in years to come. The service and the joys of Relief Society are everlasting; they are forever a reaping and a planting. How beautifully the Psalm has expressed the rejoicing of the daughters: Let mount Zion rejoice, and let the daughters... Be glad.... Walk about Zion, and go round about her: tell the towers thereof. Mark ye well her bulwarks, consider her palaces; that ye may tell it to the generation following (Psalm 48:11-13). —V. P. C. <~eNot Gust the Heart Catherine E. Berry The far, far pastures of the mind Bloom green and fair, Waiting to feed the hungry thoughts. But winds blow down the lonely crevasses Finding no searcher there. The wide, wide spaces of the heart Are crowded now, Yielding their sustenance to fill The thoughts that seek and yearn for greater heights Of all love will allow. The deep, deep canyons of the soul Go unexplored, Lying in wasted, unused lengths. We have not learned it takes all three to hold The treasure-laden board. Notes TO THE FIELD New Address for Relief Society As of November 1, 1956, the general offices of Relief Society are located in The Relief Society Building at 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City 16, Utah. This includes all departments except the Mormon Handicraft Gift Shop, located at 21 West South Temple Street. Dedication of She Reliof Society Building to Be Featured in December Mlagazine The complete proceedings of the dedication of The Relief Society Building will be featured in the December Relief Society Magazine. Included will be a cover picture of the building in four colors, and many other illustrations inside the Magazine, some of them in color. President McKay's dedicatory prayer and addresses by the First Presidency and the general presidency of Relief Society will be presented. Relief Society Souvenir Plate Available The Relief Society Building souvenir plate may now be purchased at the general offices of Relief Society, 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City 16, Utah, for $3.50, which includes mailing costs. The plate is made of Old English Staffordshire Ware and was especially designed for Relief Society. The center part of the design is a replica of The Relief Society Building. Photographs of the oil paintings of the nine general presidents of Relief Society are circled on the plate, and the whole pattern is bound with replicas of sheaves of wheat—an emblem long dear to Relief Society women. The motto of the society—"Charity Never Faileth"—is engraved on the plate. Birthday Congratulations The Birthday Congratulations column, for women ninety years of age and older, which has been part of the "Woman's Sphere" page, will generally be found, beginning with this issue of the Magazine, on the page facing the inside back cover. Page 740 Rozella Stringham Grant lakes Rugs of YUntricate Designs OZELLA Stringham Grant, Glendale, California, has made more than one hundred tugs. Using cast-off woolen materials cut on the bias in three-fourths inch wide strips, she crochets the strips together with carpet warp. Occasionally, she makes rugs of solid color, but finds greater scope for her artistry in using blending and contrasting colors in many all-over and "swirl" designs. In some of the rugs she makes a recurring border motif of colorful figures on a lighter ground, and the edges are made of the same colors as the border motifs. She has also made many braided and hooked rugs, and it is easy for her to see in any home where a colorful homemade rug could be placed to advantage. She believes that a woman's hands are made for homemaking—for making beautiful handwork to beautify her home—and the homes of others. Mrs. Grant, now ninety-four years old, is also an excellent cook, being particularly famous among her friends for her homemade cookies and whole-wheat bread. She is the mother of six children, grandmother to sixteen, and great-grandmother to thirtyfive. She has been a Relief Society secretary, a counselor, and a president, and has lived in her own life the ideals of charity and service which are exemplified in Relief Society work. ~~ Autumn Gene Romolo Like a gorgeous bird of tropic birth With widespread pinions, Splendorous autumn hovers over earth, Deepening the hues of ungirthed gold In sunlit glory Radiating over mountain crests and wold. And when the time comes for autumn's end of duty, Like a topic, molting bird, it sheds its beauty. Page 741 e Honest with Yourself (Beauty Ys lore Shan Shin Deep What is beauty? Who can have it? Ask John Robert Powers, world-famous authority on the subject. After many years of choosing and training beautiful models, he will tell you, though it sounds trite: "There are certain features that most beautiful women have in common"... "a glow of health," "a radiant personality," "a complete Page 742 9> cee self-assurance and naturalness," "intellectual curiosity, integrity, and stability of character." "Beauty comes from within." "It is within the potentialities of almost any girl...." Or look to some authorities of the past. Said Emerson: "Beauty is the soundness of the bones... A peach-ripe complexion; health of constitution that makes the sparkle and power of the eyes." "... Character gives splendor to youth." Sir James Barrie says of charm (the sister of beauty): "If you have it you don't need anything else, and if you don't have it, it doesn't much matter what else you have." Beauty is largely a matter of the thoughts we think, the deeds we do, the food we eat, the interest we show in others. It is the sum of sincerity, enthusiasm, and unselfishness. It is the product of busy days and nights untroubled by guilty regrets. Beauty is obedience to the laws of good and wise and wonderful living of the laws of health and happiness. 'To these add a lively search for eternal truth — for the good things here — for the good things hereafter —and you will surely find beauty in living, and be beautiful yourself. In short, beauty is a reflection of what you are inside yourself. So, if you would be beautiful— BE HONEST WITH YOURSELF Sar Are Shese Ways Alice Morrey Bailey Christmas comes across the sleeping hill As gently as the new snow drifts tonight, But in the valley song and laughter spill Beneath the city's canopy of light. The rainbow streets with holly-green are strung And costly goods give shoppers wistful pause. With lighted trees and stockings limply hung, © Star-eyed children wait for Santa Claus. These alien ways are seeming paradox, And far are they from soft Judean plains Where gentle shepherds watched their bedded flocks Until the heavens burst with angel strains. Yet gifts and ways of giving still are wide; Through deserts of the heart the Magi ride. BEAUTY IS MORE THAN SKIN DEEP 743 Recines Gromtne Olawan Vian P Submitted by Maurine M. Haycock CHICKEN WitH Lonc RICE 3 Ib. Chicken 2 or 3 bundles long rice* butter or cooking oil salt and pepper 1 clove garlic shoyu (soy sauce) to taste 1 piece ginger Ajinomoto (Accent) Cut chicken in serving pieces. Fry in butter or cooking oil with garlic and ginger until golden brown. Season to taste with salt and pepper. Boil neck and part of chicken about forty-five minutes separately, adding water so as to have at least two quarts of stock. Cover remaining chicken with water and cook till tender. Cut up long rice which has been soaked in water for forty minutes and cook for twenty minutes in stock. Combine with chicken, add shoyu (soy sauce) and Ajinomoto (Accent). May be served plain or with rice or poi. *Long rice is a product resembling spaghetti in shape, but made of cooked rice. It may be purchased in nearly all stores which carry Oriental foods. SUKIYAKE 2 Ibs. Chicken, cut from bones 2 bunches green onions 6 tbsp. Shoyu (soy sauce) 1 tsp. Ajinomoto (Accent) 6 tbsp. Sugar salt to taste 1 can Japanese bamboo shoots chicken fat 1 can mushrooms Cut chicken in small pieces. Slice bamboo shoots and mushrooms. Cut green onions (including tops) into one-inch pieces. Heat the pan, put in some small pieces of chicken fat. When melted add enough chicken to half fill the pan. Add sugar and shoyu (soy sauce) and mix well with chicken. When it begins to boil, push to sides of pan, add some of the mushrooms, bamboo shoots, and onions. Cook 10 minutes. More chicken, vegetables, sugar, and shoyu (soy sauce) should be added from time to time. Do not allow the sukiyake to brown. If it begins to dry out, add a little water, additional sugar, and shoyu (soy sauce). Sukiyake is called "Hekka" in Hawaii. It is served with rice, a green salad, and pickled vegetables. Makes six servings. TERUYAKI Barbecued Steak 2 Ibs. Round steak % inch thick 1 clove garlic (either mash 1 c. Shoyu (soy sauce) or chop very fine) % tsp. Ajinomoto (Accent) 1 tbsp. Finely chopped ginger root Soak steak in seasoning mixture for about 1 hour or longer, if desired. It may be cooked over hot charcoal or broiled. HaAvuplia Coconut Pudding ac. Fresh milk 5 tbsp. Sugar 3.¢. Coconut milk 2 or 3 drops vanilla extract or 5 tbsp. Cornstarch 1 drop lemon extract 3 or 4 large coconuts pinch of salt Grate three or four large coconuts, which will make about three cups coconut milk. Moisten grated coconuts and allow to stand for twenty minutes. Squeeze out liquid Page 744 RECIPES FROM THE HAWAII MISSION 745 through a cheesecloth. Place fresh milk and coconut milk in double boiler and, when warm, add the cornstarch and sugar which has been mixed with a little of the coconut milk, and then the salt and lemon extract. This may be served either in individual dishes, or cut in squares and eaten by hand. PINEAPPLE TAPIOCA WHIP 1% c. Pineapple juice 2 egg yolks 2 tbsp. Minute tapioca % c. Whipping cream % tsp. Vanilla extract 3 tbsp. Sugar Bring pineapple juice to a boil, add tapioca, and cook slowly until clear, then mix sugar with eggs. Combine the two mixtures and cook for a few minutes. Cool and add vanilla, stirring it once in awhile. When cool, fold in the whipped cream and pour into glasses. Chill before serving. Coconut MAcAROONS % c. Sifted flour 1 egg white % c. Sugar 1% c. Grated fresh coconut % c. Light corn syrup Mix flour and sugar and stir in syrup gradually so the mixture will not form lumps. Beat egg white until stiff and fold in coconut. Add the sugar and flour mixture. Shape into small balls, place on slightly buttered baking sheet, and flatten a little with a knife. Bake in 400° oven for ten minutes, and, if not browned, place under broiler heat for a minute or two. PANIOLA Hawaiian Cowboy Stew 2 Ibs. Beef, cut into 24 tbsp. Salt 1% inch cubes % tsp. Pepper shoyu (soy sauce) enough 1 tsp. Brown sugar to cover cubes 6 carrots 2 tbsp. Bacon fat 4 potatoes 4 c. _ boiling water 1% ¢. Cut green beans 1 tsp. Worcestershire sauce 6 small white onions 1 tsp. Garlic powder 2 tbsp. Flour 4a chopped onion 4 tbsp. Cold water Soak beef in shoyu (soy sauce). Brown well in bacon fat, then add water, Worcestershire sauce, garlic powder, chopped onion, salt, pepper, and brown sugar, and let simmer for one and one half hours, stirring occasionally. Cut carrots into one-inch pieces and potatoes into one-inch cubes and add vegetables to meat and cook until done. Dissolve flour in water and add to stew and cook until gravy is thickened. Porx Cuorp Suey 1 c. Canned bean sprouts ye W@ sliced mushrooms lc. Chopped cooked pork 1 ¢. Chicken broth 1 c. Chopped celery 1 tsp. Cornstarch % c. Green pepper strips 2 tbsp. Cold water % ¢. Chopped onion 2 tbsp. Shoyu (soy sauce) Saute celery, onion, mushrooms, and pork in butter for three minutes. Add pepper, bean sprouts, cornstarch mixed in water, and chicken broth. Bring mixture to boiling point and simmer for four minutes. (French style or thinly cut string beans or thin strips of carrots may also be added, if desired.) Serve with fluffy white rice. Candy Recipes Mary J]. Wilson i is necessary to determine the temperature for each particular recipe for candy as the ingredients affect the degree of heat to be used. "Neither can a temperature, once established in a given locality, be used indiscriminately in other places, as it varies with a change in altitude" (Practical Cookery Book). TEMPERATURE TESTS For Canpy-Maxinc At Various ALTITUDES (Extension Service U. S. A. C., County Agent Work, Ogden, Utah, by Maude Martin) Test in Cold Water Degrees F. On Candy Thermometer Sea Level 5000 Feet 7500 Feet Soft Ball (can be picked up but flattens ) ow... Eeeeeeeeeeeee eee 234° to 240°F. 224° to 230°F. 219° to 225°F. Firm Ball (holds shape unless _ 4 4 > ', pressed) ceeeees._.. Scssese—-cas- 242° to 248°F. 232° to 238°F. 227° to 233°F. Hard Ball (holds shape though pliable) -...2..2.22..22-22-22-2--- 250° to 268°F. 240° to 258°F. 235° to 253°F. Soft Crack (separates into hard threads but not brittle) -..... 270° to 290°F. 260° to 280°F. 255° to 275°F. Hard Crack (separates into hard and brittle threads)............ 300° to 310°F. 290° to 300°F. 285° to 295°F. Always test your thermometer before using. For example, if water boils at 210°F. In your locality instead of 212°F., subtract two from all recipes. In testing my thermometer at Ogden, Utah, altitude (which is 4300 feet), it registered only 200°F. At boiling point, so I subtract 12° from the temperature given in the recipes. CuHocoLaTe Mint MELtTAways 1 lb. — shredded milk chocolate 1 ¢. Finely shredded cocoa butter 1 tbsp. Mint flavoring 3 tbsp. Butter (melt with cocoa butter) Melt chocolate in a double boiler, not too hot. Beat until smooth. Add melted butters and mix until thoroughly blended. Pour into 7" bowl. Add mint. Place in refrigerator or other cold place until it feels cool but not thick. Stir occasionally and scrape from sides of bowl while cooling (about 20 minutes). Watch closely so that it does not harden (in which case place over warm water a few minutes and beat smooth, but do not allow to become warm). When about the consistency of very soft custard, beat 10 to 15 minutes, or until fluffy, but not too heavy. Use electric beater. The mixture should be soft enough to spread like heavy whipped cream. Have two pans the same size, 8x8 or 9x9 square, lined with wax paper. Pour mixture into one pan, cover with heavy wax paper and with the other pan, ): css down to flatten mixture to make it smooth. Let stand in 70° room until frm to touch but not too hard, then cut into uniform squares while still in nan and not too frm, Let harden. Dip in chocolate. CARAMEL CorRN 1 ¢. Cane sugar Add— 2 tbsp. Butter % c. White syrup % tbsp. Salt % c. Hot water 2% tbsp. Molasses (Cook to 260°) ie ie peanuts (Continue cooking to 300°) Page 746 RECIPES FROM THE HAWAII! MISSION 747 Butter a large, warm bowl. Add about 6 cups freshly popped corn. (I like to put the corn in a warm oven while the syrup is cooking.) Have two long, buttered forks ready. Pour syrup over corn, stirring with fork. When syrup is used up, take two forks and stir corn well. 'Turn onto buttered marble slab. Separate corn and let cool before storing. PEANUT BRITTLE ae: white corn syrup % tbsp. Butter 2 C. Water 1% tsp. Salt 2 ¢. Sugar 2 ~~ tsp. Vanilla a Cc. Raw Spanish peanuts 2 'tsp. Soda Cook syrup, water, and sugar to soft ball stage or 2" thread. Add the peanuts to the cooking mixture and continue to stir constantly until syrup turns light golden color. Turn off heat. Add butter, salt, vanilla, and soda, and stir. Pour mixture onto cookie sheet, greased with oil. Encuiso TOFFEE 2% ¢. Sugar 1 wh pecans A ec. Water ae Uo milk chocolate % Cc. White corn syrup chopped pecans as desired ~ 1) ab. Butter Spread pecans on two cookie sheets. Cook sugar, water, syrup and butter to 285-290°. Pour over pecans. Melt 1 lb. Chocolate over top and spread when melted. Sprinkle chopped nuts on top. Set until cold and can be turned over. Repeat chocolate and nut process on other side. This is a large recipe. JELLIES heaping tbsp. Agar flakes* Me Ci cold water 5 Ping tDsp. Ag c. Cold. Water Ta © white corn syrup 3% ¢. Cane sugar 1 tbsp. Flavoring Combine Agar flakes and 4 c. Cold water in large aluminum pan. Bring to boil, stirring constantly. As soon as it boils, pour mixture over the sugar, % c. Cold water, and syrup, and mix. Put back into pan and cook rapidly to 200°. Watch that it does not boil over. Skim if necessary and stir occasionally. If two flavors are desired, divide mixture. Add the desired flavoring (strawberry, raspberry, mint, etc.) and the desired coloring. Pour into two 7x7" square pans that have been rinsed in cold water and not dried. Allow to stand until firm, which will take several hours. Do not refrigerate. Cut into squares and roll in granulated sugar. Serve in bonbon cups. This candy lasts a long time. *TIf fine ground flakes are used, only 2% tbsp. Instead of 5 tbsp. Will be needed. Agar flakes are made from seaweed found near Japan. The product has been difficult to purchase in some cities since the war. I bought % Ib. For $1.96 at the Agar Products Company, 616-618 North Robertson Boulevard, Los Angeles 46, California. This amount lasts a long time. 'This was a fine-ground Agar. Mazetta Stock (Used in Making French Almond Nougat) Wh Gh sugar YC. Cold water wh white syrup hc fresh egg whites 748 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1956 Cook sugar, syrup, and water to 230° and then beat egg whites in large heat-proof bowl until they cling to bowl. Keep cooking syrup mixture until it reaches 238°, then remove from stove and add slowly to egg whites, beating with electric beater all the time until thick and lukewarm. This stock may be kept for several days covered with wax paper and damp cloth, or in a glass jar, and kept in 60° temperature. Do not refrigerate. 'This is enough | Mazetta stock for two recipes of almond nougat. Frencu AtMonp Noucat 1% ¢. Sugar v2 nuts 1% ¢. White syrup 2 tsp. Vanilla Ve © stick butter melted 2% c. Mazetta stock % tsp. Salt Cook sugar and syrup to 275°. Place Mazetta stock in warm, well-buttered heatproof bowl. Add syrup all at once. Mix with a wooden spoon. Add butter and flavoring very slowly, stirring all the time. Then add salt and nuts, a few at a time. Mix thoroughly. Pour into a gxg" well-buttered pan. Smooth down with wet hands to make a shiny surface. Set in refrigerator. When cold and stiff, turn onto board. With heavy, oiled candy knife, cut into strips and then into bite-size pieces. May be dipped in chocolate. If not dipped, wrap individually in wax paper. Makes about 70 pieces. Nuts should be toasted to a light tan color for better flavor. Opera CREAMS 4¢. Cane sugar % tsp. Salt 2¢. Half-and-half cream 1 tsp. Vanilla or maple 2 tbsp. White syrup flavoring or Ac. Nuts (broken) 2 tbsp. Melted chocolate Combine all ingredients except nuts and flavoring in a large pan. Cook to 240°, stirring occasionally. Remove from fire, but do not stir. Let stand 5 minutes. Pour onto damp marble slab. Allow to cool 2 minutes. Add flavoring and salt and coloring. Work with putty knives, like fondant, until firm enough to knead. After kneading, add nuts. Place in a paper-lined square pan, and with moist palm, smooth surface. This gives it a glossy finish. Cover with wax paper if not eaten at once. If you do not wrap, serve in bonbon cups. CARAMELS Z(G sugar a oc. Cream* 1% Cc white corn syrup Combine sugar, syrup, and 1 cup of cream in a heavy pan. Cook to a soft ball stage. Add second cup of cream and cook also to a soft ball stage, then add the third cup of cream and cook to a firm ball stage. Stir just occasionally during the cooking of the first two cups of cream and until it begins to thicken slightly with the third cup of cream, then stir constantly until a firm ball is formed in cold water. Butter a 7%"x11" pan and scrape all of the caramel mixture into it. When cold, cut around the edges of the pan to loosen caramel, then turn pan upside down and strike hard on chopping board Cut candy into squares and wrap in wax paper. This candy is suitable for shipping. *Heavy cream makes better caramels. Half-and-half may be used with good results RECIPES FROM THE HAWAII MISSION 749 Variations: 1. Place 5 or 6 pecans in groups on a cookie sheet. Cover nuts with a tablespoon of caramel (just cooked enough to hold together). When cool, cover with chocolate or dip. 4 Pour cooked mixture into pans, spread with marshmallows and cut into small pieces. When cool enough to handle, roll like a jelly roll and slice. 3. Add two squares of chocolate after the third cup of cream has cooked a few minutes, stirring constantly to firm ball stage, then pour into 72"x11" buttered pan. Cut into squares, add a toasted almond (without removing the skin) to the center of each square. Roll into an oblong piece and wrap in wax paper. 4. Pour cooked caramel onto buttered cookie sheet that has sides. Have panocha, with plenty of nuts in it, ready to spread over caramel, after it has been taken from the cookie sheet. Spread panocha evenly over caramel. Roll up like jelly roll and pull out to wanted size for cutting. Wrap in aluminum foil and store in refrigerator. If it becomes too hard, take out and keep at room temperature for some time before serving. PANOCHA 2. ¢. White sugar 2 tbsp. White corn syrup 2c. Brown sugar butter, size of large walnut 1% c. Light cream Combine all ingredients in pan and stir until dissolved. Continue to stir occasionally while cooking. Place lid on kettle when it starts to boil, for about a minute, as this dissolves the tiny sugar crystals on the side o: the pan. Cook to soft ball stage when tested in cold water. Place butter in center of pan and pour candy over it. Don't scrape pan, but let candy drip out. When cool, beat with a fork until it can _ be molded with the lower part of the hand. [If it should be cooked too hard, a very small amount of cream can be added at this time, then worked well. Add nuts and flavoring. Make it into rolls and wrap in wax paper. FupcE 4 c. Sugar 2 squares chocolate butter 2 tbsp. White syrup 1% c. Light cream vanilla Use same instructions for fudge as are given for panocha. Don't move it while it is cooling. You should have a very smooth, creamy fudge. Use black walnut flavoring and black walnuts occasionally for a variation. Dovuste Divinity First Mixture: Second Mixture: 3c. Suger 1 ¢. Sugar % c. Water % ec. Water lc. Light corn syrup Other Ingredients: 2 c. Chopped nuts 3 egg whites % ¢. Candied cherries 2 tsp. Vanilla (optional ) Cook first mixture, stirring until ingredients are dissolved, then cook without stirring until firm ball is formed in cold water. When first mixture is done, put second on medium heat and cook until very firm ball is formed—244°. Beat egg whites stiff in a large bowl and gradually pour over them the first mixture, beating constantly. When the second mixture is done, slowly pour over first combination and beat until it will not adhere to fingers. Add vanilla, chopped nuts, and cherries, if desired. Drop by spoonfuls on wax paper. Heart's Bounty Crapter 6 (Conclusion) Deone R. Sutherland Twas on Parker Josephson's second visit to the Griffith farm that he brought with him his grandmother's high, square-cut diamond ring. "Mother's sister inherited the wedding ring, but I'm having one made that will harmonize with this." "Tt's the most beautiful ring I've ever seen. Ill be afraid to wear it," Annie exclaimed. "Well, we're both afraid of something then. I've got to talk to your father tonight." They were standing under the young orchard trees that were budding. The blue sky dipped in streaks of color in the west until it reached the ever-stretching peaceful lake. Annie smiled, "Oh, Parker, Father's always liked you. The first time he ever met you, you did him a kindness." Parker laughed, "Your great dark eyes were so tragic that morning when your father left you at the Williams. I remember I thought to myself, now, there's real material for the stage." Annie laughed with him, but Parker went on, "I never dreamed then that we would be here watching this sunset, planning our lives together. Yet, somehow, I feel that even from that early time, this moment was inevitable." After dinner Parker stayed in the little parlor and talked to Brother Griffith. Annie's father had always felt very warm toward this older Page 750 boy who had been such a good friend to Marie and his daughter. He was overjoyed to give this fine young man his blessing and welcome him into the family. When Parker claimed Annie from the kitchen, he put the diamond ring on her finger for always. That evening Parker and Annie's brothers made popcorn over the kitchen stove. 'Then they all sat around talking and watching the fire burn down. Brother Griffith remarked on how much like a little sister Marie had been, and how fond Annie had been of Parker even when she was young. Annie blushed in the firelight and tried to get her father to stop. Parker reached over and took Annie's hand as though to look at her new ring, but simply continued to hold it instead. "Yes, Marie was always a delightful little sister to me, and I was happy to hear of her marriage. But Annie was the one who crept into my heart and stayed. Annie, I never really dared give up hope Id find you waiting. I forced myself not to consider any other possibility, for my work on my mission had to come first, I felt." Annie murmured, "I never deserved so much.". A coal dropped softly in the stove, and the firelight spattered briefly. BROTHER Williams made a trip to the Griffith home in early May. "My wife wants everything arranged to her complete satisfaction," he laughed, "so she made me come HEART'S BOUNTY in person rather than just trusting to letters. She'll brook no _ refusals, either. And I won't dare to go home unless everyone agrees to what she proposes." The Griffiths could not help but laugh at his good-natured humor. Brother Williams continued, "Now Annie and Parker will be getting married in the Endowment House, my wife and I and Agnes and Marie, and dozens of friends and relatives, think the only thing to do is to have the reception after the marriage in our home. Annie is our second daughter, and we can't bear to miss out on anything that promises so much happiness. Parker's so well thought of (as well as Annie, of course) that we want to do this little thing for them. Oh, the number of girls who've admired your Parker, Annie! We've got to give them a lovely reception to remember." Again Annie and her family could not help but laugh along with Brother Williams, and, finally, everything was settled. The marriage was to take place in June. "Thank goodness, Annie, you've all your linens and a_ proper-sized hope chest." Mrs. Griffiths sighed. "You're so glad I'm going to be using it at last," teased Annie. "T am," said her mother stoutly, and then a cloud passed over her face. "I am, and then I'm not, if you know what I mean." "T do," said Annie softly. "I feel that way myself sometimes." She stroked her mother's worn cheek gently. "We'll do lots of visiting back and forth." Her mother smiled, "Your father was saying a wedding was such a happy occasion, it is odd how there 751 can be a drop of sadness; yet there ise But Annie was already talking about her wedding dress. Marie had sent word that Annie was to use the same dress that she had been married in. They could save it for their children, because she would never have the heart to let it be remodeled into a useful gown. "Sisters often are married in the same dress, and truly I couldn't have a dearer sister. My only regret is that my delicate condition won't let me take any kind of prominent part at your wedding reception, so you must let me enter in the festivities by your doing me the kindness of wearing the dress that brought me more happiness than I dreamed possible in this human life. You have no idea how much better my health has been since dear little Sissy was born." Annie was overjoyed with Marie's long letters. Everyone was far too good to her, she felt. Brother Griffith delivered Annie and her trunk to the Williams in the early part of June. Her mother planned to come to stay a few days before the wedding, but the Williamses insisted Annie come sooner, so alterations could be made on Marie's dress. Annie put on the wedding dress while Aunt Agnes and Mrs. Hemp kneeled with their mouths filled with pins. Sister Williams could not keep from exclaiming again and again at how lovely Annie looked in the heavy satin gown. The material took on almost a white translucent sheen when Annie moved. She caught her breath at the sight of the gown in Sister Williams' oval mirror. The rich ruching of lace at her sleeves and over the shoulder and across her bosom was more beautiful than she had _ temembered. "It's beautiful on you, there's no question about it," Mrs. Hemp muttered, as she bent low to make sure the dress draped properly. HERE was not only the wedding dress to be fitted, but a gown from the Williams was presented to Annie as an early wedding present. That, too, must have the stiffening placed exactly. The crowning gift came just a little over a week before the wedding, from Aunt Agnes. Annie cried when she saw it, but Aunt Agnes gruffly told her, if she didn't have a right to do a little work in secret on a present for their own Annie, she didn't know what the world was coming to. Annie tried on the long blue velvet coat with the white fur at the throat and the matching velvet bonnet. Never had she dreamed she might look so elegant. "You can have one or two things almost as lovely as you, I guess," said Aunt Agnes with satisfaction. "Parker's getting the prettiest bride in the whole valley, and you might as well have a few things to show off his prize with." "But this is far too much," Annie protested, stroking the beautiful velvet with her hand. Annie's mother came down four days before the wedding. She added gifts of petticoats and long warm stockings to the many things Annie already had. She exclaimed unbelievingly over the beautiful clothes, and admired the gifts that were already arriving at the Williams' house in advance of the reception. Parker and Annie took her mother and father to see the house that the Josephsons and Parker had built several blocks east of his father's. The wide, light-colored two-story house seemed unreal to Annie, sitting in the buggy staring at its gleaming windows. "It's a lovely house, Annie," her father said, "and if there's half the love in there that your mother brought to our house, you'll always have a home you can call blessed." Annie felt very humble as she laid her head on her father's shoulder. 'The dresses, the house, perhaps they were a dream, a temporal inconsequentiality. What was important was the love she and Parker had. She sat upright with her back stiff against the buggy seat. "T promise I'll remember what is really important, Papa, all my life." ARKER stopped by to help Annie open more of the gifts that arrived at the Williams. He was pleased that Brother and Sister Griffith had liked the house, he told Annie. Annie looked at him thoughtfully. "How could anyone help but like such a beautiful home?" Parker stroked his hand across the dark wing of her hair. "Of course, we don't have much furniture yet. I'm afraid it will seem pretty bare for awhile. After I begin teaching, we'll be able to do more about...." "Oh, Parker,"' Annie cried, "don't you realize that it could be a tepee or a dirt dugout, and it would still be the most wonderful place in the world as long as you were there." Parker's eyes darkened, and he moved to take Annie in his arms, 752 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1956 HEART'S BOUNTY but she was already to the stairs and smiling down at him. Aunt Agnes came in the door. Parker turned to her in exasperation. 'Here I always thought Marie was the little minx, but I believe I'm marrying the tease after all." Agnes smiled, "Well, you're martying the deep one, that I know." Annie laughed and waved, "Mama is helping me upstairs, and here I go." She blew a kiss to Parker and disappeared. "Am I the luckiest man in the world or not, Aunt Agnes?" He put an arm around her waist and waltzed her around. Aunt Agnes came down on her heels in a determined hurry as soon as she caught her balance. "You're both lucky, but you're the kind who make your own luck with the good Lord's blessings." Parker looked at her seriously. "Tm thankful for my blessings and humbled by them. You know that, don't you, Aunt Agnes?" "T do." The elderly lady pulled his cheek to hers and kissed him. "T used to do that more often when you were a little shaver skinning your knees climbing trees. And I expect I'll be doing it to your children." HE twenty-first of June was warm and sunny. "We have a beautiful day," Sister Griffith smiled at Marie in the hall. Sissy was dancing around her grandmother's room with her curls bouncing with golden sunlight. "She's so like Marie." Sister Williams beamed at Sissy as she caught her hand to take her down to breakfast. 753 Annie stood looking out of the window of her bedroom. Her dark hair tumbled down her back. Her white nightgown was caught in ruffles at the wrist. She must start getting ready. Yet she knew if she made a sound, her room would be filled with women helping her dress, urging her to eat. Surely, she had just a moment left. She could see the Josephsons' yard. Was Parker still asleep? What was he thinking about this morning? After today no longer would she be Annie Griffith. How much of her identity besides her name would she lose? She leaned her cheek against the warm window pane. Of what does a person think on this morning of all mornings? Was she feeling a little sad? Dismayed? She waited for the happiness of the past months to come tumbling in upon her. She felt nothing for a moment. Then the back door of the Josephson house opened. Parker was out walking in the yard. She leaned her head again to the window. He was fully dressed in his good dark suit. She should not be looking at him like this. She drew back a little from the window. But just then Ruff, his dog, came bounding around the house. He leaped eagetly against Parker, and there was Parker going down on one knee to stroke Ruff. She saw him bury his face against the dog's soft fur. "Oh, Parker, Parker." She shook her head, smiling through her tears. How could she ever make up for all that was so dear in Parker that was to be hers? She must dress quickly. Parker was to be with her for all time and eternity, and she had no extra time to be wasted. Recipes for Gi Dishes Rhea H. Gardner awa keep some cheese on hand and you will never be without something you can prepare for either your family or unexpected callers, in just a few minutes. There are hundreds of different cheese recipes contributed by almost every nation in the world. Here are just a few to get your imagination and ingenuity working. CuEESE FINGERS 1 c. Sifted flour 1% c. (6 oz.) grated sharp % tsp. Salt Cheddar cheese dash pepper 4 tbsp. Softened butter 2 tbsp. Milk (about) Sift flour, salt, and pepper. Add cheese and butter. Mix with fork till crumbly and well blended. Gradually stir in milk until moist enough to roll. Roll on slightly floured board about % inch thick. Cut into finger lengths. Place on greased baking sheet. Bake in 425° oven about 10 minutes or until slightly brown. Makes about 3% dozen fingers. Serve with soup or salad. TOASTED CHEESE ROLLS 1 (3-0z.) pkg. Cream cheese % tsp. Salt 2 tbsp. Butter 8 thin slices fresh bread 1 tbsp. Chopped parsley Mix together and cream. Spread on bread from which crusts have been cut. Carefully roll and secure with toothpicks. Cover with damp cloth and let stand in a cool place until ready to bake. Bake on oiled cookie sheet about 12 minutes in 425°F. Oven. Excellent salad accompaniment. STUFFED CELERY FILLINGS (2) lc. Blue cheese 4 tbsp. Finely chopped 1 tbsp. Butter salted peanuts or almonds Mix together. Spread on celery stalks. (2) 1 (3-0z.) pkg. Cream cheese 1 tbsp. Finely chopped parsley 2 tbsp. Cream 1 tbsp. Minced onion or chives Blend cheese and cream until fluffy. Add parsley and onion. Mix well. Spread. These mixtures may also be used as toppings for crisp crackers or potato chips. CueeEsE Ricr SOUFFLE % ec. Brown rice ¥% Ib. (2 c.) thinly sliced (1 c. Cooked) Cheddar cheese 2 tbsp. Butter or other fat 4 eggs, separated 3 tbsp. Flour "2 tsp. Salt AC. Milk Page 754 Cook rice in 1% c. Boiling water and % teaspoon salt in pan with close-fitting lid for 15 to 20 minutes. Make white sauce of butter, flour, and milk in top part of double boiler. Cook until thickened and smooth. Add cheese and stir until melted. Fold in cooked rice, beaten egg yolks, and seasonings. Fold in stiffly beaten egg whites. Turn at once into oiled casserole. Bake in 325° oven 40 minutes or until spatula inserted into the center comes out clean. Do not open oven while souffle is cooking. Serves 4 OF 5. STEAMED CHEESE PUDDING % butter 4 eggs, separated 2 c. (% Ib.) grated cheese lc. Flour (Swiss or Cheddar) 1 tsp. Salt dash pepper Cream butter until soft. Add egg yolks and beat until creamy. Stir in cheese, flour, and seasonings and mix well. Fold in stiffly beaten egg whites. Pour into buttered 8-inch mold. Cover. Place in pan half full of simmering water on top of stove or in oven. Steam for about 35 to 40 minutes or until done. Take care that water is kept at simmering temperature. If it boils the pudding will be watery and have holes. Carefully loosen sides of pudding, unmold on hot platter. Serve with creamed vegetables, chicken, or just by itself with a crisp salad. CHEESE AND HamM CaSSEROLE 2 ¢. Cooked noodles dash pepper (about 1 c. Dry) 2¢. Milk 2 tbsp. Butter 1¢. Diced cooked ham % tsp. Salt lc. (% lb.) diced cheese 2 tbsp. Flour Cook noodles until tender. Drain. Make sauce with butter, flour, seasonings, and milk. Cook sauce over low heat, stirring constantly until thick, and smooth. Remove from heat. Add ham, cheese, and noodles and mix well. Pour into oiled 2-quart casserole and bake in 325°F. Oven 20 to 25 minutes or until top is bubbly and slightly brown. > Shetch for November Lael W. Hill Here is November In autumn designs: Brittle brown fingers Of wall-clinging vines, Thin word of sparrows At sun slant and thinned, Girl in a red coat Walking with wind. RECIPES FOR CHEESE DISHES 755 \LFROM THE FIGLD_[~ Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1950, page 278, and the Handbook of Instructions, page 123. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Margaret R. Jackson NEW ENGLAND MISSION, CAMBRIDGE BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY CONDUCTS SUCCESSFUL BAZAAR Left to right: Margaret R. Jackson, President, New England Mission Relief Society; officers of the Cambridge Branch Relief Society: Leonora B. Cox, President; Bessie Ryther, Secretary-Treasurer; Elizabeth J. Freeman, Counselor; Alice Karas, work meeting leader; Bonita T. Bennion, Counselor. President Margaret R. Jackson reports the success of this unusual bazaar: "The bazaar presented an excellent display of handwork and other items. 'The sisters made several hundred dollars, and the bazaar included everything from wonderful New England recipe books made by Relief Society members, to fresh honey from the hives belonging to one of the members. The unique thing about the bazaar, I felt, was the way the sisters worked to get ready for it. They decided in advance what they wanted the bazaar to include. They then divided the work into as many months as there were left until the time of the bazaar. They mimeographed copies of their plans and gave a copy to each member. Each work mecting they worked like bees, beginning their quota for that month. Then, at the close of the work period, each member would take some part of the unfinished work home and bring it back to the next meeting. They would then start on the next month's quota. The plans were most perfect in organization and development." Page 756 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 157 Photograph submitted by May Dyer CENTRAL STATES MISSION, LIBERTY (MISSOURI) BRANCH CONDUCTS QUILT-MAKING PROJECT Front row, left to might: Calvina Davis; Mary Harrison; Ocean Dick; Jean McCulJock; Laura Evans; Mickey Gordona; Alice Tolman, First Counselor; Sybil Rayner. Back row, left to right: Ruby Muller; Cleora Williams, Secretary-Treasurer; Wanda Rogers, Second Counselor; Jewel Mackesty, President; Ida McHenry. May Dyer, President, Central States Mission Relief Society, reports the activities of this devoted organization: "The sisters of the Liberty, Missouri, Branch always gather together with a special feeling of humility. They are privileged to meet each week in a hallowed spot, over the Liberty Jail, where the Prophet Joseph Smith suffered as a prisoner for many months. 'This branch Relief Society was begun in March 1955, with fourteen members. Under the able leadership of Sybil Rayner, Jewel Mackesty, and Alice Tolman, the members have made an enviable record, in spite of the fact that many of them have to drive a distance of fifty to seventy-five miles from their homes to meeting and back. Although they have to drive 110 miles a month to get their visiting teaching done, Wanda Rogers and Ocean Dick, and others who have helped, have always achieved a one hundred per cent visiting teaching record. 'The branch has also scored one hundred per cent on The Book of Mormon reading project. Last November the women conducted a very successful bazaar in Liberty. Although it was very stormy weather, the women brought 160 articles which they had made. In addition to the bazaar, they had a bake sale at the same time. At the spring Relief Society fair and fashion show, in Independence, the Liberty Branch again submitted many articles and received three first-place awards. Since the organization, they have tied one quilt and quilted three more, a remarkable accomplishment, considering that the sisters knew nothing about quilting until Alice Tolman, a missionary custodian at the Liberty Jail, taught them how to quilt." 758 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1956 Photograph submitted by Rosalie Marble SOUTH SEVIER STAKE (UTAH) RELIEF SOCIETY BOARD MAKES QUILT OF UNUSUAL DESIGN Front row, left to right, members of the stake board: Maurine R. Goold, Education Counselor; Dona Hansen; Lou Ella Lee; Faye K. Nielson, President; Muriel C. Mathis. Back row, left to right: Nola Ware; Golda P. Busk; Beth Gregerson; Margaret Bown: Berneice Wade, Work Director Counselor; Rosalie Marble, Secretary-Treasurer. The design of this lovely quilt is a replica of the stake house. In order to raise money for the stake building fund, over nine hundred and thirty-six names were placed on the quilt which was presented to President William Bliss Daniels and Sister LaVerne Daniels. Photograph submitted by Eliza L. Robinson STAR VALLEY STAKE (WYOMING) VISITING TEACHERS CONVENTION, June 26, 1956 Seated, front row, third from the left: Margaret Winters, visiting teacher message leader; center, seated back of the piano: Sarah Passey, eighty-two years old, the oldest active visiting teacher in the stake, who was especially honored; at the right of Sister NOTES TO THE FIELD 759 Passey: Eva Nield, who has been a visiting teacher for fifty years, seated left of Sister Passey: Lois Hale, who was president of the Afton South Ward Relief Society during four of the eight years in which the visiting teachers of this ward achieved their one hundred per cent record. Eliza L. Robinson, President, Star Valley Stake Relief Society, reports that a former visiting teacher, Martha Kennington, who is now an invalid and was not present when the picture was taken, wrote a dramatization for the convention entitled '"Revelation," which was presented by members of her ward Relief Society as an example of effective visiting teaching. Photograph submitted by Gladys K. Wagner CENTRAL AMERICAN MISSION, PANAMA DISTRICT, PACIFIC BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY EXHIBITS HAND-CARVED BATEAS Front row, left to right: Joyce Munsell (seated); Thelma Barnett, Second Counselor. Second row, left to right: Marie Tobert; Lorna Bowen; Myrna Houchen; Lo Ree Hickman, president during the project, and recently released; Maurine Richards. Back row, left to right: Colleen Dial, President; Dorothy Davey; Clara Godbe; Lillian Andersen, Elaine Boyce. Inset: Jean Bouche, Secretary-Treasurer. Gladys K. Wagner, President, Central American Mission Relief Society, reports this unusual and lovely work meeting activity: "A Batea is a wooden bowl or tray, hand-carved, and used for many purposes, such as: to carry the family wash, to clean the rice, for carrying dishes, for use as wall plaques, salad bowls, and other household purposes. Painting these Bateas in colored oils with the original Cocle Indian designs became part of the work activities of the Relief Society of the Pacific Branch under the direction of a former president, Melza Biery, who is now residing in Quito, Ecuador. First Counselor Roberta Shirley, who now supervises the Batea work, was not present when the picture was taken." 760 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1956 BOISE STAKE (IDAHO), BOISE FOURTH WARD RELIEF SOCIETY HONORS THE VISITING TEACHERS AT CLOSING SOCIAL, May 1955 Edna S. Millar, President, Boise Stake Relief Society, reports an unusually successful social at which the visiting teachers were honored: "The enclosed account of the closing social of the Boise Fourth Ward Relief Society will enable you to catch the spirit of some of the fine work being done in our stake. I was present at this closing social, and the inspiration that Sister Emma F. Davis had in organizing this program was unique and exceptional." The details of the planning for the social and the working out of the plans are reported by Sister Davis: "When I was asked to prepare the program for the luncheon honoring our visiting teachers, I felt at a loss, as it seemed we had already used every idea there could be. I prayed earnestly for inspiration, and it came to me very distinctly —- why not have the sisters who are visited each month do the honoring? That was the answer. I asked two sisters in each district if they would like to pay tribute to their visiting teachers. 'Their response was one of the most heart-warming experiences I have ever had. The plans were to be a surprise for the visiting teachers, so we seated them at small tables by districts with the two members who were to pay them tribute. As each visiting teacher arose when her name was called, the sister in her district paid her a lovely tribute. Many original verses and sweet sentiments were expressed, which brought tears of joy and warmed the hearts and delighted the souls of our visiting teachers. Even two sweet non-members had enjoyed their visiting teachers very much, and were appreciative of the privilege of attending the social. Every officer and teacher of our Relief Society was also honored that day, to show our appreciation for their untiring efforts in Relief Society work. We feel that the visiting teachers in our ward now know how very much they are appreciated." She Almighty Jessie Dagsland Johannessen The wind is shaking the trees. The leaves tremble. They know the time soon is here for them to leave this Wonderful world of birds, and sweet smell of flowers. They went too fast—spring with its birth This beautiful summer with its laughter and happiness. They are turning yellow now, these leaves, and they try Desperately to let people remember them. They put on their most colorful garments, and to the Music of the wind they tread the last dance— But the people—they hasten—don't stop to see This magnificent work of nature— Except a handful out of the world who look up in wonder, In wonder of him, the Almighty, who made all this possible. Who are we—not to stop and think of him who gave everything, Even his Only Begotten, so that all who believe should not perish— But have everlasting life? And summer— Sheology—Characters and Teachings of The Book of Mormon Lesson 45—Moroni Explains Principles and Ordinances of the Gospel Elder Leland H. Monson (Text: The Book of Mormon: the Book of Mormon, chapters 8 and g; the Book of Ether, chapters 5 and 12:5-41; the Book of Moroni, chapters 1-7, and chapter 10) For Tuesday, February 5, 1957 Objective: To show ". If the day cometh that the power and gifts of God shall be done away among you, it shall be because of unbelief" (Moroni 10:24). Moroni the Last Nephite Survivor OR a period of at least twentyone years (400-421 A. D.), Moroni, son of Mormon, roamed the wilderness and the plains. As. The last, sad survivor of a once mighty people. (See Mormon 8:3-6.) He was a wayfarer, living a lonesome and a forlorn life; a hunted man, for he knew that if the Lamanites found him they would kill him. The manner of his death is still a mystety. After the battle of Cumorah, fought in 385 A. P., in which Moroni led ten thousand people, he was given custody of the sacred records, the brass plates, the twenty-four gold plates, the large plates of Nephi, and the plates of Mormon, including the small plates of Nephi. Moroni studied the records and familiarized himself with the prophecies foretelling the destruction of his people and with the history of the Nephites and the Jaredites. He engraved an _abridgment of the Jaredites, recorded on the twenty-four gold plates, upon his father's plates. This abridgment, the Book of Ether, was the first book we read in this course of study. It is a summary of a great civilization that suffered extinction because the people sought for blood and revenge (Moroni g:23), and because they refused to serve the God of this land who is Jesus Christ. Moroni Finishes His Father's Book Before engraving the history of the Jaredites on Mormon's plates, Moroni wrote two chapters (chapters eight and nine) to conclude his Page 76] father's book, the Book of Mormon. In these two chapters, he recounts the death of his father and all other Nephites save himself: And my father also was killed by them, and I even remain alone to write the sad tale of the destruction of my people. But behold, they are gone, and I fulfil the commandment of my father. And whether they will slay me, I know not (Mormon ee Conditions in Latter Days Given Moroni relates the conditions that would exist when his father's record would come forth, he gives his testimony concerning the three Nephites and Jesus Christ, and addresses unbelievers. Moroni writes: Behold, I speak unto you as if ye were present, and yet ye are not. But behold, Jesus Christ hath shown you unto me, and I know your doing (Mormon 8:35). There was no question in Moroni's mind about the coming forth of the writings: And no one need say they shall not come, for they surely shall, for the Lord hath spoken it; for out of the earth shall they come, by the hand of the Lord, and none can stay it; and it shall come in a day when it shall be said that miracles are done away; and it shall come even as if one should speak from the dead (Mormon 8:26). Moroni describes the social and religious conditions that would exist at the time of the coming forth of the record: And it shall come in a day when the blood of saints shall cry unto the Lord, because of secret combinations and the works of darkness (Mormon 8:27). He further testifies that: Yea, it shall come in a day when the power of God shall be denied, and churches become defiled and be lifted up in the pride of their hearts; yea, even in a day when leaders of churches and_ teachers shall rise in the pride of their hearts, even to the envying of them who belong to their churches. Yea, it shall come in a day when there shall be heard of fires, and tempests, and vapors of smoke in foreign lands; And there shall also be heard of wars, rumors of wars, and earthquakes in divers places (Mormon 8:28-30). Moroni further notes that the record will come forth in a day when, "... There shall be churches built up that shall say: Come unto me, and for your money you shall be forgiven of your sins" (Mormon 8:32), in a day when churches will have been built "... To get gain...." (Mormon 8:33). And I know that ye do walk in the pride of your hearts; and there are none save a few only who do not lift themselves up in the pride of their hearts, unto the wearing of very fine apparel, unto envying, and strifes, and malice, and persecutions, and all manner of iniquities; and your churches, yea, even every one, have become polluted because of the pride of your hearts. For behold, ye do love money, and your substance, and your fine apparel, and the adorning of your churches, more than ye love the poor and the needy, the sick and the afflicted (Mormon 8:36-37). Address to Unbelievers To the unbelievers, Moroni says:... Turn ye unto the Lord, cry mightily unto the Father in the name of Jesus, that perhaps ye may be found spotless, pure, fair, and white, having been cleansed by the blood of the Lamb, at that great and last day (Mormon 9:6). To those who deny latter-day revelation and the gifts of the spirit, 762 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1956 LESSON DEPARTMENT he says that they know not the gospel: For do we not read that God is the same yesterday, today, and forever, and in him there is no variableness neither shadow of changing? (Mormon 9:9). Moroni states that the only reason for a lack of miracles is a lack of faith in God. (Mormon 9:20) Recalling the visit of Christ to the Nephites, Moroni calls attention to the fact that Jesus said: And these signs shall follow them that believe—in my name shall they cast out devils; they shall speak with new tongues; they shall take up serpents; and if they drink any deadly thing it shall not hurt them; they shall lay hands on the sick and they shall recover (Mormon 9:24). Moroni calls upon unbelievers, "Be wise in the days of your probation.... See that ye art not baptized unworthily; see that ye partake not of the sacrament of Christ unworthily; but see that ye do all things in worthiness, and do it in the name of Jesus Christ, the Son of the living God; and if ye do this, and endure to the end, ye will in nowise be cast out' (Mormon 9:28-29). In concluding the Book of Mormon, Moroni asks those to whom the record will come: Condemn me not because of mine imperfection, neither my father, because of his imperfection, neither them who have written before him; but rather give thanks unto God that he hath made manifest unto you our imperfections, that ye may learn to be more wise than we have been (Mormon 9:31). Discourse on Faith When Moroni was abridging the Book of Ether, he inserted some of his own teachings and experiences 763 which are inspirational and reveal the greatness of Moroni's character. He addresses chapter 5 of Ether to the future translator of his writings, saying that the plates may be shown unto three by the power of God. In the twelfth chapter of Ether, Moroni gives a discourse on faith:... I would show unto the world that faith is things which are hoped for and not seen; wherefore, dispute not because ye see not, for ye receive no witness until after the trial of your faith. For it was by faith that Christ showed himself unto our fathers, after he had risen from the dead; and he showed not himself unto them until after they had faith in him; wherefore, it must needs be that some had faith in him, for he showed himself not unto the world. Wherefore, by faith was the law of Moses given. But in the gift of his Son hath God prepared a more excellent way; and it is by faith that it hath been fulfilled. For if there be no faith among the children of men God can do no miracle among them; wherefore, he showed not himself until after their faith. Behold, it was the faith of Alma and Amulek that caused the prison to tumble to the earth. Behold, it was the faith of Nephi and Lehi that wrought the change upon the Lamanites, that they were baptized with fire and with the Holy Ghost. Behold, it was the faith of Ammon and his brethren which wrought so great a miracle among the Lamanites. Yea, and even all they who wrought miracles wrought them by faith, even those who were before Christ and also those who were after. And it was by faith that the three disciples obtained a promise that they should not taste of death; and they obtained not the promise until after their faith. And neither at any time hath any wrought miracles until after their faith; wherefore they first believed in the Son of God. And there were many whose faith was so exceeding strong, even before Christ came, who could not be kept from within the veil, but truly saw with their eyes the things which they had beheld with an eye to faith, and they were glad. And behold, we have seen in this record that one of these was the brother of Jared... (Ether 12:6-7, 11-20). Moroni points out that it was by faith that his ancestors obtained the promise that the record should come to their brethren through the Gentiles, and he expresses a fear which he told the Lord that the Gentiles would mock, when they would receive the record, because of the Nephites' weakness in writing. Moroni then states that the Lord had made the Nephites... Mighty in word by faith..." (Ether 12:23), but not in writing:. Because of the awkwardness of our hands. Behold, thou hast not made us mighty in writing like unto the brother of Jared, for thou madest him that the things which he wrote were mighty even as thou art, unto the overpowering of man to read them. Thou hast also made our words powerful and great, even that we cannot write them; wherefore, when we write we behold our weakness, and stumble because of the placing of our words; and I fear lest the Gentiles shall mock at our words. And when I had said this, the Lord spake unto me, saying: Fools mock, but they shall mourn; and my grace is sufficient for the meek, that they shall take no advantage of your weakness.... I give unto men weakness that they may be humble.. Behold, I will show unto the Gentiles their weakness, and I will show unto them that faith, hope and charity bringeth unto me—the fountain of all mghteousness (Ether 12:24-28). And Moroni says that he was comforted. He recalled that the brother of Jared removed a mountain by faith, "... Wherefore thou workest after men have faith. And I also remember... Man must hope, or he cannot receive an inheritance in the place which thou hast prepared" (Ether 12:30, 32). And again, I remember that thou hast said that thou hast loved the world, even unto the laying down of thy life for the world, that thou mightest take it again to prepare a place for the children of men. And now I know that this love which thou hast had for the children of men is charity; wherefore, except men shall have charity they cannot inherit that place which thou hast prepared in the mansions of thy Father. Wherefore, I know by this thing which thou hast said, that if the Gentiles have not charity, because of our weakness, that thou wilt prove them, and take away their talent, yea, even that which they have received, and give unto them who shall have more abundantly. And it came to pass that I prayed unto the Lord that he would give unto the Gentiles grace, that they might have charity. And it came to pass that the Lord said unto me: If they have not charity it mattereth not unto thee, thou hast been faithful; wherefore, thy garments shall be made clean. And because thou hast seen thy weakness thou shalt be made strong, even unto the sitting down in the place which I have prepared in the mansions of my Father. And now I, Moroni, bid farewell unto the Gentiles, yea, and also unto my brethren whom I love, until we shall meet before the judgment-seat of Christ, where all men shall know that my garments are not spotted with your blood. And then shall ye know that I have 764 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1956 LESSON DEPARTMENT seen Jesus, and that he hath talked with me face to face, and that he told me in plain humility, even as a man telleth another in mine own language concerning these things; And only a few have I written, because of my weakness in writing. And now, I would commend you to seek this Jesus of whom the prophets and apostles have written, that the grace of God the Father, and also the Lord Jesus Christ, and the Holy Ghost, which beareth record of them, may be and abide in you forever. Amen (Ether 12:33-41). Teachings of the Book of Moroni In beginning the Book of Moroni, Moroni says: Now I, Moroni, after having made an end of abridging the account of the people of Jared, I had supposed not to have written more, but I have not as yet perished; and I make not myself known to the Lamanites lest they should destroy me (Moroni 1:1). Moroni then discusses principles and ordinances of the gospel. He informs us that he writes these things:... That perhaps they may be of worth unto my brethren, the Lamanites, in some future day, according to the will of the Lord (Moroni 1:4). Moroni tells them concerning the bestowal of the Holy Ghost by the Nephite twelve. He writes concerning the ordination of priests and teachers. Moroni also gives the two prayers used by the Nephites in administering the bread and wine, both of which we use today in our sacramental service. Finally, he specifies the conditions and mode of baptism. People were not baptized except "... They came forth with a broken heart and a contrite spirit, and witnessed unto the 765 church that they truly repented of all their sins" (Moroni 6:2). After this ordinance was performed they were numbered among the people of the Church. The people met together frequently:... To fast and to pray, and to speak one with another concerning the welfare of their souls.... And... To partake of bread and wine, in remembrance of the Lord Jesus (Moroni 6:5-6). These people:. Were strict to observe that there should be no iniquity among them; and whoso was found to commit iniquity, and three witnesses of the church did condemn them before the elders, and if they repented not, and confessed not, their names were blotted out.... But as oft as they repented and sought forgiveness, with real imtent, they were forgiven (Moroni 6:7-8). Obtaining a Testimony of The Book of Mormon Moroni, finally, closes his book and, of course, The Book of Mormon, writing to his brethren, the Lamanites, and giving some specific instructions on how a testimony of the truth of The Book of Mormon may be obtained: Behold, I would exhort you that when ye shall read these things, if it be wisdom in God that ye should read them, that ye would remember how merciful the Lord hath been unto the children of men, from the creation of Adam even down until the time that ye shall receive these things, and ponder it in your hearts. And when ye shall receive these tidings, I would exhort you that ye would ask God, the Eternal Father, in the name of Christ, if these things are not true; and if ye shall ask with a sincere heart, with teal intent, having faith in Christ, he will manifest the truth of it unto you, by the power of the Holy Ghost. And by the power of the Holy Ghost ye may know the truth of all things (Moroni 10:3-5). Moroni's Farewell Exhortation Moroni further exhorts the Lamanites not to deny the gifts of God, one of which is given to one man and another of which is given to another man. One man, however, may have several gifts, "... According as he will" (Moroni 10:17). And I would exhort you, my beloved brethren, that ye remember that every good gift cometh of Christ. And I would exhort you, my beloved brethren, that ye remember that he is the same yesterday, today, and forever, and that all these gifts of which I have spoken, which are spiritual, never will be done away, even as long as the world shall stand, only according to the unbelief of the children of men. Wherefore, there must be faith; and if there must be faith there must also be hope; and if there must be hope there must also be charity. And except ye have charity ye can in nowise be saved in the kingdom of God; neither can ye be saved in the kingdom of God if ye have not faith; neither can ye if ye have no hope.... And now I speak unto all the ends of the earth — that if the day cometh that the power and gifts of God shall be done away among you, it shall be because of unbelief (Moroni 10:18-21, 24). Moroni closes his record with words that ring with assurance: And I exhort you to remember these things; for the time speedily cometh that ye shall know that I lie not, for ye shall see me at the bar of God; and the Lord God will say unto you: Did I not declare my words unto you, which were written by this man, like as one crying from the dead, yea, even as one speaking out of the dust? (Moroni 10:27). And now I bid unto all, farewell. I soon go to rest in the paradise of God, until my spirit and body shall again reunite, and I am brought forth triumphant through the air, to meet you before the pleasing bar of the great Jehovah, the Eternal Judge of both quick and dead. Amen (Moroni 10:34). Questions on the Lesson 1. What records did Moroni have? 2. What was the condition of the Lamanites and Nephites in his day? 3. What were the attitudes of Mormon and Moroni toward the gifts of the Spirit? 4. What social and religious conditions did Moroni foretell would prevail when the Nephite record would be brought forth? Autumn Mood Vesta N. Lukei Bright maple leaves, and oak, gold-washed with sun, That grew beside a stream an hour ago Now fill my home with autumn's benison, Epitomize the whole day's vibrant glow. So, too, some slightest thing we shared can hold Our happiness, and while we are apart Keep memory as bright as autumn gold And love a burning flame within my heart. 766 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1956 Visiting Sleacher ITlessages— Book of Mormon Gems of Truth Lesson 45—"And It Came to Pass That There Was No Contention in the Land Because of the Love of God Which Did Dwell in the Hearts of the People" (4 Nephi 15). Leone O. Jacobs For Tuesday, February 5, 1957 Objective: To give encouragement for eliminating contention through having the love of God in our hearts. N the world as it exists today we can only try to imagine what it would be like if it were devoid of all contention. Surely it would seem near unto heaven. Yet such a condition is possible to achieve and was achieved by the Nephites on this hemisphere over 1900 years ago. A state of peace and harmony existed among them for almost 200 years. The Book of Mormon states regarding this unique _ period, "... And surely there could not be a happier people among all the people who had been created by the hand of God" (4 Nephi 16). Was it any magic formula or unknown code of conduct which brought about this happy state? No, the formula has been known throughout the centuries, and_ is known to us today. It was given very clearly and briefly when Nephi recorded "... There was no contention in the land, because of the love of God which did dwell in the hearts of the people." Throughout the scriptures we read much concerning the love of God, indicating that it should rule our lives. When one of the Pharisees, a lawyer, inquired of Jesus, "Master, which is the great commandment in the law?" Jesus answered:... Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. This is the first and great commandment (Mt. 22:37-38). We can cultivate and prove our love of God only by doing his will. Christ said, "If ye love me, keep my commandments" (John 14:15). The extent to which we love God is made manifest in our behavior toward our fellow men. We cannot truly love God and mistreat our fellow men. Relief Society sisters have an excellent opportunity to develop love of God, both through their compassionate services within the organization and also in their homes. To a great extent it is within the power of mothers to make of their homes sanctuaries of peace and harmony. By a mother's good example and patient but firm guidance, the love of God can be cultivated. Such helpful influences as family prayer, participation in family activities, cooperation in work assignments, and generous amounts of praise and encouragement help to bring about Page 767 family unity and love. The proverb, "A soft answer turneth away wrath," can be practiced to good advantage. The love of God is a stronger force than that which breeds contention. 'Thus it is comforting to know that strife and discord can be conquered by this great power. Vork Mleeting— Food Preparation and Service (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 5—Cheese Rhea H. Gardner For Tuesday, February 12, 1957 HEESE is one of the oldest foods known to humanity, so incredibly old that its origins are shrouded in legend, so universal that it appears wherever man _ has grazed animals and used their milk. The Greeks ate and appreciated cheese. 'The diet of athletes training for the Olympics was largely cheese. The Romans ate large quantities of cheese and brought it to England, where some of the world's best varieties of cheese, Cheddar and Stilton, are still made. Monks made Roquefort cheese as early as A. D. 1070. Its discovery is another accident. A shepherd had left his lunch of bread and cheese in the famous Roquefort caves. When he came back, weeks later, he found that the bread had molded and that the cheese looked different. However, the cheese had a delicious taste, and the shepherd told the monks about it. The popular blue or Roquefort cheese we now have is the result. Camembert became famous when Napoleon discovered it in an obscure country in Normandy. He is said to have been so pleased that he kissed the hand of Madame Horel, the maker. Camembert became the most famous of France's reputed 450 cheeses. Italian cheeses, too, are very ancient. Parmesan cheese was a main part of the diet of many in the fourteenth century. The Swiss have made cheese since the sixteenth century. 'There were sections of the country where, at the birth of a child, a wheel of Swiss cheese was made and put away marked with the child's name. For the ceremonial occasions of his life, such as christening and marriage, slices of his own cheese were cut and served, and, at his death, the mourners consumed the last pieces in his memory. When the pilgrims sailed on the Mayflower, cheese was one of the foods they took along. Until 1850, all the cheese in America was made on the farms. Most of it was cottage cheese, though some farmers also made Cheddar in the way they had made it in their native England. The first cheese factory was started in Oneida County, New York, in 1851. Until the early nineteen hundreds, the manufacturers of cheese traveled westward, especially to Wisconsin, where surroundings for cheese-making were neatly perfect. 'Today, cheese is made in almost every state of the Union. The world's largest 768 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1956 LESSON DEPARTMENT Swiss cheese factory is located in beautiful Cache Valley in northern Utah. But Wisconsin is still the most important cheese-making state, making about fifty per cent of all American-made cheese. Like the milk it is made from, cheese is a nearly perfect food. In a pound of American Cheddar cheese you get the equivalent of the milk fat contained in four quarts of milk and the protein in two and four-fifths quarts of milk. 'The butterfat in cheese is a good source of vitamin A. Cheese contains other necessary vitamins, too, but to a lesser extent. It is an excellent food for children and for adults. The old story that cheese is hard to digest has been disproved by tests made over the years by the United States Department of Agriculture and a large number of scientific institutions. It has been proved that cheese is ninety to ninety-nine per cent digestible. Cheese is an economical food compared to the nourishment and eating pleasure it gives. Cheese is also one of our most versatile foods, not only fitting into the main course of breakfast and every course of luncheon or dinner, but fitting every budget. It is an excellent item for freezing. Always cook a food containing cheese at a low temperature, if it has to cook for any length of time. Higher temperatures may be used if the cooking time is very short. Overcooking gives cheese a bad texture and may decrease the ease of digestion. When cheese is cut or shredded into fine bits and mixed 769 with other foods, there is less danger of overcooking it. Well - ripened Cheddar blends more readily than that which is underripened, and cheese that has a high fat content melts better than others. If cheese is to be served as such, remove it from the refrigerator an hour or more before it is to be served, so its full goodness will be released. Cheese, like some people, is a good mixer. When mixed with bland foods, such as macaroni, it adds flavor and zest to the dish. Sharp or strong-flavored cheese served with fruit is an excellent combination for dessert, or with the addition of a roll or slice of toast, as a main luncheon dish. Frozen fruit salad, with cheese as an accompaniment, is delightful. Melted cheese in white sauce is delicious when combined with vegetables, toast, or crackers. Practically all soups are very much improved if they are topped with plenty of grated cheese. Cream soups, especially, are improved when a cheese topping is added. Cheese that is well aged and sharp is best for this. A cheese tray is a very popular last course for dinner in many European countries, or for a buffet luncheon, supper, or a midnight snack in America. Have a variety of cheeses for a variety of tastes. These are but a few suggestions for the use of cheese. If you are one who has limited the use of cheese to sandwiches and macaroni and cheese, you have a great thrill waiting you as you expand the use of this near-perfect food. Note "Recipes for Cheese Dishes," by Rhea H. Gardner, page 754, in this issue of the Magazine. ob iterature—Shakespeare in Our Lives Lesson 5—The Merchant of Venice Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Text: Shakespeare Major Plays and the Sonnets, by G. B. Harrison, Harcourt, Brace & Company, 1948) For Tuesday, February 19, 1957 Objective: To learn more fully that the two-edged sword of justice cuts those who do not extend mercy just as it cuts those to whom mercy is not extended. How far that little candle throws his beams! So shines a good deed in a naughty world. The Merchant of Venice, V. 1. Go, 91 Wilt thou draw near the nature of the gods? Draw near them then in being merciful: Sweet mercy is nobility's true badge. Titus Andronicus, I, 1, 117-119 A good moral, my Lord. It is not enough to speak, but to speak true. A Midsummer Night's Dream, V. 1, 120, 121 OW wise was the late Dr. Carl F. Eyring in his observation that "Each generation must renew itself." How discerning was Ralph Waldo Emerson when he wrote in his essay, "Experience": "I think I will never read any but the commonest books — the Bible, Homer, Dante, Shakespeare, and Milton." Combining these two thoughts, then, how inevitable that those who today would earn greater wisdom within their world and greater insight within themselves must read Shakespeare long, deep, often. Just as great art verifies itself in other great works of art which contain the same great truths, so, through time, great souls speak to great listeners, regardless of whether they live in 1950 or 1590. But since ours is a different world than Shakespeare's, his works, in part at least, are often interpreted differently toPage 770 day. Likewise each of us is free to see Shakespeare in a different manner than his neighbor. Therefore, of necessity, a stream of books giving fresh interpretation to Shakespeare pours from our presses, thus reminding us that the last word on Shakespeare will never be said. The Merchant of Venice The play was probably written in 1594, and was acted many times previous to its presentation before King James I, in 1605. He enjoyed it so much that it was again presented at court two days later. We have no record of its being performed again for almost one hundred years after King James' command performance. From 1701 to 1741 Shylock was presented as a farcical, comic rogue; after 1741 he achieved status and depth at the hands of more perceptive interpret- LESSON DEPARTMENT ers. During the nineteenth and twentieth centuries his role was coveted by great Shakespearean actors. The Merchant of Venice has been most popular, both with audiences and actors. Traditionally, its appeal has not been questioned; why it appeals is still a matter of controversy. Some critics feel Shylock to be entirely alien to the play, a hard, bitter miser of another species who intrudes gratingly upon the sweet music and romantic adventures of a delightful Shakespearean comedy. For others, this light tone, beauty, and "happy ending" merely provide continuity and a chance for members of Shakespeare's acting company to perform this moral essay dealing with justice, mercy, tolerance, ways of getting money, and unselfish friendship. Since Shakespeare's works have been all things to all men, this issue remains unresolved. Plot The setting of the play is in Venice, Italy, and provides a return to the land of the classics which held such glamor and excitement for Elizabethan Englishmen interested in new learning and world-wide culture. Antonio, an honest bachelor merchant, is approached by a handsome, spendthrift Bassanio, his best friend, who needs three thousand ducats to woo Portia, the beautiful, witty, wealthy lady of Belmont. Because Antonio's money is tied up in shipping, he finds it necessary to ask the Jewish moneylender Shylock for the loan, offering his ships and cargoes as security. Because he hates usury so intensely (and hence Shylock) Antonio always loaned his own money with- 77 out charging interest, and, likewise, did not believe in paying interest; but Bassanio's urgent need forced him to make an exception. As a gesture of friendship toward Christian Antonio, who had but recently spat upon him, Shylock agrees to make the loan without charging interest, but "in merry sport" suggests Antonio sign a bond for security which will permit Shylock to cut a pound of flesh wherever he chooses from Antonio's body, if the loan is not repaid within three months. Feeling that Shylock has even been kind, and confident that at least one of his vessels will return soon, Antonio signs the bond and gives Bassanio the money, who leaves at once for Belmont with his friend Gratiano to renew his acquaintance with Portia and try to win her hand. Before the death of Portia's wise and wealthy father he had devised a test for selecting her husband. All her many suitors are to be shown three small caskets. On the gold one is written, "Who chooseth me shall gain what many men desire." The silver casket carries the promise, "Who chooseth me shall get as much as he deserves," while the lead casket warns, "Who chooseth me must give and hazard all he hath." If the suitor unlocks the casket which contains Portia's portrait, she becomes his bride. The gold casket contains a skull, the silver casket the portrait of a blinking idiot, while the leaden casket, which Bassanio chooses because of hints contained in a song which is sung as he deliberates, contains Portia's portrait. As symbol of her love, Portia gives him a ring, which he promises to wear forever; likewise her maid Nerissa gives a ring to Gratiano, who has just wooed and won her. Lorenzo, another of Bassanio's friends, arrives at Belmont with lovely, fiery Jessica, daughter of Shylock, who has just deserted her lone father, taking jewelry and several bags of his ducats as she elopes with her Christian husband. The marriage vows are scarcely pronounced when word comes that none of Antonio's ships has arrived, and Shylock has appealed to the justice of the Venice court for his pound of flesh. Bassanio and Gratiano leave their wives in the care of Lorenzo, and return to Venice to help Antonio. But Portia refuses to be left out, so, disguising herself as a young lawyer with Nerissa disguised as her clerk, she artives at the trial just as things are going badly for Antonio. Assuming the name of Balthasar, a young doctor of Rome, Portia acts as judge, first attempting to soften Shylock in her famous speech on mercy. Unsuccessful, she awards Shylock the pound of flesh, instructs Antonio to bare his bosom to Shylock's knife—when gallant Bassanio offers to take Antonio's place and give his life for his friend. Then Portia, calling attention to the requirements of the bond, forbids Shylock to take one drop of blood on pain of death. Shylock relents. 'Then Portia states the Venetian law which permits the state to seize half the property of anyone conspiring to murder, but Antonio refuses to take his legal half on condition that Shylock become a Christian and leave his property to Lorenzo and Jessica at his death. Portia charges no fee for saving Antonio, but, instead, accepts the rings of Bassanio, her husband, and Gratiano, as tokens of gratitude. All return to Belmont where, as they return, Lorenzo and_ Jessica speak lyric lines in praise of love and night. The wives tease their husbands about the absent rings, denying them their love until they prove the rings were not given to rivals, but Portia soon relents, tells Bassanio that she was the doctor at the trial, produces the rings, and the play ends happily, as word comes that three of Antonio's rich cargo vessels have just arrived. The three interwoven plots, revolving about the caskets, the pound of flesh, and the rings, are deftly worked together by the craftsman Shakespeare. 'Though in its final resolution the play is a romantic comedy, the dramatic climax contained in the long trial scene in Act IV reveals Shakespeare's major interest within the play to be a moral one. It must not be forgotten that Act V contains lines of great and simple beauty, reminiscent of Romeo and Juliet: The moon shines bright. In such a night as this, When the sweet wind did gently kiss the trees And they did make no noise.... VV. Mweas3 How sweet the moonlight sleeps upon this bank! Here will we sit and let the sounds of music Creep in our ears, night Become the touches of sweet harmony. Sit, Jessica. Look how the floor of heaven Is thick inlaid with patines of bright gold. There's not the smallest orb which thou behold'st Soft stillness and the 772 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1956 LESSON DEPARTMENT But in his motion like an angel sings, Still quiring to the young-eyed cherubins. Such harmony is in immortal souls, But whilst this muddy vesture of decay Doth grossly close it in, we cannot hear it. V. 1. 54-65 The man that hath no music in himself, Nor is not moved with concord of sweet sounds, Is fit for treasons, stratagems, and spoils. V. 1. 83-85 Such exquisite lines of word-music again remind us that, primarily, Shakespeare is the poet; also they condemn the rasping harshness of Shylock's words: Hear you me, Jessica. Lock up my doors, and when you hear the drum And ae vile squealing of the wry-necked €, Clamber not you up to the casements then.... II. 5. 28-31 The Universal Shakespeare In this play Shakespeare creates his first really complex character— Shylock. But in presenting him to us, he raises many of the questions which vexed his contemporaries and teased them into attempting answers just as they vex and tease us today. For example, what questions can be more pertinent for our own day than the following: (a) Is money to be gained in life at the expense of higher values? (b) For a Christian or for a Jew is it "honorable" to gain money—by usury, by leaving a father but taking his wealth, by a court decision which is more just than merciful? (c) Can it be that some of us are daily being seduced by the golden casket to choose it, rather than the unglamorous lead casket? Shakespeare does not pretend to answer these and other soul-search- 773 ing questions in the play; he does embody such questions in characters and relationships, that we may see artistic reality and judge for ourselves. He leads us to a larger understanding of the people concerned, that we may judge more wisely. Most of these questions are focused most sharply in_ three characters: Antonio, Portia, Shylock. Each deserves consideration, brief as it must be. Antonio In the opening speech of the play, Antonio is wearied by a sadness which he cannot resist or explain. When Salario suggests that he worries about his scattered ships, or that he is in love, Antonio denies any truth to these reasons. During the play Shakespeare reveals to us two other qualities in him: he is loyal and generous to Bassanio, and he hates Shylock with such passion that, when questioned by the surprised Shylock about his sudden change in tactics — whereas yesterday he spat on Shylock and called him dog — Antonio loses his temper in his reply: I am as like to call thee so again, To spit on thee again, to spurn thee too. If thou wilt lend this money, lend it not As to thy friends, for when did friendship take A breed [increase] for barren metal of his friend? But lend it rather to thine enemy, Who if he break, thou mayst with better face Exact the penalty. To which Shylock replies that he desires to be his friend, and to lend him money without interest, which both agree to, with the "pound of flesh" bond added later. Just as I. 3. 131-138 Shylock has trouble later defining the source of his hatred for Antonio, now it seems difficult to account for Antonio's hatred for the Jew. However, since Antonio has revealed himself as somewhat of an idealist by refusing to borrow or lend at interest, his hatred may be more for Shylock's usury than for Shylock himself. We should also remember that for hundreds of years Jews had been denied legal residence in England, nor could they vote, own property, or attend schools. Largely, they were tolerated because rulers found them useful: they loaned money. Antonio's farewell speech at the end of the scene reveals him peaceful and hopeful: Hie thee, gentle Jew. The Hebrew will turn Christian. He grows kind. I. 3. 178-179 Portia Intelligent, witty, beautiful, rich, desired ardently by gentlemen and kings throughout the world, Portia considers herself worthy of such pursuit, and yet her "little body is aweary of this great world"; she has too much of everything, yet lacks the will power to accomplish and do: If to do were as easy as to know what were good to do, chapels had been churches and poor men's cottages princes' palaces. It is a good divine that follows his own instructions. I can easier teach twenty what were good to be done than be one of the twenty to follow mine own teaching. The brain may devise laws for the blood, but a hot temper leaps o'er a cold dewree (I° 2. 19-26). (Read as much of Act 1, Scene 2, as time permits. ) How fully Portia speaks for the new concept of Renaissance man. Whereas formerly man attained virtue by obeying reason, now virtue comes through long experience which proves to the good man that his highest principles and his own instinct mutually support each othCk Portia's boredom ends abruptly when Bassanio comes to choose the casket. She delays his stay until they can become better acquainted, then has a song sung as he chooses, a song with a verse pattern which thymes with lead. Her marriage promises all joy, but before such joy can be realized a messenger brings news of Antonio's plight. It is Portia who rushes her husband off to his aid, she being completely loyal to his loyalties. Then, almost instantly she decides to attend the trial in disguise: here is a chance for being seen, being heard, a time for excitement and spectacular shifts in logic and attack until the almost insane Shylock is robbed of his prey. The intense courtroom scene is the heart of the entire play (read Act IV, Scene 1 as time permits), and Portia is the center of all light and strength. Her words dazzle, her quick mind-shifts are brilliant, and her sense of drama and timing no less than perfect when she agrees that Shylock shall have his flesh and waits while he brings scales to weigh the flesh, and sharpens his knife. Then reverses everything in her deft speech beginning, "Tarry a little." In her leisurely, self-confident manner she forbids Shylock to take one drop of blood, and he is thwarted and Portia is identified with her great speech on mercy, probably 774 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1956 LESSON DEPARTMENT the best-known speech in Shakespeare aside from Hamlet's "To be or not to be." After Antonio confesses that he owes Shylock, Portia then turns to Shylock to tell him he must be merciful. Already bullied, robbed, taunted, and pushed beyond endurances, Shylock demands to know why his mercy is to be compelled. This brings Portia up sharp, forcing her to acknowledge that any mercy seemingly forced, cannot be mercy. For a moment Portia transcends herself when she couples beauty of language and simple tone to the ideal beauty which should relate man to man: The quality of mercy is not strained, It droppeth as the gentle rain from heaven Upon the place beneath. It is twice blest; It blesseth him that gives, and him that takes. Tis mightiest in the mightiest. It becomes The throned monarch better than his crown. His scepter shows the force of temporal power, The attribute to awe and majesty. Wherein doth sit the dread and fear of kings. But mercy is above this sceptered sway, It is enthroned in the hearts of kings, It is an attribute to God himself, And earthly power doth then show likest God's When mercy seasons justice. IV. 1. 184-197 But this sublime passage ends abruptly in her next words, '""Therefore, Jew," which is legal, rigid, and just, containing a complete change of tone. Throughout the rest of the trial it is Portia being tried, not Shylock. Will she be motivated by her own exalted definition of mercy, or will she be merely literal and legal? Here Portia fails; here, knowing better, she yields to justice, 7715 and it remains for the Duke and Antonio to extend some degree of mercy to the bewildered, distraught Jew. Notwithstanding, Portia is one of Shakespeare's most delightful, most beloved characters, despite her tendency to overdramatize, and her failure, as she predicted of herself earlier, to act on the higher truth she had stated with such spontaneous ease and beauty. Shylock Here is the complexity of life itself. All will agree that in justice and under the law Shylock received what he deserved, and yet, just though it may be, something within us whispers deep down, "that man was wronged." His revenge is a vicious one, but what is the source of his bitterness, since in his first scenes of the play he is frugal, concerned with business, stern but not mean, and not thinking to ask for his pound of flesh until his daughter Jessica and his malicious countryman Tubal torture him into his desperate, vindictive frame of mind which characterizes the trial scene. Early in the play Shylock recalls the patience with which he has borne abuse, isolation, and spitting, since "Sufferance is the badge of all our tribe." Antonio feels his kindness, his desire to belong, to have a friend, but then the series of blows begin to fall which unhinge him, possibly because each is given him by a Christian who confesses to all virtue while reviling Shylock as a fellow human. How dearly he loves his Jessica, as Lorenzo well knows, even as he steals her while insulting her lineage: If e'er the Jew her father come to Heaven, It will be for his gentle daughter's sake. 776 And never dare misfortune cross her foot Unless she do it under this excuse, That she is issue to a faithless Jew., Il. 4. 33-38 When Shylock realizes that Jessica has deserted him, he becomes distraught, and with an impassioned but numb repetition, he rants through the streets calling out: My daughter! Oh, my ducats! Oh, my daughter! Fled with a Christian! Oh, my Christian ducats! Justice! The law! My ducats, and my daughter! II. 8. 15-17 Which Salanio describes: I never heard a passion so confused, So strange, outrageous, and so variable, As the dog Jew did utter in the Streets.... Il. 8. 12-14 Shylock resents the assumed innocence of those who helped spirit Jessica away when they ask him where his daughter is, and Tubal tortures him with visions of the ting his wife had given him before their marriage. Now Shylock descends to the lowest depths: if Christians call me dog, I'll be one, and "'beware my fangs... I'll have my bond." And midway in his suffering he reminds us that he, too, is mortal and sensitive, as he describes why Antonio has hated him: And what's his reason? I am a Jew. Hath not a Jew eyes? Hath not a Jew hands, organs, dimensions, senses, affections, passions? Fed with the same food, hurt with the same weapons, subject to the same diseases, healed by the same means, warmed and cooled by the same winter and summer as a Christian is? If you prick us, do we not bleed? If you tickle us, do we not laugh? If you poison us, do we not die? And if you wrong us, hall we not revenge? If we are like you RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1956 in the rest, we will resemble you in that. If a Jew wrong a Christian, what is his humility? Revenge. If a Christian wrong a Jew, what should his sufferance be by Christian example? Why, revenge. The villainy you teach me I will execute, and it shall go hard but I will better the instruction. Ill. 1. 60-76 Or in other words, if I am hard and cruel, I but improve on the instruction you have already taught me so effectively. 'Thus, in his trial scene, at first he pushes his advantage relentlessly, just as his Christian persecutors do later by taking his goods from him and robbing him of his identity within his group by rather mockingly forcing him to accept Christianity. No wonder, in that magnificent understatement, "T am not well" Shylock tells far more than he says. He is entirely broken, alone, scorned. And, as a final blow, Gratiano speaks of his christening in less than gentle tones, asking instead for a jury and gallows: In christening shalt thou have two godfathers. Had I been judge, thou shouldst have had ten more, To bring thee to the gallows, not the font. IV. 1. 398-400 Surely Shakespeare is here showing us Christian vindictiveness which, even though merely echoing Shylock's well-earned lesson, is a far cry from that "mercy which droppeth as the gentle rain from heaven." In truth here is that "mob in the heart" which Emily Dickinson sees and fears in each of us, and not without some justification. Here Shylock wounds us so deeply that Shakespeare gives us an entire final act filled with irresistible pre- LESSON DEPARTMENT scription for forgetting: music, lyric beauty, young love, teasing, repentance, jest, and merry company of a moonlight night. Thoughts for Discussion 1. Do you feel that in this play Shakespeare is saying that "the love of money is the root of all evil'? Discuss. 777 2. An eminent Shakespearean critic has written his opinion that he cannot "see how a Jew can read The Merchant of © Venice without pain and_ indignation." Is this critic right or wrong? Does such a view apply to Jews only? 3. It is always more difficult to do the good than to know what the good is? Do the main characters in this play know the good? How can this be proved by their actions? Social Science—Latter-day Saint Family Life Lesson 4—Women and the Priesthood Elder John Farr Larson For Tuesday, February 26, 1957 Objective: connection with the Priesthood. HE success of the Relief Society was assured by its significant inception under the direction of the Priesthood of God. Inspiration from the same source during each of the 115 years of its existence has built an organization, strong but sensitive to need, and willing to serve. We shall now consider specific teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith regarding the relationship of women to the Priesthood, and the application of these teachings in present-day living. Instructions Through the Priesthood At an early meeting of the Relief Society the Prophet Joseph Smith clearly stated that the activities of the organization would always be directed by the Priesthood. You will receive instructions through the order of the Priesthood which God has established, through the medium of To show the role and responsibilities of Latter-day Saint women in those appointed to lead, guide and direct the affairs of the Church in this last dispensation (D. H. C. IV, page 607). The sisters sensed the importance of his directions and were eager to follow the Prophet's wise counsel during the formative years of the Relief Society's development. During his lifetime the Prophet, with other General Authorities, met with them often, giving refinements of the original instructions and timely suggestions to meet new situations which arose. A close-working relationship existed between them, and the women soon learned that their greatest strength stemmed from their willingness to serve as aids to the Priesthood. The members of the first Relief Society presidency were called to their respective offices by the Priesthood who set them apart individually, blessed them, and gave instructions regarding their new duties. 'This was carefully completed before "president Emma Smith and her counselors took the chair." This procedure remains unchanged _today, and is a great spiritual blessing to women of the Church, regardless of the capacity in which they are called to serve. Women Share Priesthood Blessings In April 1842, the Prophet gave a significant lecture on the Priesthood to the Relief Society. A synopsis of it, reported by Eliza R. Snow, concludes with this comment: "The Spirit of the Lord was poured out in a very powerful manner, never to be forgotten by those present on this interesting occasion" (Ibid., page 607). The Prophet explained how women of the Church would come into possession of the blessings of the Priesthood. He spoke of delivering the keys of the Priesthood to the Church, and said that the faithful members of the Relief Society should receive them in connection with their husbands.... He exhorted the sisters always to concentrate their faith and prayers for, and place confidence in their husbands, whom God has appointed for them to honor, and in those faithful men whom God has placed at the head of the Church to lead His people; that we should arm and sustain them with our prayers.... You must put down iniquity, and by your own good example, stimulate the Elders to good works (Ibid., IV, pp. 604-605). He emphasized that women might attain the blessings of the Priesthood "'by a virtuous life... And diligence in keeping all the commandments." He also cautioned: All must act in concert, or nothing can be done, and should move according to the ancient Priesthood; hence the Saints should be a select people, separate from the evils of the world—choice, virtuous, and holy (Ibid., IV, page 570). The late Elder John A. Widtsoe has written of the sharing by Latter-day Saint women in the blessings of the Priesthood: The Priesthood is for the benefit of all members of the Church. Men have no greater claim than women upon the blessings that issue from the Priesthood and accompany its possession.... The man holds the Priesthood, performs the priestly duties of the Church, but his wife enjoys with him every other privilege derived from the possession of the Priesthood. This is made clear, as an example, in the Temple service of the Church. The ordinances of the Temple are distinctly of Priesthood character, yet women have access to all of them, and the highest blessings of the Temple are conferred only upon a man and his wife jointly (Priesthood and Church Government, page 83). The fact that women are not ordained to the Priesthood should not be regarded as a denial of a blessing. The different and distinct roles of man and woman entitle them to different blessings, for indeed, "... Male and female created he them" (Gen. 1:27). Latter-day Saint women who do not have members of their families who hold the Priesthood, can still enjoy blessings of the Priesthood by calling upon the elders as need may arise to administer to their spiritual needs, and through Church service they may be directed by the Priesthood in their various callings. Perhaps the rarest gift within the power of God to bestow, that of motherhood, is a blessing only women can enjoy. If they devote themselves to this sacred responsibility, whether mothering their own children or children of others, they will neither feel nor express any resent- 778 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1956 LESSON DEPARTMENT ment for gifts or authority they do not have. Rather, they will consider their calling the greatest and the best suited to their natures. Women find satisfying expression for many of their talents, but no other pursuit is as full of rich blessings and opportunities as that of being mothers in Zion. 'Their mission as mothers should be regarded as their most important responsibility. Although man and woman were created to fill distinctly different missions on earth, it was not intended that one be inferior to the other. "Neither is the man without the woman, neither the woman without the man, in the Lord" (I Cor. 11:11). Children, reared in a home where the father assumes the role as head of the house worthily and the mother honors her husband's Priesthood, are fortunate indeed. The example of parents truly living their religion provides children with inspiration for a similar venture. Herein lies opportunity to influence favorably the lives of children. 'They learn from childhood the patriarchal order in the kingdom of God and will grow to maturity with a desire to pattern their own homes after the Lord's plan. A wife and children should take great pride in observing their husband and father officiate in the important ordinances involving the family, such as the blessing and naming of his children, baptizing, confirming, and ordaining them in the Priesthood. 'The way he presides at the table and at family prayer will also leave a lasting impression. 'These sacred moments are sermons in themselves, and their influence cannot be overemphasized. 779 Pleasant memories of experiences shared together unify the family group. There are abundant opportunities for women to make fond memories of experiences in which the Priesthood is involved. Special occasions should be made of ordinations and advancements of sons in the Priesthood. In this way a mother can impress on her sons the divine nature of the authority they receive and show her pride in seeing them officiate in Priesthood assignments. How commendable it is for a mother to plan the dinner to suit the liking of her son on his ordination day, or for the family to plan a special home evening in his honor. Such signs of interest will never be forgotten by a faithful son. Mothers should impress upon their daughters the importance of encouraging the Priesthood bearers of the family in their Priesthood assignments, atranging the affairs of the household so they will not interfere with such appointments as weekly Priesthood meetings, ward teaching, welfare assignments, leadership meetings, etc. Such training, absorbed from the mother's example, will establish a proper pattern for young girls and will give them a desire to seek mates who hold, honor, and magnify the Priesthood. Women As Help Mates When the first woman was created by the Lord, she was designated as "'an help meet" to her husband. This placed upon woman a responsibility which has remained unchanged. 'The woman who encourages her husband to perform all his Priesthood duties is honoring this responsibility. Unless this is done, the full measure of her Priesthood blessings will not be realized. On many occasions the Prophet acknowledged his wife's devotion with gratitude and affection. She was his constant companion, regardless of the dangers to be encountered. In addition, she assumed responsible leadership as president of the Nauvoo Relief Society, with grace and dignity. She maintained a home which was the gathering place of her husband's friends. They were always made welcome, whether on brief visits or extended stays. One guest described her as the Prophet's "excellent wife, a woman of superior ability." Realizing the importance of every woman's assistance to her husband, the Prophet gave the following specific instructions to the Relief Society: Let this Society teach women how to behave towards their husbands, to treat them with mildness and affection. When a man is borne down with trouble, when he is perplexed with care and difficulty, if he can meet a smile instead of an argument or a murmur — if he can meet with mildness, it will calm down his soul and soothe his feelings; when the mind is going to despair, it needs a solace of affection and kindness (D. H. C. IV, pp. 606-607). When you go home, never give a cross or unkind word to your husbands, but let kindness, charity and love crown your works henceforward... (Ibid., page 607). You need not be teasing your husbands because of their deeds, but let the weight of your innocence, kindness and affection be felt, which is more mighty than a millstone hung about the neck; not war, not jangle, not contradiction, or dispute, but meekness, love, purity—these are the things that should magnify you in the eyes of all good men (Ibid., page 605). These instructions infer that woman's influence has no limit if exerted in the proper manner, and Latter-day Saint''women everywhere would do well to follow these instructions religiously. Relief Society Supports the Priesthood The Nauvoo Female Relief Society became a source of great strength to the early Church leadership. This same support is felt today, in wards and stakes throughout the Church, wherever smoothly operated Relief Society organizations are functioning. When the women of the Church assume their full load, it becomes possible for the elders to "give their time to other duties, etc., in their public teachings" as the Prophet suggested. A unique experience in the Nauvoo Relief Society illustrates the support that organization gave to the Prophet Joseph personally: About the last of July, 1842, when some of the officials of Missouri were taking measures to drag President Joseph Smith from Illinois by an illegal process, the F. R. [Female Relief] Society sent a petition to Thomas Carlin, Governor of Illinois, in behalf of President Smith, claiming his protection as chief magistrate. The petition was signed by every member of the Society, and presented by its President, Mrs. Emma Smith, accompanied by Mrs. Amanda Smith and Miss E. R. Snow. The Governor's residence was in Quincy, fifty miles south from Nauvoo (Woman's Exponent, Vol. 1, No. 2). In July 1842, the Prophet Joseph wrote: The "Ladies Relief Society" also drew up a petition signed by about one thousand ladies, speaking in the highest terms of the virtue, philanthropy and benevo- 780 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1956 LESSON DEPARTMENT lence of Joseph Smith, begging that he might not be injured, and that they and their families might have the privilege of enjoying their peaceable rights (D. H. C., V, page 71). On August 31, 1842, the Prophet Joseph Smith attended the Relief Society meeting and thanked the women for their interest and activity in his behalf. The Female Relief Society have taken a most active part in my welfare against my enemies, in petitioning to the governor in my behalf. These measures were all necessary.... If these measures had not been taken, more serious consequences would have resulted. I have come here to bless you. The Society have done well: their principles are to practice holiness. God loves you and your prayers in my behalf shall avail much; let them not cease to ascend to God continually in my behalf (D. H. C., V, pp. 140-141). The Prophet also expressed his appreciation to the Governor in a letter dated July 30, 1842: I cannot let this opportunity pass without tendering to you my warmest thanks for the friendly treatment my lady as well as those with her received at your hands during the late visit, and also for the friendly feelings breathed forth in your letter... (D. H. C., V, page 83). The Prophet could always expect the full support of the Nauvoo Relief Society with respect to their official assignment in the Church. They regarded most seriously the charges given them by the Priesthood. Many instances in Relief Society history since that time illustrate how the Priesthood and Relief Society, when working together effectively, have been of reciprocal benefit. Women of the Relief Society have great strength with which 781 | Woe CHRISTMAS MUSIC FOR LADIES THREE PART CHORUSES =... BETHLEHEM-—Stickles _....................18 =... BIRTHDAY OF A KING— Neidlinger ~..........0.0000000000eceeceeeeeeee.20 =... CAROL OF THE BELLS— Wilhousky -..00.0...0... Ececc eee cece 20 aoe CHRISTMAS SONG—Adam...........22 =... GESU BAMBINA—Yon...................20 =... HOLY CHILD—Browpn......................20 a INNKEEPER'S CAROL—Warner.....22 a IN THE STILLNESS OF THE |.20 =... LITTLE BELLS—Mozart _...................20 — LOVE BLOOMS AT CHRISTMAS— YOUSC @o on... Eeeeee eee ececeeeeeeeceeeeceeeeees 25 mae O HOLY NIGHT—Adan...............18 a SILENT NIGHT—Epperson.............15 The above is only a partial list of Christmas music we carry in stock. Write for approval copies. Music Sent On Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank: DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY: 15 E, Ist South: Salt Lake City 11, Utah Please send the music indicated above. OJ On Approval 0 Charge 0 Money Enclosed Name Address: City & State "A ] Baynes Masic sMATSAALALAEATLAI) 15 ist South 145 NORTH UNIVERSITY, PROVO / 2260 WASHINGTON ELIE CEDEN 782 We thank you...... For the truly inspiring experience we have had, assisting your fine personnel in selection of Executive Office Appointments for the New Relief Society Building. We join you in offering our prayers and best wishes for the perpetual success of your organization's important and humanitarian work. Sincerely, Management of Penbroher 24 East Broadway WORK DAY CRAFT SUPPLIES The best in the most popular supplies for Work Day Basketry, Aluminum Etching, Copper & Brass Tooling, Textile Painting, Shellcraft, Flower Making, Glass Etching, Copper Enameling Free Craft Instruction ZIM'S HOBBIES 240 East 2nd South Salt Lake City, Utah RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1956 they may aid and support the Priesthood. President Joseph F. Smith has said. There are people fond of saying that women are the weaker vessels. I don't believe it. Physically, they may be; but spiritually, morally, religiously and in faith, what man can match a woman who is really convinced?... They are always more willing to make sacrifices, and are the peers of men in stability, Godliness, morality and faith... (President Joseph Fielding Smith, Priesthood and Church Government, page 86). Upholding Church Leaders Relief Society members are not only expected to sustain their husbands and sons in their Priesthood callings, but to uphold those who preside over the Church, whether they be General Authorities, stake officers, or ward leaders. Latter-day Saint women are given the opportunity in Church assemblies to cast a sustaining vote for the leaders of the Church. A vote to sustain and honor the leadership of the Church is a pledge to uphold those who preside. In the home, children should never hear criticism of Church leaders from the lips of their parents. Such an attitude might plant a seed which will not only destroy the child's confidence in the Authorities of the Church, but lessen his respect for parents who display such disloyalty. Abundant happiness and_blessings are found in the Latter-day Saint home where the husband and wife, with mutual affection, honor and sustain each other in their respective callings. Supplementary References 1. "Never Give a Cross... Word" LESSON DEPARTMENT —Marianne C. Sharp, Relief Society Magazine, September 1953, page 596. 2. Priesthood and Church Government, Elder John A. Widtsoe, chapter 7, page 80. Questions for Discussion 1. Discuss ways in which Latter-day Saint women share in the blessings of the Priesthood (a) in the home; (b) in the Church. 2. What responsibilities accompany the blessings of the Priesthood, distinguishing Latter-day Saint women from all other women of the world? 3. Discuss the advantages of membership in an organization directed by the Priesthood. What added strength does this give the efforts of the organization? 4. Of what significance is the "setting apart" ordinance in performing Church assignments? 5. How can women of the Church sustain their husbands and sons in Priesthood callings? How can they uphold the leadership of the Church? —~- Perennial Dorothy J. Roberts We move with reticence of mien Now taking each a separate way Around this barrier between Formed by surmise. No word to say, Our substance hidden from the ear. All the glory and the grave Tumult waning with the year. No sound, no syllable to save The beauty from the dark debris. I often grieve the times we pass So mutely by the changing tree, The amber apple in the grass, And issue inward, false decree, With gavel in uncertain hands, Committing you, arraigning me, Whom neither knows nor understands. Though spring and summer leave the stalk Yet faintly still the seasons flare In winter when I yearn to talk As you pass by me unaware. 783 VIDA FOX CLAWSON ANNOUNCES LOS ANGELES TEMPLE TOUR including PASADENA ROSE BOWL PARADE, etc. Leaves Salt Lake City December 26, 1956. 1957 TOURS AZALEA SPRING TOUR TO THE SUNNY SOUTH AND CUBA HAWAII EXTRA SPECIAL SUMMER TOUR (Ask about it) HISTORIC TRAIN This will include the pageant at the HILL CUMORAH. WARNING: All these tour parties will be limited in number. Make reservations early. Write or phone: Vida Fox Clawson 966 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah Phone EM 4-2017 It's awaiting @ You... YES there is still a tremendous amount of outstanding instruction and use awaiting you in this and other copies of the Relief Society Magazine. Your editions may be handsomely bound at the West's finest bindery and printing plant for $2.50 cloth bound and $3.50 leather bound per volume plus postage for mail orders. All mail orders must be paid in advance. Follow these postage rates if you send your order by mail: Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Up to 150 miles 35 150 to 300 miles.............- eee 9 300 to 600 miles a 600 to 1000 miles ' 1000 to 1400 miles..., 1400 to 1800 miles............--.-....--s.000 76 Over 1800 miles.87 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-258] 31 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah THE WORLD'S FINEST PIANOS Mason & Hamlin The Stradivari of Pianos —— EVERETT Finest Toned Spinet Piano Built ee Cable-Nelson Finest Low Priced Piano Built Beesley Music (0. Pioneer Piano People 70 S. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH GOOD LIGHT BRINGS BETTER SIGHT KARE RED AR + EN Buy from Your Dealer Be Modern... Live Electrically UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. Birthday Congratulations IRTHDAY congratulations are extended to: Mrs. Ruth May Fox, Salt Lake City, Utah, one hundred three; Mrs. Hilda E. Erickson, Grantsville, Utah, ninety-seven; Mrs. Christine Anderson, Salt Lake City, Utah, ninety-six; Mrs. Annie Catherine Mortensen Ivie, Salina, Utah, ninety-four; Mrs. Annice C. Jensen, Brigham City, Utah, ninetyone; Mrs. Pauline B. Wale, Salt Lake City, ninety-one; Mrs. Effie Willey Holt, Burley, Idaho, ninety; Mrs. Elda J. Anderson Larson, Granger, Utah, ninety; Mrs. Almira Jack, Sanford, Colorado, ninety. —_ Reluctant Season Eva Willes Wangsgaard Our deepest snowfall fell the year That winter came reluctantly. Thanksgiving found the flowers here And unshed leaves on every tree. Each morning held a hint of frost Which sunlight dusted off again From lawns where little green was lost And storms meant only gentle rain. But far above the peaks sat, white Wool-shawled around their sunset flame, Their skirts spread purply black as night And talked of snow. Jt came. It came. 784 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1956 ate "es ro eh gex A aKEDMERE ererongaggetennggner oe a 2. RESEARCH IN AMERICAN GENEALOGY E. Kay Kirkham This excellent guide contains the latest information on a At American genealogical research. It offers wonderful sughg | (oa. Gestions on how to start the genealogical record, do 5 e e research by correspondence, and how to analyze the genealogical problem. » « ° ° ® » sb z 8 a z 8 z & x ». & 7 ' a 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah ( ) money order ( ing amount $ (numbered) books: It also includes replies from 100 genealogical libraries, county histories of all 48 states, a special treatise on state census records, up-to-the-minute treatise on government records, early maps of the United States, and many other aids. | THEE WED Dr. Rex A. Skidmore Marital happiness and family harmony can be achieved in an uncertain world. Dr. Skidmore indicates how this can be accomplished and offers helpful suggestions on how to stretch dollars in the household budget, how to get along better with each other and the children, and gives interesting true-to-life examples. Written especially for husbands and wives, this book makes an ideal gift. $2.00 $4.00 3. A LOOK AT MORMONISM Benjamin Alward 375 picturesque photographs highlight the achievements of the Church and its people in this latest book by Benjamin Alward. Every department of the Church, including Church members who have achieved both national and international prominence, are represented in attractive pictures. You'll enjoy this interesting and modern approach that gives up-to-the-minute views of the Church throughout the world. Size 7% x 10%... 200 pages. Mormonism in pictures. $4.00 DESERET BOOK COMPANY = ——~—~—~*S Gentlemen: Enclosed you will find ( ) check ) charge to my account the follow- | MAIL CONVENIENT ee for the encircled | COUPON AT LEFT | 2 | Residents of Utah include 2% sales tax. A Deseret: 44. Fast South Temple — Salt Lake City, Utah i) i THERE'S SOMETHING ABOUT A PUMPKIN, sunning itself in a field at fall, that just naturally conjures up visions of the good things of life... Like a golden-brown pumpkin pie, with its special spicy flavor and melt-in-your-mouth goodness. For Thanksgiving and other special-occasion days this fall, you'll want plenty of U and I Sugar on hand. Make sure you have the complete U and I family of fine sugars: Powdered, Brown, Fine Granulated and Superfine Dessert. THE UTAH-IDAHO SUGAR COMPA Bee REPRESENTATIVES OF RELIEF SOCIETIES OF THE NATIONS rrnaregirarAnatel tant Wma enim ntanamnyge et nn * } i t } t ASSEMBLY IN TABERNACLE FOR DEDICATORY SERVICE, OCTOBER 3, 1956 Pa 7 WES m @ Shy Blessing On his Flouse, William Beal: J. M. Heslop: Ray G. Jones: Dear Lord DeEpIcATORY ANTHEM Words by Alberta H. Christensen Music by Florence J. Madsen Members, General Board of Relief Society Thy blessing on this house, dear Lord, And bless the earth on which it stands; For here is a witness to our faith in thee, A testament of willing hands; a dream— A cherished dream come true. Let thy protecting spirit arm its sturdy walls, Defending them from harm. Beneath its sheltering roof O let there be peace as proof That harmony and love abide within— That love and harmony abide within. For Jesus said, "Ye shall do the work Which ye see me do." Help us, Lord, to ever keep, Thy great command to "feed my sheep," That angels shall companion us Who serve thee in thy holy cause, And truth and knowledge ever flow In promised blessings on our heads. O let thy spirit ever be With those who build this house to thee, That all may grow in faith and love And glorify thy holy name, Thy holy name, O Lord! Cotor PHOTOGRAPHY Assembly in Tabernacle and Interiors of The Relief Society Building Cover—The Relief Society Building Representatives of Relief Societies of Nations, and First Presidency in Front of Plaque. Cover Design by Evan Jensen THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - - - - - - - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - - - First Counselor Velma N. Simonsen - - - - - Second Counselor Margaret C. Pickering - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Evon W. Peterson Alberta H. Christensen Edith P. Backman Edith S. Elliott Louise W. Madsen Mildred B. Eyring Winniefred S. Florence J. Madsen Aleine M. Young Helen W. Anderson Manwaring Leone G. Layton Josie B. Bay Gladys S. Boyer Elna P. Haymond Blanche B. Stoddard Christine H. Robinson Charlotte A. Larsen Annie M. Ellsworth Mary R. Young RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Eaiter - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford Assistant to the Editor - - - - - - - - June Nielsen General Manager - - - - - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Vol. 43 DECEMBER 1956 No. 12 Conten ts SPECIAL FEATURES Dedicatory Service Dedicatory Anthem: 'Thy Higasing on This House, Dear Lord" wae one c rere estvon nase anccocsereerterrrseesttlWords 7 Alberta H. Christensen a Program _...... SaeceeraseccescohencnacernetdsCneon dee ttt ee rare voces soevees See Dedicatory Prayer - SN crcDavid O. McKay rBg Introductory Remarks Belle S. Spafford 790 GoW Koloo | § ke) or.. Mark E. Petersen 791 Report of Relief Society Building 4 Activities 20.0.2 Marianne C. Sharp 792 We Built As Ore occ ctcccesceseceeececceeeeceecccnsesecceescessececseeeeees -.. Belle S. Spafford 799 Motherhood oie c ccc ceeeec cece ee seeceneeeeeseeeeeeceeeeeeeeeee J]. Reuben Clark, Jr. 802 An Enduring Tribute to Visiting Teachers....... Stephen L Richards 803 Women's Influence and Responsibility.202..... C.. EecsceseseseeseeeeseeceneceeeceeeecoeesDavid O. McKay 805 Benediction oo... Eeeeeeeece ee eeee eee eeeeeeene erences Joseph Fielding Smith 808 Annual General Relief Society Conference—1956 20... EeeeseseceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeMargaret C. Pickering 812 Loving, United Effort Availeth Much oo...... CcceccccceseeseeceeeeeeceeceseeeeneeseeesVelma N. Simonsen 814 Dedication Hymn: 'Lord, We Dedicate This House to Thee') cece cccccccsscccsseesssseeessonee ee _-Words Sberta H. Christensen 864 Beauty Is "More Than Skin Deep — Beauty That Lasts Forever...... Esssecsescseecees 827 FICTION TSO) «enc. Semsetsscesasnecocersennevscssesnt eee ee eeeHazel K. Todd 828 GENERAL FEATURES Editorial: A Dedicated Home for Relief Society 22.0.... CcccceccecssscsesessssesesensesneneeeeesMarianne C. Sharp 817 The One Hundred Twenty-Seventh Semi-Annual Church Conference Vesta P. Crawford ba Birthday Congratulations oo. Cc. Ccccccecccccccssseccsececesssocssseseecosscvevesseseseesesesensssstsnsesrsgeeesscssssaesssetesusessseseresevacecereeseee From Near and Far 2oi... C. Ccesececeseeeeereno g oe nncnencececs ncoedsaressoee eee Bas Woman's Sphere 20... Cesecceeeesececeeeeeeeeeeec eens Ramona W. Cannon 836 FEATURES FOR THE HOME A Christmas Decoration for Relief Society Social or Program.........: ssessssscseseseeeeeseesInez R. Allen 833 Christmas Dinner Decoration at Home oii... EccececcccceecscseeseeceeececesesceceseseseceesesnseseacacecereseceeeeeInez R. Allen 834 LESSON DEPARTMENT FOR MARCH Theology: Prophecies Concerning the Jews, Gentiles, and Lamanites in Visiting Teacher Messages: ''We Have a Labor to Perform in This Tabernacle of Clay'' Leone O. Jacobs 842 Work Meeting: Desserts 2.......2...2cccccceceeesceceeseececeeeccecesncecsucevecesteceeeceeaeeceeceeneceeesceeeaveceaeeesRhea H. Gardner 843 Literature: Romeo and Juliet 000....... Briant S. Jacobs 845 Social Science: ''Unto the Least of These') 22. Eee eee——John Farr Larson 851 POETRY OC Cy ce eeDorothy J. Roberts 858 COPIES OF DECEMBER ISSUE AVAILABLE Single copies of this issue of the Magazine are available for twenty-five cents each, postpaid. Orders may be sent to The Relief Society Magazine, 76 North Main St., Salt Lake City 16, Utah. PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 16, Utah, Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 8, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1108, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts, the Latter Days o.. Ecceccceeecceeccecececeeesenceseseseceseseseeeeeeseseseessseeveceeseeeceeseecsessoeeees Leland H. Monson 837 Dedicatory Semmae Relief Society Building INGO) — ARM nanan eee een enecnnmeneneneneTabernacle (For Relief Society Members and Public) President David O. McKay, Presiding iLL} (cnSinging Mothers "Home, Sweet Home" Combined Chorus of Singing Mothers from: Bear River, Ben Lomond, East Ogden, Farr West, Lake View, Lorin Farr, Malad, Mount Ogden, North Box Elder, North Weber, Ogden, Riverdale, South Bear River, South Box Elder, South Ogden, Summit, Weber, and South Carolina Stakes. Assembling of Representatives of Nations......-.....2.2.-2---:::: scseeececeeeeseeeeeeeeeeeeeees LGU ele 6 (0) eeeElder Mark E. Petersen Music: "If Ye Love Me, Keep My Commandments" Wheeby Florence J. Madsen Report of Relief Society Building Activities....2...2.0.0..2.2.2.22220202eeeees en... Ee. EeCounselor Marianne C. Sharp BATES Sooo cocoa ecncnnneonc erence eneenenennecemennnneaeealPresident Belle S. Spaftord YS (eeSinging Mothers "Thy Blessing on This House, Dear Lord" Music by Florence J. Madsen Words by Alberta H. Christensen AY eSS.....2---n-seeeesneceseeeescesneeeeeeenscteneatecseeeeseeeeeesPresident J. Reuben Clark, Jr. AdreSS -.....-.--eseeeeneceneeeeeecneceneeseceseeesesecocececesecesPresident Stephen L Richards CsPresident David O. McKay Singing....... Scegencosnccenuuss. AgaCongregation "We Thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet" Dedicatory Prayer....2.2.22.2222-.2+-20eeeeeeceeeeeeeeeePresident David O. McKay (From The Relief Society Building) SUMQUNY _. W.-eseeeececcececcecceneeccoeeeeeecoeeeceseeceseaceceecececeececsesenceeceenenaseeeeneCongregation "The Spirit of God" Benediction -....2....2-..-2sce-eseeceeceeoeeeeseeeeeeeeeeePresident Joseph Fielding Smith Music Directed by Florence J. Madsen Elder Alexander Schreiner at the Organ Dedicatory Prayer of the Relief Society Building PRESIDENT Davin O. McKay Presented in The Relief Society Building, Salt Lake City, October 3, 1956 OD) ur Heavenly and Eternal Father, the Giver of all Good, the Bestower of all Blessings, "Hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come. Thy will be done in earth, as it is in heaven." We are grateful that thou hast revealed Thyself again to the children of men in this age of the world; that to the Prophet Joseph Smith thou didst appear as a Personal Being, and authoritatively introduced Jesus The Christ, saying "This is my Beloved Son, Hear Him." For this, one of the greatest Revelations of all Time, in behalf of thy sincere children everywhere, we express deep gratitude. We are grateful that through the bestowal of the Holy Priesthood, Thou didst authorize men to represent Thee on earth; that by that divine authority the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was organized as when Christ was on the earth with Apostles, Prophets, Pastors, Teachers, Evangelists, etc., "for the perfecting of the saints, for the work of the ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ: "Till we all come in the unity of the faith, and of the knowledge of the Son of God, unto a perfect man, unto the measure of the stature of the fulness of Christ." More potent for the good and happiness of the Church members than we realize are the Priesthood Quorums for the men, and the Auxiliary organizations for the women. These Thou hast placed in the Church for mutual service. In serving one another, we serve our Lord and Savior, who himself hath said: "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me." On this memorable occasion, we praise thy name for the organization of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, for the thousands of loyal, faithful, beautiful women who compose its membership. Their devotion to duty is never-ending; their loyalty to Thee and to Thy Priesthood unquestioned; their administrations to the sick and to the needy, untiring; their sympathetic, gentle services give hope to the dying, comfort and faith to the bereaved. O Father, bless these, thy choice, beloved Handmaidens! We ask especially for thy divine guidance to continue to attend President Belle S. Spafford in her great responsibilities, not only in the Church but in the Nation. Likewise bless her able, efficient Counselors, Sister Marianne C. Sharp, and Sister Velma N. Simonsen, and each and every Board Member, and their successors throughout the coming years. Bless also the Stake and Ward Presidents of Relief Societies throughout Page 788 the Church, including those in the Missions and Branches. We thank Thee for their faith and service. Wilt thou sustain them while they continue in their work of administering to the sick and to the afflicted and in bringing light and wisdom to the women of the Church. To make more effective their service to the needy and suffering to those in the Church and in the World, the Relief Society has erected with the aid of the Church membership this beautiful Relief Society home in which the Presidency and members of the General Board may function more effectively in instructing, guiding, and rendering helpful aid to the Stakes, Wards, and Missionary Branches wherever organized. To aid in the erection of this edifice, in its utility and beauty, contributions have come from individuals and groups in Nations throughout the world wherever the Church is organized. For their generosity, self-sacrifice and love of a glorious Cause, O Lord, bless the givers fourfold. And now, representing them, and by the authority of the Holy Priesthood, we dedicate this building of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints unto Thee, Holy Father, and set it apart to be used for the purposes for which it has been erected. Accept it, O Lord, and hallow it by Thy protecting influence. Shield it from destructive elements, and may it stand undefaced, a solid structure from foundation to roof, until its every purpose shall have been accomplished. To this end, we dedicate every room; every hallway; every stairway on every floor from basement to garret, with all the furnishings, gifts of art, draperies, and other things supplied for the comfort and need of those who labor within these walls. We dedicate the plumbing, heating and cooling systems, the electric wiring in its entirety, and all other appurtenances, and pray that the custodians in charge may be ever alert, watchful, and wise. May the offices occupied by the Presidency and Board Members be hallowed by the sweet influence of the Holy Spirit; likewise, the rooms occupied by the faithful women employed in making Holy garments, or occupied in secretarial duties, or associated in any manner with the Relief Society Magazine. We dedicate the grounds. May the building and surroundings radiate a hallowed influence even to passersby, as perfume is wafted from sweet-scented flowers. Help us, O Lord, to overcome our weaknesses; strengthen us wherein we are weak; that we may more ably and effectively discharge the responsibilities that Thou hast placed upon us. As we dedicate this edifice, we also dedicate our lives to Thy service, and pray for divine assistance in all our efforts to serve Thee by serving Thy children. This dedication, this expression of our deep gratitude, this re-commitment to Thy service, we humbly render unto Thee this day, in the name of Thy Beloved Son, Jesus Christ, Amen. DEDICATORY PRAYER 789 Dedicatory Service of the Relief Society Building Held in the Tabernacle and Relief Society Building October 3, 1956 President Spafford: These Dedicatory Services for The Relief Society Building are under the direction of the First Presidency of the Church with President David O. McKay presiding. President McKay has kindly requested me to conduct the meeting. We are grateful for the presence today of all three members of the First Presidency — President David O. McKay, President Stephen L Richards, and President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. We acknowledge with gratitude the presence of other General Authorities of the Church. We appreciate the attendance of a number of other prominent Church leaders including representatives of the other auxiliary general boards. We are honored by the presence of distinguished State, county, and city officials. We are pleased to have with us Sister Emma Ray McKay, the wife of our President, and also Sister Irene Richards. Sister Richards' grandmother was the fourth general president of Relief Society. We are happy to have with us the wives of Genera] Authorities. We are pleased to have with us the wives of mission presidents from the North American missions, along with many devoted officers and members of Relief Society from both the stakes and missions of Church. We are very happy to have with us our former general president, Sister Amy Brown Lyman. Page 790 We welcome all who are assembled here today, together with those assembled in the Assembly Hall and Barrett Hall where the service is being televised. We appreciate the services of KSL-T'V in televising this program to these buildings. We have received many messages from Relief Societies and friends expressing their gratitude for this great occasion for Relief Society. Time will not permit us to read these messages. We will open the meeting by the combined chorus of Singing Mothers from the Bear River, Malad, North Box Elder, South Bear River, South Box Elder, Ben Lomond, East Ogden, Farr West, Lake View, Lorin Farr, Mount Ogden, North Weber, Ogden, Riverdale, South Ogden, Weber, Summit, and South Carolina Stakes singing "Home, Sweet Home." The singing this afternoon will be conducted by Sister Florence Jepperson Madsen, member of the general board, with Elder Alexander Schreiner accompanying the singing at the organ. Following the singing, in recognition of Relief Societies everywhere which have worked together as one to bring to fulfillment the desire for a Relief Society Building, sisters representing the nations of the world where Relief Societies are organized, will assemble. When the sisters are seated, Elder Mark E. Petersen, member of the Council of the Twelve, and an ad- DEDICATORY SERVICE 791 visor to the general board of Relief The Singing Mothers chorus sang Society, will offer the invocation, "Home, Sweet Home." Invocation— Dedicatory Service Exper Mark E. PETERSEN Of the Council of the Twelve OM) on Heavenly and Eternal Father, as thy humble children, we have gathered here this afternoon to worship thee and to thank thee for thy bounteous blessings to us. We have met this afternoon at the conclusion of a great enterprise undertaken by the Relief Society sisters of thy great Church. And at this time, we honor them and thank thee for them. We are grateful for the mighty mission they carry forward here in the earth. In all humility, we thank thee for their faith and their devotion and for the outstanding influence they have here in the earth, in their families and homes, in the Church, and also in the communities in which they live. They are, indeed, thine handmaidens here in the earth. They have with them a divine power. We acknowledge it; we thank thee for them. We thank thee for the great Relief Society organization, and for the women who have headed it and who carry on in the various wards and stakes and missions and in the general board. We thank thee that thou didst inspire the great Prophet, Joseph Smith, to organize this society, and we are grateful that it has carried on over the years and fulfilled such a great mission. Our Father, we this afternoon are to conduct this program in connection with the dedication of the beautiful new headquarters of the Relief Society; and thy great servant, President McKay, has come here to dedicate this great building — The Relief Society Building. We humbly ask that thou wilt inspire him as he does so. We pray that thou wilt be with all who take part in this dedicatory service, that all may be done under the direction of thy Holy Spirit. We are thankful for all of the women who have contributed for the construction of this Building and for its beautification. And now, Father, we pray that as the Building is about to be dedicated, that we may all be dedicated in our hearts to further service in thy great cause. And we ask thine especial blessings on the entire Relief Society organization, that it may be prospered, that it may grow, that it may bring a message of conversion, conviction, and of happiness and of comfort to the many, many thousands who will be the recipients of the labors of the sisters. Father in heaven, we now pray that thou wilt be with us during these services, guide all that is done, accept our gratitude for all thou hast given, and we do it all in the name of the Lord, Jesus Christ. Amen. President Spafford: The Singing Mothers will now sing "If Ye Love Me, Keep My Commandments." 'This anthem is a composition of Sister Florence Jepperson Madsen. Following the singing, Sister Marianne C. Sharp, Counselor in the general presidency of Relief Society and Chairman of the Building Committee from the beginning, will give a brief report of the building program. The Singing Mothers chorus sang "If Ye Love Me, Keep My Commandments." Report of Relief Society Building Activities Counselor Marianne C. Sharp T has been eleven years since || Sister Spafford, with the approval of the First Presidency, proposed to the members of Relief Society convened in the Relief Society general conference of 1945, that they undertake the erection of a Relief Society Building. The proposition was enthusiastically approved. In 1947, two years later, at the general Relief Society conference, a financial plan, approved by the First Presidency, was presented and adopted whereby the sisters within a year would raise half a million dollars for the Building, with the understanding that the Church would match this amount. Every member of Relief Society in the stakes was expected to contribute five dollars—for this was to be an undertaking of the many. In addition, each stake board was asked to contribute half of its funds on hand as of January 1947. No quotas were given to the missions by the general board. Participation was left entirely to the discretion of the respective mission presidents. 'The European missions, in the aftermath of war, were not expected to contribute at all. When the sisters gathered for the 1948 Relief Society general conference, one year later, they came rejoicing. All stakes in the Church (at that time numbering 172) were recognized for filling their quotas. As of October 1948 there was contributed by the membership of Relief Society in stakes over $457,000; from stake board funds over $36,000; with a few very generous contributions from individuals. 'The missions outside Europe, under the direction of their mission presidents, had entered into this undertaking 722 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1956 with great enthusiasm also, and a total of nearly $48,000 was contributed within that year by the missions of the Church. The great goal of half a million dollars had been reached and exceeded by nearly $70,000. In the years which have elapsed since October 1948, contributions in money have come in from European missions. Many missions located in foreign countries have also sent a beautiful object of art representing the respective countries. These now beautify the building. And, during the past few months, many stakes have presented lovely and useful gifts to add that woman's touch to make The Relief Society Building truly the embodiment of the culture, tasteful furnishings, and bounteous living which we, as Latter-day Saint women, enjoy in our own individual homes. The Church had agreed to match Relief Society funds to half a million dollars. The million dollars was all needed for the erection as prices had gone up and there still remained the Building to be furnished. The general board, you will recall, had contributions of over a half million dollars. Back we went to the First Presidency. Would they now be so generous as to match collected funds, including accrued interest, and reserve funds to a total of $100,000 — thus allowing $200,000 for furnishings and equipment and to include any overtun on the Building? HE First Presidency were most considerate and generous and agreed to match this additional $100,000 dollars. The costs here related do not include the value of the site. The site, "in the shadow of the temple" which was our first choice for a site, was granted to us by the First Presidency in October 1952. Ground for the Building was broken on October 1, 1953. 'The cornerstone was laid on September 30, 1954. In it were placed materials of historic interest and the names of all contributors to The Relief Society Building. A copy of these names is today bound in two volumes in the Building. A third volume will contain pictures of gifts which have been contributed with the names of the donors. And so today, in the hearts of all Relief Society members, there is a feeling of humble gratitude for the Church, for its understanding of the needs and desires of the women of the Church. All Relief Society members throughout the lands of the earth are with us today in spirit as they have been with us in contributing of their means with sacrifice for The Relief Society Building. In deep humility we thank our Heavenly Father for numberless blessings and we do so in the name of his son, our Savior, Jesus Christ. REPORT OF RELIEF SOCIETY BUILDING ACTIVITIES 793 aes al PRESIDENT BELLE S. SPAFFORD BREAKS GROUND FOR RELIEF SOCIETY BUILDING October 1, 1953 President David O. McKay at left, President Stephen L Richards and President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. At right, and former President of Relief Society, Amy Brown Lyman, back of Sister Spafford. Page 794 Geatae The esonat Newton IMGNe 'Telegeam THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY AT THE EXCAVATION FOR THE SUBBASEMENT OF THE NEW RELIEF SOCIETY BUILDING February 10, 1954 Hal Rumel RELIEF SOCIETY BUILDING UNDER CONSTRUCTION May 19, 1954 Pace 795 age Courtesy The Deseret News-Salt Lake Telegram PRESIDENT BELLE S. SPAFFORD DEPOSITS RECORDS IN RELIEF SOCIETY BUILDING CORNERSTONE September 30, 1954 Left to right: Bishop George Cannon Young, Architect for the Relief Society Building; Belle S. Spafford, General President of Relief Society; Velma N. Simonsen, Second Counselor, Relief Society; President David O. McKay. Courtesy The Salt Lake Tribune PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY PLACES A SPIRIT LEVEL ON CORNERSTONE OF RELIEF SOCIETY BUILDING LOWERED INTO PLACE September 30, 1954 Page 796 Courtesy The Salt Lake Tribune THE FIRST PRESIDENCY AT THE LAYING OF THE CORNERSTONE OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY BUILDING, September 30, 1954 Page 797 Courtesy The Deseret News-Salt Lake Telegram GENERAL PRESIDENCY OF RELIEF SOCIETY Standing at the Southwest Corner of the Relief Society Building September 22, 1954 Left to nght: Counselor Marianne C. Sharp; President Belle S. Spafford; Counselor Velma N. Simonsen. Page 798 We Built As One President Belle S. Spafford T is a choice privilege to be here today and to participate in this long-awaited and important event in the history of Relief Society—the Dedication of 'The Relief Society Building. It has been eleven years since Relief Society women took upon themselves, by vote of the sisters assembled in a general Relief Society conference, the task of erecting a Relief Society Building, one that should be montumental, beautiful, and adequate to serve the society, not only for the present, but in the years to come. Even as the sisters raised their hands in support of the proposal, the magnitude of the undertaking was recognized, but inspired by dreams of the past, urged by present needs, moved by devotion to Relief Society, imbued with indomitable faith and courage and, above all, having the support and approval of the First Presidency, the Relief Society sisters launched a building program that, in so far as I know, has no precedent among organized women. Today the building stands completed—strong in its construction, beautiful in its furnishings, functional in its arrangement. I invite your attention to the simple elegance of its classic design, the beauty of the materials of which it is built—its stones, bronze, marbles, and woods; the convenient arrangement of its rooms; the expert craftsmanship in evidence throughout the structure; its artistic decor; its inviting portal; its spirit of love and peace—all uniting to form the kind of Relief Society home envisioned in the long ago. As the building program has progressed, there have been both happy and anxious days. It was a happy day when the financial goal of onehalf million dollars, to be raised by Relief Society members for erecting the building, was reached. We rejoiced when the First Presidency granted to us the choice building site, literally in the shadow of the temple. We were delighted when ground was broken, and a year later when the cornerstone was set. As we watched the walls rise and the building take shape, our happiness was superseded only by our gratitude. Anxious days accompanied the study and approval of the building plans, the making of countless important decisions incident to the erection and furnishing of the building, and the management of the trusted funds. Uncertainties assailed us at times. One day we wondered if we had built too large, only to wonder the following day if we had built large enough. The pronounced awareness of the tesponsibilities entrusted to us and the far-reaching effects of our decisions have been with us continually and have sent us often to our Father in heaven in earnest prayer. Regardless of the responsibilities and worries, however, there has never been a moment when we have felt to regret the decision to build or when we have wished that we Page 799 might turn back in our course. Always there has been within our hearts the assurance that the undertaking was right, and the conviction that this was the day when, in the kind providence of the Lord, Relief Society was to have a home of its own. FE, have been immeasurably sustained in the undertaking from the beginning by the encouragement, counsel, and support of the First Presidency and the other General Authorities of the Church and by the devotion to the program of the Relief Society sisters. Talented professional _ persons, skilled craftsmen, gifted artisans, workmen with expert technical knowledge and proficiency have assisted us in the realization of our building goal. I mention the services of Bishop George Cannon Young, architect, and his associate, Brother Richard Wood; the contractors; the late Brother Frank J. Fullmer and his sons, Brothers Frank H. Fullmer and David H. Fullmer, with their associate, Brother Willard L. Fullmer; also the construction foreman, Brother Harry Mabey. I mention, also, the services of the decorator, Miss Marian Cornwall. We express our thanks to each of these, as well as to those who have been associated with them. Also, I express thanks to the former and present Church Building Committees. We acknowledge with appreciation the assistance given us by the Church Purchasing Department, as well as that given us by other departments of the Church. Humbling indeed has been the devotion of Relief Society sisters to the program as evidenced by their interest in it and their contributions toward it—all clear and unmistakable evidence of their love for and devotion to Relief Society. Readily they met, by individual and collective effort, their great assignment to raise one-half million dollars within a period of one year. 'To this have been added, voluntarily, gifts of funds ranging from a small handful of pennies contributed by a faithful and loving sister to larger gifts from individual sisters, from groups of sisters, and from ward and stake, mission and branch Relief Societies —all faithful and devoted sisters. These gifts were contributed to the end that there might be in their Relief Society home some special article of beauty or usefulness that otherwise might have been denied. Choice gifts of handwork, even precious heirlooms, have been presented to the building, expressions of love for Relief Society from Relief Society sisters. RARE gifts of beauty and artistry representative of the culture of the nations of the earth where Relief Societies are organized, adorn the building. 'These are there because 800 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1956 WE BUILT AS ONE of the love of Relief Society sisters in faraway lands for their organization and because of their desire to have their Relief Society Building, so far removed from them, reflect the aesthetic creations of their homelands. The building program has been a cohesive, unifying force within the Relief Societies. From far north lands to the sunny south, from the little villages in the islands of the sea to the great metropolitan centers, it has sealed together as one the sisterhood of Relief Society. Out of this program have come untold blessings of immeasurable worth. HE fire of enthusiasm for the program has touched the hearts of many kind friends, not members of Relief Society, whose interest and generosity have been both encouraging and helpful. Many sisters, long since departed from among us, are memorialized by gifts and contributions of funds. Today we are happy and grateful to present to the First Presidency for dedication, a building which we feel fittingly represents the enduring qualities of Relief Society, one which we feel represents the spirit and character of Latter-day Saint womanhood in its strength, its beauty, and its usefulness. Humbly and gratefully we express thanks to our Heavenly Father for the completion of our Relief 801 Society home and for his boundless blessings unto Relief Society. We pray that all that shall go forth from our Relief Society home shall enrich the lives and lead toward the eternal well-being of the daughters of our Heavenly Father. We pray that the new building may facilitate the work of our divinely inspired, Priesthood-directed society, and enable the sisters to serve effectively as the handmaids of the Priesthood in the great work of the Church. That the choice blessings of the Lord may ever rest upon Relief Society, upon this home which we dedicate today, and upon each of us I sincerely pray. President Spafford: The Singing Mothers will now sing "Thy Blessing on This House, Dear Lord." This anthem was composed especially for the occasion— the music by Sister Madsen, the words by Sister Alberta H. Christensen. Both sisters are members of the general board. The Singing Mothers chorus sang "Thy Blessing on This House, Dear Lord." President Spafford: We are highly favored to have with us as speakers this afternoon, President Stephen L Richards and President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. President Clark will now address us. He will be followed by President Richards. Motherhood President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. M: brethren, and especially my sisters, wives and daughters of the Priesthood, I can think of this gathering as a gathering of the household of the Church, the Priesthood represented as it is, and those who help them, those who make the homes, build the families, and lead them, for the individuals and for the Church. This was the first companion, this Relief Society, which the Lord gave to the Priesthood organization in these the latter-days. To that first companion have been added others, as we have gone forward in the history and the making of the Church. Our Heavenly Father sees that we worship today in the midst of the nations as signified by these flags in witness of the world-wide organization of the Church. Even as we witness that so we must understand, zhat we have our responsibilities, not alone here nor in this country but throughout the world. I am impressed today with this thought: The mother of Jesus the Christ was mortal; his Father was divine. Out of the untold myriads and myriads of spirits Mary was chosen to come here, to be the mother of the Christ—a privilege granted to no other woman-spirit in all the history of the world. As there was one Christ, so there was one mother of Christ. And that motherhood, the spirit of it, carries over to each of you who are members of the Relief Society, as we address you today. Page 802 Out of that lesson should come, as it seems to me, a sanctification not only but a dedication upon the part of each and every sister in the Church, a dedication to fulfill for some spirit waiting to come to this earth, the same service that Mary performed in bringing to us this Jesus the Christ. How transcendent is the mission, how glorious is the purpose, how fruitful is the result! God give us strength, each of us, us of the Priesthood, the fathermembers of our Church household; you, the mothers of that great Church household, give to each of us the spirit we need to carry on, to build this great Church, to take care of the needs, you sisters, of those who suffer, give you the strength to carry out the divine purposes declared by the Prophet Joseph when he organized you. Leaving with you my witness that God lives, that he loves us, that he answers prayers; that Jesus is the Christ, that he lived, was resurrected, the Atoner for the Fall of Adam, our Savior; that we have the restored gospel and the restored Priesthood, and that from the Prophet Joseph until now the head of the Church, the President of the Church has had the keys, the powers, and the authorities conferred upon the Prophet Joseph—leaving that witness with you I close, praying God to bless you all, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen, An Enduring Tribute to Visiting 'Teachers President Stephen L Richards RESIDENT McKay, President P Clark, Sister Spafford and Counselors, members and friends of Relief Society: I propose to take just a few moments on this impressive occasion to tell you about a picture. I trust that it may not be inappropriate for the occasion. The picture I have in mind is one of the most famous in our land. It is the painting called "The Doctor." Most of you have seen it. I saw it staged in heroic style with artificial characters at a World's Fair in Chicago. It depicts, as you will remember, a room scantily furnished in the home of a poor man. All the surroundings tell you he is poor. The focus of interest is a little sick child lying on an improvised bed made on chairs. A mother is near, with sad, weeping countenance, and the father also, with an expression of deep anxiety and fear. Over the little child bends the professional figure of "The Doctor," intently watching and waiting. The implements of his profession—his satchel and medicine bottles—are near at hand, but at the moment he is not using any of them. Apparently he has done what he could, and is now watching and waiting. He could be praying, also. This picture has won universal acclaim not only among the medical profession, but with all people who can read its meaning. It is meant to portray the dedication of science to human relief from suffering and pain, even among the lowliest. It shows a man with the insignia of his professional training in a day that has passed — a black Prince Albert coat, immaculately groomed, with an expression of compassion and sympathy, giving not only his skill but his heart, to a poor sick child. HAT picture reminds me forcefully of something about this dedication. If I had the skill of an artist I could substitute for the doctor in the picture two modest women, perhaps untrained scientifically, but filled with human compassion and skilled in the art of extending love and sympathy, and material aid, also, to the sick and the needy. I would replace the medical satchel with a basket filled with substantial tokens of sympathy, but covered with a shawl to make it less conspicuous. Such substitutions would make a picture of a real scene which has been enacted over and over again for more than a century of time in the homes of the sick and of the distressed in all the communities where the Latter-day Saints have been established. I would call the picture, "The Visiting Teachers." I like to think of this beautiful building to be dedicated this day by the President of the Church, although it is monumental and imposing in its architecture and embellishments, as being in large measure a merited recognition of, and an enduring tribute to the Visiting Teachers of the Relief Societies of Page 803 the Church, who epitomize the heart and soul, the compassion, the mercy, and the Christ-like service of this great organization. It is the personal touch in a day of ever-increasing institutional and_ professional charity. I hope it may never vanish nor weaken, and I could wish that some artistic representation on canvas, in art glass or in bronze, might be procured for suitable placement in the building to accentuate and perpetuate enduring esteem for this lovely feature of Relief Society work. Extend congratulations to the officers and members of the Relief Society in this great accomplishment Contributions to the erection of the building were solicited on such a wide base that the whole membership may feel a_ personal interest in the building. I trust and I pray that it may prove a boon to the noble work of the society, that it may bring honor and respect to the Church of Christ, that above all, through its facilities increased impetus may be brought to the work of ministering to the needs of family life, assisting and encouraging mothers in particular and the home in general to achieve its lofty station as the stabilizing factor of society and the forerunner of exaltation in the Celestial Kingdom of our Father. God bless you, my sisters, I ask humbly in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. President Spafford: It is now our privilege and blessing to hear from our beloved Prophet and President, President David O. McKay. Following President McKay's address, the congregation will sing "We Thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet," during which President McKay, accompanied by President Richards and President Clark, will retire to The Relief Society Building where President McKay will offer the Dedicatory Prayer from the General Board Room on the main floor of the Building. RELIEF SOCIETY BUILDING CONTRIBUTORS, VOLUMES ONE AND TWO These volumes contain the names of all persons contributing money or gifts. William Beal 804 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1956 Women's Influence and Responsibility President David O. McKay RESIDENT Richards, President Clark, President Spafford and Counselors, members of the General Board of Relief Society, brethren and sisters: When one contemplates what the Creator expects and receives from his most precious creation, one is thoroughly convinced that woman has his divine trust and favor. The poet 'Tennyson's statement —"The Mother Makes Us Most' — has now become, at least throughout the Western civilization, a truism. Sow a thought, reap an act, Sow an act, reap a habit, Sow a habit, reap a character, Sow a character, reap an eternal destiny. "Not only individuals, but Nations are such stuff as thoughts are made of." Mothers sow the seeds in childhood that determine to a great extent life's harvests in adulthood. Motherhood, therefore, is the greatest potential influence either for good or ill in human life. The mother's image is the first that stamps itself upon the unwritten page of the young child's mind. It is her caress that first awakens a sense of security; her kiss, the first realization of affection; her sympathy and tenderness, the first assurance that there is love in the world. 'True, there comes a time when Father takes his place as exemplar in the young child's mind; and in the latter's budding ambition to develop manly traits, he outwardly seems to turn from the more gentle and tender virtues engendered by the mother. But that ever-directing and restraining influence implanted during the first years of his childhood lingers with him and permeates his thoughts and memory as distinctively as perfume clings to each particular flower. In more than one instance in the life of fiery youth, this lingering influence has proved a safeguard in the hour of temptation—an influence in its restraining power greater than the threat of the law of the land, the ostracism of society, or the fear of violating a command of God. In a moment of youthful recklessness the youth might defy one or all of these forces, and do what his hot blood bade, but at the critical moment, the flash of a mother's confiding trust, the realization of her sorrow if he fail to be true to it have given him power to refrain from indulgence that might blight his entire career. Not only the mother, but the entire influence of home also influences society. Indeed, home is the foundation of civilized society. Words uttered and the doctrines taught around the fireside are the influences that shape the destinies of empires. The cultivation of home influence, the need of harmony in the home, are contributing factors to a successful democratic government. To be destitute of this sentiment is almost as great a misfortune, says Page 805 one man, as to be destitute of the religious sentiment. "What a mighty responsibility," I quote, "rests upon him who essays to make a home, for the founding of a home is as sacred a work as the founding of a church. Indeed, every home should be a temple dedicated to divine worship, where human beings through life should worship God through the service of mutual love—the highest tribute man can pay to the divine." "Of all human influences those of home are the most far-reaching in their results." ARRIAGE and subsequent home life are ordained of God. Home is based in the very constitution of human nature, and so vital is the relation which it sustains to our needs, that every heart must have a home. "It may not be of brick or wood or stone," says a writer in "Our Home." "It may not have a 'local habitation and a name.' But if not, out of the airy timbers of its own fancy the heart will rear the structure which it demands as a necessity of its being. We are aware that there are thousands who are called homeless; but their hearts' demand is at least partially met by the possession of an ideal home (in their minds). The body may exist without a home, but the heart, never. The world called Howard Payne a homeless wanderer; yet kings and peasants have implored entrance at the vine-wreathed threshold of that home which he reared in the airy dreamland of poesy." And that song "Home, Sweet Home," was sung today by these blessed mothers under the masterful baton of Sister Madsen more impressively than perhaps we shall ever hear it again. Of all human influences those around home contribute to the welfare of humanity. "There are many men who owe their honor, their integrity, and their manhood to the influence of pure minded sisters. Sisters usually have it in their power to shape the character of their brothers as they choose. It is natural for all brothers to feel and believe that in some way their sisters are purer and better than others, and sisters also believe that their brothers are nobler than the brothers of their associates. 'This sentiment is so universal that we cannot help believing it was ordained for a wise purpose. "Morals, manners, methods—" writes the author from whom I quoted, "the principal concomitants of character—have their inception and largely their development within the home. It is at once one of the most civilizing and demoralizing of human agencies. It may be a lazar house of vice, strife, improvidence, unfaith, prostituting every budding power, or it may be the sanctuary of domestic felicity, kindness, truthfulness, philanthropy, bestowing continued benedictions upon each member and radiating the light of human joy." I have dwelt thus at length upon the influence and responsibility of motherhood and of the home to emphasize the added responsibility given to these precious women to bless humankind. Not any of the duties of motherhood, not any, was proscribed—none of the responsibilities of the home limited—when on March 17, 1842, the Female Relief Society of Nauvoo was 806 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1956 WOMEN'S INFLUENCE AND RESPONSIBILITY organized. The work of the Relief Society was to be performed in addition to the duties of motherhood and home. Do you wonder, I say, that woman has not only the trust but the blessing of Almighty God. "T now turn the key in your behalf in the name of the Lord, and this Society shall rejoice, and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time henceforth; this is the beginning of better days to the poor and needy, who shall be made to rejoice and pour forth blessings on your heads," said the Prophet Joseph Smith, when he organized the Female Relief Society of the Church. Eliza R. Snow put in rhyme the duties as follows: It is an institution formed to bless The poor, the widow and the fatherless. To clothe the naked, and the hungry feed, And in the holy paths of virtue lead. To seek out sorrow, grief and mute despair, And light the lamp of hope eternal, there; To try the strength of consolation's art By breathing comfort to the aching heart. To chase the clouds that shade the aspect where Distress presides, and wake up pleasures there. With open hearts, extend the fnendly hand To hail the stranger from a distant land. To stamp a vetoing impress on each move That virtue's present dictates disapprove; To put the tattler's coinage scandal down, And make corruption feel its withering frown. To give instruction where instruction's voice Will guard the feet and make the heart rejoice; To turn the wayward from their recklessness, And lead them in the path of happiness. "Tis an order fitted and designed To meet the wants of body and of mind; To seek the wretched in their true abode, 807 Supply their wants, and raise their hearts to God. Y divine decree, the women in the Church are assigned the noble mission of being exemplars and leaders to mankind in the two most worthwhile accomplishments in mortal life. First, the development of character. That is done in the home principally. Second, willingness and ability to render helpful service—that through the organized Relief Society. These two accomplishments, by the way, are all that we shall take with us when, at the end of our earthly career, we pass through the portals called Death into the realm of the Eternal—Character and Service. God bless you, beloved of the Lord, the most precious of his creations, that you may fulfill to his satisfaction his purposes designed for the members of the Female Rehief Society, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. The congregation sang "We Thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet." President Spafford: These services will be concluded by the chorus and congregation singing "The Spirit of God Like a Fire Is Burning." 'This song was sung at the organization meeting of Relief Society in Nauvoo, March 17, 1842. 'The benediction will be offered by President Joseph Fielding Smith, President of the Council of the Twelve and an advisor to the general board of Relief Society. The Singing Mothers chorus and congregation sang ""The Spirit of God." Benediction—Dedicatory Service PRESIDENT JOSEPH FIELDING SmITH Of the Council of the Twelve Ol) 2 Father in heaven, we have now come to the conclusion of these inspired services—the dedication of the building for the Relief Societies. We pray thee, Father, that thy spirit may rest upon these sisters who will occupy this building. They have done a wonderful work from the days of the Prophet until now. Be with those who preside, the members of their general board, that they may go forth in the power of thy spirit, building up and strengthening the sisters of the Church. Guide them, we pray thee, by the counsels of the Holy Priesthood, and in their labors by the guidance of thy Holy Spirit. Help them and direct them in all things in their wonderful labors in mercy and in wisdom. We bless them, our Father, and pray that thy spirit may be with them constantly, that they may appreciate in the fullness the privileges which are theirs, in the name of the Lord, Jesus Christ. Amen. A6 ae Courtesy The Deseret News-Salt Lake Telegram ASSEMBLING OF NATIONS TABERNACLE STAND DURING DEDICATORY SERVICE At top pulpit are the First Presidency, General Presidency of Relicf Society and Advisors to Relief Society. Other General Authorities are in their respective places. Page 808 Courtesy The Deseret News-Salt Lake Telegram FIRST PRESIDENCY OF THE CHURCH AND GENERAL PRESIDENCY OF RELIEF SOCIETY AT DEDICATORY SERVICE Left to right: President Stephen L Richards, President David O. McKay, President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., Counselor Marianne C. Sharp, President Belle S. Spafford, Counselor Velma N. Simonsen. Courtesy The Deseret News-Salt Lake Telegram RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD — October 1956 Left to right, front row: Anna B. Hart, Secretary-Treasurer Margaret C. Pickering, Counselor Marianne C. Sharp, President Belle S. Spafford, Counselor Velma N. Simonsen, Evon W. Peterson, Florence J. Madsen. Back row: Edith S. Elliott, Louise W. Madsen, Charlotte A. Larsen, Gladys S. Boyer, Annie M. Ellsworth, Aleine M. Young, Blanche B. Stoddard, Mary R. Young, Josie B. Bay, Elna P. Hay mond, Edith P. Backman, Winniefred $. Manwaring, Alberta H. Christensen, Helen W. Anderson, Leone G. Layton, Mildred B. Eyring, Christine H. Robinson. Page 809 Courtesy The Deseret News-Salt Lake Telegram ELDER MARK E, PETERSEN AND PRESIDENT JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH Members of the Council of the Twelve and advisors to Relief Society, with plate commemorating 'The Relief Society Building Dedication. Page 810 Courtesy The Deseret News-Salt Lake Telegram PRESIDENT GEORGE ALBERT SMITH, (center) WITH HIS COUNSELORS, PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR., AND PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY, IN 1945 WHEN RELIEF SOCIETY BUILDING PROGRAM WAS APPROVED. Lignell and Gill PRESIDENT BELLE S. SPAFFORD, (center) WITH HER COUNSELORS, MARIANNE C. SHARP AND GERTRUDE R. GARFF, IN 1945 WHEN BUILDING PROGRAM WAS LAUNCHED Page 811 Annual General Relief Society Conference—1956 Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer HE annual general Relief T Society conference was held in Salt Lake City, Wednesday and Thursday, October 3 and 4. There were 232 of the 233 stakes and twenty-one of the forty-five missions represented. In recognition of the active part which the missions of the Church took in support of the erection of 'The Relief Society Building, Relief Society mission presidents in North America and Central America were invited by the First Presidency to attend this conference, the highlight of which was the Dedicatory Service of The Relief Society Building. The Dedicatory Service replaced the usual general session of the conference. At the Officers Meeting, Wednesday morning in the 'Tabernacle, President Spafford gave her Report and Official Instructions, and the sustaining of general board members and the roll call were conducted by Secretary-Treasurer Margaret C. Pickering. Counselor Velma N. Simonsen gave an inspirational talk introducing the dramatic program, "Portrait of a Dream." 'This impressive dramatization written by Alberta H. Christensen, using slides, portrayed incidents leading up to and including the erection of the new building, and served as a prelude to the Dedicatory Service. A song, "Lord, We Dedicate 'This House to Thee," composed specially for this occasion, words by Sister Page 812 Christensen and music by Florence J. Madsen, was sung by a special Singing Mothers chorus from the Provo stakes and vicinity. The Dedicatory Service, Wednesday afternoon, to which the public was invited, was held in the Tabernacle and televised to the Assembly Hall and Barratt Hall. President David O. McKay presided and President Belle S. Spafford conducted the meeting. Most of the General Authorities were present. The Singing Mothers from Bear River, Ben Lomond, East Ogden, Farr West, Lake View, Lorin Farr, Malad, Mount Ogden, North Box Elder, North Weber, Ogden, Riverdale, South Bear River, South Box Elder, South Ogden, Summit, Weber, and South Carolina Stakes made up the chorus. 'Two large spheres, one in the shape of the motto of Relief Society "Charity Never Faileth,' and the other depicting the globe with the words, "World Sisterhood," decorated the front of the center pipes of the Tabernacle organ. 'To further emphasize the international scope of the society and the spirit of world sisterhood, representatives of thirtytwo nations, in costume, carrying their national flags, marched down through the aisles of the choir section and placed their flags at each side of the rostrum. 'The invocation was offered by Elder Mark E. Petersen, of the Council of the Twelve and an advisor to Relief Society. Counselor Marianne C. Sharp gave a brief report of The Relief Society Building activities, followed by an address by President Belle S. Spafford. After the singing of "Thy Blessing on This House, Dear Lord," also specially composed for this occasion by Sisters Christensen and Madsen, and sung by the combined Singing Mothers chorus, President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., President Stephen L Richards, and President David O. McKay addressed the meeting, in that order. While the congregation sang "We Thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet," the First Presidency went to The Relief Society Building, where the Dedicatory Prayer was offered by President David O. McKay, and was transmitted by radio to the Tabernacle, Assembly Hall, and Barratt Hall. 'The congregation sang ""The Spirit of God Like a Fire Is Burning," and the benediction was offered by President Joseph Fielding Smith, President of the Council of the Twelve and an advisor to Relief Society. The annual reception for stake and mission officers was held Wednesday evening in The Relief Society Building and was a beautiful and memorable occasion attended by approximately three thousand persons. Simultaneous departmental _ sessions for executive, music, The Relief Society Magazine, theology, visiting teaching, work, literature, and social science leaders were held Thursday morning in various meetinghouses throughout the city. HE music of the entire conference was unusually beautiful and impressive. Elder Alexander Schreiner was organist. 'The large Singing Mothers chorus also furnished music at the Friday sessions of the semi-annual conference of the Church, and, at President McKay's request, sang "Thy Blessings on This House, Dear Lord,' so that the conference visitors might hear this inspiring dedicatory hymn. No meetings were held 'Thursday afternoon, but tours of The Relief Society Building were conducted from 2:00 to 7:00 P. M. To enable Relief Society conference visitors to see it. Additional tours were held for Church conference visitors Friday and Saturday, October 6 and 7, also Monday and Tuesday, October 8 and 9g, for any who desired to see the beautiful new home for Relief Society. Prior to the dedication, tours were conducted for special guests and_ stake groups. The Report and Official Instructions of President Spafford appeared in the November issue of the Magazine. 'This issue contains the complete Dedicatory Service, with pictures of 'The Relief Society Building and the address of Counselor Velma N. Simonsen, ANNUAL GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 813 Loving, United Effort Availeth Much Counselor Valine N. Simonsen [Address Delivered at the Officers Meeting of the Annual General Relief Society Conference, October 3, 1956.| stand before you today with the deepest feelings of gratitude in my heart for the blessings of the Lord unto me, and with a greater realization of these blessings, than I have ever known before in my life. Within the past week the words of one of old have gone through my mind repeatedly: "What shall I render unto the Lord for all his goodness unto me?" | know that the most acceptable gratitude is shown in service, so I pray that throughout my life, in whatever circumstances I may be, I will be able to express my gratitude through service. You sisters here today, the leadership of Relief Society, from the amazingly widespread stakes and missions of the Church, as evidenced by the roll call just completed, are here for one purpose, that is, to equip yourselves better spiritually and intellectually, for the positions which you hold, that you may be able to serve your Father in heaven better by teaching his gospel to his daughters and in helping to establish his kingdom here upon the earth. General Relief Society conference is always a time of rejoicing. It is always a spiritual feast. Why? Because you sisters come with this singleness of purpose, united in faith and in testimony. It is a Page 814 spiritual feast because we receive instructions from our general Relief Society officers, counsel from the Priesthood through the General Authorities of the Church, and, above all else, because the spirit of our Father in heaven is with us here. This conference of October 1956 is of special significance to us. It witnesses the fulfillment of a dream which has persisted in the heart of Relief Society for many, many years —the dream of having a functional and beautiful building of its own. The dream began early in Church history, even in Nauvoo, and continued with the sisters through their forced move from the beautiful city of Nauvoo to the uninviting West, where the sisters continued their work of benevolence, unselfish sharing, and effective service in the Lord's work. And the dream to have their own building, like a golden thread, ran through all activities, as is shown by the minutes of the general Relief Society conference held October 3, 1896. Let me read you an excerpt from these minutes: President Zina D. Young, in her remarks, opened out upon the subject of a house for the Relief Society, to be owned by them. Women had done so much to help build other public buildings and temples that they had no means to build one for the Relief Society. Presi- LOVING, UNITED EFFORT AVAILETH MUCH dent C. O. Card had said when they lacked the means to go on with the Logan Temple and the men were to be discharged because there was no means to pay them for their work, Sister Jane S. Richards raised five hundred dollars in the Relief Society of Weber County to keep the men working, and that stands as a memento to the sisters forever. Vice President Sarah M. Kimball confined her remarks to the subject of a house for the Society. She felt it a humiliation to be without a place of our own; we had contributed to all public places and all times. Now we want to have a house and we want land to build it on and it should be in the shadow of the temple. It should be a place to receive strangers in when they came, a place where letters can be written from, and information given.... Their plans called for kitchens, pantries, banqueting hall, cooking utensils, a furnace and closets and a room for the janitor, and offices upstairs, "with a library and bureau of information, that will be in the best sense educational, and where lectures may be given by distinguished professors in all branches of science, art and literature, and on general topics." UR building, which is now completed, more than fulfills the dreams of all of us. As you view this magnificent building, both inside and out, you will realize the great amount of hard work, trained professional help, and loving and prayerful planning that have gone into the building. You will know that the inspiration of the Lord has 815 been over it all. It was designed and will be equipped to meet the many and varied services which Relief Society offers to the Church mempbership—and it is beautiful. This building not only meets the specific needs of a great and growing organization divinely inspired; it represents the individuality and love of the Relief Society women throughout the world, through the contributions they have made for its construction and the many decorative and useful pieces which are the gifts of individuals, and stake and mission Relief Societies. The Lord knows, and we all know, that many of these contributions were made through sacrifice, but all were made freely and through love. A sister living a great distance from Salt Lake City said to President Spafford, "At first I thought, why, in my lifetime I have given many gifts which I never expect to use myself, and now it gives me great joy to know that I have a share in that beautiful building." The first day the building was open for inspection two little sisters stood at the entrance to the lounge room, their eyes shining in admiration. One turned to the other and said, "We didn't know our five dollarswould buy so much, did we?" Surely loving, united effort availeth much. This building is, indeed, a dream fulfilled. Sister Emma Ray Riggs McKay, wife of President David O. McKay, admires a gift in The Relief Society Building. The Meissen vase is a gift from the Swiss-Austrian Mission. Moe Courtesy Deseret News-Salt Lake Telegram Courtesy The Deseret News-Salt Lake Telegram ANNUAL RELIEF SOCIETY RECEPTION FOR STAKE AND MISSION OFFICERS President Belle S. Spafford greets a guest (center). Counselor Marianne C. Sharp, Counselor Velma N. Simonsen, Former President Amy Brown Lyman, and SecretaryTreasurer Margaret C. Pickering also stand in the reception line (left to right). Page 816 QD EDITORIAL <9 VOL. 43 DECEMBER 1956 NO. 12 A Dedicated Home for Relief Society [ began as a dream, or even before the dream took form, it was a longing deep-planted in woman's heart, to have a home, to have one spot designated particularly and set apart around which, as a warming fire, Relief Society workers might gather. It was an insistent urge companioning Latter-day Saint women as they were driven from their own hearthsides again and again. And now at last on the third day of October, one thousand, nine hundred and fifty-six, the seeding and garnering are over, and the harvest has fulfilled the dream. It was the practice in early days, for the sisters to provide their own meeting places in the wards. In 1897 President Zina D. H. Young said "she was pleased with the exertions of the sisters in getting houses to meet in." Relief Society Halls—so named—provided homes for Relief Societies in metropolitan centers, in verdant valleys, and in bleak, sparsely settled communities. The sisters had Relief Society homes and, in addition, through obedience to the voice of their prophets, they had granaries guarding life-sustaining wheat. The practice changed. Relief Society Halls were abandoned as room for Relief Society work was provided in meetinghouses. Individual granaries, not always satisfactory storage places, were emptied, and later great Church elevators were filled as the result of thousands of small loads of Relief Society wheat. But while ward Relief Socicties were provided with meeting places, what of the Central Board of Relief Society? They had no place of their own in which to meet; they had to borrow a meeting room; and there was no place for the preservation of general Relief Society records. And so the dream of one functional and beautiful home in which the work of Relief Society throughout the world might be conceived and from which it might be directed was born, and is today a reality. A home of the heart of Relief Society of which every Relief Society member is a part. A home containing the loveliest offerings of the world-wide sisterhood. Unitedly, through sacrifice, and with the assistance of the Church, The Relief Society Building stands an ensign to women. In the present and future years this symbol of the devotion of Relief Society women and of. Their lofty destiny in the gospel plan will speak to the sojourners from other countries and remote civilizations: "We, the members of Relief Society of the restored Church of Christ, built this home through sacrifice with the help and under the guidance of the Priesthood of God. No other women in all the world are blessed as are we. Relief Society Page 817 came into being through the inspiration of the Lord to his Prophet Joseph Smith in 1842. Another prophet in 1956 dedicated this our home to the Lord. We are continually guided and sustained by his servants. This Building is magnificent, but its beauty has been fashioned as that of the virtuous woman of Solomon's Proverb. Those who labor in Relief Society do so in a spirit of service, of deep humility, thankfulness, and dedication. We are nurtured through the compassion we extend to others. We follow our grand key words, "Said Jesus, "Ye shall do the work which ye see me do.'" Arrogance in possessions has no place in our home. The 'offering reflects the refinement, graciousness, intelligence, and strength of faith possessed by the early sisters, exemplified in Lucy Mack Smith, by the staunch and true pioneer member, and the member of today and tomorrow, the bedrock of whose character has remained the same — selfishness, compassion, charity, and love. Relief Society today through humility and service and with the help of the Lord, will earn the blessing invoked for the Building by President David O. McKay in his glorious Dedicatory Prayer when he asked "May the building and sursoundings radiate a hallowed influence even to passersby, as perfume is wafted from sweet-scented flowers." From this spirit will blossom a rededication to service for the poor both in spirit and means; for the needy, for the afflicted, and sorrowing. 'Thus the Building may and must be hallowed. —M. C. S. She One Hundred Twenty-Seventh Semi-Annual Church Conference For behold, this is my work and my glory — to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man (Pearl of Great Price, Moses 1:39, quoted by President McKay in his opening address). GAIN, at the One Hundred Twenty - Seventh Semi - Annual Conference of the Church, held in the historic Tabernacle on 'Temple Square on October 5, 6, and 7, 1956, the saints received instruction, inspiration, and a renewal of their faith. Truth seekers the world over were invited to learn of the restored gospel and its eternal message. That Jesus is the Christ, the power of The Book of Mormon as a witness for Jesus the Christ, the importance and effectiveness of humility and faith, ways of perfecting the saints, reverence in houses of worship, the Word of Wisdom, tithing, chastity, kindness, patience, charity, honesty, peace for the individual and for the world, and obedience to all the principles and ordinances of the gospel, were teachings given special emphasis. President David O. McKay presided and conducted all mectings. The general sessions were broadcast by radio and television over a wide 818 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1956 EDITORIAL network in the Western States, and the Saturday evening Priesthood meeting proceedings were carried on a closed circuit to some eighty assemblages of the Priesthood gathered in chapels throughout Utah and in many other parts of the United States. All members of the General Authorities spoke during the conference except Elder 'Thomas E. McKay, Assistant to the Council of the Twelve, who, however, was well enough to attend some of the meetings, and Elder Milton R. Hunter of the First Council of the Seventy, who was confined to his home as a result of a recent illness. N his opening address, President McKay reviewed the material progress of the Church, the increase in membership and _ activities, the many new chapels, the great expenditure of means and effort, all directed towards "perfecting the soul." President McKay then asked: "Have we progressed spiritually as well as in these physical and teaching organizations?" He defined spirituality as: Every noble impulse, every unselfish expression of love, every brave suffering for the mght; every surrender of self to something higher than self; every loyalty to an ideal; every unselfish devotion to principle; every helpfulness to humanity; every act of self-control; every fine courage of the soul, undefeated by pretense or policy, but by being, doing, and _ living the good for the very good's sake — that is spirituality. President Stephen L_ Richards spoke of the request from "a distant foreign country" for a statement of the beliefs and purposes of the Church. A reply was submitted, which included a copy of the thir- 819 teen Articles of Faith, and this statement of the objectives of the Church: The objectives of the Church are to bear witness to the divinity of the Lord Jesus Chnist; to teach all men the principles of his Gospel; and to convert and persuade them to follow in his ways and keep the commandments of God, that they may thus advance the Kingdom of God in the earth, to bring brotherhood and peace to men and nations, and earn exaltation for themselves. A warning against the influence of doctrines and cults not in harmony with the gospel of Jesus Christ was expressed by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. He spoke of the "Olivet Discourse" of the Savior and its divine implications. President Clark summarized his testimony of the gospel in words of strength and simplicity: Jesus did live. First, there was the great plan in heaven; that did actually occur.... The earth was formed, Adam came, the human family followed. We came here to prove ourselves. Finally, Christ was born in the meridian of time. He lived. He taught. He gave imstructions. He was crucified. Then on the morning of the third day, he was resurtected, thus bringing to each and every one of us the blessings of the resurrection. As members of Relief Society, we feel especially grateful and uplifted by the conference messages which gave inspiration and direction for us in our homemaking activities, in our responsibilities as wives and mothers, and as workers in the auxiharies of the Church. May we manifest these blessings in our lives and share them with our friends and neighbors. —V. P. C. William Beal TEMPLE CLOTHES DEPARTMENT RECEPTION ROOM — MAIN FLOOR William Beal OFFICE OF MAGAZINE ASSOCIATE EDITOR, VESTA P. CRAWFORD— SECOND FLOOR ys '. & ee a ¢ eae iit oe? Hte IN AING OF BITTER Oars To POO AWD F Be it goer Ps, f Eye Plies éxy uw wae Kee RRO ATU HO a ' PRESIDENT DAVID ©. McKAY (CENTER) WITH HIS COUNSELORS PRESIDENT STEPHEN L RICHARDS AND PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, J! = FOYER AND MAIN STAIRWAY OF RELIEF SOCIETY BUILDING deen one OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT, BELLE S. SPAFFORD genes giebon = % OFFICE OF SECOND COUNSELOR, VELMA N. SIMONSEN OFFICE OF FIRST COUNSELOR, MARIANNE C. SHARP OFFICE OF GENERAL SECRETARY-TREASURER, MARGARET C. PICKERING SOR DE RS GENERAL BOARD ROOM MAIN LOUNGE William Beal KITCHEN — THIRD FLOOR A Reese tn poe Bs. SL RE aa a eee William Beal SOCIAL SERVICE RECEPTION ROOM — GROUND FLOOR William Beal MAGAZINE MAILING ROOM — GROUND FLOOR Beauty Js Mlore Shan Skin Deep Beauty That Lasts Forever. Thou didst not lay these things to the heart, neither didst remember the latter end of it...." (Isaiah 47:7). Be Honest with Yourself ANY women are grieved because they do not consider themselves beautiful. When such thoughts come to us, we may be looking at only one facet of the many-sided gem which is our life. For beauty, through the ages, has been a changing value, depending upon the transient preferences of individuals and of groups. It sometimes happens that those who were not thought of as lovely to look upon in their youth, become more beautiful with each passing year, and their thoughts and their attitudes are reflected in radiance on their faces. Some women are as beautiful in their maturity as is the autumn, which must inevitably follow the blossoms of summer. And the testament written upon the faces of the aged often reveals gentleness and courage, endurance and serenity, while the youthful face must await the sculpturing of time to give it the lineaments of completed harmony. We must accept our earthly bodies as they have come to us through our inheritance, rejoicing if we are strong and well, and seeking to overcome our incapacities. There is much that can be done to maintain health, to be neat and clean, to wear appropriate and_becoming clothing, perhaps to gild and polish. But even when all this is done, we still need the comfort and the wisdom of the saying: "Beauty is as beauty does." Perhaps it has taken some of us many years to realize the enduring verity of this proverb. Gratitude for our own particular gifts is said to be the beginning of wisdom, for truly our Heavenly Father has bestowed a multitude of gifts upon his daughters, and the choicest of these are the talents and abilities which require effort, practice, experience for their full fruition. They are the lovely "provisional" gifts that may be infinitely added upon, that may be polished to a shining luster — music, painting, poetry, sculpture; the particularly feminine gifts of homemaking, the "graces beyond the reach of art"; and those most precious of all talents of the uplifted spirit, which, forgetting self, can direct its energies toward those works of charity and benevolence that are forever beautiful. BE HONEST WITH YOURSELF Page 827 The Loan Hazel K. Todd P on the ridge I could see all | | the pine trees where my dad and I had always cut the Christmas tree and dragged it home through the snow. My heart beat in big jumps when I thought of the excitement that was always mixed up with the Christmas tree. Then I remembered that we weren't going to have a tree this year, or anything else, I guessed. Because my dad had told me I was too big to be thinking about Christmas trees. And all the time I knew that wasn't the real reason, for I could think of lots of people that were older than nine and they still had Christmas trees. 'The only ones I knew who didn't always have a Christmas tree were the Durphys who lived in the shack on the river road. I knew that the reason for our not having a Christmas tree was that ever since Susan, my little sister, had died last spring, nothing had ever been the same. I would come home from school and mother would be sitting by the window, and she wouldn't even know I was there. And when I would ask my dad to wrestle with me like he had always done, he would put me aside and say, "Some other time, Son." And that was the end because I had learned by now that there would never be some other time. Things were so different when Susan was alive. Mother didn't cry then. But now I would see her in Susan's room that was right across the hall from mine. She would have Susan's doll or dress or Page 828 something, and she would be crying over it. It used to be fun to find daddy kissing mother, because Susan and I would run and get mixed up in the pie, and then they would have to kiss us, too. I loved Susan very much, too. She had such shiny curls and soft dimples, and she was so warm and cuddly. But there was only a week left before Christmas, and it was plain as the nose on your face that there wouldn't be any Christmas unless something happened. I thought once that maybe when Aunt Jane came she could make things right. She was daddy's sister who always came a week before Christmas. She would put on big boots and would go with dad and me to drag the Christmas tree down, and she would say so many funny things that I would have to laugh until I fell over in the snow. But when I asked mother one day, when was Aunt Jane coming, she looked at me funny and said Aunt Jane wasn't coming this year. "But," I said to dad, "couldn't we just find a little tree? We could drag it down." Dad just looked away somewhere. "No, Jerry," he said. "We didn't ask her to come." 'Then he put his hand on my head. "Don't you think you could forget about Christmas this year?" I guess grownups can forget things easier than smaller ones, because no matter how hard I tried to forget I couldn't. THE LOAN ONE night when I woke up after I had been dreaming about Christmas, I thought I couldn't bear it. I could hear the wind blowing down the canyon and I knew the Christmas tree ridge would be all covered with fresh snow. While I was thinking about how much fun it would be in the new snow, suddenly I realized the light was on in Susan's room. I wondered if mother had gone to sleep in there. I waited awhile, but I couldn't hear a sound so I tiptoed to the door. I had a strange, fearful feeling, because I didn't ever go in Susan's room any more. It made me feel too bad to see all her things around. Anyway, Susan's room had come to seem like it all belonged to mother. I knocked softly on the door and called, "Mother," but there was no answer, so I opened it and looked in. She was not there. I could see Susan's pink ruffled dress. And then I thought of something. If we just had another little girl like Susan to wear her things, maybe mother would feel better and daddy would get the tree, and we could have Christmas as we had always done. Back in my own bed, I went over in my mind all the little girls I could think of. I decided Priscilla Jackson would be the best, she was so pretty. She was the only child the Jacksons had, but Mrs. Jackson wouldn't mind letting us take her just one Christmas, when she had her all the rest of the time. So I went to sleep feeling better than I had for so long, while the wind whooped it up outside. Sure enough, in the morning there was snow all over the ground. When I looked out my window I could 829 see the Christmas tree ridge shining in the sun like a sea of silver nickels. And it made me so glad I had thought of a plan. At breakfast daddy said, "It really snowed last night. Jerry, don't forget to wear your boots." Mother was looking out of the window. She wasn't eating anything. She turned and looked at Susan's coat and boots that were still in the hall. "Yes, Jerry," she said, without looking at me, "wear your warm wraps." Priscilla Jackson sat right behind me, so when the teacher stepped out for a minute I turned and asked her quickly, "Priscilla, would your mother let you come and _ have Christmas with us, because my mother and daddy feel so bad that Susan is gone?" Priscilla looked at me as if I was a toad or something. She flipped her curls in the air as though she was a princess. "Indeed, Jerry Morris, my mother will not let me spend Christmas with you! Why, don't you know I'm going to have a Toni doll, and a writing desk and a beautiful new doll buggy and a hundred other things; and the biggest tree there is in town! I don't want to spend Christmas with you, so there!" I didn't think I would ever try to borrow a little girl again. THE days kept passing until there was only one day left until it would be Christmas Five. I felt so miserable I went outside and _ sat on the garden bench in the snow, and wished I'd freeze into ice, so I wouldn't have to think of it any more. Pretty soon Dad came along. He stopped a minute when he saw me, and then he came over. "Isn't it pretty cold here?" he asked. "No," I said without looking at him. He stood there awhile, then he said, "You're a big boy now, Jerry and know all about Santa Claus. Would you like to have your presents now?" That did it. I burst out crying, even if I was a big boy and knew all about Santa Claus. "No," I said. "IT don't wany any Christmas presents!" I didn't want daddy to see me crying, so I turned and ran down the path to the river road. I had a hard time to quit crying, but pretty soon the sobs quit jerking me so much and I looked up and found that I was clear down by the river and I could see the Durphy shack. I could see by the window that they didn't have any Christmas tree this year. I began to wonder what so many of them did in such a little house, and all of a sudden an idea hit me with such a jolt that I sat down in the snow to think. Mrs. Durphy had so many children that she wouldn't even miss one, and with Mr. Durphy gone so much, nobody knew where, I'm sure they wouldn't be getting Toni dolls and desks and everything else. The ideas began racing up and down me so fast like pins sticking in me. I was so excited I scrambled to my feet without even shaking the snow from my pants. 'There was a lot of noise inside the house, and I could hear a baby crying. But I went up and knocked on the door. There was a hush inside for awhile, then the door opened, not too wide. Mrs. Durphy had the crying baby in her arms. It was barefoot, and she tried to wrap the ragged blanket around its little feet. She looked so tired and worried that I thought she must have been working awful hard. "Yes?" she said holding the door from coming clear open. "What do you want?" "Mrs. Durphy," I said, "I want to borrow something." She hesitated a minute like she didn't know what to do, then she opened the door wider. "Come in. I walked in. There were children all over the floor, and they stared at me with big eyes. Over in the corner I could see the one. 'Two little girls were sitting by a piece of paper and some broken crayons. The littlest one must have been the same size as Susan. Her hair was all tangled up, and her face was very dirty. ' "MBS. Durphy," I said, "I want to borrow a little girl for Christmas." Mrs. Durphy looked at me as if she didn't understand what I said. And all the kids opened their mouths like they could hear with them, too. "What did you say?" Mrs. Durphy asked, still looking as if she hadn't heard. "T want to borrow a little girl for Christmas," I repeated from the words still stuck in my throat. She must have been very tired because she sat down on the old chair there. "A —a little girl?" I nodded my head solemnly. "I — I don't understand." And then she seemed to suddenly make up her mind. "You'd better run along home," she said. But I couldn't go home. I thought desperately and remembered some- 830 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1956 THE LOAN thing. "Please, Mrs. Durphy," I said, "if you will lend us a little girl my dad will buy her a Toni doll and a writing desk and a lot of other things, and we will have the biggest tree in town!" She started talking to herself then about one child having Christmas anyway or something, and then she said, "Well — I — I guess it would be all right. Which one did you want?" "That one," I said, pointing to the little one with tangled hair. "Rosalie?" Mrs. Durphy_ said. "Rosalie — Rosalie gets so frightened." But one of the bigger girls said, "You want a dolly, don't you, Rosalie? You won't get scared, will you?" "No get scared, no get scared!" the little girl chirped, dropping a handful of crayons and coming forward. "We — well, I guess I'd better be going," I said, with all the children looking at me. The other little girl had gone whimpering to her mother, something about wanting a dolly, too, and I thought I'd better be going before they all wanted to come. Mrs. Durphy brought a ragged coat. Then she looked at Rosalie's old shoes. "She has no boots," she said hesitantly. "Her feet will get wet." I could see she was about to change her mind. "I will carry her piggy-back," I said quickly. "I used to carry Susan all the time." With her ragged shoes tucked securely into my pockets, I turned to Mrs. Durphy. "Thank you, Mrs. Durphy," I said. ""Vhank you very much for the loan." 831 ROSALIE looked so pretty when I put the pink ruffly dress and the pink ribbons on her, that I squeezed her to see if she was as cuddly as Susan. But I think she was too bony. Anyway, she pushed me away. She was crying a little so I showed her in the mirror how pretty she looked, and she felt better. But on the stairs before mother and daddy I thought something awful was going to happen. Mother turned as white as the Christmas tree ridge when she looked at Rosalie. I thought she was going to say something, but she just sat there staring. Dad stood up and then he said, "Jerry, what have you been doing? Who is this child?" "It's Rosalie," I said, "one of the Durphy children. I borrowed her! J? Rosalie must have known that something was wrong, because she slid down on the stairs and grabbed my leg and burst into tears. I tried to pat her head, but she only clutched my leg tighter. "I want my mommy!" she cried. Mother just sat there staring at the dress and ribbons. And dad had the most peculiar look on his face. Rosalie was screaming by now so loud I couldn't explain anything, and no matter how I tried I couldn't pry her away from my leg. Just when I thought the whole world was going to tumble in, the door opened and there stood Aunt Jane. I was so glad to see her I would have run and hugged her with all my might if I could have got loose. Aunt Jane stood there a minute looking as if she wanted to fight somebody, and then she said, "Well, aren't you even going to ask me to take off my hat?" Then dad said, "Take it off," as though he was too tired to care whether she took it off or not. "Seems to me somebody's got some explaining to do," she said, taking off her hat and clutching it in her hand. "Here it is only one day left to get that tree down and all the other things, and not a word said to me about coming." Mother was holding onto the arms of her chair very hard. Finally dad said, "Well, Jane, without Susan...." Aunt Jane pursed her lips into a straight line. "James Morris," she said, "it's about time somebody told you two a thing or two." She pulled the feather off her hat without even looking what she was doing, and twisted it around her finger. And then I guess she told them the thing or two, something about Christmas being the time to think of others and to be happy for what Jesus did for us. She looked squarely at me. "What about Jerry?" Doesn't he want any Christmas either? If he doesn't, he's different from all the other kids I know." I couldn't look at mother and daddy. My throat was so full of lumps I couldn't swallow them all. And then Rosalie started in again louder than ever. She hung onto my leg like a leech. "I want my mommy! I want my mommy!" she wailed, while the tears ran all over the pink ruffles. "Jerry, who is this child?" Aunt Jane asked. But I couldn't stand it any longer. All the miserable, lonely feelings I had saved up since Susan died seemed to break and run down my face in tears. UNT Jane came over and unfastened Rosalie somehow from my leg and sat down with her in the rocking chair. "Now, Jerry," she said, "you go ahead and cry for awhile and then you tell me what this is all about." So pretty soon I could talk. "She's one of the Durphy children. I borrowed her because there wasn't going to be any Christmas 'cause Susan is dead. So I thought if I could get a little girl to take Susan's place we could have Christmas, and get a tree and do all the things we've done...." And then I turned to run upstairs, because I felt so ashamed that I had cried so much when I was a big boy nine years old. But there was mother in front of me. Her eyes were full of shining tears. "Jerry," she said, and pulled me down onto her lap on the stairs. She held my head against her dress, and it felt so good because it was the first time since Susan's funeral, and I cried a little bit more. Then I felt her lips on my forehead, and it was wonderful. "Jerry, will you please forgive me?" she said, and all I could do was put my arms around her neck and hug her tight. Rosalie was fussing again. "I want my mommy," she whimpered. "Tt seems this child wants her mother," Aunt Jane said. "Somebody'd better take her home." Then I remembered. I slid off mother's lap and stood on the stairs. "But I promised Mrs. Durphy we would buy her a Toni doll and a writing desk and a lot of other things," I said. Daddy came over and put one hand on my shoulder and the other around mother. "I guess at least 832 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1956 THE LOAN part of that can be arranged, Son," he said. Aunt Jane winked at me. "T don't want a dolly. I want my mommy, " wept Rosalie. "Jerry," Aunt Jane asked, "is this one of those children who live down by the river?" "Yes," I said. "Aren't there a lot of other children down there?" "The whole house them," I said. "T think there are eight," mother said. "We shall bring them all up is full of for Christmas." "Jerry," Aunt Jennie said, "it looks 833 as though you and I had better take Rosalie home tonight and tell Mrs. Durphy to get ready for Christmas." I looked at the ruffly dress and ribbons. "I'd better go take these off," I said. "No, Jerry," mother said quickly. "Tell Mrs. Durphy that Rosalie may have them. And ['ll fix a box tomorrow with some more of Susan's things. She could probably use them." As I closed the door I could see daddy's arms around mother, and I guess he was going to kiss her, but there wasn't time for me to get mixed up in the pie now. Hal Rumel A CHRISTMAS DECORATION FOR RELIEF SOCIETY SOCIAL OR PROGRAM Inez R. Allen What could be more typical of the Christmas thought than to have the shepherds watching the new star of Bethlehem, and the Wise Men with their camels following its guiding rays? The mantel in our Relicf Society room was the setting for this holiday theme. The weeds and leaves which were used to frame the picture were gilded to harmonize with the color scheme of the room, Hal Rumel CHRISTMAS DINNER DECORATION AT HOME Inez R. Allen This holiday table displays the richness and glitter of the season, but not with the usual colors of red and green. To harmonize with the china, crystal, and silver used on the table, pink and silver Christmas ornaments were used. These were complemented by candles and carnations of a very delicate pink. 'The richness of the damask cloth and the tinted stemware completed the color scheme. —<—— Birthday Congratulations IRTHDAY congratulations are extended to: Mrs. Amanda Jones Pritchett, Fairview, Utah, one hundred two; Mrs. Minnie Hansen Campion, Brigham City, Utah, ninety-eight; Mrs. Mary Reed Harris, Fort Duchesne, Utah, ninety-eight; Mrs. Mary C. Merrill, Preston, Idaho, ninety-seven; Mrs. Alvira Burnham Thomas, Long Beach, California, ninety-five; Mrs. Emma Frances Horrom Fielden, Salt Lake City, Utah, ninety-three; Mrs. Minnie Rathkey, Roseburg, Oregon, Page 834 ninety-three; Mrs. Josephine Erickson Halverson, Salt Lake City, Utah, ninety-two; Mrs. Mary Beatrice Noble Egan, Salt Lake City, Utah, ninety-two; Mrs. Annie Heggie Jardine, Clarkston, Utah, ninety-one; Mrs. Annie Norberg Glade Nuttall, Salt Lake City, ninety; Mrs. Rosa M. Cunliffe, Salt Lake City, ninety; Mrs. Sarah Smith Collier Wickman, Emery, Utah, ninety; Mrs. Caroline Parkinson Goaslind, Salt Lake City, ninety. From Near and Sar I must mention how much I enjoyed Mildred McKay's article on President McKay in the September Magazine. It is such personal glimpses that enrich our understanding and knowledge of our loved prophet. I especially wish to express my appreciation for the following numbers in the October Magazine: "Our Cabin Had a Porch," by Nell Murbarger—country-reared, I grew nostalgic as I read her beautiful and vivid descriptions; "My Guiding Light," by Lucille Tournear — what a lovely tribute to her mother; "Helping Hands," by Flo Whittemore — a beautifully clear portrait of the "ministry of hands'; and "So Dear to My Heart," by Ruth Young—I shed _ tears, remembering the little steepled church of my childhood. I love the poem, "Night Incident," by Lael W. Hill. —Mabel Law Atkinson Dayton, Idaho The Magazines are coming out very beautifully, and we appreciate them. They are certainly filling the place in our Church they were meant for. —Nina N. Bowman President Spanish-American Mission Relief Society San Antonio, Texas The ladies of the Fulton Relief Society would like to praise you for your splendid Magazine. We love our lessons and the many wonderful and_ inspiring messages therein. —Ruelle Pruett Fulton, Kentucky I enjoy the Magazine—its stories, features, and lesson department. I always read it all — take time out to do it. I especially like the serial ""Heart's Bounty" by Deone R. Sutherland. Also enjoyed "Outings and Family Solidarity" by LaVern W. Parmley in the July issue and the picture of the Francis Madsen family. They looked so friendly and nice. —Mrs. Amy Bennett Virginia, Idaho May I say that a subscription to The Relief Society Magazine which I have received as a wedding present is one of my most cherished gifts. I really feel like a homemaker now. I always enjoyed the Magazine in my mother's home, and it holds many spiritual connotations for me. —Janice Christensen Jensen Provo, Utah The page "Woman's Sphere" is always very interesting. It is one of the choice pages in The Relief Society Magazine. I especially like the birthday congratulations to be extended to those elderly ladies. I am sure they are thrilled to know their names are in print. —Mrs. Myrtle Hatch Burley, Idaho Each year goes so fast, and I don't want to miss a single issue of the Magazine. I have been a subscriber since I was married, and before that I read my mother's copy. The Magazine is a great help in my life, and I have gained much from being literature and theology class leader, as well as a visiting teacher. I am looking forward to the new social science lessons this year, too. —Mary M. Jackson Washington, D. C. The Magazine has become very precious to me since I began my subscription one year ago. It contains such a wealth of knowledge and enjoyment that I would surely feel the loss if I missed even one issue. —LaVon L. West Great Falls, Montana The Relief Society Magazine has always been a part of my life, both in my parents' home and in my own after marriage, and it has become more indispensable with every passing year. I enjoy the fiction and poetry of many friends, but most especially the writings of my wonderful mother, Dorothy Clapp Robinson. —Whilden R. Wuehler Fair Oaks, California Page 835 ELLE S. SPAFFORD, General President of Relief Society, in October, attended meetings of two national groups in New York City. She first attended meetings of the American Mothers Committee, the organization which selects the American Mother of the Year. The meetings stressed the importance of a more spiritual observance of Mother's Day and more effective religious training in the home, in harmony with the slogan of the Committee: "A Bible in Every Home." At the biennial meetings of the National Council of Women, of which President Spafford has been second vicepresident for the past nine years, she was elected a member at large of the Executive Committee. President Spafford reported on the activities of Relief Society and of the American Mothers Committee. She opened the second day's meetings with prayer, presided at the luncheon, and paid a tribute to Mrs. Charlotte Leyden, retiring President of the Council, who was also elected a member at large. MILY H. BENNETT, First Counselor, Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association, also attended the meetings of the National Council of Women and presented a report of the activities of the Y. W. M. I. A., which holds membership in the Council. Mrs. Page 836 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon Bennett had the honor of offering the invocation at the first meting and of participating actively in the panel discussions. N Cairo, Egypt, today, many women, hiding behind veils not long since, are as modern in dress, living conditions, and outlook as are American women. Leading feminist educators, such as Madame Nahid Sirry, President of the Feminist Union, and Madame Karima Said, of the Egyptian Ministry of Education, have labored assiduously for these improved conditions. Women are doing much excellent social welfare work throughout Egypt, are holding more and more government offices, and are numerous employees in the Ministries of Public Health, Education, and Social Affairs. A larger-than-life-size bronze statue of Eliza R. Snow, the great pioneer woman leader, second General President of Relief Society, who gave so untiringly of her fine mind and talents to the women of the Church, now stands in the garden of the Daughters of Utah Pioneers Memorial Building, 304 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. It was carved by Ortho Fairbanks and presented by the Nicholas G. Morgan Foundation. N DEPARTMENT Sheology—Characters and Teachings of The Book of Mormon Lesson 46—Prophecies Concerning the Jews, Gentiles, and Lamanites in the Latter Days Elder Leland H. Monson For Tuesday, March 5, 1957 Objective: being fulfilled. HE Book of Mormon is rather explicit in what it has to say about the Gentiles, the Jews, and the Lamanites. Various prophets looked into the future and wrote concerning these three groups of people. Concerning the Gentiles The Gentiles, according to The Book of Mormon, were to be given the privilege of unveiling this great land of America after it had been hidden from the nations of the world for hundreds of years. Nephi wrote: And I looked and beheld a man among the Gentiles, who was separated from the seed of my brethren by the many waters; and I beheld the Spirit of God, that it came down and wrought upon the man; and he went forth upon the many waters, even unto the seed of my brethren, who were in the promised land.... And it came to pass that I beheld many multitudes of the Gentiles upon the land To show that the prophecies made by Book of Mormon prophets are of promise; and I beheld the wrath of God, that it was upon the seed of my brethren; and they were scattered before the Gentiles and were smitten (1 Nephi 13:12, 14). This quotation undoubtedly refers to the discovery of America by Columbus, and to the fact that many Gentiles would follow in his wake. Nephi also saw that a great and marvelous work would be accomplished among these Gentiles, for they were to receive the Nephite records (2 Nephi 29:3) and to take the contents to the remnant of the Nephite and Lamanite civilization in the latter days. Nephi wrote: And it came to pass that the angel of the Lord spake unto me, saying Behold, saith the Lamb of God, after I have visited the remnant of the house of Israel — and this remnant of whom I speak is the seed of thy father—wherefore, after I have visited them in judgment, and smitten them by the hand of the Gentiles and after the Gentiles do stumble exceedingly, Page 837 because of the most plain and precious parts of the gospel of the Lamb which have been kept back by that abominable church, which is the mother of harlots, saith the Lamb — I will be merciful unto the Gentiles in that day, insomuch that I will bring forth unto them, in mine own power, much of my gospel, which shall be plain and precious, saith the Lamb (I Nephi 13:34). Writing again on this same subject, Nephi pointed out: And after our seed is scattered the Lord God will proceed to do a marvelous work among the Gentiles, which shall be of great worth unto our seed; wherefore, it is likened unto their being nourished by the Gentiles and being carried in their arms and upon their shoulders (1 Nephi 22:8). On another occasion, Nephi prophesied that the Gentiles should carry the message of the record to a remnant of his seed: And then shall the remnant of our seed know concerning us, how that we came out from Jerusalem, and that they are descendants of the Jews. And the gospel of Jesus Christ shall be declared among them... (2 Nephi 30:4-5; see also 3 Nephi 26:8). But it was not the Nephite record alone that the Gentiles were to give to a remnant of Nephi's people, for Nephi saw that the Gentiles would take the Jewish record to a remnant of his seed: Therefore repent, and be baptized in the name of Jesus, and lay hold upon the gospel of Christ, which shall be set before you, not only in this record but also in the record which shall come unto the Gentiles from the Jews, which record shall come from the Gentiles unto you (Mormon 7:8). And it came to pass that I beheld the remnant of the seed of my brethren, and also the book of the Lamb of God, which had proceeded forth from the mouth of the Jew, that it came forth from the Gentiles unto the remnant of the seed of my brethren (1 Nephi 13:38). It was further to be the mission of the Gentiles to scatter a remnant of the house of Israel. (See 1 Nephi 15:17; 2 Nephi 10:18.) The Book of Mormon indicates, too, that there should be a great Gentile nation built upon this land: And it meaneth that the time cometh that after all the house of Israel have been scattered and confounded, that the Lord God will raise up a mighty nation among the Gentiles, yea, even upon the face of this land; and by them shall our seed be scattered (1 Nephi 22:7). But behold, this land, said God, shall be a land of thine inheritance, and the Gentiles shall be blessed upon the land. And this land shall be a land of liberty unto the Gentiles, and there shall be no kings upon the land, who shall raise up unto the Gentiles (2 Nephi 10:10-11). A glorious promise is also held out to these Gentiles, for Nephi says:... That if the Gentiles shall hearken unto the Lamb of God in that day that he shall manifest himself unto them in word, and also in power, in very deed, unto the taking away of their stumbling blocks— And harden not their hearts against the Lamb of God, they shall be numbered among the seed of thy father; yea, they shall be numbered among the house of Israel; and they shall be a blessed people upon the promised land forever... (1 Nephi 14:1-2; see also 2 Nephi 30:2). Concerning the Lamanites Book of Mormon prophets, interested as they were in these Gentiles, also showed great concern over the 838 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1956 LESSON DEPARTMENT Lamanites. 'There were periods in the Lamanite history when they were righteous as indicated by the conversions among them by the sons of Mosiah, the preachings of Samuel the Lamanite, and _ the merging of the Nephite and Lamanite civilizations after the appearance of the Christ when the Nephites and Lamanites had all things in common. (Helaman 6:1). 'There were more periods, however, when the Lamanites were unrighteous. But we are not concerned with this history here, for we want to know what promises the Lord held out for the Lamanites in the last days. Just before sealing up his father's record, Moroni wrote a few words to his Lamanite brethren of the future concerning the record the Gentiles would give unto them. He wrote:. And I write unto my brethren, the Lamanites; and I would that they should know that more than four hundred and twenty years have passed away since the sign was given of the coming of Christ. And I seal up these records, after I have spoken a few words by way of exhortation unto you. And when ye shall receive these things, I would exhort you that ye would ask God, the Eternal Father in the name of Christ, if these things are not true; and if ye shall ask with a sincere heart, with real intent, having faith in Christ, he will manifest the truth of it unto you, by the power of the Holy Ghost (Moroni 10:1-2, 4). Moroni further encouraged these Lamanites not to deny the gifts of God—the gift of knowledge, the gift of faith, the gift of healing, the gift of prophecy, and the others. He seems to be pleading with them to accept the gospel in the last days 839 when it would be presented to them. Moroni appears to have directed his entire writings in the Book of Moroni to the Lamanites. (See Moroni 1:4.) It was to the Lamanites that he wrote when he discussed the ordinances of the gospel and gave the two prayers for administering the sacrament, the mode of bestowing the Holy Ghost, and the ordination of priests and teachers. One of the early Book of Mormon prophets, Enos, prayed "with many long strugglings" for the Lamanites: And now behold, this was the desire which I desired of him — that if it should so be, that my people, the Nephites, should fall into transgression, and by any means be destroyed, and the Lamanites should not be destroyed that the Lord God would preserve a record of my people, the Nephites; even if it so be by the power of his holy arm, that it might be brought forth at some future day unto the Lamanites, that, perhaps, they might be brought unto salvation— And I had faith, and I did cry unto God that he would preserve the records; and he covenanted with me that he would bring them forth unto the Lamanites in his own due time (Enos 13, 16). Helaman later held forth promises for the Lamanites of the last days. Helaman wrote: Yea, I say unto you, that in the latter times the promises of the Lord have been extended to our brethren, the Lamanites; and notwithstanding the many afflictions which they shall have, and notwithstanding they shall be driven to and fro upon the face of the earth, and be hunted, and shall be smitten and scattered abroad, having no place for refuge, the Lord shall be merciful unto them. And this is according to the prophecy, that they shall be brought to the true 840 knowledge, which is the knowledge of their Redeemer, and their great and true shepherd, and be numbered among _his sheep (Helaman 15:12-13). Mormon also called upon the Lamanites in the last days to repent, as quoted previously: Therefore repent, and be baptized in the name of Jesus, and lay hold upon the gospel of Christ, which shall be set before you, not only in this record but also in the record which shall come unto the Gentiles from the Jews, which record shall come from the Gentiles unto you (Mormon 7:8). Concerning the Jews The Book of Mormon prophets also wrote much about the Jews and the promises of the Lord to them in the last days. Lehi brought with him from Jerusalem the brass plates, the record of the Jews. Nephi speaks of making a record "... In the language of my father, which consists of the learning of the Jews and the language of the Egyptians" (1 Nephi 1:2). The Book of Mormon makes it clear that the Jews were responsible for the crucifixion of the Christ (2 Nephi 10:3), and that they would become a hated and despised people. Nephi wrote: And as for those who are at Jerusalem, saith the prophet, they shall be scourged by all people, because they crucify the God of Israel, and turn their hearts aside, rejecting signs and wonders, and the power and glory of the God of Israel. And because they turn their hearts aside, saith the prophet, and have despised the Holy One of Israel, they shall wander in the flesh, and perish, and become a hiss and a by-word, and be hated among all nations (1 Nephi 19:13-14). Wherefore, the Jews shall be scattered RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—1956 among all nations; yea, and also Babylon shall be destroyed; wherefore, the Jews shall be scattered by other nations. And after they have been scattered, and the Lord God hath scourged them by other nations for the space of many generations, yea, even down from generation to generation until they shall be persuaded to believe in Christ, the Son of God, and the atonement, which is infinite for all mankind — and when that day shall come that they shall believe in Christ, and worship the Father in his name, with pure hearts and clean hands, and look not forward any more for another Messiah, then, at that time, the day will come that it must needs be expedient that they should believe these things. And the Lord will set his hand again the second time to restore his people from their lost and fallen state. Wherefore, he will proceed to do a marvelous work and a wonder among the children of men. Wherefore, he shall bring forth his words unto them, which words shall judge them at the last day, for they shall be given them for the purpose of convincing them of the true Messiah, who was rejected by them; and unto the convincing of them that they need not look forward any more for a Messiah to come, for there should not any come, save it should be a false Messiah which should deceive the people; for there is save one Messiah spoken of by the prophets, and that Messiah is he who should be rejected of the Jews (2 Nephi 25:15-18). Nephi knew that in the last days the Jews (as well as the nations of the Gentiles) would become "... Drunken with iniquity and all manner of abominations" (2 Nephi 27:1). Despite this condition, Nephi also saw that the Nephite record and the record of the lost tribes of Israel would come to the Jews. (See 2 Nephi 29:13.) Nephi also said:... As many of the Jews as will not repent shall be cast off; for the Lord LESSON DEPARTMENT covenanteth with none save it be with them that repent and believe in his Son, who is the Holy One of Israel (2 Nephi 30:2). However, Nephi promised: And it shall come to pass that the Jews which are scattered also shall begin to believe in Christ; and they shall begin to gather in upon the face of the land; and as many as shall believe in Christ shall also become a delightsome people (2 Nephi 30:7). Jacob saw the day when the Jews "... Because of their iniquities..." would suffer from destruction, famines, pestilences, and bloodshed; "... And they who shall not be destroyed shall be scattered among all nations" (2 Nephi 10:6). He prophesied, however, that:... When the day cometh that they shall believe in me, that I am Christ, then have I covenanted with their fathers that they shall be restored in the flesh, upon the earth, unto the lands of their inheritance (2 Nephi 10:7). Mormon, a later prophet, was interested in seeing that in the last days the Jews:... The covenant people of the Lord, shall have other witness besides him whom they saw and heard, that Jesus, whom they slew, was the very Christ and the very God (Mormon 3:21). 841 Mormon knew, of course, that his record would be a witness. Mormon, cognizant of what the attitude of people would be towards the Jews in the last days, urged us not to glory in persecuting them. He wrote:... Ye need not any longer hiss, nor spurn, nor make game of the Jews, nor any of the remnant of the house of Israel; for behold, the Lord remembereth his covenant unto them, and he will do unto them according to that which he hath sworn (3 Nephi 29:8). Book of Mormon prophets were solicitous of the future welfare of these groups of people, the Gentiles, Lamanites, and Jews, and wrote to encourage them to accept the gospel in the last days. They promised a rich reward to all who would accept it. Questions on the Lesson 1. What are the promises to the Gentiles, if they repent? 2. What are the promises to the Lamanites of the last days? 3. Discuss how the prophecies in The Book of Mormon concerning the Jews are coming to pass? 4. If Book of Mormon prophets were concerned with these people, what is our responsibility? Single Copies of December Yssue Fvculestte Single copies of this issue of the Magazine featuring the Dedication of The Relief Society Building with four-color illustrations, are available for twenty-five cents each, postpaid. Orders may be sent to The Relief Society Magazine, 76 North Main St., Salt Lake City 16, Utah. Visiting eacher I lessages— Book of Mormon Gems of Truth Lesson 46—"And Now, My Beloved Son, Notwithstanding Their [The Nephites] Hardness, Let Us Labor Diligently; For If We Should Cease to Labor, We Should Be Brought Under Condemnation; For We Have a Labor to Perform Whilst in This Tabernacle of Clay That We May Conquer the Enemy of All Righteousness and Rest Our Souls in the Kingdom of God" (Moroni 9:6). Leone O. Jacobs For Tuesday, March 5, 1957 Objective: To remind us that we as individuals must never cease laboring to bring souls to Christ. [' is well for each of us to bear in mind that we do have a labor to perform while here in mortality, and to realize what that labor is. We are not here to drift aimlessly with the tide of circumstance, for there is purpose in our existence. We are on earth for two specific reasons: to work out our individual salvation — to "conquer the enemy of all righteousness" as Mormon states, and as individuals to spread the gospel of Jesus Christ. The Church of Jesus Christ embodies a great missionary system. The truth of the gospel must be offered to all the world, and each of us has an obligation to do all in his power to contribute to this effort. Not all Church members receive formal missionary calls, but, nevertheless, all can and should participate in this vital work of spreading the gospel. One stake has instituted a project whereby the Church members contact their nonmember friends and inquire how much they know of our Church principles, and ask if they would be Page 842 interested in knowing more. It was found that nearly fifty per cent of those questioned said they were interested in learning more. Brigham Young said:... There is neither man or woman in this Church who is not on a mission. That mission will last as long as they live, and it is to do good, to promote righteousness, to teach the principles of truth, and to prevail upon themselves and everybody around them to live those principles that they may obtain eternal life (Discourses of Brigham Young, page 322). There are different types of missionary work: among them, that which is accomplished by the influence of good example; that done through formal missionary labors; that which is done by discussion with friends and neighbors during day by day association, and others. Mormon brings out an important point concerning the teaching of the gospel. Though some people seem unreceptive to the gospel, we should not feel justified in discontinuing our efforts in their behalf, else we ourselves may come under LESSON DEPARTMENT condemnation. Individual personalities and backgrounds differ widely and some people cannot accept the gospel as readily as others. Some may have been prejudiced against the Church by the poor example of a Church member or have been given false information. Neverthe- 843 less, it is our responsibility to continue to persuade with patience and love. Let us use every noble means at our command to bring souls unto the Lord. "Remember the worth of souls is great in the sight of God" (D. & C, 18:10). Work Mlecting— Food Preparation and Service (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 6 — Desserts Rhea H. Gardner For Tuesday, March 12, 1957 ESSERT originally meant food served after the table had been cleared or deserted of everything, even the cloth removed. In Europe, "dessert" still means fruit served at the end of the meal. Americans are responsible for giving the sweet the place of honor at the end of the meal. The right dessert complements a meal. That is, it adds what is needed to make the meal complete or give it perfect balance. If the main course is a sumptuous and filling one, top it off with something light and easily digested. When the rest of the meal skimps on calories and protein, you have a chance to do your bit nutritionally by including a satisfying dessert. The easiest of all desserts to prepare is a bowl heaped with colorful fruit which has been washed, dried, and chilled. Cheese and crisp, unsweetened crackers are natural affinities, or crisp cookies are pleasant accompaniments, Cake is one of the most popular desserts. Many would say that no one can claim to be a really good cook unless she can make a featherlight, mouth-watering cake. As the altitude increases the air pressure becomes less. 'This requires some slight changes in the recipe that basically is still as good as ever. For cakes containing shortening and two cups flour, it is necessary to reduce the baking powder one-fourth to one-half teaspoon for every rise in altitude of 2500 feet. A reduction of about two tablespoons of sugar for each cup and a slight increase in liquid may also be necessary for perfect texture, for each rise in altitude of 2500 feet. When one goes to a lower altitude, additions of the same amounts should be made, if your recipe gave perfect results where you were. All-purpose flour will not yield as fine and light a product as will cake flour. If you use all-purpose flour, remove two tablespoons of flour for each cupful used and add in its place two tablespoons of cornstarch. Ingredients which are room temperature make a better textured cake than those taken directly from the refrigerator. A uniform temperature near seventy to seventy-five degrees Fahrenheit is considered best. This is particularly important when making sponge-type cakes. Egg whites that are room temperature when used give a lighter, more tender cake of greater volume and finer texture. Ingredients that are too warm, however, can also spoil the cake. Warm, oily fat will not cream satisfactorily, will not incorporate air and build up a smooth, creamy mixture and will produce a coarse textured cake. It is almost impossible to beat the shortening, sugar, and egg mixture too much. When cakes requiring these ingredients are being made, thorough mixing in these stages is all to the good of the cake. Once you start adding the liquid and dry ingredients, stir gently to blend, but do not beat the batter more than necessary for perfect blending of ingredients. Pie is the real American dessert. Shells which are filled and then baked, should be served as soon as possible after they have cooled to be just warm. If baking must be done several days in advance of serving, there are two alternatives. You may freeze the ready-to-bake pies so they can be removed from the freezer and baked as needed, or you may bake the pastry shells in regular tins or on the back of muffin tins. Pre-baked shells may be kept for weeks, if stored in a covered container in a cool place. Most cream and_ custard-type fillings such as pumpkin or any of the cream fillings may be stored in covered containers in the refrigerator for a week or two. When ready to serve your pie, freshen the pastry by placing it in a warm oven for a few minutes to give it that just-out-of-the-oven freshness. One of the most popular wintertime desserts is steamed carrot and fruit pudding. It is easily and quickly made and is fairly inexpensive. If kept in a tightly covered container in a cool place, it keeps for weeks. When processed in glass jars or cans and sealed air tight, it will keep for a year or more. Prepared in this way, it makes a perfect dessert when unexpected company calls, for a Sunday dinner, and for those extra busy days any month of the year when the menu calls for a nutritious and satisfying dessert. The right sauce complements the pudding but never dwarfs the delicate flavor of it. Choose the sauce carefully for your pudding by first deciding what the pudding needs to enhance the eating quality of it. One pudding may need a low calorie tart sauce made of a blend of fruit juice; another one, a sauce wherein a pleasing blend of spices predominates; while for others, a rich, hard sauce is a must. In every instance, make sure that the sauce plays a supporting role and not the role of the main character of your dessert. Increase the fun of meal preparation by including a dessert surprise on the family dinner menu at least every week or two. Get off the 844 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1956 LESSON DEPARTMENT beaten track dessert-wise, and you will discover more appetizing food to serve your family than you ever dreamed of before. Such a practice, not only with desserts but with all other foods, does much to re- 845 place boredom with adventure and fun in food preparation. Reference: "Cake Baking at High Altitude," Utah State Agricultural College Extension Service, Logan, Utah, 10c per copy. OL iterature—Shakespeare in Our Lives Lesson 6—Romeo and Juliet Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Text: Shakespeare Major Plays and the Sonnets, by G. B. Harrison, Harcourt, Brace & Company, 1948) For Tuesday, March 19, 1957 Objective: To witness the great beauty of the poetic expression and dramatic skill of Shakespeare in depicting the love of Romeo and Juliet. Where be these enemies? Capulet! Montague! See what a scourge is laid upon your hate That Heaven finds means to kill your joys with love!.... All are punished. S common as it is true, is the old saying, "All the world loves a lover." And no lovers have been more widely known and loved than Romeo and Juliet, surely because of all lovers in literature theirs is the pure love which each of us desires to possess and experience personally and ideally. By the very fact, then, that from its first presentation Romeo and Juliet has been one of Shakespeare's most popular _ triumphs, we may justly assume that in its words and motions we find embodied our own "best'' loves, but loves condensed, purified, and exalted through the genius of the poet Shakespeare. It must then also follow that together we should read Shakespeare as he "Holds the mirror up to nature, as 'twere," if we would come to know more deeply the movV. 3. 291-295 ingly strange powers of love which dominate, at least, our hopes, if not our lives. The fraternity of lovers is one of the best and largest our world can offer. Shakespeare acts as scribe. Only those who have been initiated know the truth of love's logic as stated in the first lines of his sonnet 138: When my love swears that she is made of truth, I do believe her, though I know she lies. For the uninitiated and the selfish, such a paradox is only sheer nonsense. Likewise they can never know that: Love is a smoke raised with the fume of sighs; Being purged, a fire sparkling in lovers' eyes; 846 Being vexed, a sea nourished with lovers' tears. What is it else? A madness most discreet, A choking gall and a preserving sweet. I. 1. 196-200 Save for Shakespeare's addition to the nurse and his new emphasis and characterization on some figures, he lifted the entire substance of the plot directly from Arthur Broke's poem, The Tragical Historie of Romeo and Juliet, published in 1562, itself deeply indebted to Bandell, an Italian novelist. But while in his source many weeks of wooing precede the wedding, 'Tybalt is not slain until several months later, and Romeo's exile lasts from Easter through September, Shakespeare achieves his power of impact by condensing all these events into three or four days. It was by thus rearranging this plot and people that Shakespeare first created a wellknit plot which enabled "live" characters to create themselves into reality. 'This plot has a jewel precision which, through its superb craftsmanship, itself gives pleasure. The chief fault of the play is the posing artificiality of Romeo in the early scenes, and such long dry runs as Friar Laurence's long discourse on herbs (II. 3) or Lady Capulet's rather artificial comparison of Paris to a book (I. 3). Plot The play begins in the streets of Verona, where the flashing swords and malice of Tybalt once more enflame the ancient vendetta feud between the two wealthy houses of Montague and Capulet. Immediately sensing the danger, Prince Escalus decrees death as the punishment to the next person who RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—1956 starts a street-brawl. 'The Montague Romeo loves Rosaline, but when he masks and attends the Capulet ball, he instantly loves Juliet, their only daughter. After the ball he secretly enters her garden to hear her vowing her love for him. Out of the shadows he replies, and they agree to be married secretly the next day by Friar Laurence. Soon after their marriage, Romeo meets 'Tybalt, now his relative by marriage. Romeo cannot now dare to defend his honor when Tybalt insults him, so Mercutio, his gallant friend, fights Tybalt and is slain. Seeing his dearest friend killed, Romeo slays Tybalt and is banished from the city for life. Meanwhile, unaware that their daughter is already a wife, the Capulets arrange for Juliet to marry Paris, a wealthy, older suitor. Desperately frightened by his ardor and their approaching marriage, Juliet appeals to Friar Laurence for help, after both her nurse and her mother advise the marriage. 'The priest gives her a potion to drink which will make her appear dead for fortytwo hours. After she is placed in the family vault, Friar Laurence expects to summon Romeo from Mantua to the Capulet family tomb where he is to steal away his drugged bride. But fate prevents the messenger from finding Romeo in Mantua; instead, Romeo learns only that his bride is dead. After hastily buying poison he returns to her tomb, where he is discovered by Juliet's promised husband, Paris. In their encounter Romeo kills Paris, sees Juliet apparently dead, then drinks the poison as he dies in her arms. LESSON DEPARTMENT Alarmed, the Friar comes minutes later to awaken Juliet. Sensing at once what has happened she stabs herself. The two families arrive to find their children dead, and over their bodies the Capulet§ and Montagues bemoan their mutual blindness and hatred and vow to be friends henceforth. Tragedy vs. Pathos In Romeo and Juliet Shakespeare reveals how heavily he is still influenced by the medieval concept of tragedy, which held that mortals come to disastrous ends because an irresistible Fate has thus decreed. (See "Ordered Universe" Lesson 2.) The Prologue to Act I tells how: A pair of star-crossed lovers take their life, Whose misadventured piteous overthrows Do with their death bury their parents' strife. Prologue 6-8 More than fifteen passages within the play constantly remind us that their love is "death-market" that "froward fortune," "fortune's cruel will" and "false fortune" have predetermined the disastrous end of their love before it began. When, at their first impassioned meeting, Juliet seeks to know the identity of her lover, she says: Go ask his name. If he be married, My grave is like to be my wedding bed. I. 5. 136-137 Early in the play Romeo tells his dear friend Mercutio that he had "dreamed a dream," and even before meeting Juliet at the feast of the Capulets, Romeo has a great foreboding: I fear, too early. For my mind misgives 847 Some consequence, yet hanging in the stars, Shall bitterly begin his fearful date With this night's revels, and expire the term Of a despised life closed in my breast By some vile forfeit of untimely death. But He that hath the steerage of my course, Direct my sail! I. 4. 106-113 In the final scene Romeo tells how "I dreamed my lady came and found me dead" (V.1. 6), just as Romeo's servant dreams that his master is fighting within the tomb, which also prophesied an actual happening. But such a definition of tragedy is no nearer tragedy than is the play itself. In his Poetics, Aristotle defines tragedy as "a form of drama exciting the emotions of pity and fear. Its action should be single and complete, presenting a reversal of fortune, involving persons _ renowned and of superior attainments...." 'Tragedy has always involved man's own inner struggle and a conflict of will. 'Tragedy involves a disastrous end to some great person through his own inner weaknesses. In the highest tragedy, defects may be either of will or moral strength. Romeo and Juliet, therefore, falls short of containing high tragedy, since its disastrous end is produced, not by inner struggle or weakness within the characters, but by a series of unfortunate coincidences. It was just bad luck which brought together Mercutio and Tybalt, as it was bad luck that the messenger to Romeo was sealed up in a house filled with plague. And if only Friar Laurence could have arrived at the tomb one minute before Romeo drank the poison! 'These are ele- ments of chance, not of tragedy; therefore, they comprise a level of secondary importance within the play. The elements of tragedy, though present, are here dominated by pathos, or the quality of awakening sympathy, pity, and sorrow. Never do we feel a fear resulting from any conflict within anyone. We are carried along on the same currents of hope and despair which alternately carry the lovers to heights and depths—indeed one of the play's strongest appeals is that Shakespeare enables his audience to become Romeo and Juliet. The dominant reality throughout the play is the magnificent irresistibility of pure love. In the suddenness of their passion lies the weakness from which all disaster stems. So suddenly are they met and mated, so impulsively do they disregard all lesser reality than their great love, that suffering is bound to follow. Even Juliet, for a moment, is distressed by their union which is:... Too rash, too unadvised, too sudden, Too like the lightning, which doth cease to be Ere one can say "It lightens." II. 2. 118-120 Father Laurence, in his maturity, sees the impassioned lovers as they themselves cannot. How sad to see them disregard his wise advice: These violent delights have violent ends, And in their triumph die, like fire and powder Which as they kiss consume. The sweetest honey Is loathsome in his own deliciousness, And in the taste confounds the appetite. Therefore, love moderately, long love doth so, Too swift arrives as tardy as too slow. II. 6. 9-15 (Read Act II, Scene 6.) In our concern over details of plot, definition, and weakness, we must never forget that, despite all, for those of all ages in love with love, this is their best-loved Shakespearean play (for such persons, greatness is not the basis of judgment). In fairness to the play, as a whole, we must then proceed to point out three of its triumphs. 1. Triumph Over Falseness Just as the great theme of the play is the triumph of love, so Shakespeare has filled almost every scene with love's imagery and music. In his complete fairness, Shakespeare's all-seeing eye has defined love as seen from many points of view. 'Thus through Mercutio's eyes love is "sex'' and a clever game; for the nurse, love is earthly, bawdy, and a practical means of ensuring property and position; for Juliet's parents, love is a rash, unnecessary pain which, in no way, should be the concern of their daughter, particularly since her father is so eminently capable of choosing for her a husband who can guarantee her prestige, wealth, security. Furthermore, her father himself was a "mouse-hunter" (modern: wolf) in his younger years. None of these understand the world into which Romeo and Juliet have entered, since, in each case, their definition of love is partial or false. 'The lovers are most nearly able to share themselves with Friar Laurence, yet, even he, fills his first speeches with erotic symbols. 'Thus, by all those nearest them, they are tempted to love partially, or for the wrong reasons. The great glory of the 848 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1956 LESSON DEPARTMENT play is that never do they yield to these pressures. Through both their words and the shape of the entire play, love is cut off from the usual world with its usual definitions of love, and exalted into its own high realm where love speaks of love and thus creates itself. All attempts to debase love into something less than holy are thwarted. It is significant that the first intense conversation between Romeo and Juliet is filled with the religious imagery which alone expressed what they felt for each other: Rom. If I profane with my unworthiest hand This holy shrine, the gentle fine [punishment] is this, My lips, too blushing pilgrims, ready stand To smooth that rough touch with a tender kiss. Jul. Good pilgrim, you do wrong your hand too much, Which mannerly devotion shows in this; For saints have hands that pilgrims' hands do touch, And palm to palm is holy palmers' kiss. Have not saints lips, and holy palmers too? Jul. Aye, pilgrim, lips that they must use In prayer. Oh then, dear saint, let lips do what hands do. They pray. Grant thou, lest faith turn to despair. 1.5. 95-106 Would that all first kisses might be surrounded with such an aura! For Romeo and Juliet it makes them impregnable to stern lesser realities; literally their love makes them thrice armed and_ fearless, They are, therefore, able to triumph over everything less than love. Rom. Rom. 2. Triumph Over Flatness When most of us feel the oc- 849 casional need to break our self-imposed chains and express emotion for a loved one, we smile, hold hands, send flowers or a commercial sentiment, or even say, "I love you." Largely we feel only, because we cannot say. Romeo and Juliet provides invincible proof that great love is created and sustained by using the tongue to capture and enthrall those more direct avenues to the soul: the eye and the ear. As Hazelton Spencer has phrased it so well, "Romeo and Juliet is made of music." It is a_ lyrical hymn to love which bestows exciting magic upon its devotees. Contrast for example, how stiff and contrived are Romeo's lovewords addressed to Rosaline: She is too fair, too wise, wisely too fair To merit bliss by making me despair. She hath forsworn to love, and in that vow Do I live dead, that live to tell it now. I. 1. 227-230 This is a word-play, love-making for amusement and wit. Now feel Romeo's rich imagery as he describes Juliet whom he has just seen for the first time: Oh, she doth teach the torches to burn bright! It seems she hangs upon the cheek of night Like a rich jewel in an Ethiop's ear— Beauty too rich for use, for earth too dear! I. 5. 46-49 One of the most famous scenes in all literature, and justly so, is Act II, Scene 2. (Read as much of this scene as time permits.) It is night. Romeo has broken into the Capulet orchard where, concealed by shadows, he sees Juliet at the window above him: Rom. It is my lady, oh, it is my lovel.... The brightness of her cheek would shame those stars As daylight doth a lamp; her eyes in heaven Would through the airy region stream so bright That birds would sing and think it were not night. See how she leans her cheek upon her hand! Oh, that I were a glove upon that hand, That I might touch that cheek! Jul. Aye me! Rom. She speaks. Oh, speak again, bright angel! For thou art As glorious to this night, being o'er my head, As is a winged messenger of Heaven Unto the white-upturned wondering eyes Of mortals that fall back to gaze on him When he bestrides the lazy-pacing clouds And sails upon the bosom of the air. Jul. O Romeo, Romeo, wherefore art thou Romeo? Deny thy father and refuse thy name, Of, if thou wilt not, be but sworn my love And [ll no longer be a Capui _— Rom. I take thee at thy word. Call me but love, and I'll be new baptized. Henceforth I never will be Romeo.... Jul. My ears have yet not drunk a hundred words Of thy tongue's uttering, yet I know the sound. Art thou not Romeo, and a Montague? Rom. Neither, fair saint, if either thee dislike. II. 2. 10, 19-36, 49-51, 58-61 It is such words as these which clothe in immortal substance the very texture of love. It is these words, too, which transform Romeo from somewhat of a literary fop into an entire man enraptured with new love, while Juliet in her innocent frankness speaks into her words every nuance of her womanly awareness and response. In these words Shakespeare's triumph over the most difficult medium of words is well-nigh complete; likewise the lover's triumph over shallowness, triviality, and self, is well-nigh perfect. Other passages which should be noted for their beauty and read aloud are IT. 3. 33-38 and III. 5. 1-36. Triumph Over Death How much stronger is our conviction that love is good, when we know those involved, as now we know Romeo and Juliet. From one practical viewpoint their love destroyed them. But then we have a right to ask, is that the reason they live forever in the hearts of mankind? We grieve as we read the final act of the play, yet, despite the grip of pain and sorrow upon us, still there glows within us a satisfying warmth at the memory of so great a love which once was. And ever shall be. When Romeo breaks into the Capulet vault to discover Juliet dead, he pictures Death as his rival lover:... Ah, dear Juliet, Why art thou yet so fair? Shall I believe That unsubstantial death is amorous, And that the lean abhorred monster keeps Thee here in dark to be his paramour? For fear of that, I still will stay with thee, 850 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1956 LESSON DEPARTMENT And never from this palace of dim night Depart again. V. 3. 101-108 Thus Shakespeare brings before our eyes his belief that a love made great in life need not end at death. Thus, in his deep wisdom and keen seeing, in his lyrical beauty and his entire fairness, he allows us to see the mysteries of love through his 851 eyes, that we might know greater happiness and security upon returning to ourselves. Thoughts for Discussion 1. How can a literary love, which never actually happened, contain for us anything of truth? 2. How does pathos differ from tragedy? Just as Romeo and Juliet's great strength is in their love, what is the weakness in their love? Social Science—Latter-day Saint Family Life Lesson 5—Unto the Least of These" Elder John Farr Larson For Tuesday, March 26, 1957 Objective: To show that salvation is the ultimate aim in all service to the needy. HE Prophet Joseph Smith clearly enunciated a philosophy of dealing with those unfortunate persons who find themselves in trouble or wanting the essentials of life. His teachings, based upon and consistent with those of Christ, nevertheless were somewhat strange and different for his day. 'They stressed the importance of the individual and his progression, salvation, and exaltation. He urged the sisters to develop certain characteristics within themselves which are now recognized as important in dealing with people who have problems. Basically, the Gospel Plan was taught. He emphasized the importance of mercy, understanding, and acceptance of the human weakness, as well as the necessity of being forgiving and refraining from judgment. He observed, time and again, that the worth of souls is great in the eyes of God. Everything he suggested was calculated to improve the individual. The basic objective of his teachings, that of individual salvation, is a guiding principle in all service. It is applicable whether the service be to the sick, the poor, the bereaved, the troubled, the discouraged, or the spiritually weak. The Prophet's teachings were specific and practical. He seemed to reject the philosophy of the day, 1.¢., that the "poor" were basically criminal in nature, and his emphasis on the individual was at variance with the idea that all should be treated alike. His charge to "seek out objects of charity" represented a change from the desire of most people to avoid responsibility for the poor. Conditions of want and the pinch of poverty were not unfamiliar to the Prophet. His mother describes instances when the family had few of the essentials. The Prophet knew what it was to be without a home and without food. 'That he had been concerned with the poor prior to the organization of the Relief Society is indicated in his annals. The general conditions of the poor and the treatment of persons involved in crime were undoubtedly known to him. As an astute observer, he had a knowledge of the programs dealing with these matters. His experiences and knowledge, together with his understanding of people, and the inspiration which was his, magnificently equipped him to recognize the errors and injustices and to give advice to correct this service to others. Early Welfare Philosophy in the United States The early philosophy and statutes relating to the poor were based upon the English Poor Relief Society Act of 1601. The treatment of the poor by local communities was basic to this system. As a result, needs were met by a makeshift pattern, entirely lacking in uniformity. 'The principal concern of the law was to prevent nonresident indigents from obtaining residence, and provision was made for their removal from the community, as criminals. Many indigents were forced from one community to another, particularly the mentally impaired and the chronically ill. The "overseers of the poor" had the power to remove dependent children from their parents and "indenture" them to an employer who would support them in return for their labor. Often this became virtual slavery. In the administration of the law little concern was given to individual differences in need, the attitude being that all should be treated alike. Josiah Quincy, a contemporary of the Prophet, in reporting on the Pauper Laws of Massachusetts, wrote of providing for the poor by letting them out to the lowest bidder. He inserted in his report the following statement which illustrates this method of care:... The average expense of supporting adults and children is about one dollar and thirty cents per head per week; this we consider a large sum, but the poor being sometimes boarded with those who are in want themselves, it is not lost to the town (Massachusetts, General Court, Committee on Pauper Laws, Report, 1821). In the early part of the 19th Century there was a trend towards caring for the poor in almshouses, particularly in large cities. These institutions were generally overcrowded, poorly ventilated hovels, containing the human driftwood of the time, unsegregated as to sex or physical condition. They were crowded with the mentally ill, the sick of all kinds, the aged, and children. Medical care, if available at all, was available on an emergency basis. The food was meager and the clothing was inadequate. From 1837 to 1843 the United States was in a severe economic depression. During this period there was extreme suffering. Horace Greeley wrote in the "New Yorker," on January 20, 1838, that approximately one-third of the 200,000 wage earners in New York City were unemployed. In speaking of their plight he wrote: Some of these subsist on the scanty earnings of former days, some are aided by relatives or personal friends, and some manage to avoid starvation with the few 852 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1956 LESSON DEPARTMENT shillings which partial and precarious employment or still more uncertain beggary afford them; but there are still thousands... Who are in utter and hopeless distress, with no means of surviving the winter but those afforded by the charity of their fellow citizens. It was in this period, following a meeting of 5000 indigent persons who listened to inciting speeches, that the "flour riots" broke out, in which hungry people broke into flour storage facilities in New York. This added confirmation to the popular belief that the poor were also criminal. "Unbending harshness" best described the criminal code of that time. There was no "individualized justice" as we know it today. Extenuating circumstances rarely were considered by the Courts. The concept of punishment as a deterrent to crime gave birth to the Pennsylvania and Auburn Systems of Prisons. Under the former, prisoners were separately confined throughout their term, while under the Auburn System complete solitary was had during the night and silence during the day. The failure of these systems later brought penal reforms. The Individual Recognized Our present enlightened attitude towards social problems developed slowly. Along the road there were valiant pioneers, with Joseph Smith in the vanguard. His teachings on this subject were, in reality, refinements and specific applications of the Gospel Plan. Because of their focus on the individual and _ his spiritual, physical, social, and economic betterment, they stand out as an early unequivocal step in the development of programs and _philosophy of human betterment. In 853 1842 John Augustus (1784-1859), a Boston shoemaker, was just beginning his work of reforming convicted criminals. After observing the futility of fines and imprisonment in reformation, he asked and was given the opportunity of working personally with those who were considered hopeless. His success in the middle of the igth Century founded the professional service of Probation. In New York in 1843, the Association for Improving the Condition of the Poor was organized to urge relief on a personal basis with emphasis on moral rather than material aid. The contributions of Jane Addams (1860-1935) and Mary Richmond (1861-1928) will not soon be forgotten. Jane Addams will be rembered as the founder of "Hull House." She was a crusader, a philosopher who had as her objective a better life for all people everywhere. Mary Richmond was a technician, the pioneer in bringing together a body of principles for use by professional social workers. Each of these contributions brought to light the favorable potentialities of the individual. 'The work of each of these pioneers, Joseph Smith, Jane Addams, John Augustus, and Mary Richmond, was characterized by the following: (1) an awareness of the existence of unsavory conditions; (2) a determination to correct; and (3) sufficient initiative to take the necessary corrective measures. Herein lies a "key" to social progress. The Prophet's Teachings The concluding statement of the Prophet Joseph after he turned the key at the organization of Relief Society was: 854... This is the beginning of better days to the poor and needy, who shall be made to rejoice and pour forth blessings on your heads (D. H. C. IV, page 607). In giving a general direction to the women of the Relief Society, the Prophet made this statement: Said Jesus, "Ye shall do the work which ye see me do." 'These are the grand keywords for the society to act upon (D. H. C. V, page 20). Nowhere could be found a better foundation for this work than in the teachings of Jesus. 'The forgiving, understanding attitude of Christ, and the lessons he taught, by parables and by his actions, provide a philosophy of dealing with others, unparalleled in history. Its effectiveness has been shown time and again. The objectives of the Relief Society, as previously discussed, made it clear that service to the unfortunate is of major importance to the organization. In one of his talks to the Relief Society, Joseph Smith laid down a fundamental axiom: The best measure or principle to bring the poor to repentance is to administer to their wants. The Ladies' Relief Society is not only to relieve the poor, but to save souls (Ibid., V, pages 24-25). This admonition implies more than a concern for the physical wants — it suggests a higher objective, that of individual salvation. We lift the soul of man by administering to his wants, material and spiritual. The first step is that of meeting the basic needs of food, clothing, and shelter. 'This is seen as a simple process, but an important one. 'The way these needs are met often determines whether or not further needs can be met. Some persons in need are difficult RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1956 to find. They are often too proud, or too ashamed, to admit a need. Consequently, the objective of the Relief Society in "searching after objects of charity and in administering to their wants" becomes meaningful. In this connection an excerpt from the Handbook of the Relief Society, will be of interest: At the second meeting of the Society, on March 24, 1842, the President, Emma Smith, suggested the propriety of appointing persons who might wait upon the poor. No action in the matter was taken, however, until the next year, cases of need meanwhile being reported by anyone discovermg them. On July 28, 1843, a committee of sixteen was appointed "to search out the poor and suffering, to call upon the rich for aid, and thus, as far as possible, relieve the wants of all." They were told that the spirit of the Lord would bless them in their labors and stimulate the hearts of the well-to-do (Handbook of Relief Society 1931, page 29). Thus, the "Necessity Committee" became the forerunner of the visiting teachers. Visiting teachers, 60,639 of them, in 1954 made a total of 2,634,185 visits. It is important for them to continue to "search out the poor" so that needs may be met through the program of the Church. 'The Prophet observed at one meeting that the women had now been placed "in a situation in which you can act according to those sympathies which God has planted in your bosoms" (D. H. C. IV, page 605). 'These, he said, were feelings of charity and benevolence. The Prophet taught that women must be merciful to one another and overlook small things. He spoke of being "armed with mercy" (D. H. C. V, page 19). On another occasion he put it this way: As you increase in innocence and virtue, LESSON DEPARTMENT as you increase in goodness, let your hearts expand, let them be enlarged towards others; you must. Be long-suffering, and bear with the faults and errors of mankind. How precious are the souls of men! The female part of the community are apt to be contracted in their views. You must not be contracted, but you must be lberal in your feelings (D. H. C. IV, page 606). The Prophet always stressed the importance of personal influence on others to deter wrongdoing. In one Relief Society meeting he said: It is the object of this society to reform persons, not to take those that are corrupt and foster them in their wickedness; but if they repent, we are bound to take them, and by kindness sanctify and cleanse them from all unrighteousness by our influence in watching over them.... Nothing is so much calculated to lead people to forsake sin as to take them by the hand, and watch over them with tenderness. When persons manifest the least kindness and love to me, O what power it has over my mind, while the opposite course has a tendency to harrow up all the harsh feelings and depress the human mind (D. H. C. V, pp. 23-24). Example of Service Service to others, in the Prophet's life, was a daily reality. His mother describes one occasion in the spring of 1839: As the season advanced, the brethren began to feel the effects of the hardships which they had endured, and also the unhealthiness of the climate in which we were then situated. They came down with the agues and bilious fevers to such an extent that there were whole families in which not one was able to help himself to a drink of cold water.... Joseph and Emma, seeing the distress, commenced taking the sick into their own house, with the view of taking care of them and making them more comfortable. This they continued to do until their house became so crowded that they were compelled to spread a tent for that part 855 AS Op VY i\\ Organ Books for Church and Home —_ AT THE CONSOLE—Felton.......... 2.00 a CHANCEL ECHOES—Felton........ 2.50 as. CHURCH MUSIC FOR THE SMALLEST ORGAN—Nevin...... 1.50 ae. DEVOTIONAL ALBUM—Asper.... 2.50 i LORENZ FAVORITE ORGAN VOLUNTARIES—Vols. 1, 2, 3.. Ea. 1.50 -_ LORENZ ONE PAGE ORGAN VOLUNTARIES—Vols. 1, 2, 3.. Ea. 1.25 = ORGAN CLASSICS AND TRANSGRIBTIGNS) 2... 20. --ctetee....-2..- 2.50 = ORGAN IN THE CHURCH—Asper 2.75 a. ORGAN VOLUNTARIES— Vols. 1, 2—Schreiner............ Ea. 3.50 Music Sent On Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank | DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY: 15 E. Ist South: Salt Lake City 11, Utah Please send the music indicated above. C] On Approval (1 Charge CL} Money Enclosed Name Address City & State.15 E. Ist South 145 NORTH UNIVERSITY, PROVO of 2860 washisestonr ohn, 856 Santa Claus Sez— "The HAMMOND ORGAN (The Only ELECTRIC Organ) WILL BE THE MOST THRILLING AND EXCITING GIFT THE FAMILY CAN RECEIVE." Be sure to contact us NOW to insure Christmas delivery. Full particulars on request. Seldon N. Heaps GLEN BROS. MUSIC CO. SALT LAKE OGDEN 74 S. Main 2546 Washington PROVO 57 No. University TOURS MEXICO Leaves from Salt Lake City in January. Price is $325 all expense. HAWAII Leaves from Oakland in February. Travel will be by boat and plane. Price is $560 all expense. TEMPLE TOURS LOS ANGELES, MESA, MANTI, ST. GEORGE. These temple tours leave every month from Salt Lake City, Utah. Write or Phone: MARGARET LUND TOURS 3021 South 23rd East Salt Lake City, Utah Phone: IN 6-2909 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1956 of the family who were still on their feet, in order to make room in the house for the sick (History of Joseph Smith by His Mother Lucy Mack Smith, page 304). Teachings Applied The teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith created a surge of brotherly love and kindness that has characterized the Church and the Relief Society from that time to the present. The story of service within the Relief Society is a thrilling one. Each chapter has resulted from an application of the wise counsel of the first President of the Church. Instances of service to individuals are largely unwritten because of their personal nature. They are nonetheless a part of the Relief Society story. The women of the Church, through their organization, have constantly applied the teachings of the Prophet. At their first meeting they commenced to raise funds to care for the poor and to "search out objects of charity." 'They participated in disaster relief in San Francisco following the 1906 earthquake; famine relief to China in 1907; and during both world wars aided and assisted those needing their help. Since the establishment of the Church Welfare Plan they have continued their service by aiding the Priesthood in effectuating the purposes of the Church Welfare Plan. The leadership of the Relief Society has brought stimulation to the field of social services in nurse recruitment and training programs, the founding of hospitals, from its operation of the Relief Society Home, through the operation of the Social Service and Child Welfare Department. In addition to this they have encouraged social work education and training through LESSON DEPARTMENT scholarships and loans to deserving students. (See yee of Relief Society, pp. 22, 27, 28, 30, 31, 41, 42, 45-49.) Spiritual Development The Church Welfare Program has provided Relief Society members with endless opportunities for service. 'This service can only be fully effective if the sisters go about their work with the approach suggested by the comments of President David O. McKay, made in General Conference on October 3, 1936. In speaking of the Church Welfare Program he said: The development of our spiritual nature should concern us most. Spirituality is the highest acquisition of the soul, the divine in man; "the supreme, crowning gift that makes him king of all created things." It is the consciousness of victory over self and of communion with the infinite. It is spirituality alone which really gives one the best in life (107th SemiAnnual Conference, with Report of Discourses, page 103). Supplementary References. "Individual Welfare in a Time of Plenty" -—- Bishop Carl W. Buehner, Relief Society Magazine, January 1954, page 4. 2. "Charity — A Gem of Many Facets" — Velma N. Simonsen, Relief Society Magazine, October 1953, page 722. 3. "Be Ye an Example" — Velma N. Simonsen, Relief Society Magazine, November 1954, page 724. Questions for Discussion 1. Contrast the Prophet's welfare philosophy with that of his day. How did he begin "better days for the poor'? 2. Who were some of the Prophet's contemporaries who made _ outstanding contributions to the field of social work? What characterized the work of all these pioneers? 3. What was the Prophet's greatest contribution to the philosophy of welfare work? 857 COSTUMES We will be able to supply any of the costumes for Relief Society plays and pageants. Mail orders will be promptly filled. American Flag We are also the headquarters for the American Flag. Please write or phone THE SALT LAKE COSTUME COMPANY 248 South Main Street Salt Lake City, Utah Phone: EM 3-1031 or EM 3-9842 NETTING SUPPLIES NEEDLES — PATTERNS INSTRUCTION BOOKS See ARTCRAFT PRESS QAFT A oe SZ = X WEDDING tn = ANNOUNCEMENTS AND SUPPLIES PRINTED: ENGRAVEDEMBOSSED THE BEST FOR LESS o Morne Arce aa 21% EAST 2"°SOUTH Salt Lake City It's awaiting @ You... YES there is still a tremendous amount of outstanding instruction and use awaiting you in this and other copies of the Relief Society Magazine. Your editions may be handsomely bound at the West's finest bindery and printing plant for $2.50 cloth bound and $3.50 leather bound per volume plus postage for mail orders. All mail orders must be paid in advance. Follow these postage rates if you send your order by mail: Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Up to 150 miles 150 to 300 miles 300 to 600 miles.. 600 to 1000 miles 1000 to 1400 miles -.. 1400 to 1800 miles Over 1800 miles ae Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-2581 31 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah 4. Discuss some of the contributions of the Relief Society in the field of social welfare since its organization. 5- What opportunities for welfare work are presented by the Church Welfare Program? Octa ve Dorothy ]. Roberts Oh how blessed to believe Lambed among the fold, Where the blood is surging And the faith is gold. Yet to search periphery Of the darkened night, Looking for the wandered, Swings the shepherd's light. | To Each Relief Society Member: | walked through your charming new Building Enthralled at the beautiful sight And thought, God has poured out his blessings To you dear ones, his children of fight. Grace, charity, love and forgiveness in each of your hearts he hath stored And marked on the Books that you love Him For "You worketh the work of the Lord.".' Vida Fox Clawson COMING TOURS Azalea Spring Tour to the Sunny South and Cuba. Historic Train this will include the pageant at the Hill Cumorgh. Hawaii this will be @ lovely spring tour. Write or Phone: VIDA FOX CLAWSON 966 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah Phone: EM 4-2017 858 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1956 K-? INR = PED Kee Wd —, PL AAAI es NEWEST LDS BOOKS FOR Christmas Givin 1. TEACHINGS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT Dr. Lowell L. Bennion This is a book which provokes thought and arouses enthusiasm for the teachings of Jesus Christ as found in the New Testament. In his inimitable way, Dr. Bennion has made an additional contribution to the Latter-day Saint concepts of our Lord and Savior. His analysis of Jesus' divine instructions and their application to the lives of people in modern times makes this book a MUST for Latter-day Saints and all others who would learn of the everlasting truths Jesus taught. $3.50 2. TEACHINGS OF THE DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS William E. Berrett Dr. Berrett's book provides stimulating reading on latter-day revelations contained in the Doctrine and Covenants. These revelations provide personal directives to members of the Church in. Their manner of living as well as providing the basis of Church government as restored in the Dispensation of the Fulness of Times. Since the Doctrine and Covenants is one of the standard works of the Church, Latter-day Saints should be eager to study what it contains. Teachings of the Doctrine and Covenants is a book that will point the way to a better understanding of. The restored gospel. $3.00 3. DISCOURSES OF THE PROPHET JOSEPH SMITH Compiled by Alma P. Burton Discourses of the Prophet Joseph Smith proves itself a welcome source book which gives increased understanding of the Prophet. To read the Prophet's own words on the salient doctrines reveals the vigor of his personality as well as the strength of his character. This book fills a long-felt need to learn more from the Prophet's own words what he thought and felt about the principles that had been revealed to him. The straightforwardness of his style of writing affords delight in reading his material. What is included in this book enhances the revelations recorded in the Doctrine and Covenants. $3.00 OFFICIAL PUBLISHERS TO THE LDS CHURCH 44 East South Temple Deseret Book Company 44 East South Temple ec ° Deseret BOO Co. -- Salt Lake City Utah Salt Lake City, Utah Name Genlemen: Enclosed you will find ( ) check ( ) money order (_ ) charge to my account the folAddress lowing amount: $0000.00. \ for the encircled (numbered) City.... Zone... State.....--raeecsecscceeceeesencoees books: 1 2 3 Residents of Utah include 2% sales tax. Page 859 ord We Dedicate Shis House to Shee DEDICATION HyMN Words—Alberta H. Christensen Music—Florence J. Madsen Members, General Board of Relief Society With contrite hearts, Almighty Lord, We sing thy praise with one accord, And dedicate this house to thee, An offering in humility. O may thy benediction fall In kind protection over all Who faithfully thy words proclaim Through service, rendered in thy name, Choral Reader: May harmony and peace abide within this house; peace through understanding; harmony through unity of purpose. It is a testament to our faith in thee, witnessing the devotion of this great sisterhood. Willing hands have brought to fulfillment this cherished dream. We shall remember, Lord, and ever keep thy great commandment, "Feed my sheep." 'The labors of our hands will bless the widow and the motherless, and we will take thy healing words to comfort those who grieve. Father in heaven, Lord of the earth—May this house forever be an avenue of light from thee; that through its open doors shall flow truths of thy gospel — to strengthen faith, inspire to righteous living, to enlarge our compassion, one for another. O may this house forever be an avenue of light from thee! O may this house forever be A pathway, Lord, of light from thee, That all—all who enter in shall know From whence all light and goodness flow. As we more lofty heights attain May thine approving love sustain. And faithfully thy words we shall proclaim Through service, rendered in thy name. Page 860 (ON SECOND FLOOR) LIBRARY (ON. THIRD FLOOR) = fe) oO [4 = uw 2 fe] Zz < a a v4 < bar a = as " w < Candy canes for the tree and "fillers" for the stockings... Fruit cakes and cookies for drop-in visitors... Rich plum puddings or mince pies to top off the Christmas dinner... For these and other holiday sweet treats, you'll want to stock up now on the complete U and I Sugar family: powdered, brown, fine granulated, and superfine dessert. UTAH-IDAHO SUGAR COMPAN Y
