THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp - - Velma N. Simonsen - - - - - Margaret C. Pickering - - Evon W. Peterson Leone O. Jacobs Louise W. Madsen Aleine M. Young President First Counselor Second Counselor - Secretary-Treasurer Charlotte A. Larsen Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Christine H. Robinson Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Helen W. Anderson na B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Josie B. Bay Gladys S. Boyer Elna P. Haymond Blanche B. Stoddard 5 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Edito - - - = 7 5 a 4 z General Manager - - - = = ms s 2 a Vol. 42 JANUARY 1955 Vesta P. Crawford Belle S. Spafford No. 1 Con tents SPECIAL FEATURES Relief Society Women As Home Missionaries.. Ees Te Mark E. Petersen 4 Three Scenes in Oil—First Prize Poem: Eva Willes Wangsgaard 9 My Peace—Second Prize Poem ooi. Eeceececesccccscsseeeeseeee Caroline Eyrin iner 11 Dedication—Third Prize Poem: Biographical Sketches of Award Winners 2 aa P Award Winners—Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest.., 14 Hortense Richardson tS Faith and Prayer and Johnnie Morton................... Grandma's Responsibility........... Cec: ccsseceseeeeccoecececeeeeceeneeeeeeees Contentment Is a Lovely Thing—Chapter 4 Maryhale Woolsey 22 Mary C. Martineau 35 Dorothy S. Romney 43 GENERAL FEATURES Sixty Years Ago Woman's Sphere Editorial: Morning and the New Year.. New Serial 'Green Willows'' to Begin in February Ramona W. Cannon 29 Vesta P. Crawford - Notes to the Field: Relief Society Assigned Evening apie as Fast Sunday in March............ Of Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities Margaret C. Pickering 47 Mimosa Eg FEATURES FOR THE HOME s There Is a Time for Formalit 37 Helen S. Williams 38 Bathroom Tricks: Novel Towel Holders Her Hobbies Bring Joy to Others (Mary Elizabeth Jensen Bingham) LESSONS FOR APRIL tae RE Helaman, Son of Alma, and His Two Thousand Sons eacher Messages: 'For That Which Ye Do Send Out Shall Return Unto You Again, Visiting and Be Restored" Elizabeth Williamson e Leland H. Monson 51 Leone O. Jacobs 56 Work Meeting: Vacuums Rhea H. Gardner 58 Literature: Adam Bede by George Eliot (Mary Ann Evans) Briant S. Jacobs 59 Social Science: The Constitution of the United States, Articles XI-XV —Amendments Eleven Through Fifteen Erratum in Social Science Lesson for February Albert R. Bowen 66 40 POETRY "Let Me Then Answer,"' by Frances C. Yost, 21; "Winter Song,' by Thelma J. Lund, 21; 'Driftwood,' by Gene Romolo, 34; ''A Boy,'" by Sylvia Probst Young, Clayton, 50; ''The Difference,'' by Ing Smith, 57; * "New Years Prayer,'' by On Measuring,'' by Vesta N. Lukei, 71; ''Back Fence Neighbors,'' by Christie Lund Natalie King, 31; ''Before the Storm," 7 Zara Sabin, 33; ''White World," a ' 1; ''Wintertime Cafe,'' by Bernice Mabel Jones Gabbott, 71; Coles, 71; ''Playtime Is Over,'' by Ivy Houtz Woolley, 72. PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 40 North Main, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15bc. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 8, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1108, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Greetings: for' the 'New. Yecr 22.0...) sccccssccssssssesleeessceceet ene ete ee ee Award Winners—Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest oo... Ceccseseseeeseeeees Wallflower—First Prize Story Infantile Paralysis and the March of Dimes From Near and Far Bound Volumes of 1954 Relief Society Magazines Award Subscriptions Presented in April 3 8 Alice Morrey Bailey 15 Basil O'Connor 33 1 32 32 From ear and Sar I have been a subscriber to The Relief Society Magazine for more than thirtyfive years, and had access to the Woman's Exponent when my mother was a Relief Society president. —Mrs. Arthur Eskelsen Midvale, Utah I have been sent to the hospital so much, and when I would come out they would send me to a different place. I am a shut-in, seventy-eight years old, and I haven't walked a step alone for seven years. I have a cane, and a nurse has to hold me while I move my limbs. I love the Magazine to read to keep my mind off the rain clouds and the war clouds. I have taken the Magazine every year but one since 1921. I feel like I ought to take the Magazine, because my father's aunt, Jane Snyder Richards, years ago, was an officer in Relief Society. I have been in her house a lot of times. —Laura M. Atwood St. Helens, Oregon I enjoy the poetry and stories in the Magazine very much, as well as everything else.... I don't know of another place we could get literature that would compare with it. I always especially enjoy the "From Near and Far" and "Notes From the Field" departments. I watch them closely to see if any of my old friends from the "Y" might be there. —Peggy J. Hardin Kermit, Texas I enjoy our Magazine very much. I have a friend I let read my Magazine, and now she attends Relief Society. I love to visit and talk with women of the Church about our wonderful Magazine. —Fannie Christensen Ucon, Idaho The Magazine has been a great help to me in presiding over the Relief Society of our ward. It has given me subject material for talks, as well as many entertaining moments in reading stories, poetry, and recipes. —Afton C. Hill Idaho Falls, Idaho 4 I received the letter and check for my poem ("The Pumpkin Pie Glorified," November 1954). I think every woman should have the experience of writing a poem and having it published. It lifts her out of the routine of her days. My husband and my one remaining son at home had a very respectful gleam in their eyes when I showed them the check. For the first time in months they didn't seem to associate me with the pots and pans. Yesterday in Relief Society the women were just as pleased and proud as if I had done each of them a personal favor.... I have been surprised at the thoughtfulness expressed by so many, even by mail and phone, over that one poem. It just goes to show how kind most people really are. —Bertha F. Cozzens Powell, Wyoming I think The Relief Society Magazine is the most uplifting woman's magazine published today, because it does not print material of a questionable nature. The articles written by Elsie Carroll, my very dear friend, on the First Ladies (series published in 1953-54) are in themselves worth a year's subscription, Also I appreciate the lovely verse published from month to month. I was especially impressed with the poem ''Poetry" by Mary Gustafson (November 1954). It illustrates the theme perfectly — truly it is poetry, not just verse. I also like the serial "Contentment Is a Lovely Thing," by Dorothy S. Romney. The Magazine editorials are also very pertinent and fine. They are usually the first pages to which I turn. —Gene Romolo Provo, Utah There is no Relief Society here, but I wish to keep up with the lessons, Although we move around, The Relief Society Magazine helps to keep us in touch with the Church, to guide and inspire us. The family enjoys the lovely stories. We read them aloud in the evenings. Even the teenage boys enjoy them. —Mrs. Viola F. John Dove Creek, Colorado Page 1 RE THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Marianne C. Sharp; President Belle S. Spafford; Counselor Velma N. Simonsen; Blanche B. Stoddard; Edith P. Backman; Elna P. Haymond; Edith S. Elliott. Back row, left to right: Leone O. Jacobs; Alberta H. Christensen; Louise W. Madsen; Charlotte A. Larsen; Evon W. Peterson; Leone G. Layton; Helen W. Anderson; Mildred B. Eyring; Anna B. Hart; Florence J. Madsen; Christine H. Robinson. Mary G. Judd and Winniefred $. Manwaring were not present when this picture was taken. Front row, left to right: Gladys S. Boyer; Aleine M. Young; Josie B. Bay; General Secretary-Treasurer Margaret C. Pickering; Counselor Greetings for the New Year HE general board of Relief Society extends our love and the season's greetings to our beloved sisters throughout the world. May the year 1955 be marked in the lives of all of us by advancement in the understanding of our purpose here upon the earth and in our righteously fulfilling that purpose. In this New Year may all of us overcome weaknesses and develop additional virtues, and may we continue to be a comfort and a guide to each other. May our Father in heaven richly bless us in our homes and in our labors in his kingdom. May the burdens that come to each be borne cheerfully, the trials met bravely, and the temptations overcome triumphantly. May peace dwell in the hearts and homes of all mankind everywhere. The Cover: "Snow People," Mount Spokane, Washington, Photograph by C. W. Tramm. Relief Society Women As Home Missionaries Elder Mark E. Petersen Of the Council of the Twelve [Address Delivered at the Annual General Relief Society Conference, September 29, 1954] tion to see this building so well filled with stake officers of the Relief Society. It is a great privilege to meet with you. It is very inspiring to observe the great work that you do, and we express sincere appreciation to you for your very effective efforts. This afternoon, I would like to talk with you about missionary work. I would like to mention three different phases of missionary work. But before doing so, I would like to read to you from a_ bulletin which was issued by the First Presidency in 1952 on the stake missions, giving reference therein to the cooperation expected by the First Presidency on the part of the auxiliary organizations of the Church. In the paragraph or two devoted to this subject, the First Presidency say this: SS iat it is a great inspiraThe stake and ward auxiliaries, with their enlistment committees and other facilities, should lend the fullest possible assistance and cooperation in aiding the stake missionary program. They should gather information on investigators and others who might be interested, and cause such information to be transmitted to the mission presidency. They should, wherever possible, adapt classes to meet the needs of investigators and new converts. Stake presidencies will arrange for a proper correlation of the auxiliary organizations with the stake mission. Now, the first phase of my discusPage 4 sion has to do with the stake missions. Our stake missions are doing a tremendous work. They are bringing into the fold thousands of men and women, and boys and girls who live within the stakes. 'They are your neighbors and mine. 'These stake missionaries, as they go out among the people, have a definite program to follow. 'They are using the uniform missionary plan which is being used in the foreign missions as well as in the stake missions. 'They go into the homes, and, in an orderly manner, give lessons by which they take up various principles of the gospel so that the people can readily understand those principles. We expect that in the ordinary proselyting work, the first contacts with non-members usually will be made by the missionaries. Of course, as members of the Church, you and I should be missionaries and be willing to preach the gospel or explain about the Church to anyone who seems interested at any time. But I mean to say on a proselyting basis, as we go from house to house performing missionary work, the original, the initial contacts are generally made by the stake missionaries, who will begin to give the lessons outlined in a manual to the interested families. Now, after the missionaries have brought the family up to a certain point of interest where they believe it would be profitable and helpful, they may well notify you as Relief Society officers so that you may send your teachers or other representatives to these investigating families, inviting them to come out to your Relief Society meetings. We do not ask that you as Relief Society workers, go from house to house proselyting, but of course you could invite your non-member neighbors to go with you to your meetings. We ask that you carry on your usual Relief Society work. But when the time comes that the missionaries have developed sufficient interest in an investigator to make it profitable for that investigator to be invited to your socials, to your class work, your lesson work, or to participate in some other way, we would be grateful if you would then step in, as Relief Society workers, and help them to become interested in Relief Society work. WE would be glad if you would talk Relief Society, so that these women can become acquainted with and interested in the Relief Society program. The missionaries will take care of the proselyting part of it, so far as teaching the principles of the gospel is concerned. But we would like, so very much, to have the women who are investigating, even before their baptism, invited to come to our: Relief Society organizations, and those invitations could well be given by your visiting teachers. But I would always plan to make those visits in harmony with the plan of the stake missionaries themselves, so that there will be no conflicting visits or conflicting program of any kind. We hope that you will be neighborly and friendly with these investigating ladies. We in the Church organizations have a great responsibility to new converts who have been brought into the Church. 'The tendency in some areas is for the missionaries to bring them into the Church through baptism, and then leave them hoping that the other organizations will "pick them up" and carry on with them. However, too many of the organizations do not "pick them up." 'Too many of these converts become forgotten men and women. This we must change. We must encourage our auxiliaries and our Priesthood groups to become interested in these new converts immediately, and assist them to become integrated into the Church, as well-established, active members. Above all, we hope that the Relief Society sisters will do all they can to help the members of the Church live exemplary lives so that there will be no violations to tear down what the missionaries are trying to do. One of the big hurdles we have to meet in stake missionary work is the inactivity and the disobedience of persons who are members of the Church who are not keeping the commandments. Now, under assignment from the bishop, the stake missionaries may also call on part-member families. Some people have spoken of them as split families, but we do not like that designation—part-member families is the way we speak of them. Now, if the wife is the non-member in a part-member family, we would like to suggest to you that you approach her in the same way as I have described for a total nonmember family because, of course, RELIEF SOCIETY WOMEN AS HOME MISSIONARIES 5 6 she is still a non-member of the Church. However, if, in a part-member family, the wife is a member of the Church, certainly she should be treated as a member and encouraged and warmed in every way you can. And that leads me up to my next point. We hope that we may have full co-operation from the Relief Society in connection with our Senior Aaronic Priesthood activity, which is a definite missionary program. We find that many people are inactive in the Church because they are not converted to it—they do not understand it. Some are inactive because they feel a little bit left out, some say that they have actually been frozen out in some wards where they have lived. We would like to build up in the minds of the wives of Senior Aaronic Priesthood members a definite sense of belonging. We would like for you to treat them as sisters and labor with them and encourage them to come out as far as you are able to do so. ND I believe that one of the most effective ways by which you may accomplish missionary work in regard to these Senior Aaronic Priesthood families is that you take into their homes some definite recommendations and plans encouraging them to observe the Family Hour. I don't know of any way by which you may bring the spirit of the gospel more readily into the home of a Senior Aaronic Priesthood member than to help the wife institute the Family Hour in that home. Especially is this effective where the children are small. As the wife and mother makes the plans for these Family RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1955 Hours and the children participate, it will not be long until the warmth of the spirit will penetrate to the heart of the man of the house, and he will be able, then, to understand the spirit of our program far more readily. I believe that the Family Hour program likewise will be very effective in a_part-member family where the wife is the member of the Church. 'The same penetration of the spirit of God will be seen in the heart of the non-member man when his children and his wife participate in a Family Hour program such as that. Then, of course, we hope that you will continue to urge observance of family prayer in each of those homes because, as the wives and mothers and the children pray, they will have a great effect upon the men who live there, whether they are cooledoff Senior Aaronic Priesthood members or not even members of the Church at all. That is missionary work. That is right in the line of Relief Society work. After all, we are all missionaries. The worth of souls is great, and each one of us is called to cry repentance and save as many as we can for the work of the Lord. Now my next point is this—I believe there is no greater mission field than your own homes. I believe there are no more precious souls to save than the members of your own family. Satan is making a great attack upon us these days. He seems to sense that his time is short, and he is doing all within his power to destroy that faith which we try to establish in the home. We encourage every Latter-day Saint, every woman especially, to exert all the power you have to bring conversion into your own homes. Now, if you will examine carefully the attack that is being made by the powers of Satan, you will see that those attacks are more and more assaults upon virtue. It is almost frightening when you pick up magazines and newspapers and when you go to movies and when you see the billboards and you hear the radio programs to note that everything is tainted with this attack upon virtue—just about everything. Now, we must meet that. I believe the first line of defense for virtue is modesty—modesty in dress— and my appeal on this point to you sisters is to remember that you are trying to save souls. 'That is your responsibility. Will you remember that your first responsibility in regard to salvation is to those of your own family, and that you must do all you can to save the members of your family? Will you, as the sisters of the Relief Society, be willing to use this first line of defense for virtue as a means of preserving the very soul's salvation of your daughters and your sons, and will you, the sisters, take a leading part in it? Will you set the example? WE have had some difficulty with mothers on this matter of modesty. Where the M. I. A., for instance, has been trying to get the young ladies to avoid wearing strapless gowns, usually the girls have been willing to comply. We have had our difficulty with the mothers of those girls who insist on putting strapless gowns on their daughters. Will you sisters clothe your own selves in modesty, and then will you clothe your daughters in modesty? I have often wondered what went on in the mind of a girl when she has observed her mother in some of these sun-suits and other immodest things that mothers ought to know better than to wear. What does that do to the values of virtue and chastity in the mind of the girl? And I have often wondered what goes on in the minds of the sons of those women—sons who are just emerging into that age when they begin to take notice of the opposite sex. Now, this is not a matter of fashion. Good taste and modesty are always in fashion—always. As for the men, and I believe that I can speak for the men, I don't believe there is a man living who respects a woman for exposing herself, not even the evil men whose interests are strictly predatory. If you want to save your daughters, teach them modesty in dress, and if you want to save your sons, teach them a proper understanding of modesty and of virtue so that they, in turn, will appreciate true womanhood when they meet it. There is no salvation in immodesty. Salvation rests upon the foundation stones of virtue. No unclean thing can come into the presence of God. The worth of souls is great in the sight of God. Do you remember what The Book of Mormon says, "I, the Lord God, delight in the chastity of women" (Jacob 2:28)? Will you be good missionaries in all phases of your activity, and will you uphold the standards that make for salvation? 'That is my prayer for all of you, in the name of the Lord, Jesus Christ. Amen. RELIEF SOCIETY WOMEN AS HOME MISSIONARIES 7 Award Winners Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest THE Relief Society general board is pleased to announce the names of the three winners in the 1954 Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest. This contest was announced in the June 1954 issue of the Magazine, and closed September 15, 1954. The first prize of twenty-five dollars is awarded to Eva Willes Wangsgaard, Ogden, Utah, for her poem "Three Scenes in Oil." The second prize of twenty dollars is awarded to Caroline Eyring Miner, Sandy, Utah, for her poem "My Peace." The third prize of fifteen dollars is awarded to Hortense Richardson, Salt Lake City, for her poem "Dedication." This poem contest has been conducted annually by the Relief Society general board since 1924, in honor of Eliza R. Snow, second general president of Relief Society, a gifted poet and beloved leader. The contest is open to all Latterday Saint women, and is designed to encourage poetry writing, and to increase appreciation for creative writing and the beauty and value of poetry. Prize-winning poems are the property of the Relief Society general board, and may not be used for publication by others except upon written permission of the general board. The general board also reserves the right to publish any of the poems submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rate. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years Page 8 before she is again eligible to enter the contest. There were one hundred thirtyseven poems submitted in this year's contest. Many of the poems revealed a discriminating choice of subject material and a careful use of poetic technique. Twenty-two states were represented in the contest entries, the largest number of submissions came, in the following order, from Utah, Idaho, California, Arizona, Oregon, Wyoming, Washington, Indiana, and Nebraska. Five entries were received from Canada and two from England. The winner of the first prize this year, Eva Willes Wangsgaard, was awarded first prize in 1942, 1946, and 1953, and second prize in 1939 and 1947. Caroline Eyring Miner, winner of the second prize this year, was awarded the second prize in 1950, and the third prize in 1945 and 1946. Mrs, Hortense Richardson is a first-time winner in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest. The general board congratulates the prize winners and expresses appreciation to all entrants for their interest in the contest. The general board wishes, also, to thank the judges for their care and diligence in selecting the prize-winning poems. 'The services of the poetry committee of the general board are very much appreciated. The prize-winning poems, together with photographs and_ biographical sketches of the prize-winning contestants, are published herewith. i: 4 |: oy EVA WILLES WANGSGAARD Prize - Winning Poems Eliza Roxey Snow Mlemorial Poem Contest First Prize Poem Three Scenes in Onl Eva Willes Wangsgaard J—WInTER AND CHILDHOOD She knew this canvas well where rushes grew In rank profusion down a marshy stream. No ripple marred the surface of the slough, Yet shape of wind was everywhere the theme Caught in a bronze-white January world. Tall reeds bent, wind-cupped, over shrunken snow And, while the sails of storm were tightly furled, She felt its lashes ready to let go, Yet stood waist-deep in summer reeds instead, Heard killdee calls and blackbirds' loud alarms. All love was lamplight and a path that led To mother's kiss and father's playful arms, Remembered voices bringing childhood near— But loneliness had marked her even here. Page 9 10 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1955 II—May anp Love She mused a long time, staring at a wall, And suddenly the painting hanging there Was not a scene in oil. 'The aspens' tall White limbs shook spangles down the waiting air And lightbirds chased thin shadows over grass Where daisy-yellow nudged delphinium-blue— 'Live gold too warm to let the sunbeams pass, Too radiant to let the shadows through. The snowflakes on her windowpane grew warm And melted into springtime. Jim walked in, Bringing the gay lost years. All thought of storm And loneliness grew pale and snowflake-thin. They melted into patterned mist where May Held time farever in one love-filled day. Il1J—OctrosBer AND SUMMER MEMORIES She hugged its warmth and watched lost years go by Down love-warmed pathways of another scene. Here bright October blued the hills, the sky, And shaggy meadows wore a golden sheen. Behind the willow shrubs, just out of sight, Jim's shovel caught peace signals from the moon. And now, as then, his task would be made light Because she waited. He'd be coming soon. She felt his joy embrace her as he came Warming the room and pushing shadows back. She heard his silenced lips caress her name, And life held neither loneliness nor lack, But living years caught by three artists' brushes In aspens, golden grass, and river rushes. CAROLINE EYRING MINER Second Prize Poem My Peace Caroline Eyring Miner "My peace I leave with you"... In quiet way Of soft-voiced water lapping at the shore; In whisper of a scented breeze at play With silvery mist the magic time before The sun floods heaven and earth with morning gold; In softness of late shadows tucked in hills Like purple velvet laid in gentle fold; In these my peace. I understand. It spills Like perfume over me. His peace I know, His love. He found it in blue Galilee, On Mount, and in Gethsemane. No foe Can overcome if I have eyes to see And heart to understand this earth so fair Where beauty ever breathes a solemn prayer. Page 11 Page 12 HORTENSE RICHARDSON Third Prize Poem Dedication Hortense Richardson Grant me this—that I may always be Humble and prayerful unto thee, That I may guide these little tots of mine In ways of truth.... I do not pine For worldly goods, or fortune's kiss Endowing me with power... Only this, That I may serve another in his need, And know contentment... And sow the seed Of happiness into a world grown sad, Giving of myself to make another glad. Only this... That perhaps through me, A portion of the world returns to thee. Biographical Sketches of Award Winners in the Gliza R. Snow Poem Contest Eva Willes Wangsgaard was born in Lehi, Utah. She attended the University of Utah and became a schoolteacher in her home town. She married David Wangsgaard, who had been her teacher in high school, and who later became Superintendent of Ogden City Schools. He died in 1946, the day after their oldest son returned from Japan at the close of World War II. There are three children, all living in Cache Valley. Mrs. Wangsgaard took postgraduate work at the University of Utah and Utah State Agricultural College after her third child was born and taught in Ogden City schools for ten years. She did no writing of poetry until after her fortieth birthday. Her first book, Singing Hearts, was published within fifteen months of the writing of her first poem. She learned to type and studied technique diligently. Her publications have kept a regular pattern, with three other books: Down This Road, After the Blossoming, and Within the Root. She has published hundreds of poems in newspapers and magazines and has won numerous national and local contests. In 1943 she was guest of honor for a week at Huckleberry Mountain Writer's Colony in North Carolina; in 1948 she was invited to Norfolk, Virginia, to give a poetry program in the Civic Hall; in 1954 she was invited to Corpus Christi, Texas, to be a member of the staff of the Southwest Writers' Conference, where she acted as poetry critic. Caroline Evring Miner, a gifted and versatile writer, has won three previous awards in the Eliza R. Snow Contest, in 1945, 1946, and 1950. Most of her writing has been done for Church publications and Church organizations. Many of her essays have appeared in The Relief Society Magazine. "TI am grateful for the Church and for Relief Society," Mrs. Miner tells us. "'Because of the Ehza R. Snow Poem Contest, I am challenged to write a little in the midst of a very busy life, when I might otherwise not do so. I have written several hundred articles, poems, and stories. Most of my writing time now goes into M. LA. Work, as I am a member of the general board of that organization. 'We are very rich,' 'as my little daughter says. Our jewels are our eight children. Our oldest daughter is married and has a little daughter of her own. Our oldest son left recently for a mission in Argentina. My husband Glen D., is a statistician with the Employment Security, and I teach school in Salt Lake City. We live on a dairy farm near Sandy, Utah." Hortense Richardson, Salt Lake City, Utah, is an author currently being introduced to readers of The Relief Society Magazine with her prize-winning poem "Dedication." Her responsibilities and her interests are many and varied. "TI seriously started writing poetry in 1941," she says, "and won the prize in The Deseret News Christmas Poem Contest in 1945. Some of my poems have been included in anthologies. I conducted a weekly poetry program over Radio Station KOPP in Ogden in 1949 and part of 1950. A friend played the piano accompaniment, and another assisted with the poetry. Many of my own poems and poems of other local writers were presented on this program. One of my poems has been published in The Improvement Era. My husband and I recently celebrated our twentieth wedding anniversary. We have eight children, five girls and three boys, from three to nineteen years of age. Some of my other interests are: oil painting, dramatics (ward and stake leader), sewing (fortunately, with my family), ceramics, and studying television arts and production. I am_ thirtysix (or doesn't a woman tell her age?). I have been the literature class leader in the Burton Ward Relief Society for over a year, and am now switching over to work meeting leader." Page 13 Riven (Unritiners Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest THe Relief Society general board is pleased to announce the award winners in the Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest which was announced in the June 1954 issue of the Magazine, and which closed September 15, 1954. The first prize of fifty dollars is awarded to Alice Morrey Bailey, Salt Lake City, Utah, for her story "Wallflower." The second prize of forty dollars is awarded to Mabel Harmer, Salt Lake City, for her story "A Home for Holly." The third prize of thirty dollars is awarded to Leola S. Anderson, San Bernardino, California, for her story "Survival Under Protest." Mrs. Bailey was awarded first prize in the Relief Society Short Story Contest in 1942 and 1948, and second place in 1946. Mrs. Harmer received the first prize in 1952, second prize in 1953, and third prize in 1944. Mrs. Anderson is a first-time winner in the Relief Society Short Story Contest. This contest, first conducted by the Relief Society general board in 1941, as a feature of the Relief Society centennial observance, was made an annual contest in 1942. The contest is open only to Latterday Saint women who have had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication by a periodical of recognized merit. The three prize-winning stories will be published consecutively in the first three issues of The Relief Society Magazine for 1955. Page 14 Forty-one stories were entered in the contest for 1954. Most of these stories were well organized and unusually well written, with careful consideration being given to character representation and development. The contest was initiated to encourage Latter-day Saint women to express themselves in the field of fiction. The general board feels that the response to this opportunity continues to increase the literary quality of The Relief Society Magazine, and will aid the women of the Church in the development of their gifts in creative writing. Prize-winning stories are the property of the Relief Society general board, and may not be used for publication by others except on written permission from the general board. The general board also reserves the right to publish any of the stories submitted in the contest; paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rate. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. The general board congratulates the prize-winning contestants, and expresses appreciation for all those who submitted stories. Sincere gratitude is extended to the judges for their discernment and skill in selecting the prize-winning stories. The general board also acknowl edges, with appreciation, the work of the short story committee in supervising the contest. Sirst Prize - Winning S. Tory Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest Wallflower Alice Morrey Bailey ALICE MORREY BAILEY face had frozen in a. Stiff smile as her last girl friend was chosen to dance, and she was left on the long, bare bench of the amusement hall by herself. She could not control a swift glance over near the entrance where there were a few boys looking out across the dance floor with the supreme indifference that only boys can achieve; nor could she control the fervent wish that once, just once, one of them would come and ask her to dance. The saxophone wailed and the M ice Ellen felt as though her floor rocked slightly with the thythm of the dancers whirling past. There were laughter and gay snatches of chatter, and bright colors mingled in a dizzying spectograph. Mary Ellen, watching them, felt wretchedly conspicuous and hurtingly alone. Why was she left out? It wasn't "'see your dentist" —not with her own father a dentist, and taking mighty good care of her teeth. It wasn't her clothes. Her mother had very carefully bought her the right brands when Mary Ellen had explained the importance of it. The dance seemed interminable. Mary Ellen caught herself slumping, 'the lines of her mouth drooping, and brought herself up short, pretending absorbing interest in the couples, leaning out to watch them, turning the corners of her mouth up in pleasant approval. It would never do for envy to show on her face, black as it was in her heart. What more could you do? You bathed until you were raw, you shampooed your hair until it felt like nylon, and you ate this and didn't eat that, and still you didn't dance. It was a phase, Mother said, but she thought everything was a phase. At last the set was ended and they were coming back to their seats. "I've had five dances," Geneva Anne was saying, and a quick Page 15 16 chorus chimed in: "I've had four"— "I've had six"— and "I've danced every dance." 'That was Belva Jean, and it was no wonder. Her father was there, and two older brothers, all of whom seemed to love dancing with Belva Jean. Mary Ellen said nothing. It was good to slip inconspicuously into the crowd, as if she, too, had just come off the dance floor. The music was starting up with tingling interest. Mingled hope and dread built up with it, intensified every time one of the boys started across the floor toward the girls. Sometimes it seemed to Mary Ellen as if one was coming straight toward her. Jerry Farley was now, and it looked as if—Mary Ellen's heart began a slow pounding. "Oh! No!" Geneva Anne was wailing. "Hide me! Jerry's a full head shorter than I am." MAY Ellen's eyes flew to him. He was a full head shorter than she, too, but she would have danced with him gratefully. He lived around the corner, and Mary Ellen sometimes played rounders and kick-the-can in his bunch. He was snub-nosed, and looked quite different with his hair slicked down, his suit nicely pressed. He must be past fourteen. Geneva Anne had guessed right, but she regarded him with round, china-blue eyes and shook her head. "Sorry, Jerry, but I have this dance." Jerry knew she wasn't telling the truth, and he stood his ground. "Who with?" he demanded. Geneva Anne was lucky. She was looking wildly around when Flip Nelson came up. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1955 "May I have this dance, Geneva Anne?" "Yes, this is our dance, Flip," Geneva said, trying to pass it off that way, but Jerry was not fooled. His face got red with anger and embarrassment. Mary Ellen felt so sorry for him she wanted to cry. She took a step toward him and said: "I'll dance with you, Jerry." But Jerry didn't look her way, only stumbled over his feet getting away. All the girls were looking at Mary Ellen. Somebody giggled, and she wished the floor would open to swallow her shame. The enormity of it overwhelmed her. She had asked a boy to dance! And he had refused her! Cold and sick with misery, she backed to a seat and sat down, waves of mortification drenching her. One by one the girls were chosen to dance until she was sitting alone once more. Mary Ellen had meant to stay until the very last dance, and now she wanted to stay more than ever, to show that none of it mattered— Jerry, or not dancing, or the quick and unfortunate impulse—but now she couldn't bear another minute. If she tried once more to lift her head and smile she was going to cry. There was a startled look in Jerty's eyes as she went past him to get her coat, and she wondered what the girls would think, laugh and say she was dumb, probably. The sobs were forming deep within her. It didn't help to remember Johnny Ray singing "When Your Heart Aches. If only Mother and Daddy had gone to bed—but they hadn't. She made one last, desperate effort at WALLFLOWER composure when they looked up in surprise at her coming home so early, and alone. It had been arranged for Daddy to pick her up at 10:30. "How was the dance, baby?" her father asked. "Fine! Just fine!'" Mary Ellen said brightly, but her voice came out high and brittle. "What's the matter, dear?" Mother asked. "What went wrong?" "Nothing! Everything was just..." she began, but in her mind Johnny Ray was singing "Let Your Hair Down and Cry," and she did. "... Was just horrible," she flung back over her shoulder, as she raced to throw herself on her bed. Her mother followed and tried to talk through her anguish, asking questions until she had pieced out most of the story, even the part about asking Jerry to dance. "T don't think that was shameful, Mary Ellen," her mother said. "I think it was a generous impulse that came straight from a kind heart." "Kind hearts aren't popular any more, Mother. You just don't understand." "I understand more than you think, dear. I've been through all this myself, when I was your age." "Things were different then." "No, this is just a phase." "Oh!" groaned Mary Ellen, unable to bear more, and broke into fresh sobbing. "Tll never go to another dance. Never, in my whole life," she said wretchedly. "Not even the Teen Gold and Green?" Mary Ellen hesitated. 'The Teen 17 Gold and Green was the high point of the year, but she had driven her stakes. "No," she said. S the days wore on, though, and the girls talked of the coming dance, Mary Ellen thought wistfully and sadly of it. In unguarded moments she wanted to go, but she had only to think of the last dance to change her mind. "Mother, would it be all right if I go to a show on that night?" "Which night, darling?" "The night of the Gold and Green?" "T don't know. Ill think about it," her mother answered absently. That had always meant consent before, but somehow Mary Ellen felt vaguely disappointed. It was almost as if she had asked, instead: ""Mother, is there the least little hope that I will go to the Gold and Green?" and her mother had said "No." It didn't help matters to talk to Jerry. He was wheeling past on his bike, but he pulled up short when he saw her. "Hi, Mary Ellen." "Hi, Jerry." "You going to the dance?" "T don't think so," Mary Ellen told him. "Gee whiz! I'm going." "Are you, Jerry?" "You bet! I'm going to be the best dancer around. And when I am, I'm not going to dance with Geneva Anne—ever." With that he cut a figure eight on his bicycle and rode off. He hadn't said a word about her asking him to dance, but Mary Ellen felt as if he had made a kind of apology. You ought to go. 18 Anyhow, he had been friendly, as if the terrible thing had never happened, so he must not absolutely despise her. Maybe it was a phase, as Mother said, and if you didn't keep going and keep trying, you never would dance. Mary Ellen began to be sorry she had said she wouldn't go, but it was too late now. Besides, she didn't have anything to wear. All the other girls were getting their first formals. It made her feel like an orphan. Maybe she was an orphan, and Richard and Mildred Field were not her parents at all. She could almost hear them talking in some dim past. "Look, Milly. Someone has left a baby on our doorstep." "Oh, how awful! Whatever shall we do with it?" "T don't know. Maybe we should keep it. Somebody has to take care of the poor little unwanted thing." Perhaps she was an orphan, a sort of stepchild. It might explain certain things—lack of understanding of her problems—lack of interest, like her mother looking directly at her while she related the craziest, most hilarious goings-on at school, and then not laughing, but saying instead something like, "Did you remember to buy bread at the grocery store?" Anyone could tell Belva Jean's parents were real, her father dancing with her, her mother making her brothers dance with her. MARY Ellen was even more sorry she had taken such a definite stand when her father brought her the silver sandals and the taffeta dress. It was her first real date dress—pink, ballerina length, scalloped at neck and hem, with rhineRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1955 stones dotted here and there like shimmering drops of dew on rose petals. Rhinestones crusted the straps of the silver sandals, and the little silver handbag which was tucked in the folds of the dress. It took the utmost self-control for Mary Ellen to keep from shouting, screaming, or swooning at their beauty. She reached toward them, but drew back. If she so much as touched a little finger to them, all her defenses would crumble, and she would go to the dance. It would be twenty times as horrible to sit on an empty bench wearing these, for then she could no longer pretend she had just dropped in to look at the dancers, or that she was only casually interested. The girls' remarks took place in her imagination. "Look at Mary Ellen—all dressed up and no place to go." "Poor thing! She must have had some fantastic notion someone would ask her to dance." "How fantastic!" "How utterly fan.... Mary Ellen sensed, rather than saw her father's face in an agony of waiting. She drew a deep breath and recovered her composure. "Daddy, it is very exquisite, the most exquisite I have ever seen." Still he was waiting, so she floundered, "Of course they aren't exactly what I would have bought for myself. Still, I would wear them, if I were going to the dance...." It was then her father's face fell, but her mother's cool voice cut in over her head. "Tm sure we can return them, Rich, and no harm done. Mary EI len doesn't want to go to the dance, and I don't blame her one bit." " WALLFLOWER ARY Ellen caught her breath. She had been braced for argument if anyone tried to make her go, but she hadn't meant to go that far—to return the beautiful clothes. Mothers should better understand the desires of a daughter's heart. No doubt true mothers did. "Swing around, swing around...' Daddy sang suddenly, turning up the radio and starting to dance. "Come on, Millie." He grabbed Mary Ellen's mother and danced her around the living room. Mother laughed and _protested, and finally disengaged herself. "Such goings on, and me with supper to get," she said. There was no doubt that Mary Ellen's mother was not very perceptive. Couldn't she tell that the music was beating up in Daddy just as it was in her? Poor Daddy! You could tell he loved to dance. He must have been quite handsome before he got so old. It was hard to tell what a man_ thirty-five had looked like at sixteen. It would be just terrible to get so old and still be interested in dancing when his wife had lost all interest. "Come on, chickadee. Let's cut a little rug," he said to Mary Ellen. "T get lonesome to dance." Mary Ellen felt a little funny— both reluctant and proud that he had asked her. They danced a little way and then her father stopped. "See here, babe, you dance with your body, not just your feet. Relax, now.' Mary Ellen relaxed and tried it the way he showed her. They tried it over and over, and the feel of it came to her. It was such fun! She 19 could have danced with Daddy all night. "Tm not so rusty as I thouzht," he bragged at dinner. "Don't you think we ought to spruce up and go to dances again, Millie?" He looked hopefully at Mother, but she was slicing more bread for the table and didn't answer. Mary Ellen felt real sorry for him. While she was wiping dishes she tried to do something about it. "Daddy really likes to dance, doesn't he, Mother," she said in a hinting sort of way. "Oh, yes," agreed mother heartily. "He was the best dancer in our crowd when we were young; he's really disappointed you aren't going to the Teen Gold and Green. That's one of the reasons he sacrificed to get you the new dress and slippers. He was hoping | you would ask him to go with you.' "He was?" Mary Ellen exclaimed. This was falling out better than she expected. Mother would be easy to manage. "He must be real disappointed. Mother, why don't you go with him?" "T would, darling, if you were going, but surely you can see we couldn't go unless you did. Your friends would think us characters." "T guess so," admitted Mary EIlen, feeling very deflated and selfish. She thought about it all through the knives and forks. "Mother," she finally said, "if Daddy can sacrifice to buy me a dress, I guess I could sacrifice so he could go to the dance." "Why, Mary Ellen! How thoughtful of you, dear. You don't need to go that far, though." "T don't mind, really," said Mary 20 Ellen, trying to speak coolly through the excitement that began to shiver along her veins. HEN the big night came, she could bear to go into the dance hall in her new clothes with Daddy and Mother. She looked quickly to verify that other girls' fathers were there. Belva Jean's mother was sitting on the side bench, and Mother went directly to her. Of course, some of the girls had dates, but not many, and you couldn't say actually that Mary Ellen was unescorted, not with both Mother and Daddy there. Daddy did look distinguished, compared to the other fathers, most of them beginning to go bald. He was already looking at the dance floor, his dark eyes shining. "How about it, Mildred? To dance?" he asked Mother. "No, you go on. My feet hurt." Like The orchestra struck up one of the very tunes they had practiced, and he held out his arms for Mary Ellen. She shrank back. "Oh, no! Not the first couple on the floor, Daddy." "Why not? Come on, let's show them how it's done." With the feeling of diving off the high board, Mary Ellen went, and after the first few stiff seconds, she relaxed and didn't care who saw them. She noticed with satisfaction that some eyes were following them. They danced and danced again. It was after the Bunny Hop that her father asked if she would mind sitting this one out. Perspiration was running down his face, and he RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1955 looked tired, sort of. Mother and Belva Jean's mother were talking when they came up, and didn't see them. "You have to play the wallflower, too, I see—act as if you don't care to dance, and all that," Belva Jean's mother was saying. "My feet hurt," weakly. Began Mother "You can't fool me," Belva Jean's mother laughed. "The touchy little things have to be managed pretty cleverly." Mary Ellen turned sick to her toes. She wasn't so dumb that she couldn't understand. Instead of managing her mother, she had been managed into coming to the dance —and very cleverly, too. The pieces clicked into place—her father's perspiring face, her mother's excuses and withdrawals—pushing her gently forward to practice the other night, to dance tonight—but somehow the whole picture made her heart swell with humble gratitude. Only real parents would care so much; only a real mother would understand the desires of her daughter's heart. Mary Ellen felt a little pushing in her mind, as if of growth. Suddenly she didn't care at all that she had been tricked, especially since Jerry was coming across the floor toward her, his hair sleek and shining, his snub-nosed face clean scrubbed. This time she knew without a doubt that he was coming for her. She flashed her parents a misty smile as she followed him onto the dance floor. Alice Morrey Bailey, Salt Lake City, Utah, has achieved recognition in many artistic endeavors, including music, composing, sculpture, and art. She is now studying marble carving under Dr. Avard Fairbanks at the University of Utah. She has won prizes and awards in playwriting, fiction, articles, and poetry. Readers of The Relief Society Magazine are familiar with her poems, short stories, and serials. Her story "The Wilderness" placed first in the 1941 Relief Society Short Story Contest, and "The Ring of Strength" placed second in 1945. In the 1948 Relief Society contests, Mrs. Bailey was awarded first prize in the short story and second prize in poetry. Her poem "Lot's Wife' won first prize in the Fhiza R. Snow Poem Contest in 1951. Ter serial "The Deeper Melody" appeared in the Magazine in 1953-54. Mrs. Bailey's poems have been published in many anthologies, and in many magazines and newspapers of national circulation. Since girlhood, Mrs. Bailey has been active in Church work. She is at present drama director in Whittier Ward, Salt Lake City. Alice and her husband DeWitt Bailey are the parents of three children and they have three grandchildren. Mrs. Bailey is a member of the Utah Sonneteers, the League of Utah Wniters, the Associated Utah Artists, and at present is acting as compositor of technical reports, University of Utah, Salt Lake City. Winter Song Thelma ]. Lund A wind-ruffled sparrow on a brittle bough Sings to a world of snow-bent reaches now; And when his chill, staccato song is spent, The solitude will echo his brief lament. ——- Let Mle Shen Answer Frances C. Yost He answered promptly when the call first came. He lit his lamp and went unto Eh. The call heard twice, and then a third the same, And every time young Samuel made reply. At first, he thought the call from earthly spheres, Yet did not falter, did not find excuse. With reverence he spoke, "Thy servant hears." Even today this prophet's words effuse. When there is hunger on my village street; When I see tears or sense a lonely waif; When little ones pass by with faltering feet; And even older people find the world unsafe; When God needs help, in keeping their faith high; Let me then answer, "Master, here am I!" Page 21 Faith and Prayer and Johnnie Morton Maryhale Woolsey T seemed to Johnnie that SaturI day morning, that breakfast was an awfully long time and that food was harder to swallow than he'd have ever thought it could be. It was a good thing, he thought, that Grandma was pretty busy with the waffles and that Daddy's own gladness was so big he didn't pay much attention to Johnnie. Not really, even though he talked to him almost all the time, and Johnnie had to answer. Talk like... "Isn't it wonderful, Johnnie! 'This is the day we'll have Mommie home again, all safely getting well. Aren't we the happiest, luckiest people in town?" "We sure are!" Johnnie said, hoping his face looked really happy. Daddy's did; his blue eyes were all sparkle, his mouth all smile; and his shoulders had their swing-andsway look—as Mommie called it— as if they were secretly doing a dance to secret music. "We ought to have some flowers in the bedroom for her, don't you think?" Daddy went on. "Let's see —how about a pot of tulips? Real bright, gay pink ones—for a snowy February day—what do you think, Johnnie?" "Yeah, sure," Johnnie replied. "I 'spect Mommie'd like tulips better than anything." "Okay, then. Tulips it shall be. Rll omer them first thing this morning, and put both our names on the card—I mean, all three of our Page 22 names. Grandma's name should be on it, too." "Sure it should," said Johnnie. He managed a smile at Grandma, and hurried to take a big bite of waffle and honey while she was looking at him, so she wouldn't expect him to say more. Usually, Grandma seemed to think he talked too much. He didn't want her to wonder why he was so silent this morning! He almost wished it was a school day, so he'd be in a sort of a hurry and not have time to think about the troublesome thoughts.... And yet, he needed to think about them—or how would he ever get them settled in his mind? He thought again, taking a long slow drink of milk, of the words Daddy had said in his prayer at the beginning of breakfast: "... And we are grateful, Heavenly Father, for the great blessing you have bestowed upon us, in that our dear Mommie is safely recovering from her illness and is about to return home to us again. May we be worthy of this blessing and make her life fine and happy, which you have spared for our sakes. How could Daddy say, Johnnie thought again, that Heavenly Father had made Mommie well again? Mommie had had to go to the hospital and have an operation, and have all those doctors and nurses taking care of her for days and days? Heavenly Father had been asked first; at the very beginning, even when Mommie had been only a little bit sick, Daddy and Johnnie had prayed for Heavenly Father to make her well. Johnnie himself had prayed dozens of times—all by himself; in his room when he was supposed to be asleep, he had got out of bed and knelt and prayed over and over. "Please, Heavenly Father, make Mommie well. She has such a lot of work to do, taking care of Daddy—and me—especially me. She needs to be well and strong...." And later, when Mommie had got sicker instead of better, and sometimes in the nights her moaning would waken Johnnie, he — had prayed harder: "Please make Mommie get well, Heavenly Father! Please let this prayer be granted, 'cause it's the most important prayer I ever prayed. We need Mommie so awfully much, Heavenly Father! Please make her get well right away!" UT still Mommie had got worse and worse; and at last the doctor looked very worried and _ said that an operation was the only chance for her. So she had been taken to the hospital. Daddy and Grandma, who came to stay with them to look after Johnnie and the house and meals, and Johnnie with them, had continued to pray for Mommie to be made well. But in Johnnie's mind a doubt had come, and grown bigber and bigger: what was the use of keeping on asking Heavenly Father to do it, when it was the doctors and nurses who had to take care of her? If Heavenly Father had wanted to, he could have made Mommie well without all this fuss and worry! What good were faith and prayer, if after all you had to depend on the doctors and nurses and the hospital? NCE the thought had come, it brought up other times Johnnie had prayed, and thought his prayers answered—like when he prayed for a bike, and got it. But Daddy had bought it for him, and Johnnie knew how Daddy and Mommie had talked very seriously about it, because it wasn't easy to spare the money, just when Daddy had had to have a better car. Daddy had paid for everything Johnnie had got, that he'd wanted enough to pray for. And Peter Ellis had prayed for a bike like Johnnie's—but Peter didn't have a daddy at all, and Peter had not got a bike yet! A fine lot of good praying had done Peter! Johnnie had wanted to ask Daddy about it, but somehow he couldn't find words for asking. He'd heard grownups talk about how your faith had to be very strong, sometimes; maybe Johnnie Morton's faith wasn't very strong.... It might even be his fault that Heavenly Father hadn't been able to make Mommie well! It was a dreadful thought, that was. At the end of breakfast, while Daddy and Grandma talked plans, Johnnie put on his jacket and cap and boots and went outdoors to play. Or rather, to work; he'd shovel the snow off the walks, he decided. Mommie would like having them clear when she came home, and she'd be proud that Johnnie had done them by himself. The snowing had stopped, and there were light places in the clouds and even FAITH AND PRAYER AND JOHNNIE MORTON y | 24 one small patch of blue sky over by the mountains. Johnnie got his small push-shovel out of the garage and got busy. Daddy, coming out in his go-tooffice clothes, said, "Good boy, Johnnie! How's it go—hard work?" "No, it's easy," Johnnie answered. "It's not very deep, not even to the top of my boots. I could do twice this much!" Why, he'd be through in just a little while—and then what'd he do? The morning seemed suddenly long and longer, stretching away with emptiness. Daddy was smiling with a wise understanding look in his eyes. "Could you, now?" he asked. "Well. How'd you like to go down and do Mrs. Grimes' walks? I was intending to, but it will be clear into the afternoon before I can, and maybe she needs her paths this morning." Mrs. Grimes was a very old lady who lived all by herself in a small house at the edge of town. Folks said she oughtn't to stay there, with nobody to help her and not even a telephone; but Mrs. Grimes said it was her home and she wanted to stay there till she died, and anyway as long as she could carry her own coal, she wasn't going to leave. Besides, with so many lovely friends to look after her now and then, there just wasn't any reason she couldn't stay right where she was! Daddy and Mommie often looked in on Mrs. Grimes, and did things to help. "Sure I will," Johnnie said now. He liked the walk to Mrs. Grimes' house, he was thinking. "I'll go as soon as I'm through with ours." "Fine!" said Daddy. "Be sure RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1955 to step in and tell Grandma where you're going, and that I said you could. And you might ask Mrs. Grimes if she needs anything we could bring her, or if she needs anything special done, besides the walks.". "Tl remember." Johnnie stood by while the car rolled backward out of the garage and down the drive, its tires leaving firm small patterns of squares in the snow. Daddy called, "Don't forget to be here promptly for lunch, if you want to go with me afterward to bring Mommie home!" S if he'd forgot that! Johnnie thought, waving his hand and shouting, "Sure thing!' and thinking how Daddy's voice fairly sang with gladness in it. Johnnie wished his voice would sing like that. But you couldn't be entirely glad, he guessed, when you had doubts in your mind about Heavenly Father's power to do things. It was so important to believe in Heavenly Father! He shoved the pusher busily along the sidewalk, and dumped the snow in small hills and peaks along it. "Hi, Johnnie!" called pretty Mrs. Dexter, the young woman next door. She was sweeping snow off her front porch, and as Johnnie looked over towards her, she thwacked her broom against the railing to clear it of its clinging load. "Where's your whistle this morning? Did you leave it in bed with your shadow? With your Mommie coming home today, I should think you'd be the whistlingest boy anywhere!" "I... I was busy, thinking, is all." Johnnie began immediately to whistle, and Mrs. Dexter smiled at him and went on with her sweeping, and Johnnie kept whistling, but couldn't make any tune out of it. When Mrs. Dexter had gone into her house again, he gave up trying, and shoveled in silence until all the walks were clear. Grandma came out to look and said he had done a fine job; and then Johnnie started for Mrs. Grimes' house. It was down near the end of Willow Street, at the end of a little lane all its own. Pushshovel over his shoulder, Johnnie walked rapidly, his troubled thoughts heavy in his mind. Down where the lane began, the snow was clean and soft, and unmarked until Johnnie's boots made small deep wells as he stepped carefully along. 'Then he discovered some tiny tracks where a bird had run along on the snow, and the mark of where its wings had brushed the snow as it took off in flight. After that, Johnnie watched intently for other little tracks, and for a brief time his trouble was forgotten. But it came back very soon; almost as if it had gone ahead to wait for him at Mrs. Grimes' house. It was a small, gray house with a red door and red-and-white shutters, and it looked as pretty as a picture on a Christmas card, with the soft snow rounding the roof lines like a white fur bonnet, and the trees all white-and-dark lace ruffled around it. He felt a little disappointed because no smoke was coming out of the chimneys; smoke often made spirals and whirls that he liked to watch, and besides, the picturehouse wasn't quite right without smoke rising up tall from it. Maybe—a thought came to him suddenly—Mrs. Grimes had emptied her coal bucket and hadn't wanted to go out in the snow to get more. Maybe he'd better do the back yard walk first.... No, first he'd better tell her he was here, and ask where she'd rather have him begin! He stood his pusher up against the porch and went up to the red door, planning what he'd say: "Good morning, Mrs. Grimes. I came to shovel your walks for " you.... E knocked, and stepped back to wait for the door to open. But it didn't open; instead, a voice called from inside, "Come in! Come in, please—and hutry!" It was Mrs. Grimes' voice, all right, but extra quavery and with a sound in it like crying. It gave Johnnie a sort of fright; he wasn't sure he should open that door, for Mrs. Grimes had always, before, come to open it and ask folks to step in. But quickly the call came again: "Whoever you are, please come in! I need—help!" Johnnie stomped the snow off his boots and opened the door. Nobody was to be seen in the red-carpeted living room. But the quavery voice came again, this time from behind an arch where a flowered curtain hung. "Come this way, please." Following the voice, Johnnie found himself looking into the bedroom; and there, huddled on the white rug beside the high, old-fashioned bed, with a patchwork quilt over her, lay Mrs. Grimes. "Thank God! Thank God you came, little boy—why, it's Johnnie FAITH AND PRAYER AND JOHNNIE MORTON 25 26 Morton, isn't it!" she said, her old eyes squinting to see him. "Yes'm, I'm Johnnie. What's the matter, Mrs. Grimes? Are you sick?" He was puzzled. If she was sick, she ought to be up in her bed. "T'm—hurt, dearie. I slipped and fell, when I was getting out of bed away early this morning; and I can't get up. I think.... I'm afraid I've broken my leg. 'Tve been praying and praying for help, Johnnie. Thank the good Lord for sending you!" Johnnie gasped a little. She'd been praying for help—and he had come—a small boy, who suddenly felt very small indeed, wondering what he could possibly do to help an old lady with a broken leg. "Do you think—I can help you?" he asked doubtfully, and with his own faith problem swiftly and sharply bigger inside him. "Of course you can!" Mrs. Grimes answered. "That is, you can go after someone who can do what needs to be done, that you— couldn't." Her eyes, dark and painfilled, suddenly twinkled. "I didn't tell the Lord what help to send me, Johnnie. I just asked him to provide it, and left the rest to him." "Oh!" Johnnie said, still not quite understanding. Then, "I'll go after anyone you say, Mrs. Grimes. Pll go as. Fast as I can.' "Fine, Johnnie! The Jensens are the nearest folks that have a phone. They live just around the corner of Willow and East Five, the white house near the little store. Ask Mrs. Jensen to call Doctor Herrin, and then come over if she can. And, oh... Before you go, Johnnie, would you haul me down another quilt off the bed? I couldn't reach RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1955 it for the pain—and my fires are out and I'm getting cold." Johnnie pulled the quilt off the bed and tucked it carefully around her as she directed; then he hurried away. Mrs. Jensen said, "My goodness, how awful!" She was holding a baby and a nursing bottle, and she laid the baby in his crib, gave him the bottle, and hurried to the phone. "Tl call the doctor first, and you hurry back and tell Mrs. Giimes Pll be right over. 'The poor thing. On the floor all this time, you said? Goodness sakes!" JOHNNIE hurried back. He better get the front walk done real fast, he was thinking; folks would be tracking in a lot of snow if he didn't, and Mommie said it was a shame to track snow onto carpets. But first, he'd go in and tell Mrs. Grimes that her help—her real help —was coming soon. "Tm so grateful to our Father!" she declared. And suddenly Johnnie burst out with the question he hadn't wanted to ask Daddy because he didn't want Daddy to know Johnnie's faith wasn't as strong as it ought to be! He sat down on the floor and asked earnestly, "Mrs. Grimes, why didn't Heavenly Father send you real help right away, instead of just sending—me?" "Oh, my goodness, Johnnie! I don't know, 'but I'm sure he had good reasons. What matters, is that he saw to it I got my help." Johnnie sat still a moment, thinking hard. Then, "Would he have good reasons why my—why somebody had to go to a hospital, instead of getting well at home?" "T'm sure he had good reasons. Why, Johnnie? Tell me, dear." "Well—I_ was thinking about how we prayed and prayed for Mommie to get well, but she only got worse until she had to go to the hospital and be operated on, before she could get well. I—I can't see why Heavenly Father couldn't have made her get well without all that fuss and... And worry." "What you mean, Johnnie—you sort of wanted an_ out-and-out miracle." "Well... Is'pose...." "Oh, Johnnie dear! Of course he could have done it that way; but if he just went around doing muiracles for us, how would we ever learn anything for ourselves? What good would life be to us. If we just played around and had Heavenly Father fix everything fine for us when things go wrong? He has to let us learn things for ourselves." "Gee!" said Johnnie. And again, "Gee! I never thought of that." Mrs. Grimes smiled through her pain. "Johnnie, I bet I can guess why Heavenly Father sent you to me this morning. He wanted me to help you understand something that was troubling you. That was his way of helping you. Do you see?" "Gee! Yes'm, I think I see. You mean, he lets us help him do the. The things somebody else prays for?" "Yes, Johnnie. Everyone who does helpful things for others, is helping to accomplish the Lord's good will. Whether it's doctors and nurses and teachers, or good neighbors—even little big boys who go to shovel snow for old ladies who can't do their own." "Gee. And... And nice old ladies who tell kids things they need to understand? Even if I didn't think to pray about... That...." "But maybe you did, Johnnie. Prayer isn't always kneeling and asking in exact words; you know what the song says, 'Prayer is the soul's sincere desire, uttered or unexpressed.' You can understand that, can't you?" "Sure I can—now. I guess I just never did quite, before. He stopped short as a knock came at the door, and the sound of the knob turning, and then Mrs. Jensen's voice calling, "Hi! Here lam...." "Oh, gosh!" Johnnie exclaimed, here's Mrs. Jensen already, having to wade through the snow!" And Johnnie hurried out again, out into the crisp morning. He felt something big and wonderful inside him; it seemed to warm him all through. He looked up to see the sky clearing, the sun __ breaking through. Never had the blue been so blue, the sunshine so golden as now, shining down and making dazzling diamond flashes all over the snow. He drew in a deep, long breath and went to work, feeling big with happiness and sureness. Like Mommie always said, it was a beautiful world God had made, and you might know he'd never be very far away from it. And you ought to know, Johnnie told himself. That fine folks like Daddy and Mommie would be right about... Things; you just had to find out how to understand. He guessed maybe he still had lots and lots to learn, but one thing he'd never doubt again, that was sure: prayer—faith and prayer were certainly—okay! FAITH AND PRAYER AND JOHNNIE MORTON 27 Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, January 1, and January 15, 1895 "For THE RiGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomMeEN oF Att NatIOoNs" SPEAK NO ILL: If we will institute a thorough and candid investigation of ourselves, there is no doubt but the results will prove profitable; they may reveal to our view some traits in our character that we were not aware of, and impress us with the necessity of a speedy reformation, and if so we will feel more lenient towards the failings of others, and not so anxious to make them known, but will ''speak of all the best we can." —L. M. W. TO THE YOUTH OF THE LAND: And oh, ye youth of this much favored land, think not to make the excuse of ignorance. It will no longer be accepted. This is the golden age of opportunity; hold not back and think there is nothing left for you to do; rouse yourselves and look around you; there are fresh hills for you to climb; there are new discoveries for you to make; there is work for you to do. —Phoebe C. Young THE YEAR IS NEW Dearest; the year is new, And the roses silent sleep, But the hearts that are most true All their vows of love will keep. Though the roses fade and wither, Love survives the stormy weather.... —Edson B. Russell RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE IN STAR VALLEY (WYOMING): Home industry, in the way of carding, spinning, knitting, and weaving was encouraged.... And ideas advanced in relation to the planting and caring for trees and small fruits adapted to our climate.... Several looms are in operation, and the hum of the oldfashioned spinning wheel may be heard in a number of our homes. The strawberry, a plant that thrives and yields well, is being cultivated.... President Kittie E. Dixon encouraged the sisters to continue their labors, and strive to meet all the requirements made of them, whether spiritual or temporal. —Lucy E. Call, Sec. A WOMAN LAWYER: Miss Phoebe Couzins of St. Louis, distinguished lawyer and lecturer, and at one time United States Marshal of the Eastern District of Missouri (serving out her father's term after his decease), has been for some weeks in our city at the Templeton Hotel.... After Miss Couzins graduated from the high school of her native city, she chose the law as a profession, her application for admission to the Washington University in St. Louis in 1869 was granted without a dissenting voice. She has been admitted to practice in all the courts of Missouri, the United States District Court, and in the courts of Kansas and Utah; she was the first woman in the United States appointed to a federal executive office., —Editorial Page 28 BLIZABETH, Queen Mother of England, visited in the United States and Canada in November. This was the Queen Mother's second visit to Washington, D. C., where she was entertained by President and Mrs. Eisenhower. Among other honors for Elizabeth was a dinner sponsored by the EnglishSpeaking Union in New York City, at which she was presented a check for $433,000 to set up a scholarship fund in memory of King George VI. AJKUMARI AMRIT KAUR, Minister for Health in the Indian government, recently visited America as a guest of the Rockefeller Foundation, A devout disciple of Mahatma Ghandi, and his secretary for fifteen years, she has been president of the All-India Women's Conference and has f-zesided over the World Health A>: embly, and has acted as a delegate to UNESCO in London and Paris. 'Two of her published books are To Women and Challenge to Women. OMEN are taking a more prominent part in_ politics, and their acceptance as public officials was exemplified in the November elections. All of the eleven incumbents of the House of Representatives were re-elected, and two others were added—Mrs. Iris Blitch of Georgia and Mrs. Edith Green from Oregon. Margaret Chase Smith of Maine is back in the SenWoman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon ate, and Mrs. George Abel of Nebraska was elected to the Senate to fill two months of an unfinished term. R. MABEL COCHRAN, associate curator of the division of reptiles and amphibians in the National Museum, Washington, D. C., has 40,000 specimens preserved in alcohol under her guardianship. She is a world authority on snakes, frogs, and lizards. During World War II her suggestions on how to cope with dangerous reptiles were distributed to the armed forces in snake-infested jungles. BIRTHDAY congratulations are extended to Mrs. Ruth May Fox, Salt Lake City, Utah, 101; Mrs. Hilda Erickson, Grantsville, Utah, ninety-five; Mrs. Jane Reid, Rexburg, Idaho, and Mrs. Nancy E. Schvaneveldt, Dayton, Idaho, ninety-one; Mrs. Cora Lindsay Ashton and Mrs. Mary Bates Egan, Salt Lake City, both ninety. EARL S.. BUCK, Nobel and Pulitzer prize winner in the field of literature, and' member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, has written her life story in a new autobiography, My Several Worlds. She relates the humorous and tragic happenings of her many years in China, and of her adjustments to American life. In the 1930'S. Page 29 CQ-— > EDITORIAL SO VOL. 42 JANUARY 1955 Mlorning and the Tlew Year ae (Psalms 5: 3). "THE coming of the New Year means a new beginning for all of us. No matter where we may stand in the journey between our past and our future, the coming of another year brings fresh opportunity, brighter vision, and opens the door to accomplishment. The New Year is like morning, when the way to unknown treasures is opened, when the pathway lies unmarred before us. It is the time in which the Lord has given us another chance to prove ourselves worthy of his metrcies which "are new every morning." Many of our activities, our ideals, and our aspirations partake of the spaciousness of the New Year and of the measure of morning. Suppose we are to take a journey, perhaps to a place we have never seen before, the sea, or the mountains, or to another city. A journey is traveling into a new experience. And even if it be a journey to a familiar place, there may have been changes in the land, or it may be another season. Always, too, we may meet strangers who can lift our spirits, or people who need to walk briefly with us to see some inviting aspect of life which we can reveal to them. All journeys, near and far, are new in their significance — they are new, like the year and the morning. Meeting a new friend, or one who is to become a friend, has the possiPage 30. In the mornmg will I direct my prayers unto thee, and will look up" bilities of giving us new growth of the spirit and an entrance into the beauty and strength of another personality. It is our opportunity to bestow something of our own perspective upon one who may have been looking upon life from a different point of view. A new friendship may be the threshold of new pleasure and new illumination. Even more humble activities are as a journey into the delightful unknown. A woman's day is often composed of a series of exhilarating experiences. Prosaic tasks may assume great expectancy and promise, if they are performed with a fecling of adventure and anticipation. The whir of a sewing machine in making a little girl's dress, the further stitches in needlepoint, even the matching o' colors and shapes in patches for mending—these are small adventures, but they may be tributary to the satisfying wholeness of homemaking. Expectancy and anticipation prevail in the challenging efforts of re-decorating a home—new color on the walls, the harmony of tints and tones in rugs and draperies, a kitchen cheerful all over again in a different decoration. Even so familiar an act as to open a book may partake of the nature of regeneration. Not long ago an elderly woman opened the Bible and turned to the Book of Psalms. Her EDITORIAL scriptural reading, for the most part, had been confined to the New Testament, and she had not experienced for sometime the lofty language and the noble thoughts of the Psalms. She turned the pages reverently and said, ""I'o me, this is a new thing." 'To her there was the presence of morning and the element of discovery. In the sacred pages. She read also Psalm 102, which describes the beauties of Zion, "For thy servants take pleasure in her stones, and favour the dust thereof." And the elderly woman had found words which expressed her deep thoughts, for she had so long loved her own humble home and the encircling land, even so much that she had loved its stones and dust. But never before 31 had she found the right words for so deep a realization. Any great and good book gives to us the spirit of newness and of morning. The most precious of all new treasures given to women are the children, lovely as morning, and having within them infinite possibilities, which mothers may help to develop along the wide pathways of life's responsibilities and joys and achievements. The year is new, and it is the time of morning, a time of closeness between the heavens and the earth. "For lo, he that formeth the mountains, and createth the wind... That maketh the morning... And treadeth upon the high places of the earth, The Lord... Is his name" (Amos 4:3). —V. P. C. Driftwood Natalie King The wild. Wet sweep of ocean waves along the beach a dozen years, Has buffeted this slender branch with elementary sobs and tears; Solaced too seldom by the rays of welcome sun upon the sands, Allowed scant healing time before the sea repeats its harsh demands. Turn the full circle, sun, the storm, the biting winds and bitter cold, Bent to one purpose, that to fit this broken branch into its mold, Leaving at length the beauty of silver perfection polished smooth; Unmarred by flaw, content to lie where unseen forces bid it move. Not swift this state of beauty comes, each agony is singly borne. Despair, first deep, becomes resigned, then grateful for each perfect morn, Time. The abrasive, wears and wounds to cut the pattern plain, Scoring the finally finished work with half-temembered pain. So are the old, contented in their places, Showing God's hand in fine etched, tranquil faces. Notes TO THE FIELD Relief Society Assigned Evening Meeting of: Sast Sunday in Mlarch HE Sunday night meeting to be held on Fast Day, March 6, 1955, has again been assigned by the First Presidency for use by the Relief Society. Suggestive plans for this evening meeting have been prepared by the general board and sent to the stakes in bulletin form. It is suggested that ward Relief Society presidents confer with their bishops immediately to arrange for this meeting. Music for the Singing Mothers should be ordered at once. Bound Volumes of 1054 Relicf Society Mlagazines ELIEF Society officers and members who wish to have their 1954 issues of The Relief Society Magazine bound may do so through The Deseret News Press, 31 Richards Street, Salt Lake City, 1, Utah. The cost for binding the twelve issues in a permanent cloth binding is $2.50, including the index. If a leather binding is preferred, the cost is $3.50. See schedules of postage rates in this issue of the Magazine, page 71. If bound volumes are desired, and the Magazine cannot be supplied by the person making the request, the Magazines will be supplied for $1.50 by the Magazine Department, General Board of Relief Society, 40 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. Only a limited number of Magazines are available for binding. It is suggested that wards and stakes have one volume of the 1954 Magazines bound for preservation in ward and stake Relief Society libraries. Award Subscriptions Presented in April HE award subscriptions presented to Magazine representatives for having obtained 75 per cent or more subscriptions to the Magazine in relation to their enrolled Relief Society members, are not awarded until after the stake Magazine representatives' annual reports have been audited. Award cards for these subscriptions for the year 1954 will be mailed to ward and stake Magazine representatives about April 1, 1955. Page 32 Infantile Paralysis and the March of Dimes Basil O'Connor President, The National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis ig will be a great day for everyone when the world can be told that Dr. Salk's trial vaccine actually protects against polio. We hope that day arrives eatly in 1955. The theme of the 1955 March of Dimes reflects expansion for the fight against polio in the longed-for realm of prevention. On the other hand, we must face the possibility that an inconclusive report may be issued by Dr. Thomas Francis, Jr. Of the University of Michigan, who is responsible for determining whether or not the vaccine is effective. As hopeful as this is, the fact remains we have no proven vaccine, yet. Millions more must be spent on the Salk vaccine studies. At the same time, our responsibilities continue for children and adults crippled by polio. Either way, our problems and our responsibilities multiply. Even if the vaccine is declared highly effective, we cannot see the end of polio in 1955 or 1956—or, for that matter, in 1957. Certainly all of the more than 50,000,000 young Americans under eighteen years of age (the most polio-susceptible group) cannot possibly be vaccinated in time to prevent thousands of new attacks in the years immediately ahead. What I'm getting at is that the news from Michigan will have little immediate effect on the huge job of mending lives, refining preventive techniques, and training professionals. 'That is why I am appealing again for your support this coming January. The crippled child who is cut off from her playmates lives only half-a-life. The disabled wage-earner needs more than just plain courage to carry on. Only with expert treatment, good equipment, and understanding care can the stricken overcome crushing handicaps. These are the things money can buy. Your continued help in supporting the 1955 March of Dimes, January 3-31, will most certainly evoke the gratitude of those born too soon to benefit from any polio vaccine, as well as those who look to the March of Dimes to protect them from polio in the future. Before - Si torm Zara Sabin Even this cold, gray day is beautiful— The upturned sod where Jate the farmer plowed, Now locked to earth by winter's icy breath, Is edged with flowers of frost. A pewter cloud Hangs low on the horizon, while a crow, Scarce darker than the limb on which it sits, Awaits the snow. Page 33 Bob Bishop Page YOSEMITE VALLEY, CALIFORNIA White World Gene Romolo In a white, white world I have awakened To clutch again the tenuous strands of life That dormant lie while slumber holds us captive... A white world, for the moment free from strife. Night has wrought this lovely, soft white wonder; With needles of the frost, has knitted it In motifs, hexagon-shaped replicas of stars, And with artistic deftness, made each fit The place appointed for a perfect piece Of handiwork, earth's beauty to increase, 3, INSTITUTE OF RELIGION - 4502 SOUTH REDWOOD ROAD SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 941g Grandma's Responsibility Mary C. Martineau OR some reason, no one HB thought anything of leaving the cat with Grandma when the family went on their vacation. They left the cat without a qualm for its safety and care, and Grandma, dear old soul, never dreamed of not allowing the cat to be left. What's a cat to take care of? That's nothing. But to have the family return to find the cat gone— strayed—stolen, that was different. Grandsons, Jimmy and Johnny, just couldn't feature Grandma in a careless role, but, as Jimmy remarked, "Our cat is gone, and he was Grandma's responsibility." Then Grandma knew by the look in Jimmy's eyes and in the tone of his voice that his confidence in her was forever shaken unless she found the cat and proved her fidelity to a trust. Poor Grandma! It all happened this way: Grandma was to go to Jimmy's house every morning in the absence of the family and feed the cat, water the flowers, collect the mail, see that the house door was locked securely, and then walk home again to take up her own housework. And very faithfully did Grandma_perform these morning duties. Old Puff, the cat, always came mewing off the porch to meet her as she came up the walk, and he rolled over on the pavement before her for his own enjoyment, and then brushed past her skirts and arched his back as she came up the steps to feed him. She always poured some milk into his saucer and doled out his "Puss in Boots" on a dish, and left him happy and eating in contentment while she sprinkled the lawn and flowers. For three mornings all went well. Then came the fateful morn. As Grandma came up the walk, she was humming a little tune, when she stopped short. ""Where's the cat, I wonder?" she murmured in a startled way, for no cat came to meet her. Around the house went Grandma, calling softly "Kitty, Kitty, Kit- " But no kitty came. Gone to catch a mouse, thought Grandma. So she proceeded to water the flowers and gather the mail, but still no Puff appeared. Pll just put his milk in his dish and put his food out, for I can't wait for him any longer. He'll be here when I come again in the morning, she thought. And home went Grandma, trusting to a cat's nine lives to take care of him for one day. But it was more serious than she thought, for next morning when she came, Puff's dishes were licked clean, but no Puff was to be seen, and the next day and the next were the same until the whole week was gone and the family returned. Grandma told them of Puff's curious actions, but that she, Grandma, was sure they would see Puff when he came back each morning. Grandma was wrong. The very next morning Jimmy saw the neighbor's cocker spaniel come over and eat Puff's food, and in his heart Page 35 36 Jimmy then and there convicted Grandma of gross neglect and carelessness in the performance of duty. GRANDMA could have borne the loss of the cat with great fortitude, for many cats had disappeared along the trail of Grandma's long life, but Grandma could not bear the loss of Jimmy's confidence. She decided she must find that cat if she possibly could. So she began to lay plans and to execute them. She offered little rewards to youthful searchers; she took evening and morning walks in personal search; she sent out scouts and made inquiries. "Don't worry over that cat any more, Grandmother," comforted Edna Lee, Jimmy's mother. "I'm kind of glad the cat's gone; it's not your fault, anyway. A full-grown cat ought to be able to take care of himself in the summertime." "Tt's not the cat I worry about, it's little Jimmy," said Grandmother. 'He loved the cat and feels so badly. He holds me accountable and has withdrawn his trust and confidence from me. He is like a polite little stranger," and there was a tear in Grandma's eye. But what could Grandma do? Why, nothing. So that's what she did. She just did nothing and waitRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1955 ed. Time smooths many sorrows, and so it was as the days went by. Jimmy found his way to Grandma's house again and to Grandma's cookie jar again and again. Jimmy smiled at Grandma and Grandma smiled at Jimmy. And that might have been the last of it, if the telephone hadn't rung so wildly late one night. When Grandma said "Hello," a vexed voice said loudly, "Mrs. Gray, I wish you'd come over in the morning and get your cat. We can't have our bedroom window up because he keeps jumping in to find our children. He adopted our children when your daughter's family was away. They used to live in this house once you know. I'm sick and tired of this cat." "Oh, thank you for calling me," said Grandma happily. "I will be right over in the morning." Next morning, Jimmy went with Grandma to get Puff, for it was he all right. "Grandma, may I carry him?" asked Jimmy, as they were returning triumphantly with their precious burden. "Yes, Jimmy," said Grandma, lovingly placing the big gray and white cat in Jimmy's eager little arms. "He is yours to have and to hold." New Serial 'Green Willows P to Begin in February A new serial, "Green Willows," by Deone R. Sutherland, will begin in the February issue of The Relief Society Magazine. This entertaining and realistic story narrates the adventures of Lillian and Pat, two young friends who complicate and help to straighten out the problems of Pat's three unmarried aunts: Agnes, Margaret, and Karen. Mrs. Sutherland, a daughter of George Cecil Robinson and Linnie Fisher Robinson of Magna, Utah, is a young wife and mother of two sons, who now lives in San Francisco, California, where her husband, a doctor, is serving his internship. Seven short stories and a serial by Mrs. Sutherland have appeared in The Relief Society Magazine since 1948. Mimosa &ggs Courtesy National Cotton Council 6 eggs 2 cups hot milk 2 packages frozen spinach % cup shredded cheese 3 tablespoons shortening salt and pepper 2 tablespoons flour 2 tablespoons shortening Ilard cook eggs. While eggs cook, cook spinach according to directions on package. Make cheese sauce by melting shortening in top of double boiler over hot water. Stir in flour. Add hot milk gradually, stirring constantly. When thickened, add cheese, stirring to melt cheese. Season with salt and pepper to taste. Cover and keep sauce hot. When eggs are done, run cold water over them. Shell. Cut eggs crosswise into halves. Remove yolks. Slice whites thin and add to cheese sauce, reserving a few slices for garnishing, if desired. Drain spinach, add 2 tablespoons melted shortening. Arrange in well-greased shallow baking dish or in individual bakers. Pour cheese-egg sauce over spinach, letting spinach show at edges. Press yolks through sicve, making a mound of yolk on top of each serving. Sct under broiler for 2 or 3 minutes, keeping dish at least 3 inches from heat. Serve with corn muffins and crisp relishes. (Makes 6 servings) Page 37 Shere Is a Sime for Formality Helen S. Williams 9 tie are certain places and special occasions where formal elegance of floral arrangements must be used. The table pictured opposite is a perfect example of formality at its loveliest. This table was originated and executed by Florence Williams for an afternoon reception where approximately 2,000 people attended. The table was set in a spacious room with high ceilings. The walls and draperies were a soft sage green—a perfect setting for the colors and flowers used. Of course the table had to be scaled to the size of the room, and it had to be beautiful from all angles, for there were those who were seated, and those who stood to be served, and there were many who viewed it from a distance. Had the table or its appointments been too small or less sensational, the effectiveness of its beauty and color would have been lost completely in the magnitude of the surroundings. To do unusual, beautiful tables Florence Williams dares to be dramatic and completely original. One rarely forgets the table decorations which she does because they are never ordinary. For this table she decided to use a beautiful old Paisley shawl] for her tablecloth. The shawl belonged to her husband's mother. It had never been used, and for years had been wrapped in tissue for safekeeping. Safekeeping for what? Thought Florence. Here was a precious old heirloom five yards long which would be perfect for this special occasion. The center of the shawl was a bold, daring black. It would be a perfect background for golden flowers, brass bowls, massive candelabra, and tall, tapering candles. The border of the shawl combined all the glorious shades of autumn. The rich golds, copper, and brass colors, the reds and the yellows that blanket our hills and mountains when the first frost touches them in the fall, this lovely old heirloom had captured in its woven border. All these warm, deep colors of Indian summer gave a richness and elegance to the table. _ With the Paisley shawl as the basic note for the table, Mrs. Williams had a startling and unusual setting for the magnificent centerpiece. As you see, the flowers were arranged in a half-circle design. 'This half-circle design is basically excellent when using a large or massive centerpiece on a long table, and it is particularly good when used in a raised or footed container. The length of the rhythmic line was extended from the focal point of the raised Cupid. This gave a harmonious feeling of flowing thythm and balance for the long table and large room. The container was an old-fashioned brass jardiniere, polished to dazzling brightness. It had been turned upside down, and on top of it rested a great flat brass bowl. This was filled with a solid mass of flowers—yellow daffodils. These daffodils were bordered with daisies that had been dyed in colors to repeat the border of grandmother's Paisley shawl. Shimmering green magnolia leaves framed the round bowl and blended into the soft greens of the surrounding draperies. Then the brass Cupid, holding a few flowers, topped the entire floral design and kept the table in perfect proportion. It was a picture of harmonious colors—the black cloth, the brass container, the yellow and rust flowers, and the Paisley border. Florence filled the big brass bow! With twigs and stems, then covered the greens with fine chicken wire. This made a firm, solid container to hold the flowers in position. The daffodils had been cut to about two-inch stems. This was the depth of the bowl. Page 38 THERE IS A TIME FOR FORMALITY 39 Hal Rumel TABLE ARRANGEMENT BY FLORENCE WILLIAMS The sweeping half circle of daffodils that extended so gracefully from the bowl and down the table, was wired together with very fine wire. These flowers had also been broken off into two-inch stems and were wired together to give an illusion of solid yellow. The wire was twisted around each flower securely, and the streamers of daffodils were about five inches across.: The massive brass candelabra at either end of the table, with the tallest of tall yellow cathedral candles, completed the regal beauty of the table. The candles matched the daffodils perfectly. 'Their height gave perfect balance to the table and proportioned it beautifully to the massive room. 'This same centerpiece arrangement has been used by Florence for other affairs at other seasons of the year. In the fall, button chrysanthemums in all the rich fall colors lend themselves wonderfully well to this arrangement. Fall fruit, with deep purple grapes, make a dramatic and luxurious appearing table when the grapes are combined with flowers. 'The grapes can be wired as are the flowers and draped over the bowl and down the length of the table. They are dramatic and beautiful. Many, many designs can be evolved from this same idea. With a little practice, a generous degree of daring, and a bit of originality, anyone can learn and enjoy the technique of flower arrangement. It is well to keep in mind a few basic fundamental principles which will help your own instinctive ability. First, consider the relationship of the length of the table, the color, and container, to the sizeof the room. If the room is small, keep the table and centerpiece in good 40 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1955 proportion. Don't let them overpower their surroundings. In the picture above, the room is large, the ceiling high, and the walls are soft green. A massive table was indicated—thus the big, high bowl and the massive candelabra. Second, watch the design of your centerpiece. The ones that lend themselves best acy are variations of the triangle, the circle, or half circle, or an open "'s" curve. Third, carefully plan the balance of your arrangement. Group flowers, candles, and decorations within a definite pattern, so that an impression of stability, unity, and serenity is achieved. An artistic, balanced design is lovely from any viewpoint. Remember this. Fourth, have a focal point or a center of interest. In the above picture, it is the Cupid perched on the top curve of the half circle. Fifth, for real beauty in design, there must be a feeling of rhythm or motion. Sprays of flowers, greens, fruit, ribbon—anything which gives graceful lines from the center out can create this feeling of rhythm and motion. Sixth, remember that accent is the added something which makes a table unusual. In this illustration it is undoubtedly the black of the Paisley shawl. Also, accent may be achieved by contrast in color of flowers or container or accessories. It is one of the elements in table decoration that one has to work hard at and has to practice to achieve. Seventh, and last, is harmony. Without harmony of design, color, and arrangement, the beauty is lost. Colors, materials, containers, and all accessories must express an idea—unified and perfectly blended. Erratum in Social Science Lesson in November 1954 Magazine T has been called to our attention by Dr. Richard D. Poll, of the Department of History and Political Science at Brigham Young University, that an error occurs in the February social science lesson ('The Constitution of the United States) as printed in the November Relief Society Magazine, on page 779. Dr. Poll makes this correction: It is stated that "this method of amendment [ratification by state legislatures] is the one which has been universally followed in all the amendments thus far adopted." As a matter of fact, Amendment 21, repealing the prohibition amendment was adopted by conventions in the states, rather than by state legislatures. This is not a profoundly important point, but, inasmuch as it was the Utah Convention which was the thirtysixth to ratify and repeal amendment, it is not without some interest to our people. Ba throom Tricks Novet Tower Hotpers Elizabeth Williamson There never seem to be enough towel racks in the bathroom, guest bath, or powder room. Old door knockers come to the rescue. For individual towel holders, these are distinctive and most unusual. A Boy Sylvia Probst Young A boy is adventure, noise, and fun, With a smudge of dirt, and his knees Are forever out of his overalls— He's a genius at climbing trees. He has no use for a pair of shoes Or a shirt when the days are long; Forever he's munching on jam and bread, And singing a tuneless song. A boy is a king in his own small world— A boy is exasperating— And whatever he might be doing next There is no use contemplating. But a boy holds the strings to his mother's heart, And his sudden kiss is a cure For any ill—oh, a boy is grand— I am glad that I have four. Page 41 Fler Hobbies Bring Yoy to Others Mary Elizabeth Jensen Bingham, Belvedere Ward, Los Angeles, Is a Needlecraft Artist ARY Elizabeth Jensen Bingham, at the age of eighty-nine, still gives joy to her family and her friends, and serves her Church by making exquisite handicraft articles. During the past year she has embroidered twenty pairs of exquisite pillowcases, all with crocheted edges. Also, she has made many sets of dish towels and numerous crocheted doilies. She is an expert at quilting and has designed several original quilt patterns. She has recently completed a lovely crocheted altar cloth to be presented to the Los Angeles Temple when it is finished. Mrs. Bingham's custom of giving a crocheted doily each month to the eldest sister having a birthday during that month, has given much pleasure to the members of her ward Relief Society. At an early age she was responsible for spinning the yarn for her brothers' and sisters' clothing, and she learned habits of industry and service. Sister Bingham was born in Logan, Utah, and married Benjamin Franklin Bingham in 1885. Mother of six sons and a daughter, Mrs. Bingham still found time for service as a practical nurse in many communities in Cache Valley. In her early married life she subscribed to The Woman's Exponent, and The Relief Society Magazine has been in her home since its first issue. Mrs. Bingham remembers the time when she regularly took her team and wagon and gathered up her neighbors and took them to Relief Society meetings; sometimes there were as many as sixteen women and children in the wagon at one time. She has served as a Relief Society president, as a counselor, and as secretary. Her years have been full of work and happiness, and she has enlarged her own personality by serving others. ' Page 42 Contentment Is a Lovely Thing CHAPTER 4 Dorothy S. Romney Synopsis: Margaret Lansing, whose husband Jed has become a farmer contrary to the wishes of his parents, is taken ill just before Jed's father, a prominent brain surgeon, and his wife arrive at the farm for a visit. The young couple cannot get help, and the mother-in-law assumes the household duties and takes care of Kimmy, the baby. 'The hard work makes her more than ever opposed to country life, and she tries to persuade her son to go back to the city and resume his medical studies. Finally, when Margaret is able to attend to her household, the parents leave, although they had planned on a longer visit. Margaret and Jed attend a ward party, and their intimate friend Mrs. Andrews asks why the elder Lansings left the farm so soon. ARGARET knew that her M friend was wise and understanding, and perhaps she might suggest some way of persuading Jed's parents that he had chosen the work he loved and that he was contented. Mrs. Andrews moved over on the bench. "Better sit down and tell me all about it Maybe it will make you feel better," she said, and Margaret knew from past experience that it was a genuine wish to help, rather than curiosity that prompted her words. So she told Mrs. Andrews everything that was troubling her—of the letters that came twice weekly from Jed's parents which, however, contained no reference to a return visit in the future, nor an invitation for them to visit Jed's parents, and of Jed's obvious disappointment over the results of his parents' visit. Mrs. Andrews listened carefully, and then was silent for a time after Margaret had finished speaking. "Don't let it worry you too much, dearie," she finally said. "Parents often have a strong hold on their children, too strong a hold, as seems to be the case with Jed's parents. Jed is probably torn between his love for you and Kimmy and the duty he feels he owes his parents. Didn't you once tell me that they had lost an older boy? Perhaps that has something to do with their clinging to Jed, although I don't see why it should," she mused. "Be patient, my dear, and things will work out." Her words comforted Margaret, and seeing all her neighbors soon erased the troubles from her mind. She felt contented and happy when the deliciously cooked food had been eaten. After ten minutes of dancing Margaret's cheeks were pinker than they had been for some time. "The next time Jed's folks come to town," Ez Owens, who ran the general store, said in his jovial manner, as he escorted Margaret back to her seat, "give us a chance to meet them. I hear they're real nice people." She was still pondering Ez's last remark when Jed came out of the kitchen minus his chef's cap and apron, and swung her into a group of dancers that was forming on the dance floor. Everyone must be wondering, she thought, why they weren't invited to meet the elder Lansings. Page 43 44 The unusual excitement of the evening completely tired Margaret out, and she asked Jed to take her home as soon as they finished the dance. As they drove along she looked at Kimmy's form in the clear shadow of the moon, and thought how much he already resembled his Grandfather Lansing, right down to the tips of his fingers. Suddenly her musings were interrupted by Jed. "Kimmy already has the hands of a good surgeon," he said. It was amazing how often she and Jed had the same thought patiems. = "Perhaps Kimmy won't want to be a doctor," she reminded as gently as she could. Who could say where the destiny of a pair of hands lay without first developing the intellect that guided them? "Yes, of course," he assured her, "Kimmy will be free to choose his own career." He put his hands out to cover her warm fingers. GHE could see in the brightness of the night, the circle of trees that surrounded their home. It gradually emerged from the silver of the night, and took the shape of the home she loved so dearly. If one could look into the future and see the outline of one's destiny taking shape as clearly as this house had, it might greatly simplify things, Margaret thought. But perhaps meeting the challenge of the unknown was what made life worth living, she decided. When they reached home Jed let Margaret and the sleeping Kimmy out at the kitchen door and drove the station wagon down to the barn. She undressed Kimmy without wak-: RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1955 ing him, then went into the kitchen, reveling in the warmth of the still air, glad to be home. She took cookies from the jar, set them on a plate, and was pouring two tall glasses of cold milk when the telephone rang. The first thought that crossed her mind was that it was the telegraph office calling with a message for Mrs. Jackson, unable to reach her at her own cottage. She hoped it wasn't bad news of her son, Dick. But she was wrong, the call was a person-to-person, and it was for Jed. "I'm Mrs. Lansing," she explained to the operator, completely puzzled as to who would be calling at this hour. "Perhaps your party will talk to me." "No, I must talk to Mr. Lansing," the reply came back. Margaret rec ognized Jed's mother's voice, and it held an urgency that was unmistakable. "Call back in five minutes," she told the operator, and ran breathlessly to the barn to get Jed. They lost no time in getting back to the house. The telephone was already ringing when they reached the kitchen. "Hello, Mother," Jed said. "What is it?" He listened for a matter of minutes while his mother talked, a stricken look on his face, and then said, "I'll be down on the first train in the morning. There's one that leaves the junction at two am. It may not be as bad as you think. Goodbye until I see you." He turned to Margaret, whitefaced and visibly shaken. "Dad has injured his hand on a fishing trip. He fell on some broken glass and cut the artery and tendons. There was no competent doctor near to CONTENTMENT IS A LOVELY THING take care of it. They're operating tomorrow. It could mean the end of his career as a brain surgeon," he ended flatly. "But they're not sure yet," said Margaret hopefully. "There's still a chance that the hand can be saved?" "Mother didn't seem to think so —not for his own particular work anyway. It will break his heart. He has taken such pride in his work." "There may still be a chance, Margaret persisted. "Come, I'll help you pack and drive you down to the station. Stay as long as they need you. I'll manage here." "But there's so little I can do," he said, as he moved toward the bedroom. "I've failed Dad at every turn. It would make all the difference in the world to him now if I could carry on his work." Margaret made no reply. She had no answer. But I'll find one, she told herself determinedly. I'm sure that Jed was right in choosing the life he loves. She followed him into the other room and opened a dresser drawer. "It's a good thing you have plenty of clean socks," she commented casually. The tension left Jed's face. "Yes," he agreed. "You always manage to have everything right for me.' 2d N the drive down to the station Margaret asked, "Why must you always feel conscience stricken over having given up your medical training? You made your decision. You have to live your own life. Why torture yourself now with these doubts?" "You knew that I had an older brother who died?" Jed replied. "Yes, of course." "He had just been graduated 45 from high school the year before his death. He was a brilliant student and intensely interested in everything pertaining to the medical profession. 'A born doctor,' Dad used to say proudly. And he was. It was his whole life, just as it was Dad's." Jed paused and when he spoke again it was with an effort. "He and Dad were great pals. It was a manto-man relationship, rather than father and son. 'They were always planning hunting and fishing trips together. 'The only trouble was, Dad never had time to take them. He was still a general practitioner and always busy. Then, the summer after John was graduated from high school, Dad made a special effort to get away for a trip. The two of them were off for a week of fishing and hunting. It was to have been the most glorious week they had known. Instead, it ended in tragedy." He gripped the wheel, and the lines in his face tightened. "There was an automobile accident. Dad was hurt, but John had a brain injury. He died before they could operate. After that Dad took up brain surgery. He felt that it might compensate in some way for the loss of his own son if he could help save other men's sons.' "And you were to have taken John's Shoat in everything," she said gently. "Yes," he answered. For a moment his hand closed over hers— the work-roughened hand of a farmer. She watched from the station until the train disappeared in the distance then drove quickly homeward. Exhausted from the events of the long night, she slept deeply, in spite 46 of her concern. When she awakened the sun was threading the room with shafts of gold. She could hear Mrs. Jackson already in the kitchen taking care of Kimmy's needs. She dressed rapidly and went into the kitchen to break the news, thankful that they both had strong backs and willing hands. With what time Jim Hawkins could spare from his own farm work, they decided they could manage to keep things going until Jed returned. 'The spring planting was all finished, fortunately. The days passed swiftly, so workfilled that almost her only recreation was the daily walk down to the mailbox. Accompanied by a chattering Kimmy, she enjoyed it to the utmost. The letters from Jed were the bright spots of her days, and reports on the injured hand were awaited with hopeful anxiety. She had learned from one of the first letters that a second operation had been performed, but there was little chance that the hand would ever regain the delicate precision and sureness that had given Dr. Lansing a reputation of fame in his chosen field. ODAY, eager as Margaret was to reach the mailbox and learn the news from Jed, she forced herself to walk slowly, stopping often to satisfy Kimmy's curiosity—first that of a bluebird singing on a fence post, then of a wild flower that grew along the edge of the lane. A child's curiosity to learn—to know, was a wonderful thing. Her spirits soared high at the sight of Jed's dear, familiar handwriting, when they finally reached the end RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1955 of the long lane where the mailbox stood. But there was another still more exciting letter, a letter addressed to Mrs. Jackson. It was typewritten and the printing in the lefthand corner indicated that it was from the War Department. She prodded Kimmy on until they had covered about half the distance back to the house, and then, at once fearful and hopeful of what the letter addressed to Mrs. Jackson might contain, she picked him up and ran the rest of the distance to the house. She half forgot her own letter in her anxiety to learn what news there was of Dick. With trembling fingers, Mrs. Jackson finally managed to open and unfold the letter. She looked at it briefly, and then handed it over. "Here, you read it," she said. "Your son is coming home," Margaret told her, after summarizing the message in one quick glance. "T can't believe it," Mrs. Jackson declared finally. It wasn't until Margaret was alone, her friend having gone down to her own little cottage, that Margaret remembered she hadn't read her own letter as yet. She tucked Kimmy in bed for his afternoon nap, then sat down in her favorite chair in the kitchen to open the letter. Jed's letter was heartwarming. His father's hand was doing quite well, and he would be home before the week was out, bringing his parents with him if they would consent to come. "They both need a change and a rest," the letter read, "and this time we will give them a real welcome." (To be -concluded) (LFROM THE FIELD [7 a Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. Sce regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1950, page 278, and the Handbook of Instructions, page 123. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Laura Millard SUGAR HOUSE STAKE (UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS FURNISH MUSIC FOR VISITING TEACHERS CONVENTION May 28, 1954 Front row, seventh and eighth from the left: Anne W. Jones, chorister, and Elva Fletcher, organist. Back row, left to right: Louise Cahoon, First Counselor; Laura R. Millard, President; Bernice Cheshire, Second Counselor. Page 47 48 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1955 Photograph submitted by Ruth Mae Witt WASATCH STAKE (UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR QUARTERLY CONFERENCE Front row, second from right (in dark dress): Ruth Mae Witt, President, Wasatch Stake Relief Society. Second row, at left: Florence Whiting, chorister. Third row, second from the nght: Yvonne Miller, accompanist. Photograph submitted by Verna A. Hunter LIBERTY STAKE (UTAH) PRESENTS PAGEANT "THEY BUILDED WELL" February 23, 1954 This pageant was presented in honor of the past presidents of the stake, most of whom were in attendance. The pageant also commemorated the fiftieth anniversary of Liberty Stake. Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor in the general presidency of Relief Society, was in attendance. Music was presented by the Singing Mothers under the direction of Vera Clayton, with Nan Jones as accompanist. Representing Mother Liberty and Father Time were Gwen Jones and Abraham L. Stout, with Winnifred H. Smith and Mildred Elggren as narrators. A committee, consisting of Verna A. Hunter, Irma Keller, Kathryn Hopkinson, and Ruby Hunt of the stake Relief Society presidency, and all stake board members assisted in this production, with forty people participating. Verna A. Hunter is president of Liberty Stake Relief Society. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 49 Photograph submitted by Joan W. Coombs TONGAN MISSION, HIHIFO DISTRICT RELIEF SOCIETY SHIRTMAKING PROJECT Kneeling in front, left to right: Counselors Meliame Vaisa and Mele Tonga. At the extreme mght: the president of [lihifo District Relief Society, and next to her, Levila Mokofisi. The other women represent several branches in the district. Joan W. Coombs, President, 'Tongan Mission Relief Societv, reports the success of this shirtmaking project and other activities in her mission: "This is a picture of our first district sewing class on shirtmaking without a pattern, that we are teaching now in all the districts. About twenty attended this first class, and three-fourths of them finished a good shirt.... Since then we have had increasing attendance and wide interest and have held about ten classes, some in districts and others in large branches, contacting about sixty to eighty women who actually sewed a shirt, and many others who came to watch, as they couldn't afford material at this time.... We have had a lot of nice comments from husbands.... I want to report on the success of our first mission Relief Society convention held on the second week in April here in Nukualofa.... The convention plan is new here, but we had considerable success with it and very good attendance. 'Three of our four districts were completely represented, and one district, which couldn't come because of boat difficulties, sent their district officers.. Who then took materials back with them, and are now holding a very good district convention there. We had between one hundred eighty and two hundred at each meeting.... We have finished translating and printing a Relief Society Handbook for officers, taking the parts from the English Handbook that are most pertinent to the work here. We had a two-day convention, with meetings on explanation of the reports, the Handbook, duties of officers, and other phases of the work. Also, one session was a songfest, with our district Singing Mothers' choruses each introducing a new translated song we got from Zion, along with some quartets. Each district is now planning a songfest or 'Tongan concert." Photograph submitted by LaPriel S. Bunker CALIFORNIA MISSION RELIEF SOCIETY CONVENTION, LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA, SEPTEMBER 24, 1954 District Presidents, left to right: June Turley, Imperial District; Jetta Tyrrel, San Gorgonio District; Fay Curtis, Colorado River District; Elizabeth Merwin, Oak Creek; Myreel Lewis, Yuma; Rhea Carrick, Mt. Whitney; Fawn Wilcox, South Coast; Addie Smith, immediate past president, Mt. Whitney District, who has served eight years; LaPriel S. Bunker, President, California Mission Relief Society. Sister Bunker reports this convention as an occasion for rejoicing: "We were very pleased with the excellent attendance and the co-operation we received from the sisters and the Priesthood members. They traveled long distances and the women brought many handwork pieces for our display, which was very outstanding. At the noon hour we served luncheon to 120 people in the patio of our lovely new mission home. It was a delight for the sisters to see the new mission home and our beautiful Los Angeles temple for the first time.... We felt the Spirit of the Lord in rich abundance throughout our convention. Everyone who took part went the extra mile. I feel that the fasting and praying which many of us did proved once more how ready the Lord is to answer our prayers." > Win terlime Cafe Bernice T. Clayton When Daddy and I picked the apples last fall, He said, '""Now remember, son, don't pick them all; There are plenty for us, so leave some on the tree." "But why?" I asked Dad, but he said, "Wait and see." I waited and watched, for I wanted to know. But not a thing happened until the big snow, Then birds found the apples and sent out the word That here was a feast for each cold, hungry bird. They came then by dozens; the tree, almost bare, Just burst into blossoms of birds ev erywhere. They twittered and chirped, and they chattered away, Each one saying, "Thanks, ia this fine birds' cafe." 50 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1955 Sheology—Characters and Teachings of The Book of Mormon Lesson 31—Helaman, Son of Alma, and His Two Thousand Sons Elder Leland H. Monson (Text: The Book of Mormon: Alma, chapters 50-58) For Tuesday, April 5, 1955 Objective: To show the power of mothers in teaching their children to obey the commandments and not to doubt, but to put their faith in the Lord for their preservation. Dissension With the King-Men VEN though there was temporary peace in the land, Moroni continued to prepare for war. In the twentieth year of the reign of judges he further fortified the cities and the boundary line between Zarahemla and the land of Nephi. The Nephites were blessed by the Lord in accordance with the promises if they would keep his commandments. In the thirty-fourth year, however, a boundary dispute arose between the people of the land of Morianton and the land of Lehi. Morianton, leader of the rebellious inhabitants of Morianton, tried to escape northward with his followers "... Which would have been a cause to have been lamented..." but Teancum, one of Moroni's great leaders, killed Morianton and carried his army back as prisoners to Moroni. Upon covenanting to keep peace, they were restored to their lands. That same year, Nephihah, second chief judge, died. The record states that while filling "... The judgment-seat with perfect uprightness before God... He had refused Alma to take possession of those records and those things which were esteemed by Alma and his fathers to be most sacred; therefore Alma had conferred them upon his son, Helaman" (Alma 50:37-38). Nephihah's son Pahoran was appointed chief judge and governor over the people. In the beginning of the next year Page 51 52 a part of the Nephites sought to dethrone Pahoran because of his unwillingness to alter the law so that the free government could be changed to a monarchy. The dissenters were called king-men and they were of high birth; but the voice of the people favored the cause of the freemen and Pahoran retained the judgment-seat. At this critical time Amalickiah again stirred up the Lamanites to battle against the Nephites. The army of the enemy was so great that they were unafraid to come down even to the land of Zarahemla. When the rebellious king-men heard of the approach of the Lamanites, they refused to take up arms to defend their own country. Moroni was given the authority either to compel them to fight or to put them to death. Four thousand were killed in the ensuing struggle and _ their other leaders were thrown into prison. The remainder:... Yielded to the standard of liberty, and were compelled to hoist the title of liberty upon their towers, and in their cities, and to take up arms in defence of their country (Alma 51:20). Ammaron New King of Lamanites While Moroni was thus engaged in Overcoming internal troubles, Amalickiah was able to capture many Nephite cities. 'These were so well fortified that they afforded strongholds for the Lamanites when they fell into their hands. 'Teancum with his great warriors, however, repulsed the enemy as they were marching to take possession of the land Bountiful. That night Teancum with his servant stole into the camp of the Lamanites and killed Amalickiah as he lay asleep in RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1955 his tent. Ammoron, Amalickiah's brother, was then appointed the new king of the Lamanites. At this time Moroni instructed Teancum to "... Secure the narrow pass which led into the land northward, lest the Lamanites should obtain that point and should have power to harass them on every side" (Alma 52:9). Moroni with the help of Lehi and 'l'eancum won a great victory over the Lamanites. The Nephite city of Mulek was recaptured, but the beloved leader Moroni was wounded. Lehi, we are told:. Was a man who had been with Moroni in the more part of all his battles; and he was a man like unto Moroni, and they rejoiced in each other's safety; yea, they were beloved by each other, and also beloved by all the people of Nephi (Alma 53:2). Teancum, at the order of Moroni, caused the Lamanite prisoners to fortify Bountiful and they were guarded therein, but on another front the Lamanites captured other cities. Sons of Helaman At this time the converted Lamanites, known as the people of Ammon, who had covenanted never to bear arms again and who had been protected by the Nephites while they helped support the army with provisions, became so concerned over the reverses of the war that they felt they ought to take up arms in defense of their country. They felt themselves to be a burden to the Nephites. Helaman, however, "... Feared lest by so doing they should lose their souls..." (Alma 53:15). However, they had many sons who had not entered into the LESSON DEPARTMENT covenant and they assembled together, two thousand of them, and asked Helaman to be their leader: And they were all young men, and they were exceedingly valiant for courage, and also for strength and activity; but behold, this was not all—they were men who were true at all times in whatsoever thing they were entrusted. Yea, they were men of truth and soberness, for they had been taught to keep the commandments of God and to walk uprghtly before him (Alma 53:20-21). Moroni Rejects Prisoner Exchange In the twenty-ninth year of the judges, Ammoron and Moroni wrote letters concerning the exchange of prisoners. Moroni agreed to exchange one of Ammoron's men for a Nephite man, his wife, and children. In Moroni's answer he warned: Behold, I would tell you somewhat concerning the justice of God, and the sword of his almighty wrath, which doth hang over you except ye repent and withdraw your armies into your own lands, or the land of your possessions, which is the land of Nephi. Yea, I would tell you these things if ye were capable of hearkening unto them; yea, I would tell you concerning that awful hell that awaits to receive such murderers as thou and thy brother have been, except ye repent and withdraw your murderous purposes, and return with your armies to your own lands... And except you withdraw your purposes, behold, ye will pull down the wrath of that God whom you have rtejected upon you... And ye shall soon be visited with death (Alma 54:6-7, 9-10). In his reply, Ammoron closed his letter with the words: And as concerning that God whom ye say we have rejected, behold, we know not such a being; neither do ye; but if it so be that there is such a being, we know not but that he hath made us as well as you. And if it so be that there 53 is a devil and a hell, behold will he not send you there to dwell with my brother whom ye have murdered.... 1 am Ammoron, and a descendant of Zoram, whom your fathers pressed and brought out of Jerusalem (Alma 54:21-23). Moroni was so incensed by the false assertion of Ammoron that he refused to exchange prisoners; but by strategy he won the Nephite prisoners in the city of Gid, and, also, the city without any bloodshed. This was pleasing to Moroni who delighted in saving his people from destruction. By the close of the twenty-ninth year, Moroni was making preparations to attack the city of Morianton which the Lamanites were daily strengthening. Letter of Helaman to Moroni In the beginning of the thirtieth year, Moroni received a letter from Helaman set forth in chapters 56, 57, and 58 of Alma. The contents of this letter comprise the remainder of this lesson. Helaman addressed Moroni as "... My dearly beloved brother, Moroni, as well in the Lord as in the tribulations of our warfare..." (Alma 56:2). He then recounted the circumstances, four years previously, which had surrounded his coming with his two thousand sons ("for they are worthy to be called sons") to support the army of Antipus in the city of Judea. Antipus, Helaman wrote, rejoiced exceedingly to have them because the Lamanites had killed such a vast number of his men:. For which cause we have to mourn. Nevertheless, we may console ourselves in this point, that they have died in the cause of their country and of their God, 54 yea, and they are happy (Alma 56: 10-11). Capture of City of Antiparah When Ammoron learned of the added strength of Antipus' army he forbade the Lamanites to go against Judea. Thus Antipus was given added time to prepare. During the lull he received two thousand other reinforcements from Zarahemla and many provisions from the fathers of Helaman's two thousand sons. With such strength Antipus devised a successful stratagem to recapture the city of Antiparah. According to the plan, the sons of Helaman lured on the Lamanites for two days into the wilderness. On the morning of the third day the Lamanites halted. Helaman asked his sons whether they should turn and attack the Lamanites, who might be laying a snare, or attack them in case Antipus had caught up to the rear of the Lamanites, according to the plan, and a battle might be in progzess. Helaman asked: Therefore what say ye, my sons, will ye go against them to battle? And now I say... My beloved brother Moroni, that never had I seen so great courage, nay, not amongst all the Nephites (Alma 56:44-45). Helaman continues: For as I had ever called them my sons (for they were all of them very young) even so they said unto me: Father, behold our God is with us, and he will not suffer that we should fall; then let us go forth; we would not slay our brethren if they would let us alone; therefore let us go, lest they should overpower the army of Antipus. Now they never had fought, yet they did not fear death; and they did think more upon the liberty of their fathers than they did upon their lives; yea, they had been taught by their mothers, that if they did not doubt, God would deliver them. And they rehearsed unto RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1955 me the words of their mothers, saying: We do not doubt our mothers knew it (Alma 56:46-48). They found that Antipus had indeed attacked the rear of the Lamanites and had fallen by the sword, and his army was about to fall into the hands of the Lamanites. Instead of winning a victory, there would have been a disastrous defeat had not Helaman and _ his two thousand sons returned. After the surrender of the Lamanites, Helaman numbered the young men, fearing that many were slain. But behold, to my great joy, there had not one soul of them fallen to the earth; yea, and they had fought as if with the strength of God; yea, never were men known to have fought with such miraculous strength; and with such mighty power did they fall upon the Lamanites, that they did frighten them; and for this cause did the Lamanites deliver themselves up as prisoners of war (Alma 56:56). Capture of City of Cumeni In the twenty-ninth year, Helaman received reinforcements and provisions from Zarahemla, and sixty more sons of the AntiLehiNephis joined the two thousand. With this strength the city of Cumeni was taken. Helaman decided to send the great number of prisers back to the land of Zarahemla, since he did not have sufficient provisions to feed them, and he was reluctant to slay them. After the prisoners had left under a heavy guard, a new army of Ammoron's attacked Cumeni. The guards in charge of the prisoners, being warned by Nephite spies, returned to the city to help Helaman in the battle. A part of the Lamanite prisoners fled; but the greater number were slain in trying to escape from the guards. LESSON DEPARTMENT As the guards arrived at Cumeni, the Lamanites were about to overpower the Nephites: But behold, my little band of two thousand and sixty fought most desperately; yea, they were firm before the Lamanites, and did administer death unto all those who opposed them.... Yea, and they did obey and observe to perform every word of command with exactness; yea, and even according to their faith it was done unto them; and I did remember the words which they said unto me that their mothers had taught them (Alma 57: 19, 21). It was to the sons of Helaman and the guards who returned, that Helaman gave credit for the great victory in holding the city. Miraculous Preservation of Sons of Helaman After the Lamanites had fled, Helaman ordered the wounded to be taken from the dead. He found that two hundred of his sons had fainted from loss of blood, but, to the astonishment of the whole army, not one of the two thousand sixty died, although every one had received many wounds. It was ascribed:... To the miraculous power of God, because of their exceeding faith in that which they had been taught to believe— that there was a just God, and whosoever did not doubt, that they should be preserved by his marvelous power (Alma 57:26). Helaman was under the necessity of maintaining the parts of the land which his army had won, before seeking to capture Manti, their next objective. He waited for reinforcements to arrive from Zarahemla, and sent an embassy to the governor with a dispatch telling of 55 the happenings in that part of the land and asking for new strength. After many months two thousand men came to their assistance, bringing food, just as they were about to perish from hunger. Capture of City of Manti In addressing Moroni, Helaman remarked that he did not know why more strength had not been sent to them as they were opposing an innumerable enemy. While in these precarious circumstances, Helaman reported, he and his men did " pour out our souls in prayer to God " that he would give them strength to retain the cities and possessions for the support of their people. And the Lord, Helaman asserted, visited them with an assurance that he would save them. Peace and great faith then came to comfort the small army, and Helaman decided to go against the city of Manti without waiting for reinforcements. Because of Helaman's small number of soldiers, the Lamanites allowed themselves to be lured out of the city and sent their numerous army into the wilderness in pursuit of only a part of Helaman's forces. The two small detachments which he left hidden near the city, then overpowered the few guards left in Manti and took possession of it. The Lamanite army finally feared an ambush as they were drawn nearer to Zarahemla, so they began to retreat and pitched their tents for the night. Helaman then led his troops, under cover of darkness, back to Manti, which was retaken. Without the shedding of blood." The Lamanites were so_ struck with fear that they fled out of all that quarter of the land, but carried 56 away many Nephite women and children with them. Helaman reported that all the Nephite cities which had been taken by the Lamanites in that part of the land were in the Nephites' possession once more, but he did not have sufficient strength to maintain them against a new invasion of the Lamanites. In the letter, Helaman asked Moroni if all the reinforcements had had to be sent to Moroni. If that was not the case, then Helaman said, he feared that there must be factions in the government which denied him assistance. Helaman finished his letter in the latter part of the twenty-ninth year. The Lamanites had fled back to the land of Nephi. Before closing his letter to Moroni, Helaman again spoke of his two thousand sixty sons: And those sons of the people of Ammon, of whom I have so highly spoken, are with me in the city of Manti; and the Lord has supported them, yea, and kept them from falling by the sword, insomuch RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1955 that even one soul has not been slain. But behold, they have received many wounds; nevertheless they stand fast in that liberty wherewith God has made them free; and they are strict to remember the Lord their God from day to day; yea, they do observe to keep his statutes, and his judgments, and his commandments continually; and their faith is strong in the prophecies concerning that which is to come. And now, my beloved brother, Moroni, may the Lord our God, who has redeemed us and made us free, keep you continually in his presence; yea, and may he favor this people, even that ye may have success in obtaining the possession of all that which the Lamanites have taken from us, which was for our support. And now, behold, I close mine epistle. I am Helaman, the son of Alma (Alma 58: 39°41). Questions for Discussion 1. How is the character of Moroni shown by the words "... He would not fall upon the Lamanites and destroy them in their drunkenness"? (Alma 55:19). 2. Relate instances which reveal Helaman's great character both as a spiritual leader and a military leader. 3. Show how the teachings of mothers can train their children in righteousness and instill faith in God. Visiting Seacher ITlessages Book of Mormon Gems of Truth Lesson 31: "For That Which Ye Do Send Out Shall Return Unto You Again, and Be Restored... (Alma 41:15). Leone O. Jacobs For Tuesday, April 5, 1955 Objective: To lend incentive to the performance of good deeds HIS truism is as certain to be fulfilled in each of our lives, as that, in the usual course of things, the sun will rise and set. The law of cause and effect is ever at work in the physical universe and applies equally to God's children and their behavior here on earth. Many passages of scripture verify this principle: LESSON DEPARTMENT. For whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap (Galatians 6:7). Even as I have seen, they that plow iniquity, and sow wickedness, reap the same (Job 4:8) Cast thy bread upon the waters: for thou shalt find it after many days (Ecclesiastes 11:1). There is a law, irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundations of this world, upon which all blessings are predicated—And when we obtain any blessing from God, it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated (D. & C. 130:20-21). The quotations using the sowing of seeds and reaping the harvest are particularly applicable, in that seeds always vield their own kind. Seed wheat always produces wheat, weeds bring forth their kind, and it is inevitable, too, that good begets good and evil brings forth evil. Sometimes in this life we see evil apparently go unpunished, but we need not be concerned over this seeming neglect of punishment. The law of retribution is infallible, and punishment will be meted out in the Lord's own due time. This same law of cause and effect applies to matters other than rewards and punishment of good and evil deeds. We cannot expect more from life than we put into it. "Smile and the world smiles with you," is very true. For every good thing there is a price required. "If 57 you wish to have a friend," we are advised, ""'be a friend." Think of the people to whom you are very much attracted. What qualities do they possess that make them attractive to you? In all probability they have cheerful dispositions, are friendly, thoughtful of others, and sincere. You may say, "Oh, I wish I might be like her!" You can, by making those same qualities a part of your own personality. This principle of sending out that which one would like returned in kind, is especially applicable to the home and members of the family. Mothers and fathers definitely set the atmosphere of the home by their own conduct. If they radiate love, patience, encouragement, and consideration for each other, the children will, through both example and teaching, do the same. If, however, parents quarrel, scold, and criticize, there is a strong tendency for such conduct to be echoed by the children, resulting in discord throughout the entire household: Then give to the world the best you have and the best will come back to you (Masterpieces of Religion, "Life's Mir ror," Madeline Bridges, page 365). By a whisper sow we blessings; By a breath we scatter strife; In our words and looks and actions Lie the seeds of death and life. (Hymns, "We Are Sowing," page 192). She Difference Ing Smith The road was long and hard as stone; Because of pride I walked alone. That long road now too quickly ends: The reason's clear—I walk with friends. Vork IT leeting—Selection, Care, and Use of Household Equipment (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 7—Vacuums Rhea H. Gardner For Tuesday, April 12, 1955 vacuum cleaner represents a large expenditure for most families. It is an important piece of home equipment, since it protects the investment you have made in carpets, rugs, furniture, and other furnishings. There are two main types of cleaners, straight suction or tank vacuums, and motor-driven brush or upright vacuums. Uprights have a brush that sweeps the dirt loose and a sucking action which carries it up into the bag. 'The tank and canister type of vacuum operates on the powerful suction principle. If there are many stairs to be cleaned, this kind will likely prove more convenient to use. Before buying a vacuum keep the following suggestions in mind: 1. Try out different kinds of cleaners in your home. See which is easiest for you to operate and which does your work best. 2. Check to see if the dirt may be disposed of easily without the use of costly features that add materially to the cost of the vacuum. 3. Make sure there are guards to prevent marring furniture. 4. See if the nozzle and handle on. An upright vacuum can be adjusted to different heights for convenient and effective use. 5. Look over the cleaning tools. A well-designed assortment of cleaning tools Page 58 when used regularly, will greatly lighten such housecleaning chores as removing dust from window hangings, furniture, pictures, lamp shades, mattresses, bed springs, and polished floors. 6. Check to see if service and replacement parts can be readily available when needed. Several short cleaning periods are kinder to your rug and much more effective in removing carpet soil than one longer cleaning period. Rules to Remember in Caring for Your Vacuum: 1. Before connecting the cord to the wall outlet, make sure the switch on your cleaner is turned to "off."? Otherwise, contact in the plug may be seriously damaged. To disconnect, grasp the plug firmly. Never tug on the cord. 2. Pick up pins and other metal objects by hand. 'They may seriously damage your cleaner. 3. Operate your cleaner slowly. The slower the upright is operated, the faster and more efficient will be the cleaning job. Operate a tank type with twice as many strokes as an upright. With either, do not skimp on cleaning time. 4. For best results, operate your cleaner in the direction of the pile of a rug, not across the weave. 5. Always be sure the nozzle of an upright cleaner as at the correct height. 'The bristles should touch the carpet pile. Oc- LESSON DEPARTMENT casionally turn your vacuum over, place a straight-edged object across the nozzle opening. If the bristles are worn so they do not touch and cannot be lowered, the brush should be replaced. A brush that is lower than necessary, soon wears out and does less efficient cleaning than one that is just the right height. 6. Start each cleaning with an empty dust container. Dust bags are made large to provide a large filtering area and not to hold a great quantity of dirt. To operate a vacuum with a dust-filled bag is like driving a car with the breaks on. Tank cleaners have a smaller filtering area. This makes the frequent emptying of them especially important if the highest degree of air flow is to be maintained. 7. Before you put your vacuum away, empty the dirt container. See that the brush bristles are free from hair, thread, string, or lint. Occasionally turn cloth bags inside out and give them a good brushing after emptying them. 59 8. Wind the cord loosely around the hooks provided for it. Avoid kinking, twisting, and stretching. Alternate the winding plan so any wear that might result from winding will be distributed over several points. 9. Refer back to your instruction book often. Thoughts for Discussion 1. It is extravagant to pay for unused conveniences. 2. Do you use your vacuum attachments as frequently as you would like to, or do you need them more readily accessible or in a more convenient place so you will use them oftener? 3. If so, why not replace the box they came in for a self-made convenient-to-use holder. Then place it near the spot they will be used most. When put to efficient use, vacuum attachments can save you time, energy, and money. Aor _—hiceine of England Lesson 47—"Adam Bede" by George Eliot (Mary Ann Evans) (1819-1880) Elder Briant S. Jacobs For Tuesday, April 19, 1955 Objective: versal human problems. HROUGHOUT time the best gift any great artist has left his fellowmen is himself. Or if we turn this coin over, on the other side it reads: "No enduring work of art has ever been conceived and executed by a puny person." George Eliot left six novels, some poems and sketches, to vindicate both her character as a person and her stature as a novelist. Of her best-known works Adam-Bede (1859), The Mill on the Floss (1860), Silas Marner To enjoy Adam Bede and gain a greater understanding of some uni- (1861), and Middlemarch (1871), Adam Bede through almost a century has sold twice as many copies as any of her other works, and, for us, it is the tool best-shaped to our purpose of appreciating George Eliot and her contribution to the English novel. Born in 1819 the youngest of five children, Mary Ann spent the first thirty-one years of her life in the peace and security of the rural countryside where she was born. Her father was a carpenter, as his 60 fathers had been for generations. When, because of his honesty, industry, and respect for his betters, he was appointed overseer of an estate by a local nobleman, it was Mary Ann who rode with him in his buckboard as he spent endless hours driving about the countryside meeting the commonfolk and making financial arrangements with them. Thus Mary Ann spent her childhood absorbing the ways and beliefs, the language and the personalities of her own kind. It was at firsthand that she acquired her three life-long loves: love of nature and her beauties; love of common humankind, despite their many shortcomings; and love of a high moral code of belief. Mary Ann was with her father constantly, nursing him for years before his final illness in 1849, when she was thirty. It was not until after his death that she felt she had a right to her own career, which explained her long delay in leaving her country home for the intellectual challenge of the city, in 1851. She came to London as assistant editor of the Westminster Review, one of the most prominent journals of the English reform movement. She soon fell in love with George Henry Lewes, one of the prominent contributors to the Westminster Review, who had long been married, and was the father of three sons. Separated from his wife for several years, he was nevertheless unable to remarry, since at this time divorces in England could be granted only by a special act of Parliament. Realizing the hopelessness of the situation, Mary Ann became George Lewes' common-law wife. 'They re-. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1955 mained together until his death, twenty-four years later. Not only did these two support Lewes' sons, but the boys' mother also. Thus it was Mary Ann Evans adopted the pen name of George Eliot. She had already written a series of sketches for her magazine dealing with the happy years of her youth. 'These were so successful that she wrote a novel; however, all her books were published under the name of George Eliot. Only Dickens and a few other identified the author as a woman, and her secret was kept until after her novels had achieved an overwhelming popularity with the English reading public. George Eliot had strong, almost masculine intellectual powers, and loved ideas and the stimulation of discussion and spirited conversation. But she had a most feminine temperament, and the great need of her life was for love and tenderness. Because so many other values of life were shut off to her, her intellectual, artistic world was her only world. Contrary to so many Victorian novels, her books were not written to entertain, but to give life and body to her beliefs. In her books we find an intense moral earnestness; in each plot the moral problem is a choice between good and evil; and the moral values which she honors, are a great justification of the Christian ethics which were the core of her life. Her "religion of humanity," already familiar to us in her Silas Marner, is likewise given memorable statement in her bestknown work, Adam Bede, which has also been spoken of as "our supreme novel of pastoral life." LESSON DEPARTMENT A Perry Picture MARY ANN EVANS (George Eliot ) 1819-1880 The Tempo of Adam Bede As we grow older, the delicious, ruminating pastime of conversing with lifetime friends about '"'the good old days" becomes more and more rewarding. Nothing really "happens" during the first 150 pages in this novel, so busy is George Eliot doing just this. Her portrait of young, strong Adam Bede obviously is based on her father. Dinah Morris, the beautiful, sincere Methodist preacher, contains elements of both George Eliot and her aunt, Mrs. Samuel Evans, who had spent her life as a preacher. We can safely conclude that the scene, texture, movement, and at least some of the main characters are autobiographical. And with what loving care does she handle each character or family group as she plucks them 61 out of her memory-bag and on her page draws them into life. But often, in life as in literature, it is in those unspectacular, routine days of leisurely, serene contentment when nothing "happens" worthy of entry in a diary or newspaper that the most sustaining essences of the good life are to be found. If we might accept this last statement as her purpose in writing the warm, gentle, meandering introduction, then we see how closely the ponderous, yet delightful movement of this first section matches her idea. Country life is beautiful, quiet, healthy, vigorous, and good. So, then, are the characters who live in the scenes she portrays. While the book is named for Adam Bede, while Mrs. Poyser is the earthy, truth - speaking comic character; and the central tragic figure is Hetty and her betrayal into child-murder, the heart of the story lies within the community as a collective, mutually sustaining unit. George Eliot takes us to dairies, farms, birthdays, weddings, carpenter shops, schoolrooms, and the open fields so that we may see the individual members of the wholeness that is Hayslope Village. Her peaceful, contented pace is dominant from the first page: The afternoon sun was warm on the five workmen there, busy upon doors and window-frame, and wainscoting. A scent of pine-wood from a_ tent-like pile of planks outside the open door mingled itself with the scent of the elder-bushes which were spreading their summer snow close to the open window opposite; the slanting sunbeams shone through the transparent shavings that flew before the steady plane, and lit up the fine grain of the oak panelling.... On a heap of those soft shavings a rough, grey shepherd-dog 62 had made himself a pleasant bed, and was lying with his nose between his fore-paws, occasionally wrinkling his brows to cast a glance at the tallest of the five workmen.... A panoramic view of the countryside near Hayslope again details in real, living tones the pastoral peace of this "pleasant land": High up against the horizon were the huge conical masses of hill, like giant mounds intended to fortify this region of com and grass against the keen and hungry winds of the north; not distant enough to be clothed in purple mystery, but with sombre greenish sides visibly specked with sheep, whose motion was only revealed by memory, not detected by sight.... It was that moment in summer when the sound of the scythe being whetted makes us cast more lingering looks at the flower-sprinkled tresses of the meadows.... Now and then there was a new arrival; perhaps a slouching labourer, who, having eaten his supper, came out to look at the unusual scene with a slow bovine gaze, willing to hear what any one had to say, but by no means excited enough to ask a question. She speaks of the sun as "hidden for a moment, and it shone out like a recovered joy'; likewise shines forth the sound of laughter as Adam walks in the fields of an early morning.. And perhaps there is no time in a summer's day more cheering, than when the warmth of the sun is just beginning to triumph over the freshness of the morning—when there is just the lingering hint of early coolness to keep off Jangour under the delicious influence of warmth. Theory of Literature From the time she first wrote, and throughout the rest of the century, George Eliot was one of the most popular of Victorian novelists. If there were some before her time who opposed the novel as evil, they were surely won over by Adam RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1955 Bede and similar moralizing works. In chapter seventeen the author stops the progress of her story to tell her method and her goals. And, in telling her story, the only thing she fears is falseness; she wants to tell things as they are: "Have I any time to spend on things that never existed?" she asks. No. She pledges herself to tell the life of the countryfolk exactly as she knew it, without "prettying it up'; how should the truth be told about a husband:... Who has other irritating habits besides that of not wiping his shoes? These fellow-mortals, every one, must be accepted as they are: you can neither straighten their noses, nor brighten their wit, nor rectify their dispositions; and it is these people—among whom your life is passed—that it is needful you should tolerate, pity, and love: it is these more or less ugly, stupid, inconsistent people, whose moments of goodness you should be able to admire—for whom you should cherish all possible hopes, all possible patience. In painting life, she says, let us search for beauty of form, but let us also search for "that other beauty too, which lies in... Secret deep human sympathy." We must be allowed to paint Madonnas, but we must not be prevented from finding beauty in "those old women scraping carrots with their work - worn hands." Beautiful heroes and heroines are so very rare, and they must not receive more than their share of reverence. It is more needful that I should have a fibre of sympathy connecting me with that vulgar citizen who weighs out my sugar in a vilely-assorted cravat and waistcoat, than with the handsome rascal in red scarf and green feathers—more needful that my heart should swell with loving admiration at some trait of gentle goodness in the faulty people who sit at the same hearth with me. LESSON DEPARTMENT Or as Adam Bede says of religion, "religion's something else besides notions. It isn't notions sets people doing the right thing—it's feelings." And finally these right feelings towards one's fellow man are "a kind of knowledge," the most precious kind for George Eliot and_ her world. For her, human nature ls lovable, and the common here-andnow the best anyone can dream of. Plot of Adam Bede Adam and his brother Seth are young, industrious carpenters who live with Lisabeth, their loving but jealous mother, and Thais, their father, formerly a workman proud of his trade but now addicted to drink. Seth loves Dinah Morris, the beautiful niece of Mrs. Poyser, a kind, sharptongued neighbor, but Dinah desires only to minister to the needs of her fellow Methodists through her preaching. Also living with the Poysers is Hetty Sorrel, beautiful, vain, and shallow. Adam's love for her grows, but she is having a secret affair with Captain Arthur Donnithorme, handsome, dashing, and heir to the local estate. Hetty tolerates Adam, but her dream is to be Mrs. Donnithorne, and Lady of the Manor. When Adam accidentlly discovers Arthur and Hetty kissing, he accuses Arthur of dishonorable intentions, and forces him to break off his relationship with Hetty, since quality folk like Arthur never marry commoners. Arthur leaves Hayslope, and soon Adam is betrothed to Hetty, who at first is indifferent, then terrified when she discovers she is pregnant by Arthur. Only a short time before their wedding day she leaves the farm, pretending to visit Dinah Morris, but actually she undertakes the long trip to Arthur at Windsor. Destitute and weary, Hetty arrives to find that Arthur is in Ireland. Distraught, she sells her precious earrings and plans to go to Dinah, but her baby comes too soon. Filled with shame, dread, and animal fright, Hetty leaves her baby to die of exposure, then plans suicide, but she has not the courage, and is taken to court. The Poysers, Adam, Reverend Irwine, 63 her beloved minister, and Bartle Massey, the local teacher, attend her trial. She seems struck dumb, responding to nothing until Dinah Mornis arrives, prays with her, and stays with her constantly until finally she confesses her crime. When Hetty is sentenced to hang, Adam is completely broken, but he can do nothing. As Hetty travels in the cart to the hanging, Arthur arrives with a last minute reprieve. Hetty goes to prison, Arthur goes to the army, and the Hayslope folk return home. Gradually Adam finds himself drawn more and more to Dinah, and after asking approval from his brother Seth, who once loved her, he asks Dinah to marry him. She admits her love, but remains true to the ministry. She goes away, but when Adam finally follows her, she confesses her feeling that now it is the will of God that they marry. Significance of Adam Bede George Eliot introduced a new realism into the history of the English novel. Her delineation of the virtues of the humdrum _ peasant life is one of the most sympathetic and detailed in English literature. More important, she furthered the technique of describing what goes on within her character's mind and heart, as well as narrating outward events. Hetty's "Journey in Despair" reveals with rare power the inward workings of the female heart; she knew the psychology of woman as have few writers. She could also portray her male characters convincingly. Adam incarnates the virtues which George Eliot most ad > mired: courage, industry, gentleness, integrity, patience, love, and strength. Mrs. Poyser's racy tongue is memorable for such comments as the following on being a wife: I know that the men like—a poor soft, as 'ud simper at 'em like the pictur o' the sun, whether they did right or wrong, an' say thank you for a kick, an' pretend 64 she didna know which end she _ stood uppermost, till her husband told her. That's what a man wants ina wife, mostly; he wants to make sure o' one fool as 'ull tell him he's wise. And on gossip: I say as some folks' tongues are like the clocks as run on strikin', not to tell you the time o' the day, but because there's summat wrong 1' their own insides. And when, defying all common sense, she tells the greedy Squire, their boss: We're not dumb creaturs to be abused and made money on by them as ha' got the lash 7' their hands.... An' if I'm th' only one as speaks my mind, there's plenty o' the same way o' thinking i' this parish... For your name's no better than a brimstone match in everybody's nose.... Sometimes, with the slowness of her movement, her habit of asking RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1955 questions and then answering them, long inserted editorials, and warping her story to make justice triumph and good be rewarded, George Eliot taxes the modern reader. But her deep love for humankind, her description of rural life in patient, exacting detail, and her belief in the supremacy of high moral principles make her works permanently rewarding.. Questions on the Lesson 1. Why did Mary Ann Evans assume a pen name? 2. What group of Englishmen are "her people?" 3. How might the slow-moving beginning of Adam Bede be justified? 4. George Eliot's novels were not written merely to entertain; what, then, was her purpose in writing as she did? Ooavad csance— lhe Gontimton of the United States (It is recommended that each Relief Society member read the text of the Constitution relating to each lesson as printed before the lesson.) ARTICLE XI The Judicial power of the United States shall not be construed to extend to any suit in law or equity, commenced or prosecuted against one of the United States by Citizens of another State, or by Citizens or Subjects of any Foreign State. ArTICLE XII The Electors shall meet in their respective states and vote by ballot for President and Vice-President, one of whom, at least, shall not be an inhabitant of the same state with themselves; they shall name in their ballots the person voted for as President, and in distinct ballots the person voted for as Vice-President, and they shall make distinct lists of all persons voted for as President and of all persons voted for as Vice-President, and of the number of votes for each, which lists they shall sign and certify, and transmit sealed to the seat of the government of the United States, directed to the President of the Senate;— The President of the Senate shall, in the presence of the Senate and House of Representatives, open all the certificates and the votes shall then be counted;— The person having the greatest number of votes for President shall be the President, if such number be a majority of the whole number of Electors appointed; and LESSON DEPARTMENT; 65 if no person have such majority, then from the persons having the highest numbers not exceeding three on the list of those voted for as President, the House of Representatives shall choose immediately, by ballot, the President. But in choosing the President the votes shall be taken by states, the representation from each state having one vote; a quorum for this purpose shall consist of a member or members from two-thirds of the states, and a majority of all the states shall be necessary to a choice. And if the House of Representatives shall not choose a President whenever the right of choice shall devolve upon them, before the fourth day of March next following, then the Vice-President shall act as President, as in the case of the death or other constitutional disability of the President. The person having the greatest number of votes as Vice-President, shall be the Vice-President, if such number be a majority of the whole number of Electors appointed, and if no person have a majority, then from the two highest numbers on the list, the Senate shall choose the Vice-President; a quorum for the purpose shall consist of two-thirds of the whole number of Senators, and a majority of the whole number shall be necessary to a choice. But no person constitutionally ineligible to the office of President shall be eligible to that of Vice-President of the United States. ARTICLE XIII Section 1. Neither slavery nor involuntary servitude, except as a punishment for crime whereof the party shall have been duly convicted, shall exist within the United States, or any place subject to their jurisdiction. Section 2. Congress shall have power to enforce this article by appropriate legislation, ARTICLE XIV Section 1. All persons born or naturalized in the United States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States and of the State wherein they reside. No State shall make or enforce any law which shall abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United States; nor shall any State deprive any person of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law; nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws. Section 2. Representatives shall be apportioned among the several States according to their respective numbers, counting the whole number of persons in each State, excluding Indians not taxed. But when the right to vote at any election for the choice of Electors for President and Vice-President of the United States, Representatives in Congress, the Executive and Judicial officers of a State, or the members of the Legislature thereof, is denied to any of the male inhabitants of such State, being twenty-one years of age, and citizens of the United States, or in any way abridged, except for participation in rebellion, or other crime, the basis of representation therein shall be reduced in the proportion which the number of such male citizens shall bear to the whole number of male citizens twenty-one years of age in such State. Section 3. No person shall be a Senator or Representative in Congress, or elector of President and Vice-President, or hold any office, civil or military, under the United States, or under any State, who, having previously taken an oath, as a member of Congress, or as an officer of the United States, or as a member of any State legislature, or as an executive or judicial officer of any State, to support the Constitution of the United States, shall have engaged in insurrection or rebellion against the same, or given aid or comfort to the enemies thereof. But Congress may by a vote of two-thirds of each House, remove such disability. Section 4. The validity of the public debt of the United States, authorized by law, including debts incurred for payment of pensions and bounties for services in suppressing insurrection or rebellion, shall not be questioned. But neither the United States nor any State shall assume or pay any debt or obligation incurred in aid of insurrection or tebellion against the United States, or any claim for the loss or emancipation of any slave; but all such debts, obligations and claims shall be held illegal and void. 66 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1955 Section 5. The Congress shall have power to enforce, by appropriate legislation, the provisions of this article. ARTICLE XV Section 1. The right of citizens of the United States to vote shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or by any State on account of race, color, or previous condition of servitude. Section 2. The Congress shall have power to enforce this article by appropriate legislation. Lesson 13—Amendments Eleven Through Fifteen Elder Albert R. Bowen Texts: Your Rugged Constitution, (Y. R. C.), pp. 219-237; The Constitution of the United States Its Sources and Application, (C. Of U. S.), pp. 228-251 For Tuesday, April 26, 1955 Objective: To study the Amendments to the Constitution which were adopted following the Bill of Rights down through the Civil War to 1870. A Limit on the Power of Federal Courts—Amendment Eleven (Y. R. C., pp. 220-221; C. Of U. S., page 228) The Judicial power of the United States shall not be construed to extend to any suit in law or equity, commenced or prosecuted against one of the United States by Citizens of another State, or by Citizens or Subjects of any Foreign State. N 1793 the Supreme Court of the United States, in a celebrated case known as Chisholm vs. Georgia, affirmed a judgment obtained by Chisholm of South Carolina against the State of Georgia in a Federal Court. The case created a furor among the states because it was regarded as an affront to the dignity of a state that it should be sued by a citizen of another state or of a foreign state. This ruling by the Supreme Court was perfectly consistent with the Constitution before the adoption of the Eleventh Amendment. Within a matter of days after the decision was announced, the Eleventh Amendment to the Constitution was introduced in Congress. It was finally ratified in 1798 by the required number of states and became part of the Constitution on January 8, 1798. Now a state may not be sued without its consent by a citizen of another state or of a foreign state in any United States court. Election of the President and VicePresident—Amendment Twelve (Y. R. C., pp. 222-225; C. Of U. S., pp. 228-232) The language of the Twelfth Amendment to the Constitution is rather voluminous. Its provisions have no substantial effect upon our constitutional rights. Consequently it is not deemed of enough importance to set forth the language of this Amendment verbatim. It is of interest, however, to note the historical reason for its adoption. The purpose of this Amendment was simply to change the method of voting in the Electoral College for the office of President and Vice- LESSON DEPARTMENT President. In the election of 1800 there was a tie vote in the Electoral College in the contest between Thomas Jefferson and Aaron Burr. The election of the President was therefore thrown into the House of Representatives where Jefferson was finally elected. Under the original wording of the Constitution, Presidential Electors voted for two persons for the office of President and Vice-President, with no designation of their choice for either office, and the person having the highest number of votes was declared to be President and the second highest candidate the Vice-President. 'The growth of party politics and the party system made imperative the change which was effected by the Twelfth Amendment. Under this Amendment Presidential Electors are required to designate the person they are voting for as President and Vice-President respectively. 'This Amendment became a part of the Constitution in 1804. Abolition of Slavery—Thirteenth Amendment, (Y. R. C., pp. 226- 227; C. Of U. S., pp. 232-235) Section 1. Neither slavery nor involuntary servitude, except as a punishment for crime whereof the party shall have been duly convicted, shall exist within the United States, or any place subject to their jurisdiction. Section 2. Congress shall have power to enforce this article by appropriate legislation. After the adoption of the Twelfth Amendment in 1804, the Constitution of the United States remained unchanged for sixty-one years. The Thirteenth, Fourteenth, and Fifteenth Amendments were all 67 adopted as a result of the great controversy over slavery. 'These Amendments are commonly referred to as the "Reconstruction Amendments." It is of great importance to observe, as has been previously mentioned, that the first Ten Amendments to the Constitution, which we know and refer to as the Bill of Rights, were direct limitations upon the power of the National Government over the lives and property of the states and of individual citizens. The Thirteenth, Fourteenth, and Fifteenth Amendments, on the other hand, operate upon the power of the states and limit their power over the lives and property of individual citizens and persons. While, in the beginning, the power of a strong central National Government was distrusted and feared, the conviction finally developed that unlimited power in the states was likewise to be feared. The Thirteenth Amendment was introduced in Congress in January of 1865, just prior to the end of the Civil War. It was ratified as part of the Constitution the same year. This Amendment abolished slavery and involuntary servitude in the United States except imprisonment for crime. Before the adoption of the Thirteenth Amendment, Lincoln had freed the slaves by the Emancipation Proclamation. 'The Emancipation Proclamation operated only in the states engaged in Civil War against the United States. Slavery in the District of Columbia and in the territories had also been abolished. Congress had likewise passed laws freeing slaves serving in the Union cause. None of these enactments, laws, and declarations, 68 abolished slavery. It was deemed necessary, therefore, to adopt an Amendment to the Constitution which would accomplish that result. The provisions of the Thirteenth Amendment relating to involuntary servitude deserve brief comment. This provision was designed to strike down any laws providing for imprisonment for debt, forced labor, and peonage such as existed in some of the South American countries. Under this Amendment, the state law providing that a person fined for a misdemeanor (infringement of a minor criminal law) could confess judgment and agree to work out the fine imposed, was held to be unconstitutional and in violation of the Thirteenth Amendment. Still another law was held unconstitutional under this Amendment which provided that a contract could be made providing for the right to imprison a worker or keep him under guard until the service which he agreed to perform had been completed. The Supreme Court has ruled that this Amendment operates only upon the states and not upon individuals. Consequently, acts of Congress designed to prevent individuals from discriminating against negroes in such matters as hotel, restaurant, and railroad accommodations, have been held unconstitutional. Privileges of Citizens — Fourteenth Amendment, (Y. R. C. Pp. 228-235; C. Of U. S., pp. 235-250.) Section 1. All persons born or naturalized in the United States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States and of the State wherein they reside. No State shall make or enforce any law which shall abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United States; nor shall any State deprive RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1955 any person of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law; nor deny to any person within its. Jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws. The Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution became a part of that great document on July 21, 1868. It was introduced in Congress June 16, 1866. It was found that the provisions of the 'Thirteenth Amendment freeing the slaves were insufficient to safeguard the rights of the negro. 'The purpose of the Fourteenth Amendment was to make him a citizen. This great Amendment, which has been the subject of literally hundreds of interpretative decisions by the Supreme Court of the United States, consists of five sections. Only one of them is set out in this lesson. Section One defines citizenship under the Constitution and laws of the United States and prohibits the states from abridging or denying any of the rights belonging to such citizenship. It makes all citizens of the United States also citizens of the state of their residence. After the passage of the Thirteenth Amendment laws _ were passed which denied to negroes substantial rights of citizenship. For example, some of those laws forbade his ownership of land. Others set him apart and segregated him from the white population except in the form of a menial servant, and others sought to chain him to the land and made him incompetent to testify as a witness in court in a case in which a white person was a party. 'These and all other similar discriminations were struck down by section one of the Fourteenth Amendment. Before the adoption of this LESSON DEPARTMENT Amendment, citizenship in the United States was derived from citizenship in some state. The Fourteenth Amendment reversed this theory or rule of citizenship and made state citizenship derivative from citizenship in the United States. The Fourteenth Amendment was designed primarily for the benefit of the negro, but its protection extends to all persons born in the United States or naturalized under its laws, and makes them citizens. It has been pointed out how the Fifth Amendment forbids the National Government from depriving persons of life, liberty, or property without due process of law. The Fourteenth Amendment restrains the states from doing the same thing. The provisions of the final clause of section one prohibit the states from denying equal protection of the laws to any person within their jurisdiction. 'This simply means that no hostile or discriminating legislation of a state directed against individuals, singled out for its application, may be enacted or enforced. Section two of the Fourteenth Amendment need receive only brief mention and its text is not set out in full. In substance, section two provides a punishment for a state which prevents or refuses to allow any qualified citizen of the United States to vote in an election. It does not prevent the enactment by a state of laws defining qualifications for voting which have equal application to all citizens of the United States. Thus, for example, a law requiring that a voter be able to read and write is not unconstitutional. 69 Section two also empowers Congress to reduce the basis of representation in Congress of any state which denies voting privileges to citizens entitled to vote. This power, it may be added, has never been exercised by Congress. - Section three of the Amendment disqualifies from office under the National Government all persons who had been engaged in the Civil War on the side of the Confederacy. Inasmuch as the disabilities of the section have long since ceased to have any force or effect, its only interest to us now is purely historical. In 1898 the last vestiges of this disability were removed by Congress. Section four of the Amendment recognized the validity of the public debt of the United States, but expressly repudiated all debts and obligations incurred in aid of rebellion or insurrection against the United States. This section was obviously aimed at the public debt and obligations of the Confederacy and made them void. On the other hand, section four made the states of the Southern Confederacy proportionately liable for all of the indebtedness incurred by the United States in prosecuting the war against the Confederacy. As a result of section four of the Fourteenth Amendment, the public debt of the Confederacy was declared void. It amounted to at least two billion dollars. Furthermore, it expressly prohibited the United States or any state from paying for the emancipation of any slave. 'This resulted in a property loss of another two billion dollars to the former slave owners. Section five empowers Congress 70 Sarred Mirsir for CHURCH PIANISTS Chapel Echoes—Perry....................---- 75 Chapel Musing—Perry a 85 Concert Transcriptions of Favorite Hymns—Kohlmann_.................---------- 85 — Famous Sacred Songs—Peery..........1.25 —_ Lorenz's Church Piano Classics........1.10 _ Lorenz's Church Pianist Volumes L643 >. Each 1.10 a. Perry's Piano Voluntaries..................1.25 Piano Hymn Voluntaries—Lorenz....1.10 Sacred Piano Album—Gohm............1.25 Sunday Piano Music—Presser............1.00 Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank | DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 45-47 Souh Main Salt Lake Ciy 1, Utah | | | | Please send the music indicated above. | LJ On Approval O Charge (0 Money Enclosed i} SANUAIU AL: LL Ae 445 NORTH UNIVERSITY, PROVO? 2260 WASHINGTON ON BLVD. OGDEN RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1955 to enforce the provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment by appropriate legislation. Franchisement of Citizens of All Races Fifteenth Amendment, (Y. R. C., pp. 236-237; C. Of U. S., pp. 250-251) Section 1. The right of citizens of the United States to vote shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or by any State on account of race, color, or previous condition of servitude. Section 2. The Congress shall have power to enforce this article by appropriate legislation. The Fifteenth Amendment was adopted March 30, 1870. It formed the final capstone to freeing the slaves. The Thirteenth Amendment freed the slave. The Fourteenth made him a citizen. The Fifteenth Amendment made him a_ voter. These three Amendments completed the restraints placed upon the states to prevent arbitrary and discriminatory exercise of power over citizens and persons as the first Ten Amendments had placed similar restraints upon the national power. Questions on the Lesson 1. How does the Eleventh Amendment limit the judicial power of the United States? 2. What changes were effected in the selection of the President and Vice-President by the Twelfth Amendment? 3. By what name are the Thirteenth, Fourteenth, and Fifteenth Amendments commonly known? 4. What were these Amendments designed to accomplish? 5. What was the specific purpose of the Thirteenth, Fourteenth, and Fifteenth Amendments? 6. May any state deny citizenship to a citizen of the United States? Explain. 7. Is the protection of the Fourteenth Amendment limited to negroes? On Mleasu ring Mabel Jones Gabbott When I was one and five, I stood up straight and tall, While mother marked my height In inches on the wall. Now I am one and five Times many more; it's true My reaching up was stopped At inches: sixty-two. How shall I note my growth As future years unroll— In breadth and span of mind And depth of heart and soul? Lew Year s Prayer Vesta N. Lukei Upon the New Year's shining scroll. Beloved, now, let me enroll Our names, our need for special care, And, with humility, my prayer To God that he protect and bless Our pure bright love with happiness; And guide us with his wisdom, clear And understanding, through this year. Enjoy a wonderful vacation in HAWAII With a congenial group— By ship or plane or both An L. D. S. Temple Session for those who wish it! For information and reservations: MRS. ALONZO J. MORLEY Phone: 2287-J, Provo, Utah Write: 387 East 3rd North Provo, Utah In Salt Lake contact: MRS. MARGARET LUND Phone 6-2909 Write: 3021 South 23rd East Salt Lake City, Utah Back Fence Neighbors Christie Lund Coles Gossips, some call them, The women who choose To pause by the fence When they've hung their clothes. Yet, neighbors are neighbors, And sometimes, much more; And a woman needs one Not too far from her door, To tell her the news Of children and church, To give recipes, To aid in the search Of small child or dog Strayed from the place. A true neighbor-friend Wears heaven's own grace. It's awaiting You... E YES there is still a tremendous amount of outstanding instruction and use awaiting you in this and other copies of the Relief Society Magazine. Your editions may be handsomely bound at the West's finest bindery and printing plant for $2.50 cloth bound and $3.50 leather bound per volume plus postage for mail orders. Follow these postage rates if you send your order by mail: Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles........... Ceeeseeeeeeereeeee35 150 to 300 miles 4 300 to 600 miles; 6 600 to 1000 miles _................: 1000 to 1400 miles.....00.....20. Eee.64 1400 to 1800 miles...............---.--.----. -76 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press 31 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah Phone 4.2581 (HO) Page 71 Over 1800 miles.......... 87 72 Playtime Gs Over Ivy Houtz Woolley Where are the children of yesterday? The place is here where they used to play; Its ground, packed down by romping feet, Is parched and baked with summer's heat. It has not fallowed by snows or rain, But seems to hope they will come again. The weeds grow rank near the outer edge, And bushes which grew to be a hedge Have thirsted and died. The brook is still, Its shallow bed is a sandy fill. The proud pole, flagless, seems to say, "Come, run Old Glory up today." There are artless carvings on the wall Which show the carvers were not tall, But only children, who tried to see How nice the names they bore could be. A white pearl button, one of brass, Are stitched to earth by glades of grass. An unsewed baseball, with cover spread Like a shriveled bat, a long time dead. Two glassies pressed down in the clay Have been forgotten many a day, The big one brown, the small one blue; The brown one was a taw when new. Splintered pencils strew the ground; The red rim of a slate Hangs on the only picket left Which used to be a gate. Some well-frayed ropes swing from old limbs Of trees now dry and dead, A swingboard dangles forth and back; No shade is overhead. The bent wheel of a broken cart Encircles a small mound; A toy spade stands at one end, Suggesting sacred ground. Where are the feet of yesterday? Did many of them go astray? Or did they climb the golden stair Where fame and fortune waited there? Did bogs beset them while they pressed Along life's path? Or did they rest At pearly gates, where angels meet When heaven welcomes little feet? Where are the children of yesterday? Their playgrounds call them back to play! RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1955 Europe In 1955 As we wish to include the dedication of the Temple at Berne, Switzerland, our European Tours in 1955 are scheduled to leave in August. Plan Your Vacation With This In Mind "THE BEST IN THE WEST" Travel With Us For Details, write or phone: VIDA FOX CLAWSON 966 East South Temple SALT LAKE CITY 2, UTAH Phone: 4-2017 Better Light Means © Better Sight Be Modern live Electrically UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. '- k shopping Ld {\\ Hy ae iy AMI ook pays the postage! I 5 Wy \ fi io & — 1. Our Lord of the Gospels 1. Reusen cuark, ar This excellent book, just off the press, contains a harmony of all sacred writings on the divine life and teachings of Christ. Chiefly used in this intense scholarly study are the Four Gospels of the King James version and Third Nephi in the Book of Mormon. $5.00 2. The World and the Prophets such wisvey The study of scriptures and world events is offered in this outstanding volume to prove that time vindicates the Prophets. This book is an excellent study of the Prophets and of human nature. $2.50 3. Israel! Do You KNOW? Cecrano ricHaros With missionary vigor, the author reminds Jewish people everywhere of the great promise made to them, how the reuniting of the House of Joseph and the House of Judah will be accomplished, and how it is presently being fulfilled. The book has vitality, is easy to read, and clearly interprets the Divine purpose of the Lord. $2.00 DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah Gentlemen: Enclosed you will find ( ) check ( )money Fr I l I | order ( ) charge to my account the following: ($...........0...-0.-2.-.) | for the encircled (numbered) books: l | I I I I — es ee ee ees Ot City re. Zone...... State............ INSTITUTE OF RELIGION BERA FRece REDWOOD ROAD CITY, UTAH 84lon. Back in 1905, the year Beneficial Life was. Founded, a surgical operation often meant days of preparatory scrubbing in a farmhouse kitchen or parlor, and then tense hours as the doctor operated by the light of a kerosene lantern. Many lives were saved by the skilled hands of the family doctor... But many more could have been saved had he been able to operate in today's well-equipped hospital. Ke 190s - 1955 a) Giant forward strides in medical science have extended man's average life span from 48 years in 1905 to 68 years in 1955. These "bonus years" have also brought a new concept in life insurance. Present-day insurance programs, such as Beneficial's "Planned Futures," now provide financial protection while your children are growing up — and at the same time assure you adequate retirement income for those extra years. BENEFICIAL LIFE Insurance David O. McKay, Pres. aril, FEBRUARY 1955 VOL. 42 NO. 2 Léssons for May Poet 5 Mother Maryhale Woolsey 'Through all my years I marveled at the earth's unending wonders— The spring's green revelations, the resplendent lures of fall; A mountain's crown of snow, the vast mysterious sweep of ocean, A twilight's calm serenity, blue and heaven-tall. I could hear the winds and trees exchange their secret whispers, Watch the stars flash messages across the arcs of night— Cosmic signal-fires to which my heart responded, leaping; But never mine were words that could transcribe their singing light. Terrible, the yearning for songs denied the lips— Like diamonds just beyond the reach of straining fingertips! Terrible, when raptured heart and mind, inadequate, Are doomed to aching silence... Inarticulate!... But I have borne a child for whom the wild white winds sing clearly, For whom the lote of ages is revealed in simple code; Whose pen can trace the sun-sparked crystal pattern of the morning, Or deftly limn dark treasure from a midnight's ebon lode. My child runs tiptoe on the heights where I would grope and tremble; Knows cool, green-curving, fluid trails to ocean's coral caves; Speaks languages of storms and deserts, kings and peasant shepherds, Shares dreams of princesses, and feels the chains of ancient slaves. All those elusive messages that teased my straining ear, My child translates to lilting lines for all the world to hear; My heart's old painful longings are eased as I rejoice To recognize the urgent words—in my child's lifted voice, The Cover: "Pattern of Birds and Waves,'' at Castle Rock Beach, California Photograph by Ward Linton Frontispiece: "Desert Fingers" (Ocotillo—Foquiera splendens) Southern California Photograph by Josef Muench From Near and Sar Just a word of appreciation this morning for The Relief Society Magazine which comes to us each month with its wonderful message, here in the Banning Branch in sunny California. We are thankful for the Magazine. Its precious contents are a blessing to women. 'The courses in theology, literature, and social science are inspiring adventures in the fields of spirituality, literature, and government, and help fill in the gaps in the early teaching and training of many a life. 'These courses in these studies are equal to college courses. The stories in the Magazine are beautiful, inspirational, and restful when the mind is weary. The poetry is delightful, too. We welcome and enjoy this good book. —Romania B. Benson Beaumont, California Thank you for The Relief Society Magazine. I wait more or less patiently from month to month, and when it comes I put everything else aside until I have read it from cover to cover. I have been "exposed" to this wonderful Magazine all of my life. My mother took it all her married life. I can remember as I grew older and loved to read I would go down our old cellar and get all of mother's old Relief Society Magazines and spend many a happy hour reading them. Now I read with great interest the Woman's Sphere page by Ramona W. Cannon, and especially the birthday congratulations. —RMrs. Agnes Young Idaho Falls, Idaho Congratulations to President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. For the happy laugh he gave us in the December number of our Magazine (page 811). When we look at the happiness on his face we cannot help but feel that all is well.... President Budge's eldest daughter, eighty-five years old, and I look at this picture in the morning and it gives us an uplift. Also, the smiles of President McKay and President Richards are very sweet and helpful to us all. Each Magazine seems the very best. —Lettie B. H. Rich Logan, Utah Page 74 I received my first two copies of The Relief Society Magazine three days ago as a gift from my mother. These Magazines were very welcome, as they are the only contact I have had with the Church for some time. 'There are two branches here on the island, but neither is close enough for us to attend regularly. I especially enjoy the religious fiction, as interesting, moral fiction is hard to come by on an army post. —Joyce Nelson Camp Lasey, Puerto Rico I have had The Relief Society Magazine by a California cousin as a Christmas gift for several years. Although I am a nonmember of the Church, I, would not want to be without this fine publication. My mother used to read it before she died, and called it a "pick-up" magazine, because the articles were short and could be finished before she had to go on to other duties. —Frances Strong Helman Indiana, Pennsylvania I read several times the stories, lessons, and poems, and since I especially enjoy cooking and homemaking, I refer again and again to the recipe sections and handicraft articles. I find the Magazine perfect in both size and content. It can be held easily in one hand, and the articles can usually be read at one sitting. I keep the back issues close by in the bookcase, so that I can reread them, and often I find an article or poem that seems to carry just the message I need when I am tired or blue. The Magazine is an inspiration and a guide to the young mothers of the Church. —Mrs. Janell Arrington Twin Falls, Idaho Each new issue of the Magazine brings me added wealth of knowledge as well as spiritual uplift. I enjoy each lesson and feel that I am greatly benefited by the courses of study as outlined and_presented. —LeNore J. Parker Layton, Utah THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - - - - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - First Counselor Velma N. Simonsen - - - - - Second Counselor Margaret C. Pickering - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Mary G. Judd Evon W. Peterson Christine H. Robinson Charlotte A. Larsen Anna B. Hart Leone O. Jacobs Alberta H. Christensen Edith P. Backman Edith S. Elliott Louise W. Madsen Mildred B. Eyring Winniefred S. Florence J. Madsen Aleine M. Young Helen W. Anderson Manwaring Leone G. Layton - Josie B. Bay Gladys S. Boyer Elna P. Haymond Blanche B. Stoddard RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Vol. 42 FEBRUARY 1955 No. 2 Conten ts SPECIAL FEATURES Relief Society and the General Church Welfare Raggzem Henry D. Moyle 76 Mamas Plants.. U..... Sssscesecsesescntncesensenmtececentecensssnseecceeseoseese. Klea Evans Worsley 144 FICTION A Home for Holly—Second Prize Story..-.... CcecccccceceseseceeeeeeeeteeteseseesntsnssesseseeseeesMabel S. Harmer 83 Green Willows—Chapter |....... A. Cocc sce suu--Deone R. Sutherland 91 A Shadowy Form Passed the Window...... A. Rose A. Openshaw 101 Contentment Is a Lovely Thing—Chapter 5 "(Conclusion) asDorothy S. Romney 110 GENERAL FEATURES Sixty Years Ago..... A oo ee eee 96 Woman's Sphere.. Nnn naso sss eweevnasiectevssesereseveseRamona W. Cannon 97 Editorial: Take Time to Safeguard Children.........-Marianne C. Sharp 98 Birthday Greetings to Former President "Amy "Brown 'Lyman.. Ee 100 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities 2.2.0.0... TeeeeeeeeeeeeeseeeseeeeMargaret C. Pickering 116 FEATURES FOR THE HOME Hoes Ciel J NshS OLN a a aVelma MacKay Paul 105 Amelia Elizabeth H. Jackson Pieces 'Quilts and Makes Lampshades a 109 LESSONS FOR MAY Theology: Peace Comes to the Naieites Through Righteousness.......-.--...-.---: Leland H. Monson 123 Visiting Teacher Messages: *. Y Soul Standeth Fast in That Liberty in the se God Hath Made Us Free" <=). Seer... CeceLeone O. Jacobs 123 Work Meeting: Utensils for Surface Cookery. A 'Rhea H. Gardner 129 Literature: Matthew Arnold 20...........: c. Csscecesceseseneeeceeeeee _ -Briant S. Jacobs 131 Social Science: The Constitution of the United States, Amendments Sixteen Through Twenty-Tw0.... C.. CcssccsssesesenccseessAlbert R. Bowen 138 POETRY Poet's Mother—Frontispiece «0.0.22....2n.-cseeseeceeeeceeeee cree Maryhale Woolsey 73 Valentines for Mother 0...........20... Sscecceseseeececeecceeceeeeeesnceeseeeoeeee Bernice T. Clayton 89 Mountain Peck oon. CneececensaceneneneneneeeecneesseceneesesssessecoeseseesenceeseaceesececeseseeneceesEva Willes Wangsgaard 90 River of Moses.......... A Olive Carman 100 Early Risers oe.. Pansye H. Powell 104 February Moon.... A 2, eeEthel Jacobson 108 The Unanswerable...... Sen. Lael W. Hill 108 Abraham Lincokm oe cececsecsccee cesses soececseceesensecenece cosceeesecessesceseesceceeeseseseseneneceseeMabel Jones Gabbott 122 Da SRO (0) CE eeCatherine E. Berry 143 Winter Afternoon Christie Lund Coles 143 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 40 North Main, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of 'October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. From Near and Far ciceececsesc cccscssessceeecees cececeecesceessesceceeeee: cesceseesececseeeeceeesessees seneneeaeeaeeees perenne 74 Relief Society and the General Church Welfare Program Elder Henry D. Moyle Of the Council of the Twelve (Address Delivered at the Annual General Relief Society Conference, September 29, 1954) And behold, I tell you these things that ye may learn wisdom; that ye may learn that when ye are in the service of your fellow beings ye are only in the service of your God (Mosiah 2:17). F; start out with the premise \\v that welfare work is service to our fellow men. It is the means by which we can fulfill in a large measure the second great commandment which in importance is like unto the first. By satisfying our obligation to others, we aid in bringing to pass one of the great purposes of the gospel restored in these latter days. Elder James L. Barker wrote the following passage in his Priesthood manual for this present year: The gospel had been so contaminated that religion was coming to be not the "doing of the will,' but what can I get for myself with the least effort. Salvation for many was not eternal progression and service to one's neighbor, but escaping the fires of hell, by means of the rites of the Church. The idea, What can I do to help in the work of the Lord, seems to have been largely lost, crowded out by the thought, Can I continue in my more or less sinful life unchanged and then, by reason of a baptism postponed as long as possible, die with all sins forgiven? (Barker, James L.: The Divine Church, volume 3, Page 7). The First Presidency, in commenting on the future of the Welfare Plan, said: God's law has always been "Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself." 'The Church Page 76 Security Plan will help us immeasurably to fulfill this law. The plan has wrought a great work. It is a work that must be done if we are to be what we are pretending to be—brothers and sisters in the Gospel. It is my testimony to you that President Grant was inspired to begin this work and this plan, and it stands on an equality with the Relief Society, the Primary, the Sunday School and the M. I. A. And furthermore, just as these organizations have grown and developed with the experience and needs of the people, and so are not what they were at the beginning, so will this plan grow and develop, and if the time comes when we do not need it, we will not use it, but until that time comes, this will be a permanent thing. This world is moving into a new era. I know of no responsible authority who challenges the forecast that within the next few years we shall, in the normal course, suffer a depression far more serious, affecting intimately far greater numbers of people, than the one we are now finishing (Stewart, Walker, and McGavin, Priesthood and Church Welfare, page 297). Nor was this doctrine new in the Church in 1936 when the First Presidency announced theplan which we now call the Church Welfare. In line with this plan, President Joseph F. Smith said: It has always been a cardinal teaching with the Latter-day Saints that a religion - that has not the power to save people temporally and make them prosperous and happy here cannot be depended upon to save them spiritually and to exalt them in the life to come (Bowen, Albert E., The Church Welfare Plan, page 36). In the words of President Brigham Young: I have Zion in my view constantly. We are not going to wait for angels, or for Enoch and his company to come and build up Zion, but we are going to build it. We will raise our wheat, build our houses, fence our farms, plant our vineyards and orchards, and produce everything that will make our bodies comfortable and happy, and in this manner we intend to build up Zion on the earth and purify it and cleanse it from all pollutions. Let there be an hallowed influence go from us over all things over which we have any power; over the soil we cultivate, over the houses we build, and over everything we _ possess; and if we cease to hold fellowship with that which is corrupt and establish the Zion of God in our hearts, in our own houses, in our cities, and throughout our country, we shall ultimately overcome the earth, for we are the lords of the earth; and, instead of thorns and thistles, every useful plant that is good for the food of man and to beautify and adorn will spring from its bosom (J. D. 9:284). We never ought to be without three or five years of provisions on hand (J. D. 3:196). IN the furtherance of the Welfare Plan we have endeavored to keep in sight the original assignment given us by President Grant in April of 1936. Our primary purpose was to set up, insofar as it might be possible, a system under which the curse of idleness would be done away with, the evils of the dole abolished, and independence, industry, thrift and self-respect be once more established amongst our people. The aim of the Church is to help the people to help themselves. Work is to be re-enthroned as the tuling principle in the lives of our Church membership (Bowen, Albert E.: The Church Welfare Plan, page 42; see also Welfare Plan Handbook of Instructions, page 1). Is there a passage of scripture anywhere of greater importance to us? It is wonderful to contemplate that we thus received the mind and the will of the Lord, direct through his prophet to his people, to direct them in the course in which they should walk to fulfill their purposes on earth and set upon a hill, as it were, an ensign pointing the way for all mankind. No wonder the Los Angeles Times wrote at that time: Apparently they are not trying to frighten anybody, but the Mormons are getting ready for the next depression. As a unit they are preparing storehouses filled with food and clothing to "take care of their? Own. Their leaders say that they have no idea when the next era of bad times will strike, but that it will come. This is not the view of alarmists. It is a sensible precaution against the hazards of the future. The idea is old, that of laying up for lean years in times of plenty. But ordinary people and ordinary nations do not act upon the obvious common sense of such a program. 'They live from hand to mouth, with no practical preparation for the perils ahead. This country at the moment has every outward indication of prosperity. Yet, instead of laying up any substance, it is plunging headlong into deeper debt and assuming profligate obligations. It seemingly has learned nothing from the past. The Mormons have been noted for their canniness and ability to presage the trend of the times. Like the busy ant, they can be watched profitably. Their example will bear following (Priesthood and Church Welfare, page 296). RELIEF SOCIETY AND THE GENERAL CHURCH WELFARE PROGRAM 77 Articles of similar import have appeared in newspapers and _periodicals since that time. The end is not yet, the prophetic utterances of the Presidency are fulfilled only in part. Much more is yet to come. RESIDENT David O. McKay, addressing a special meeting of stake presidencies, October 2, 1936, said: I do not know of any activity with which we have been associated which promises more fruitful results in temporal and spiritual achievement than __ this Church Security Program.... It is going to stand out in Church history as significant.... Brethren, I congratulate you with all my heart. You are not doing it for yourselves, but for others and for the Lord, by providing, and contributing to the progress and success of the Church. To the General Conference next day, he said: Throughout this Conference frequent reference has been made, and appropriately so, to the plan inaugurated by the General Authorities of the Church for the relief of those who are unemployed. It is at present one of our greatest, and one of the most' important concerns of the Church. During the few minutes allotted to me I desire to call attention to the spiritual value of this important and farreaching undertaking. In the 29th Section of the Doctrine and Covenants, we are told that "... All things unto me are spiritual, and not at any time have I given unto you a law which was temporal; neither any man, nor the children of men; neither Adam, your father, whom I created. "Behold, I gave unto him that he should be an agent unto himself; and I gave unto him commandment, but no tempoial commandment gave I unto him, for my commandments are spiritual; they are noi natural nor temporal, neither carnal nor sensual" (D. & C. 29:34-35). The development of our spiritual nature should concern us most. Spirituality is the highest acquisition of the soul, the divine in man; "'the supreme, crowning gift that makes him king of all created things." It is the consciousness of victory over self and of communion with the infinite. It is spirituality alone which really gives one of the best in life. It is something to supply clothing to the scantily clad, to furnish ample food to those whose table is thinly spread, to give activity to those who are fighting desperately the despair that comes from enforced idleness, but after all is said and done, the greatest blessings that will accrue from the Church Security Plan are spiritual. Outwardly, every act seems to be directed toward the physical: re-making of dresses and suits of clothes, canning fruits and vegetables, storing foodstufts, choosing of fertile fields for settlement— all seem strictly temporal, but permeating all these acts, inspiring and_ sanctifying them, is the element of spirituality (Bowen, Albert E.: The Church Welfare Plan, page 43-44). From my own viewpoint, and that deep down in my heart, I am everlastingly grateful to my Heavenly Father for the opportunity I have had to participate in this great work. It will not be too long until some of us can celebrate our twentieth anniversary in this work. Each succeeding year has added joy and satisfaction to that of the past. What a wonderful heritage welfare workers throughout the Church have stored for themselves in heaven where "neither moth nor rust doth corrupt, and where thieves do not break through nor steal" (Mt. 6:20). Not the least of these treasures has been the close association with men and women whose lives have likewise been dedicated to help others, and especially to help others to help themselves. I know what it is to assist in this ' 78 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1955 work in the ward and quorum and stake and region as well as on the General Committee. In fact, my experience goes back ten years before the organization of the General Committee in 1936. The Relief Society in our stake had their own welfare project even before my day. It still stands as a monument to the love, devotion, and unselfishness, and above all, the resourcefulnses of our Relief Society sisters. I speak of the Cottonwood Stake Maternity Hospital in Murtay where it was common to see our sisters sewing, canning, washing, and ironing and making possible the service there rendered to those who really were in need. The spirit of brotherhood and sisterhood engendered by the program has led us to heights otherwise unattainable. "The closer the connection in a business point of view that a community hold themselves together, the greater will be their joy and wealth" (The Church Welfare Plan). To work, to sacrifice, to give, together, for the blessings of others make us truly brethren and sisters. We learn each other's virtues and do not emphasize the human frailties that are inherent in us all. As we work together on temporal projects we prepare ourselves for service in the highest of spiritual attainments. We receive strength to serve God, obediently, and to set the world an example worthy of emulation, such as Sister Spafford set the women of the world in their great conference in Helsinki in Finland, this summer, and elsewhere throughout Europe where she travcled representing the Relief Society board, and in fact, the Church at large. She, rather than I, should be reporting to you the results of her labors abroad, the manner in which the spirit of Welfare work has fired the imagination of our Saints in Europe. I hope she tells you in this conference, in particular, the work of the Swiss saints in helping their less fortunate brothers and sisters in Austria. It has been a source of great inspiration to have had the general presidency of the Relief Society as advisors to our General Welfare Committee all these many years. Whatever the accomplishments of our Welfare work may be, we can truly say that the Relief Society made them possible in very large measure. I love the statements of the Prophet Joseph Smith, familiar to every Relief Society worker:... To illustrate the object of the society—That the society of sisters might provoke the brethren to good works in looking to the wants of the poor—searching after objects of charity, and in administering to their wants (Relief Society Minutes, March 17, 1842; see also The Relief Society Magazine, vol. 2, January 1915, pp. 20-21; A Centenary of Relief Society, pp. 14-17). This is a charitable society, and according to your natures; it is natural for females to have feelings of charity and benevolence. You are now placed in a situation in which you can act according to those sympathies which God has planted in your bosoms. If you live up to these principles, how great and glorious will be your reward in the celestial kingdom! If you live up to your privileges, the angels cannot be restrained from being your associates. (D. H. C. Vol. IV, page 605).. The society is not only to relieve the poor but to save souls (Relief Society Minutes, June g, 1842). RELIEF SOCIETY AND THE GENERAL CHURCH WELFARE PROGRAM 79 HIS brings me to consideration of today's problems. Regardless of our successes of the past, the result of our past faithfulness, we have not reached a point where we can rest On our oars, as it were, and sail along without continued effort. As in all great movements, the final test is one of endurance. I am willing to concede that to date we have fairly well met our responsibility. What successes we have had should serve to magnify within ourselves wherein we have failed. Our constant effort is to illuminate the imperfections one by one, and overcome and eliminate them. From the outset we have had to be patient and craved patience from all. One of our problems which will always be with us is inherent in our form of organization. We function throughout the Church on a strictly volunteer basis. 'The inevitable result is a relatively frequent turnover in our officers and workers. By way of digression, I wish I had the necessary statistics to come to an accurate conclusion. I believe, however, you have less turnover in the Relief Society than in any other Church organization. If this be true, it is a further reason for your great stability. Even in the Relief Society there is occasion to revert back to fundamentals and not take for granted, because some principle or practice is well understood by you, that all other Relief Society workers are in the same state of understanding. It is one of the difficulties under which the General Welfare Committee labors—to be ever alert to the needs for instruction in the fundamental principles of our work. Our problem continues to be twofold. The first is to meet the immediate needs of families in distress, communities stricken with calamity; individuals needing help; medical, food, clothing, employment, etc. Our annual allocation of products to be produced in our program for distribution is of prime importance. We have in the past referred to it as the "budget." It is a budget for distribution prepared upon the basis of need. At the same time it becomes the objective of the ward, stake, and region, in their annual production program. The very foundation of our work, because it is an annual necessity, we seek to establish ourselves in this respect on a permanent basis. Most stakes have projects upon which this budget is produced. Those which do not, aze constantly urged to acquire projects. It is our aim to eliminate the necessity for annual cash contributions to our program. If the leadership of the program is followed, this can be accomplished. This is definitely true when projects are once acquired, maintained, and paid for, and thereafter efficiently operated. HE second great subdivision of our work is to give more permanent, lasting beneficial help to the individual and the family, and to the community to make them selfsustaining. Except for the sick, the infirm, and the incapacitated, we succeed best when we accomplish our second great objective in the shortest time possible. We should never be content to rely upon a storehouse order for our relief when it is possible to find gainful employment for our people. We have our, projects—we perfect year by year 80 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—-FEBRUARY 1955 our means of producing our commodities for distribution; our ability to survey the needs of our people. Our distribution of the supplies where needed improves each year, and the cost decreases. This will continue to be the case to the degree to which we see to it that those who receive help are used to produce the same. May it soon be said of our program that those who receive help are the ones who produce what they receive, with the exception, of course, of those who are incapacitated. We have a long way to go to fulfill our second mission. This is a matter that could profitably be considered and discussed by every welfare committee in the Church, at each meeting. It is a matter that should call for weekly consideration from the Ward Welfare Committee —the establishment of the family on a sound, self-sustaining basis. I must tell you of one recent step forward. We are even now, as we meet here, busy establishing a rag tug industry. You should acquaint yourselves with this project. Its operation can be made almost Churchwide. We will need rags. 'They must be cut into strips and sewed together--a work which the homebound can do. There seems to be almost no limit to what can be accomplished to assist those who need help to establish themselves on a sound, self-sustaining basis. 'This, I emphasize, is our prime objective. By far the greatest opportunity we have is to place our people in gainful employment, in business, commerce, industry, and all other gainful activities for which we can qualify our people. Such make-work activities as we have in the Church, and we have many, are for the benefit of those receiving aid. They should not be manned by others except in cases of emergency or necessity. It is the responsibility of you leaders in the Relief Society, as you officiate in your own wards and stake regional welfare committees, to distribute the work among those who need it, to encourage them to accept the responsibility, so far as they are capable, for their own sustenance. Thus a twofold purpose is served. First, we have a chance to work for what we get, and second, we learn how to work for ourselves, and thus accomplish the second great objective. FROM the foregoing, the duties of the respective welfare workers are readily discernible. 'The Relief Society president co-ordinates the work of the Relief Society with the work of the Ward Welfare Committee, under the direction of the bishop. One counselor is a work director, just as a bishop's counselor officiates in a similar capacity. One is an employment counselor for the sisters, with her counterpart found in the bishopric. Thus, the two great branches of our work are cartied on under the inspired leadership of the Ward Welfare Committee whose chairman is the bishop. I commend the Welfare Plan Handbook of Instructions to you sisters to read and to study as to the duties of the three officials heading the ward Welfare Committee. Relief Society President: Make home visits. Analyze requirements of needy families for report to bishop. Prepare bishops orders for bishop's approval. RELIEF SOCIETY AND THE GENERAL CHURCH WELFARE PROGRAM 81 Relief Society Employment Counselor: Collect and clear employment opportunities for women and girls of ward. Cooperate with ward employment counselor in securing employment for women and girls of ward whose situations require them to be bread winners. Relief Society Work Director: Cooperate with ward work director: (1) in providing work opportunities for female ward welfarees; (2) in providing female workers to fill ward work assignments. Assist ward welfarees in producing own clothing. Supervise clothing production for bishops storehouses (Welfare Plan Handbook of Instructions, Chart 3, page 10). It is the duty of every ward bishop in the Church, with the assistance of his ward Relief Society president, to know the individual needs of his ward members and to understand the causes of that need. It may arise from any one of a number of unfavorable circumstances, such as injuries, infirmity, unemployment, lack of education, poor management, or physical or mental deficiency. (Welfare Plan Handbook of Instructions, pp. 55-56). An intelligent study should be made of the circumstances of every needy individual or family in the ward. This study should be repeated as often as circumstances change. It may be made by the bishop personally. In most cases, however, he will want to have it done by the ward Relief Society president, who will submit to the bishop her report and recommendation. Careful _ consideration should be given to all known factors, both in the administration of immediate aid and in working out a long-range rehabilitation program. The directions and forms prepared and furnished by the Relief Society General Board under the title ""Family Visits,' if understandingly followed will be very helpful and should be used in making these family studies... (Welfare Plan Handbook of Instructions, page 56). In so far as possible, bishops are to supply the needs of their people by issuing itemized bishops orders on storehouse stocks. It is recommended that ward Relief Society presidents be called upon to prepare such orders for the bishop's signature (Welfare Plan Handbook of Instructions, page 57). I want to conclude with a further statement made by President David O. McKay at a Salt Lake regional meeting held in Salt Lake City, February 1937: You are, as it were, in the front lines and trenches tonight. The necessary material is in your hands and I hope in your minds and in your hearts, and you are ready to go "over the top" to meet the enemy. Perhaps you do not like this connotation of war, but we are engaged in a war—a war against idleness; a war against depression, war against social enmity. We are going to fight for the establishing of brotherhood and of cooperation, two fundamental principles of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (Stewart, Walker and McGavin, Priesthood and Church Welfare, page 267). The President further said: The Church Security Plan has not come up as a mushroom over night. It is the result of inspiration, and that inspiration has come from the Lord.... Those who have selfishness in their hearts would like to see it fail, but it is not goimg to fail (Bowen, Albert E.: The Church Welfare Plan, page 3). Our beloved Brother Bowen once wrote: "It is an immutable law of life that mental or spiritual growth comes only out of self-effort." Brigham Young said: The riches of a kingdom or nation do not consist so much in the fulness of its treasury as in the fertility of its soil and the industry of its people (Discourses of Brigham Young, chapter 26, page 297). Our Welfare Program, my _beloved sisters, is built upon faith. May the Lord continue to give us the faith to carry on I pray humbly in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 82 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1955 Second Prize Story Annual Reliof Society Short Story Contest A Home for Holly Mabel S. Harmer MABEL S. HARMER ing her hat when the door chimes rang. "Oh, no!" she groaned. "Not someone else!" She picked up her gloves and ran downstairs. 'Thank goodness, whoever it was could see that she was all ready to go out. A small woman stood in the doorway, plain of face and plain of dress. Somehow or other Nina got the impression that she was younger than she looked. "Good morning," she said nervously. "I have a very fine line of lingerie." "T'm so sorry," Nina interrupted. "But I'm already late for a very imNee had just finished adjustportant appointment. If you're in the neighborhood some other time Pll be glad to talk with you." "Thank you," said the woman, closing her half-open case. Before she turned away she glanced into the pretty living room and Nina caught a fleeting look of hunger. The woman left and Nina rushed into the kitchen for the baby basket. She put it on the floor of the car and started for the Home. The day had finally come! She was really going to get a baby. It was all but incredible. In spite of her elation she couldn't get her mind off the woman at the door. Or maybe it was because of that. If only everyone else in all the world could be as happy as she was! But no, that wasn't possible. Hardly anyone else, at this very moment, was driving to get a lovely baby girl. A baby that she had ached for almost every hour of her ten years of married life. She parked her car near the driveway and stepped out, so excited that she was actually trembling. As she walked along the path her eyes were caught by a slight movement overhead. She glanced up and saw a gitl of about ten perched in the limb of a tree. For a moment the child, caught unawares, stared at Nina with the same look of hunger she had seen in the woman's eyes. But the inPage 83 stant she realized Nina was watching her the look changed to one of insolence. She actually stuck out her tongue. Nina stopped short for a moment. She wanted to say something. Just what she didn't know. Then, before she could find any words, the child dropped from the tree and ran swiftly around the corner of the Home. Nina walked more slowly now. Some of the bright joy had gone out of her day. She tried to put the child out of her mind. Surely she must have imagined that brief look of hunger in the child's eyes because she had been thinking of the woman canvasser. Inside the front hall the secretary said, "Oh, hello, Mrs. Warburton, this is your day, isn't it?" Yes, thought Nina, this was her day. This was the wonderful day when she would finally get Anne to take home, to put in the pink bassinette and to love and cuddle all she liked. She walked into the next room, where Mrs. Maxwell, the matron of the Home, was seated at her desk. "I do hope I'm not late," Nina apologized. "I've had so many interruptions." "Not at all," smiled Mrs. Maxwell. "A few minutes one way or another wouldn't matter. Sit down, will you, and I'll send Miss Daniels up to get her." INA was too impatient to sit. She walked over to the window and looked out in the yard where two score boys and girls were playing about. "Are all of these children up for adoption?" she asked. "Oh, no. Some are here because their parents can't care for them— broken homes, you know, and various other reasons. Some of them are available, of course, but there's very little demand for the older children. A woman feels that a child is more her own if she has her from the start. We do have chances every once in a while to put them into homes. But we have to be very careful that a family really wants to take care of a child and not just get some cheap help with the housework." "There's a girl I'd like to ask you about. There, that one in the blue dress, swinging the little one. Is she up for adoption?" Mrs. Maxwell walked over to the window. "That's Holly. Yes, she has been ever since she was two. She's a nice youngster—very helpful with the younger children, but she's such a plain little thing that no one has ever wanted her." "T might," said Nina impulsively. "Would you care to let her go home with me for a few weeks? It's just a sudden notion on my part." "Why, yes, we could let her go— since there's no school right now. Of course, you mustn't let Holly get her hopes up that it might be a permanent arrangement." "Tl be careful," she promised. "Tl send someone to call her in. Perhaps you'd like to talk with her for a few minutes. Then if you decide you really want to take her along she can pack her things while we're getting the baby ready." Nina was sorry for the girl as she came into the room. One glance at the visitor, and she was evidently sure that she had been called in for a reprimand. She tried at once to put the child 84 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1955 A HOME FOR HOLLY at ease with a pleasant smile. "I've been talking with Mrs. Maxwell about taking you home with me for a little vacation. Would you like to go?" Holly said nothing. She simply looked uncomfortable. "Mrs. Warburton is taking Anne home with her for adoption," explained Mrs. Maxwell. "Since you are so fond of the baby, we thought you might like to go along for a few weeks and sort of help her get acquainted in her new home." Holly nodded. "I guess it will be all right," she said. "Run along and pack some clothes, then," said Mrs. Maxwell. "Gretta will give you a box to put them in." "She doesn't seem to want to go," remarked Nina after Holly had left. Mrs. Maxwell hesitated. "It may be because she's suspicious. Remember she knows nothing of you. The older girls find it hard to believe that anyone could want them for themselves alone. 'They've heard too many stories of orphan girls becoming household drudges. It would be especially true with a plain child like Holly." "Poor little things,' murmured Nina. "I wish that I could take them all." girl brought in the baby, and she forgot everything else in all the world as she took Anne in her arms. "She's perfect! Absolutely perfect. I still can't believe she's really mine." "Tm very happy for you, too," beamed Mrs. Maxwell. "And I think the good luck isn't all on one side. Anne is going to be a very fortunate baby. We have a wide choice of 85 parents for our little ones, know." "T know." Nina glanced up as Holly came into the room. She had on a dress of some hideous shade of green. In her arms she carried a large cardboard box. "All ready?" asked Nina brightly. "Yes, Ma'am," was the unsmiling response. They went out to the car. Nina put the baby in the basket and said, "You may keep an eye on her in case I have to stop quickly." "Yes, Ma'am." Nina wished that the girl would say something else for a change, she was so uncompromising. When they reached the house Matt was standing on the front steps. "I had to knock off early to greet the family," he said, "and render some expert advice, in case you need it." Then he caught sight of the girl on the back seat. "This is Holly," explained Nina brightly. "She's come to visit us.' "Fine," grinned Matt cordially. "Come right in. Holly followed them into the house and stood in the hallway until Nina said, "Our guest room is the first one to the right at the top of the stairs. Will you find your way up?" The girl went up, and they saw no more of her until dinner time. "How come?" asked Matt, indicating the guest room with a jerk of the head. "T can't explain it,' confessed Nina. "She looked so forlorn I simply had to take her. I couldn't bear to leave her there." "But is that fair? Suppose she gets to liking it here? It will be much harder for her to leave." you "T know. I did it on impulse, and I guess it wasn't a very wise one. I could at least have slept on it. Maybe it was because I was so happy, I couldn't bear to see anyone else unhappy. Especially a child." "Just how unhappy did she look?" asked Matt with a smile. "She was near the gate when I came in—up in a tree. She didn't expect me to see her, but I happened to glance up. I can't explain the look in her eyes, but I had to do something about it. So I brought her home." "Well, she doesn't seem exactly overjoyed to be here." "No," agreed Nina, "but I think it's because she's suspicious." "Suspicious of what? Of you? Impossible." "Of me—of everyone. She can't believe that anyone would want her just for herself." "That I can imagine," said Matt. "IT never saw such a homely little wench." "Tt's the clothes and the hairdo. Partly, anyway. I could do a lot with her." "But you've just acquired a new baby. Remember?" "As if I could forget!" cried Nina. "You watch her while I get dinner on and make up her formula." Trying to do the two jobs at once proved more taxing than she had supposed, and she was half an hour late with dinner. She went to the foot of the stairs, intending to call, but on second thought went up. When she opened the door to the guest room she found Holly sitting quietly on a chair. She had changed from the green taffeta to a gingham dress. INA was vaguely disturbed to see her sitting there so solemnly, but she said brightly, "Dinner is ready. We have some fresh halibut. I hope you like fish." "Yes, Ma'am." It was Holly's stock answer. Evidently her only one to everything that was said. She followed Nina downstairs and stopped by the pink bassinet long enough to pick up one of Anne's tiny fists. 'Then she went in and sat primly down at the table. When they were through eating she jumped up quickly and said, "I'll do the dishes." Nina was about to refuse, but she reasoned that Holly would be happier if she were busy, so she replied, "Why, that will be a wonderful lift. I'll have my hands full getting the baby ready for bed." Then she added with a smile, "Or do you suppose we'll be walking the floor all night? I've heard that's the usual procedure with new babies." "Not with babies from the Home." said Holly a trifle grimly. She washed the dishes and started towards the stairs again. "Oh, it's early," protested Nina. "Much too soon for bedtime. Wouldn't you like to go in the living room and watch the television?" "No, thank you," replied Holly and went on upstairs. Nina finished the other chores and dropped on the bed, worn out from the emotional strain of the day. "I wish Holly wouldn't be like that," she remarked. "I should think that any youngster would be glad for a holiday, or a change of some kind." ' "Maybe she likes the Home and 86 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1955 A HOME FOR HOLLY doesn't want a change of any kind," suggested Matt, weighing his shoe carefully before he dropped it. "No, she is starving for something. Something that I believe I could give her, if she would only let me." "Isn't it possible that you only imagined that hungry look?" "Possible, yes, but I hardly think so. It struck me too hard for that." But later she wondered. Could she be so absurd as to suppose that everyone else was yearning for the very things she had? After breakfast the next morning, Holly asked, "What would you like me to do? Shall I start with the dishes?" "You may do the dishes if you wish,' Nina rephed. "But I want you to do whatever will be the most fun. This is a holiday you know. There are a couple of girls in the neighborhood you might like for playmates." "No, thank you. I'll help in the house." She went ahead with the dishes while Nina bathed the baby and did the washing. As she was hanging the clothes on the line she thought, I've got to buy that child some decent clothes, and do something about her hair. LATER in the day she dashed into town and bought four gay cotton dresses and a yellow linen for "best" wear. Holly was evidently pleased with them, but would put one on only when expressly asked to do so. Each day Nina thought there would surely be a change, that Holly would relax and begin to enjoy herself, but after a week she still took 87 no part in the family conversation and refused to go out and play. Only with Anne was she her natural self. It was clear that she adored the baby. Finally Matt said, "I'm getting sort of fed up having that glum kid around. Why don't you admit that you're getting nowhere and let her go back?" Nina's round chin took on a firmer line. 'Because I don't want to," she said. "I want to help her. I like her. I could love her, if she'd only let me." "Tt couldn't be that your stubborn streak is showing, could it?" asked Matt, tweaking her ear. "You know how you hate to fail in anything." "Tt could be," she admitted. "And I guess I can't make her like me, if she doesn't want to. I'd really love to keep her and adopt her along with the baby." "Why don't you tell her so, then? Maybe that would make a differGnee." "T don't dare. I had express orders not to. Until the six weeks probation time is up, anyway." The next morning after Holly had finished shelling some peas Nina said impulsively, "You don't seem to be having any fun here at all. Do you want to go back to the Home?" Holly sat taut for a moment. There was a fleeting look of protest on her face. Then she said in a tight voice, "I'm ready to go back any time you say." If it hadn't been for the tightness in her voice Nina would have replied, "All right. We'll go now." Instead, she remarked with a smile, "But I don't wish. I only want you to have some fun." She was canning peaches a few days later and honestly glad for Holly's help. As she was lifting out the last bottle from the hot water kettle it broke and slashed her wrist. From the way the blood was spurting she knew that she had cut an artery. At her sharp cry Holly jumped up from the chair where she was peeling peaches, seized a tea towel and tore off a strip. Laying it over the wound, where Nina was attempting to hold back the flow of blood, Holly first put a peach stone on the towel just over the cut, then wound the ends back and made a knot through which she slipped a pencil from the memo pad. She twisted it about until the worst of the flow had stopped. Then she cried, "You hold it. I'll call a doctor." She ran to the phone and called the first one in the book, a doctor whom Nina knew only by name. An hour later when all danger was past, the doctor said to Holly, "That was a wonderful job you did. You probably saved her life. How did you learn to do it?" "Oh, I've had some first-aid lessons," replied Holly shyly. "Then I saw a movie, too. I guess I didn't think much. I just knew that something had to be done." "You were thinking, all right," said the doctor. "You just thought extra fast. It's amazing what the human mind will do sometimes in an emergency. Some folks go to pieces and can't even use the knowledge they have. Others, like this child here, will do things they didn't have the least notion they could." Nina nodded. Now that the crisis was past she was interested only in dropping down on a bed. HOLLY seemed glad to take over the household duties. She flew about doing nearly all of the work, caring for Anne and cooking the meals under Nina's direction, until the wrist had healed again. On the morning that the six weeks' probation was up, Nina said to Matt, "I'd like to keep Holly for good. She seems happier and more contented since the accident. Is it all right with you?" "Anything you want, darling, is all right with me," he replied. "And the child has certainly earned a home here if she wants it." After he had gone to the office Nina said to Holly, "My dear, we'd like to keep you for good and adopt you along with Anne. Do you want to stay?" There was a momentary flash of incredulous joy, then a long silence. Finally Holly said, "No, thank you. Pll go back to the Home." Nina was amazed and_ bitterly disappointed. "I'm terribly sorry," she said. "I had hoped that you would learn to like it here. But you must be the one to decide. Would you like to go back today?" "Yes, Ma'am. If you think you can get along without me." "As far as the work goes—yes. If you want to pack I'll drive you back in the car." Half an hour later she went upstairs. Holly had on the green taffeta dress and the cardboard box on the bed held only the old blue gingham. "But your new dresses!" exclaimed Nina. "Aren't you going to take them?" 88 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1955 A HOME FOR HOLLY "Tf it's all right," answered Holly awkwardly. She went to the closet and took them down. Nina was still puzzled. 'There was a barrier that hadn't been broken. How could she do it? There must be a way. 'There was. It offered only a slim chance but she would have to take it. "Holly," she said, "how would it be if I took Anne back to the Home and you stayed?" (le Holly swung around. "The baby! She cried. "But you couldn't give up the baby! You love her." "T love her very much indeed," agreed Nina. "But I love you just 89 as much. I don't want to give you up either." Tears rushed to Holly's eyes. "You really want me that much?" she cried brokenly. "T really do. Why don't you want to stay?" "Oh, but I do! I thought you were just willing to keep me because I had saved your life." "My dear! My own dear little girl," whispered Nina, opening her arms. She held Holly close for a moment and then said, "Shall we go downstairs? I'm sure that Anne must be wondering what has happened to her mother and sister." her serials ""The Lotus Eater" Harmer's award for her story Harmer, and we have five children. Six grandchildren. Mabel Spande Harmer, Salt Lake City, Utah, has achieved recognition as a writer of poetry, fiction, articles, and biegraphies. Many times an officer, of the Salt Lake Chapter of the League of Utah Writers, she has also served as State president of the League. (1937-38) and ''For the Strength of the Hills" (1951), are well-known to readers of The Relief Society Magazine. "A Home for Holly'' marks her fifth appearance as a prize winner in the Relief Society Short Story Contest. Mrs. Harmer's latest book The Youngest Soldier, is a story of pioneer days in Utah. At present she is at work on two juvenile biographies. My time between housekeeping and writing,' Mrs. Harmer tells us, from one to the other with the greatest of ease. Three of them are married, and we have I have had seven books published, and for the past seven years have written the children's story for The Deseret News. Addressed writers' conferences in Utah, in all the women's auxiliary organizations of the Church and am currently teaching literature in the Garden Park Ward Relief Society." A former president, and Her short stories and Mrs. "T divide "swinging My husband is Earl W. Recently I have Idaho, and California. I have served Valentines for Mother Bernice T. Clayton I've said I love you truly in a hundred different ways, From sugar hearts with mottoes sweet in kindergarten days, Through weird handmade creations made with love and lace and glue, Plus penciled words of poetry that told my love for you; With stumbling, lovmg words and gifts I've struggled to reveal The depth of the emotion and devotion that I feel, So when you said you'd like a clock that you could see and hear Its friendly, busy ticking sound, I bought you one, my dear, A bossy, noisy little clock, my valentine for you To tell the time and mark each hour of love between us two, Your clock still waits your gentle touch because I could not see You'd have no need to measure time in God's eternity. Don Knight Page 90 THE GRAND TETONS, WYOMING Wi loantain Peak Eva Willes Wangsgaard It stands so quiet in its azure strength, So tall and still above the city's din And lesser peaks which rim the valley's length, The highest point where dawn is ushered in! The first to wear the wintry hood and flaunt A cape of white, the last to let it go, Feeding it back to meet the valley's want In silver ravelings to fields below. I would be lost and lonely on a plain Without its height to focus dawn for me. My eyes would weary soon of shimmering grain In endless waves. My heart would always see A changeless mountain pointing heavenward And all the hills would call until I heard. Green Willows CHAPTER 1 Deone R. Sutherland of our town. People say it came by its name logically long ago when pioneers, searching for settlements, came across our valley ribboned down the center by what became at once Willow River. Along the water grew wild, softgreen willows, with lush meadows fanning both sides to the hills. People have lived here ever since. Once I stayed with my Aunt Carolyn up in Orchard City, and it was like a toothache or a hurt in the heart until I could get back home again. I was sitting on Pat Diffendorf's back stoop in Green Willows waiting for my friend Pat to pump Up her bicycle tires. While most people had only one bicycle tire that Jeaked at a time, my best friend Pat had two. We_ always carried a bicycle pump with us when we went riding as a necessary part of our equipment—the same as the nickels in change tied in our handkerchiefs on our belts. Pat stopped pumping for a minute to rest. It was very hot, and Pat was not as skinny as she used to be. "You eat too much fudge," I told Pat. "Tt is not the fudge," Pat said, simpering in a most revolting way. "This is the way we are supposed to start looking." I held my mouth to keep from gagging and hooted derisively. From the back you couldn't tell me from my brother Beany or a board slat from a fence, and I was proud of it. Ee Willows is the name "Okay, Patty," I said, "but I think it's the fudge." "Don't call me Patty; you know how I hate that name." Pat picked up her pump again. "Patty!" Pat's mother came from 'nside the house. "If you girls are going selling your powdered drinks today, you had better get started. And don't go to Aunt Agnes' until the very last, do you hear? Not until you've been everywhere else. They buy far more than they should, and it's an imposition...: My word!" Mrs. Diffendorf paused a moment. "Your father's barn is on fire!" It wasn't really; men were burning weeds along the ditchbank, and the smoke was blowing over. But there was one thing about it, it was very exciting to be around the Diffendorfs. We sat on the stoop to get our breath after running to see the barn on fire before we started. Then we loaded the packages of Kold-ayde in our baskets. Each package made ten delicious glasses of drinks on hot summer days and all for one nickel. We didn't like the taste of it our selves, we had drunk so much of it after long trips on our bikes, but we sold enough to keep us well supplied with ice-cream cones, and to create 4 certain amount of respect among our friends. "T wonder why it always seems Up hill no matter where we go," Pat said, puffing hard. "Tf we didn't have to stop so often to pump up tires, we could make better time," I pointed out. Page 91 Where the houses were close together in the town, we did pretty well, but as the distances lengthened, we began to talk about giving it up for the day. "We haven't really made too much yet," Pat sighed. She tied up our money in her handkerchief again. "Well, there's still your Aunt Agnes' that we haven't been to," I suggested. "T hate to go up the hill," Pat began, then nodded resignedly. "We are going there last just as Mother said, because we're all through for the day except maybe up there." E stopped at the bottom of the hill to pump up Pat's tires. One of mine was a little low, so I put air in that, too. We stopped at a couple of houses on the way up, but no one answered the doors. Being on a hillside that way, people could see at a distance who was coming, and you couldn't surprise them into answering the door. Right at the last it was too hard to pump, so we got off and pushed our bikes the rest of the way. Pat's aunts were named _ Diffendorf too. There were three of them, and Agnes was the oldest, then Margaret, and then Karen who was just graduating from college this very spring. I had heard Mother say she'd already signed to teach at Valley High, just like Agnes and Margaret. "Where everybody else has no more than one old maid to a family, the Diffendorfs are different, as usual, and have three," I heard Mr. Olesen at the post office say one day. But everybody liked Agnes and the Diffendorfs. They were really nice to us anyway. "Bought enough drinks from these kids to float their house," my father said. We always just figured they liked to drink Kold-ayde. Pat's Aunt Agnes sat at a table up on the big front porch. She was correcting papers. She always did that on Saturdays—inside in the winter and outside in the fall and spring. Soon it would be summer, and then when we came, she'd be digging in the garden with gloves on up to her elbows and a big hat to keep from freckling, and wearing a chin strap to fight the wrinkles. She was the oldest in the Diffendorf family. When her parents had both died, She had helped Pat's father get started in his business; then she had put Margaret through college and now Karen. We looked longingly at the bench swing under the big elm in the yard, but we pushed on up the path to the porch. "Well, what a pleasant surprise," Aunt Agnes said with a smile. "T'll take ten; I don't dare take any more or your mothers will call me and give me the dickens." "Which flavors?" Pat asked, sorting the packages. "We've only got orange and grape left,"' I said "Well, that's a lot of orange, but I guess I'll take five of each." Aunt Agnes put down her pencil and stood up. "Here, sit down on the porch, girls; you're both red as beets. I'll go get my purse." We sat down on the steps and fanned ourselves with packages of drinks. In a moment Pat's Aunt Margaret came out on the porch and sat down on the steps beside us. She was thin, with soft hair that blew a little when she walked. She was a wonderful dramatics teacher at Valley High. Everybody wanted to be 92 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1955 GREEN WILLOWS in her plays. Pat and I pulled our legs together and sat up. How did you impress a dramatics teacher so she noticed you when you tried out for parts? Mother said, "You've got plenty of years before you have to worry about that," but now it was only a couple of years away. Pat was sure she'd be noticed because, after all, the coach was her aunt, but Pat had no stage presence at all. She giggled and noticed the audience. I tried hard to think of something dramatic to do each time we came, but it was usually warm, and we were tired from the hill. Besides, Pat's Aunt Margaret didn't act as if she were very easily impressed. "Would you like to pick some iris for your mother, Pat? You may also, Lillian, if you like." Margaret stood up and brushed at her hair and then smoothed her tweed skirt. She sat in Aunt Agnes' chair and fumbled with a pencil. "They remind me of funerals," I said. "It's too hot," said Pat. "They'd be wilted before we got home." "You're probably right," said Aunt Margaret. "I like less lonely flowers miyself—flowers that are smaller and friendlier...." UT she wasn't looking at the flower garden, but off across the valley. Pat's Aunt Agnes came out with her purse. It was a big, oldfashioned purse with a long chain across the top to prevent losing anything. "Your Aunt Margaret gets restless the end of every school year. You might mention to your mother, Pat, that she's talking of going to Europe this summer," Aunt Agnes explained. 93 "Well, why not?" Margaret closed her hands nervously. "I don't have to go to summer school. 'There's nothing to stop me. You could go, too, if you weren't so stubborn." "T don't think so, this year at least," said Aunt Agnes, dumping her change out on the table. "You talk nonsense because you think you have to do something every minute to keep from enjoying life." Margaret stood up and walked down the steps. "It is possible that Pll go, and I may take Karen with me, if you won't go." She fumbled with the bench swing a moment, and then walked around the house quickly beyond our view. Just then a car stopped in front, and Karen got out. "Thanks so much for the ride home. Bye...." She came up the walk with her music under her arm. "We had a wonderful choir practice today. They're going to start on the Messiah month after next—imagine! Christmas is ages away yet. Hi, Pat. Hi, Lillian." "Here you go, girls, Fifty cents. You can count it for yourselves." Pat's Aunt Agnes always made us count the money twice to be sure we had the exact amount. When there was change, we always had to count it into her hand, or rather Pat did. Pat's mother said Pat was short in arithmetic, so her Aunt Agnes was always trying to help her. "Sit down, Karen," Agnes. Said. "Margaret's out somewhere. Nobody's inside. You can study later. Karen's graduating in less than a month, girls. She's the last of us to finish college. Nobody can say that I didn't do well by my mother's family." Karen leaned over and gave Agnes a hug. Then she sat down by us. "Are you going to teach school at Valley High, Karen?" Pat asked. Karen paused a moment, and then she smiled at Pat. "I guess I am," she said. "Now, there's no better high school within a hundred miles or more of here, Karen. It would be silly to go someplace else to teach when you can live at home with us and go into teaching at the same school." "T know," said Karen. She gave Agnes another half hug and stood up. "I think I'll go find Margaret." Agnes sat down at her table and picked up her pencil. "Well, girls, we'll see you again next Saturday, I expect. There's fudge in the icebox, if you'd like some for your trip home." E went back through the dark, cool rooms to the kitchen and drank cool well water from the tap. Then we each took a piece of rich dark fudge with walnuts thick in it. We nibbled on it a little and let the creamy taste melt on our tongues. Then we had another drink and decided we must really get started back. We lingered a moment in the parlor looking at the photographs in the Diffendorf album that lay on a marble-topped table. 'Don't brush against any of the fern in there,' Pat's Aunt Agnes called. We hastily closed the album, but not before I'd caught a glimpse of a loose photograph of a younger Margaret, hand in hand with a boy poised with one foot on a fence. "Why, who is that?" I asked Pat. "You goose; that's over to 'Turners, across the street. Aunt Margaret and Dr. Turner, only he wasn't a doctor then. Don't you recognize our own doctor? 'That was about their first year in college. Mama said he'd have married Aunt Margaret, but she thought she ought to teach awhile to pay back Aunt Agnes for everything. 'Then Karen had to go to school, too, someday. Daddy had us, and he couldn't help out at all. He got married before he ~ ever finished school." "Well, Dr. Turner's not married now," I said. "Why don't they just get together again?" Pat looked at me. "Aren't you even the slightest romantic? People just don't get together because it's convenient. Aunt Margaret teaches in the winter or goes to school or on vacations in the summer, so everybody in the town won't say she's after him the way they do about Myra Johnson. It would be worse for Aunt Margaret because they liked each other once." "Well, I wouldn't want to marry a widower with a big boy almost our age, anyway," I said. We shut the parlor door behind us and went down the front hall to the porch where we said goodbye. We looked for Margaret and Karen when we wheeled our bikes down the front path, but we didn't see them. We stopped at the service station and got our tires filled with air. Then we went on down to Anastopolis' grocery store for ice-cream cones. It was friendlier buying them there than at the service station. People were always shopping there on Saturday for the week. We stood outside eating our cones. 94 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1955 GREEN WILLOWS 'Fiow much do you figure we made?" Pat asked. "Well, after expenses, I think about forty cents. 'That's twenty for you and twenty for me." "We made a penny on every package." "We just spent a dime of it for refreshments,' Pat reminded me. "True," I said. We wheeled our bikes slowly out to the street and started pedaling home. "It's your turn to spend Sunday at my place," Pat said. "Tl have to check with Mother to make sure," I said. "Well, it is your turn. Your place last Sunday." We took turns going home with each other after Sunday School, stayed to dinner, spent the afternoon, and then went to Church where we met our own folks. I turned down our driveway. Pat rode on, waving with the stubb of her cone. "How much did you make?" my father asked me at dinner. "Twenty cents," I said. "Minus five cents for your icecream cone—fifteen cents for a day's work. You could make more money baby sitting." "This is more fun for her," Mother said, "and it keeps her out in the fresh air. How many packages did Pat's aunts buy?" "Just five from each of us." "Ten! Oh, Lillian, you shouldn't impose on them like that." Mother laid down her fork and looked at me. "Say," said Father, "did you hear Dr. Mark Turner's bringing Philip back from his mother-in-law's for good soon as school is out. 'They I was at 95 need a good housekeeper since Mark's mother isn't too well." MOTHER sighed, "Poor Mark. I i,, don't know how he'll manage he's so busy. Gwennie's been gone over two years; you'd think...." Mother looked at Beany and me and stopped. "The boy must be about Lilhian's age," Father said. "He can take care of himself." "My age?" I looked up with interest. "Coming here to live for good!" I wondered if Pat knew about it. I guessed not or she would have told me immediately. I'd have something to tell her tomorrow. Life was so exciting in Green Willows. Lillian's going to sleep in her mashed potatoes," said Father, "like the dormouse in his teapot." I sat up straight. "Why didn't Dr. Turner marry Margaret Diffendorf?" "I'm sure I don't know," Mother said shortly. She was never one to gossip. "Now hurry up. You have to help with the dishes and get your bath." I hardly glanced at the reddening western sky through our dining room windows as I finished my dinner. I hoped I'd be the first to tell Pat about Philip. She was getting so silly about boys. I helped clear the table. "Boy," said Beany, "girls are dumb—always thinking about boys." He carried his dishes into the kitchen. I didn't bother answering him. I didn't feel too well. It was painful to swallow, but I didn't mention it. Everything would be all mght tomorrow, I was sure. (To be continued) Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, February 1, and February 15, 1895 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WoMeEN oF ALL NATIONS" BROTHERS AND SISTERS: Brothers and sisters who are early taught to be cheerfully, and lovingly helpful, and considerate towards each other will find in life great stores of pleasure and happiness which those who are not so taught will never know. Young people must have young associates in order to glean from youthful days and years all the richness and sweetness which they are calculated to contain. Where brothers and sisters are all to each other that they may be, and should be, there can be no proper estimate placed upon the true value of the love which exists between them.... I thank God that I was reared in a large family of tender, devoted, appreciative brothers and sisters. —L. L. Greene Richards THOUGHTS OF HOME Afar from ocean's roar and brine There is a distant western clime, Round which my heart-strmgs fondly twine, That is the home for me and mine, Oh, may we there all safely meet, And know the joys of home so sweet. —E. R. Shipp RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE IN THATCHER (ARIZONA): Counselor Mary L. Ransome read a circular letter from President Zina D. H. Young and Secretary E. B. Wells on the necessity of making annual payments promptly and regularly... Then followed with a few words of explanation regarding the letters; also cautioned the mothers to look after their children, keep them in at night, know where they are and what they are doing... Cautioned the officers of Relief Society to be very particular to whom they loan their wheat and that they have good security, and that it be returned with interest.... —Sarah Webb, Cor. Sec. WOMAN DOCTOR: Dr. Carrie Liebig of Hope, Idaho, has been appointed division surgeon upon the northern Pacific Railroad. It is said that this is the only instance of such distinction to a lady known in the United States. —Selected BREADMAKING: When preparing for bread, break up the yeast cake and cover with cold water. Use a pint of wetting, half of sweet milk and half of hot water; the temperature of the mixture should be about seventy-five degrees; add a teaspoonful of salt, and into this mixture of milk, water, and salt, stir the sifted flour; stir with a wooden spoon until the dough is stiff enough to take on the board and work with the palm of the hand.... Place the dough in a greased bowl to rise... And let it stand for three hours. Divide the dough into as many parts as you want loaves... It should stand about one hour after it has been placed in the pans.... The temperature in the oven for baking should be from three hundred and seventy to three hundred and seventy-five degrees. ' —Selected Page 96 RS. OSWALD B. LORD, United States delegate to the Human Rights Commission of the United Nations, says that the attempt of sixty nations to find ways and means for respecting the rights of their individual citizens, is something new in international affairs. The attacks on human freedom in recent years have convinced the world that human rights are a proper subject for international co-operation. OR twenty-four years, Mrs. William B. Fowler of Memphis, Tennessee, has been a dynamic leader in the Memphis City Beautiful Commission program, which has turned dumping grounds into gardens and tolerates no ugly premises. Beatification enthusiasts have come from all parts of the United States, England, Germany, Austria, and Hawaii to study the Memphis plan. Last April America's first conference of City Beautiful Commissions met, appropriately, in Memphis. LLEN GLASGOW'S thoughts and attitudes towards her writing career and her personal life are poignantly revealed in The Woman Within, an autobiography recently published, nine years after the death of this famous American novelist. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon ADAME AHMED HUSSEIN, wife of the Egyptian ambassador to the United States, says that of four hundred million Moslems today, fifty million are Chinese and Russians behind the Iron Curtain. In Egypt six hundred and sixty-six thousand girls are in secondary schools and five thousand women in universities, including medical and engineering schools. At the time when Islam originated (600 A. D.) it greatly improved the status of women, permitting them to appear at public functions, to study and teach in schools, enter all trades, sit in consultative councils, possess and dispose of property, and have the guardianship of minors, independently of their husbands' consent. The veil and other restrictions came much later through national, not religious, requirements. THE General Federation of Women's Clubs has been carrying on a vigorous crusade to do away with objectionable comic books. IRTHDAY Congratulations are extended to: Mrs. Mary Blanche Campbell, Smithfield, Utah, ninetyeight; Mrs. Isabella Rowley Crafts and Mrs. Mary Ellen Giauque Hodge, Salt Lake City, both ninetyfour. Page 97 CQ— > EDITORIAL a VOL. 42 FEBRUARY 1955 Jake Sime to Safeguard Children child's life in any period of world history has always been a joyous one, if he had a sense of loving security and a deep awareness of the watchcare of his Heavenly Father. Regardless of the richness or poverty of his immediate surroundings, he has lived for each day alone, and taken from that day the full measure of happiness and contentment it offered, in the purity of childhood. Whether his world was confined to a world within walking distance, extended at infrequent intervals by trips made by donkey, horse, wagon, or carriage, the child's world remained rather small and circumscribed. 'Today, however, the opportunities for travel to far places by bus, train, plane, or ship, are commonplace. In addition, a child can reach the T'V set, turn it on, and have shown to his startled and wondering gaze the wide reaches of the world with its beauty and cruelty, its riches and poverty. All discoveries and opportunities in this so-called Atomie Age, are, to the Latter-day Saint, but a part of this last great dispensation, the dispensation of the fulness of times. These scientific marvels being revealed to the minds of men are intended for the blessing of the Heavenly Father's children, but twisted and warped by the powers of evil, they may become a curse. 'To which use each man puts this knowledge for himself, is left for each man to Page 98 decide. For man has his God-given free agency. But the uses to which these inventions are put for a child, is not for the child to decide, but the responsibility falls upon the parents as placed there by the Lord. Since the esther in the home is constantly with her child, a grave part of this responsibility presses upon her shoulders. It used to be possible to shield children who were carefully guarded in the home; however, with the discoveries of the radio and TV, these media have been invited to enter the sacred precincts of the home itself. 'The fare which they offer may be uplifting or demoralizing to the tender understanding of a child. It is the mother's part to hear new programs and seek to free a child's listening and viewing time for worthwhile productions. While many parents condemn all the offerings, others take the stand that their children can take a chance and see anything. Neither of these attitudes is correct and both reveal ignorance of what is being shown. An executive, prominent in the television industry, states in a recent article that from thirty to forty million people a week look at the most popular television shows, and that a program may cost from five to eighty thousand dollars a week to produce. He says that Americans devote more time to television viewing than to any other pursuit except eating and sleeping. ECITORIAL In addition to being the biggest business for entertainment ever known, he declares it is likewise the most ~ powerful medium for distributing merchandise. The entertainment varies from the educational and informational to the mediocre and slapstick. An intelligent appraisal of programs by the mother in the home will enable her to plan the child's time so he receives benefit and not harm. And still a child cannot be and, perhaps, should not be shielded from all awareness of practices not in conformity with Latter-day Saint standards. But the mother should point out those destructive practices and teach to her children the truth. Just because a program is listed for "children" is not enough for a mother. How can her son be expected to feel the heinousness of killing, second in evil to denying the Holy Ghost, when he sees, almost daily, the taking of life and is not warned and taught by his mother against it. And TV is more strictly censored than are the movies. Does a mother know what her child will see when she allows him to spend Saturday sitting in a movie house? Is the mother constantly teaching chastity and striving to counteract influences which may attractively portray drinking, stealing, fornication, and countenancing adultery? The words of Alexander Pope are especially applicable with regard to a constant viewing of objectionable practices: 99 Vice is a monster of so frightful mien, As to be hated needs but to be seen; Yet seen too oft, familiar with her face, We first endure, then pity, then embrace. On the other hand, the knowledge and understanding which these new media offer can be of inestimable worth and value to the child. Gone are the days when Latterday Saints lived to themselves. 'Today from their earliest childhood throughout their adult life they physically live in Babylon. Still the words of the Lord warn: "Go ye out from Babylon. Be ye clean that bear the vessels of the Lord" (D. & C. 133:5). Not the physical withdrawal, but the mental withdrawal which results in a cleanliness of life forbidding practices condemned by the Lord, is the clarion call today. The training which will result in obedience to the mandate, "Be ye clean" is begun in the home by constant warning, prohibition, and teaching of the goodness of the gospel and resulting blessings. The wisdom of a mother in taking time, in the midst of her many other duties, to keep currently informed on T'V and radio programs and movies, so that she may train and safeguard the mind of her child, brings the blessings of eternal life not only to her but also to those souls, her children, dearer to her than mortal life itself. It is worth every mother's time to safeguard her children from partaking of evil. —M. C. S. Birthda etengs to Clomman SO naneaantt Y g Jovy, Grau 2 eae y Y GAIN this February, we extend birthday congratulations and best wishes to our beloved former president, Amy Brown Lyman. Women throughout the stakes and missions of the Church are grateful for her devoted service in shaping and directing the work of Relief Society over the years. Many sisters from the far stakes and missions, as well as those from the centers of Zion, were impressed and made joyous by the words of President Lyman which she spoke at the cornerstone-laying ceremony for the Relief Society Building in September. Her resume of the hopes and ideals of the sisters of the past exemplified to each one her own love for Relief Society today and her feeling of unity and service in the great organization. May Sister Lyman's years be filled with joy, and may she continue many years among us. | River of Moses Olive Carman Here at the day's end where the river runs red Willows lean to the brooding water, along the rim Murmur to the memory of slumber In a bulrush bed; To the mother of a legend they murmur of love, Whisper of a Hebrew woman down the dusty way Leaving hope in a wavering bulrush On the wave's breast. Lulled lies a secret, caressed in circling shadow; Lulled lies a nation's dream. Here love, watching at the water's rim, Sees tumult, sorrow sleeping here, a Red Sea, Ark, pillar, cloud, a serpent in the wilderness; Sinai slumbers here, with words of stone Long the willows lean across the ages; Ageless willows sing to a small son. Where the river bends they bow and murmur, Murmur around a nestled head, Canaan in a reedy bed. Page 100 A Shadowy Form Passed the Window Rose A. Openshaw RENE Clifford felt more keenly || the loneliness of her oversized house, where she seemed to rattle around like a forsaken pea in a lonely and enormous pod, as she realized that not one of her children had this year remembered her birthday. For weeks in advance, on other such occasions, they would be inquiring, "What shall we get you, Mother? What do you need or want?" or, "Now, don't make any date for the twenty-third, the family will all be there to celebrate!" And all was anticipation, suspense, and excitement. But this year no one had even remembered or mentioned it. They're so busy living their own lives they don't have time to drop in or think of me, she reflected sadly. Then, exasperated at having given way to self-pity, she laid the shears she had used for clipping the long rose stems, hard on the garden bench. I hope I'll never grow into one of those depressing creatures who give up when their brood flies, instead of making a new life for themselves, she mused, her lips pressed firmly together. She picked up the roses she had just clipped, arranging them carefully in her basket-shaped vase, soothed by their beauty and the way the pink and cream _ petals blended into the yellow-green tones of the vase. She buried her face in the blooms, drinking in their intoxicating perfume, grateful that she lived in Anzona where myriads of their princely varieties bloomed even in coldest winter, and where their fragrance seemed to rush out eagerly to meet her. She picked up the vase of roses and carried it inside to glorify the kitchen. But there she shook her head despairingly, for she found that the bouquet only tended to emphasize the shabbiness of the room. Everything in it had outlived its usefulness. She recalled the embarrassment she had experienced the Sunday before when some of her guests had followed her into the kitchen as she prepared refreshments. She hadn't anticipated this when she invited them for pie after church. She should at least have new linoleum, she reflected, but when could she ever find time or strength to uproot the present dilapidated one, scraping it bit by bit from the floor? And what assurance had she that the furnishings would not look even worse by contrast? The walls were crying for paint, and that shabby old stove! That rusty waterheater! Oh, everything! And no way to replenish anything at all. She smiled ruefully at the incongruousness of it, and glancing in the mirror as she did so, noticed again how like a skein of silver yarn her once dark hair was becoming, and the wrinkles were trying for a Page 101 foothold on her brow and about her wide, generous mouth. There was no denying it; her twenty-three years of teaching were telling their tale, and she did not hike its ending. She had been definitely skidding downhill for weeks. She wondered dully whether she would be able to hold out the halfdozen and one seasons until her teacher's pension was, due. The house should be repaired before she had to quit her work. Where had her means gone, melting away? Schooling, sickness, operations, Althea's accident—all ways for money to vanish with six children. How grateful she was that she had had her teacher's certificate to fall back on. Her eyes brightened and her heart warmed as she recalled how well the children were doing, especially Jesse, who was a man of property. He... Could.. Help... Me, the thought came timidly, if... Laree... Was... Disposed. She remembered the joy she had experienced in providing for her own mother, and in sharing her means with her mother-in-law the short time she had lived, and was puzzled that her children could feel otherwise. HE clock struck, reminding her she must be leaving. Fastening a coral necklace about her neck, and adding a matching pin to her smart gray dress, she placed a jaunty hat on her trim new hair-do, and within minutes her car was parked at the school. Her mind was removed from herself immediately. 'Thieves, she learned, had that night entered both the home of the school principal and one of the business houses in the district, relieving the two of approximately thirteen hundred dollars in cash and valuables. The air was tense with excitement, and the robbery was discussed throughout the day. It was next to impossible for either faculty or students to get down to solid work, Irene was getting her things ready preparatory to leaving, when the girl assigned to the oratorical contest came to her for assistance. While parts of the talk were being revised, she began grading the fastaccumulating papers on her desk, and finally became so absorbed that she forgot the time altogether, not even noticing the girl when she left. Glancing up later, she was amazed. Darkness had spread over the valley. With the room artificially lighted, she had not detected the change. Hurriedly assembling her possessions, she hastened from the building, so exhausted that even the robbery Mee slipped from her mind. She thought only of getting home and into more comfortable clothing, with something to refresh her. Her body sagged back, relaxed into the car seat. But as the machine came to a silent halt under the high ash tree in front of her home, she became instantly aware of something amiss. A dim light was burning within, bringing to her mind instantly the tale of the robberies. She grew tense, could it be possible someone was at that very moment ransacking her home? She leaped from the car, and started to dart toward a neighbor's, then halted, remembering it was their dinner hour. 102 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1955 A SHADOWY FORM PASSED THE WINDOW Pll ring my doorbell, let it shriek its warning, she thought. She gave the bell a vicious bang, holding her breath, her feet poised for flight, but there was no answering sound at all—no scrambling as of men in startled fright. She tried it a second time. 'This time she thought she caught a glimpse of a shadowy form, creeping by the window. Her breath came quickly now, and her heart was palpitating wildly. What were they up to? Were they waiting to strike her down as she entered? Then, all at once, she remembered, and the tension relaxed. Of course! That must be it. She had been so busy that morning, feeling sorry for herself, she must have forgotten to switch off the lights. How foolish, wasting money when she was about to despair because she had so little. And, really, she could have imagined seeing a form. It might have been a chair with her scarf thrown on top. A smile of relief crept over her features. She pushed the door ajar, but one glance into the room beyond stopped her short. There was no uncertainty now — someone was there! The kitchen was ablaze with lights! She stood paralyzed, trying to back out the way she had come. But too late! Forms were surrounding her, hugging her! She could barely distinguish them in the dim light. She opened her mouth to scream, but closed it again, for lights suddenly blazed forth in the front room. "Surprise! Surprise!" greeted her from a dozen happy voices. She stood eyeing them, bewild- 103 ered, growing weak-kneed in her relief. They were all hugging her now, and Jesse, her eldest, was leading her into the kitchen. She looked around. "New linoleum?" she cried weakly, in astonishment. She had seen it at once, stepping as she always did to avoid the hole in the old floor. "Tt's—it's beautiful! Work you have gone to!" "Look further!" they prompted. "Painted!" she gasped. "You've painted my kitchen—and just the colors I wanted! How could you know I wanted yellow and _turquoise?" "Didn't you know we are mindreaders? Look further!" they urged again. "More?" she cried, her eyes dilating and lighting on the stove. "Oh, no! Not a beautiful electric range? Oh! Oh!" She opened the oven, her hands caressing it. "Keep looking," they said again. "A water-heater? Oh," she cried, 'ft's too much;" She hugged the tank in rapture. "Don't overlook the refrigerator!" she was reminded. "You—didn't buy a new refrigerator?" she gasped, sinking into a chair, overcome. But what "WE sure did!" cried Beverly, "and now I'm offended. You haven't looked once at my contribution!" "Curtains!" exclaimed Irene. "Oh, how pretty—how fresh and dainty they are!" "The potted plant in the window," cut in Lloyd, pushing his blonde hair back from an overhigh forehead, "is from your next-door neighbor, who wanted to do some- thing, but Beverly made the curtains." "Ana we were desperately afraid," added Dick, the youngest, "you would return home before we got the mess cleaned up. We just got it out in time." His dark eyes smiled into hers in the intimate way he had, and she felt a sudden impulse to hug him to her. Tall and slender of build, he was patterned much after herself, but he was much more quiet and reserved than she had ever been. "We wanted everything nice for your birthday," explained Ireta, the tiny girl who was Dick's wife. "And I had forgotten my birthday entirely—that is, tonight," she amended, "I thought you were robbers surely!" "We're worse. We're bandits, and we've held a council meeting, and you're going with us," cried Ernest, a replica of his square-faced father. "And we'll take you right now!" put in Jesse, his keen blue eyes twinkling. "Ts it peaceably or otherwise?" he demanded, rubbing his hands together, a habit acquired when talking. "Peaceably," smiled Irene, "but where?" "Home with us. Laree's got a roast in the oven, and I can smell it already, and the youngsters are agog with excitement over the decorations on Grandma's cake." "What are we waiting for?" demanded Althea, the round-faced second daughter, impatiently. "Get Mother's wrap, Joel. I'll bet she's tired." But Irene had forgotten her weariness, everything but that her children had not forgotten her. She looked up quickly. Jesse was pushing something into her hand. "Didn't I hear something about turning part of this place into an apartment?" he demanded. "This is two hundred dollars toward it, and maybe more to come later." "Oh," she cried, "it's too much!" "Too much?" he scorned, "if we set a palace at your feet it wouldn't be too much. You're a jewel—not only as a parent, but as a woman." "And haven't you slaved for us grasshoppers all your life?" cut in Emmest, removing the _ tension. "Haven't you toted us about when we were so helpless we couldn't even hop?" "Or even let out a loud chirp?" added Marian, the oldest girl, who could be counted on to help Emest in his witticisms, setting them laughing. "And if we happen to be around and underfoot too much from now on," put in Lloyd, patting his mother affectionately, "just put a few of us out!" "Oh!" was all Irene could say, her eyes misty. And for a moment she could not speak for the joy that flooded her whole being. &arly Risers Pansye H. Powell Dame Nature has been asleep— Her snowcap on her head. She'd like to rest a little more, But now must tend, instead, Those naughty little hyacinths That will not stay in bed! 104 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1955 Block and Applique Quilts Velma MacKay Paul ITH the quilt patterns W\ being made available by cotton and thread manufacturers and the lovely ones shown in numerous publications, anyone with a desire to make a quilt can do so. When contemplating the making, however, one is often discour- | aged, because it seems such a, tremendous undertaking. 'Therefore, it is well to remember that, like living one day at a time, we work on only one block at a time; as we learn from day to day, so we progress from block to block. The first block or patch must be perfect—in size, color arrangement, selection of long-wearing material, and beauty of design. As the finished blocks are put together, the beauty of the whole quilt grows. Pre-Washing Materials It is wise to wash all materials, including the back, before starting a quilt, as all may not be pre-shrunk. Also, if a piece is not colorfast, it is good to know it and discard it for one that is. Making a Pattern It is very important when cutting the original patterns for pieced quilts to use materials that cannot stretch, such as cardboard, architect's linen, blotters, or fine sandpaper. Various sizes of embroidery hoops are excellent for drawing - circles and curves. A compass, also, may be used. With present patterns, instructions are usually given for seam allowance. However, if you plan to copy an old one, you must do a little figuring and make your own patterns. With a ruler, measure each patch in a particular block and draw an exact copy on a_ paper. With dotted lines on all sides, you allow one-quarter inch for seams. Cutting Patches and Tearing Blocks Patches for pieced quilts must always be cut with the pattern laid on the weave of the goods—never on the bias. When a diamond patch is cut, as for the star quilt, the pattern is laid with the two straight sides on the up and down weave, and the two bias sides are cut on the bias to meet the points of the two straight sides. With applique quilts, the muslin squares on which the designs will be appliqued should be torn and not cut. Since the average blocks are eighteen inches square, it is easy to take one-yard wide material and tear it in half the entire length of the planned quilt. Then the one-half yard strips should be nicked every eighteen inches on the selvage side, and the square torn apart. 'This method insures a perfectly even quilt when the finished squares are sewed together. Sunburst or Rising Sun Quilt In the case of the Sunburst or Rising Sun Quilt (Plate I) only one pattern is required. You then count the points or sections of the star, and how many patches of each color will be needed. The quilt is made Page 105 PLATE 1 in eight sections, each section having exactly one hundred diamondshaped patches which measure two by two inches finished. Therefore, all patches should be cut two and one-half inches each way with the straight side of the pattern on the straight of the goods. Color Arrangement Concentrate ori a pleasing color arrangement for just one section, shading the dark into the light or the light into deeper tones. When the eight sections are sewed together, each shade will match exactly those of the next section, and when completed becomes a glorious sunburst of color. The one shown here began with one patch of flowered yellow, then two of gold, three of a figured yellow, four of red with tiny black flowers, five of rose, six of figured red, seven of figured blue, eight of light blue, nine of another figured blue, and ten of dark green. At this point, the section decreases with nine of lighter figured green, eight of dark figured green, seven of flowered yellow, six of gold, five of figured yellow, four red, three rose, two red, and one blue. Pieced 106 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1955 BLOCK AND APPLIQUE QUILTS stars are appliqued in between the outer points. This quilt is about seventy-five years old and measures two and one-half yards each way. Copying an Applique Quilt To copy an applique quilt is very simple. Use heavy tracing paper or architect's linen, which is transparent and will not tear easily. Cover the entire block of applique, including the muslin background, and pin securely. 'Trace around each flower, leaf, bird, geometric design, or whatever it may be. Number your background, and write on your patterns which block they belong to. Remove and cut out the individual patterns, and with the original be- 107 fore you, copy them on a paper of the same size as the block. (I use eighteen-inch white shelf paper for the background, and cut the individual patterns out of colored construction paper. ) Following the original coloring, or changing it as you desire, cut leaves out of green, tulips of yellow or red, etc., and make a complete block on paper. Remember, when cutting the applique designs out of material to allow for seams, which are usually one-eighth of an inch for applique. When you are through, keep your paper patches for future ideas. On all appliques, I use bias tape for stems, tendrils, and fine curves. Bias tape is much easier to work with than is cloth cut on the bias. I cut away one of the turned back sides and it is exactly the right width. Plate II shows a very old appliqued quilt made entirely of reds and greens, plain, figured, and flowered. It is wider than it is long because of the sides hanging almost to the floor to give added warmth to the occupants of the trundle bed underneath. 'The little trundle beds were pushed under the old four-poster beds to get them out of the way during the day. At night they were pulled out, head first, for about onethird of the length of the bed. Then the children were "out in the open" but most of their bed was shielded from the draft on the unheated bedroom floor. The muslin background squares are eighteen by eighteen inches. To make patterns of this quilt available to readers of a national magazine, I copied each pattern, using architect's linen, and reproduced the entire quilt in exact size on paper, before making up the patterns for the Curtis Publishing Company in Philadelphia. —~—— Seb ruary Mloon Ethel Jacobson This February moon is not for lovers... So bleak it is, so shriveled, so blue-cold; Theirs the friendlier dark that softly hovers, Or the noon's gold. This empty star that staringly uncovers A visage pale and pulseless as a stone— This February moon is not for lovers, But for the lone. ——- She Una nswe rable Lael W. Hill One child is dark, with midnight eyes; One, golden as an August day. Shy is the dark one, wild and wise; The gold one, placid in her play, Flashes a smile that's honey-spun. Her solemn sister haunts you so!... Which is the prettier, dearer one Of two little girls? You want to know... Then go—ask wind if dusk or dawn Stirs more delight; ask the wide sea What shore is best to break upon. Question which clover suits the bee— But never, never ask a mother Which daughter is lovelier than the other! 108 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1955 AMELIA ELIZABETH H. JACKSON Amelia Elizabeth Hl. Yackson Pieces Quilts and Mlakes Lampshades F \eaeerei Elizabeth H. Jackson, Ogden, Utah, is ninety-two years old, but she has not yet retired, but has changed her hobbies to fit her present strength and circumstances. In the past year she has pieced twelve quilt tops by hand, crocheted six chair sets, and fifteen caps for babies. Also she has decorated a number of attractive lampshades. She still makes fine, even stitches and takes pride in her accomplishments. Amelia Elizabeth was born to Orin and Elizabeth Perry Hatch in Bountiful, Utah, in 1862, only fifteen vears after the pioneers came to Utah. From a traveling tailor, she learned to be an expert seamstress and while in her teens she made overalls for the Z. C. M. I. In summers she lived on a ranch near Wanship, Utah, and milked ten cows or more, nights and mornings. At the age of twenty-one she was married and traveled with her young husband David Jackson to Rich County, Utah, where they were the first to introduce Hereford cattle and establish a dairy. For many years, Amelia Jackson was secretary of the Woodruff Stake Relief Society. She traveled long distances to make her visits, including the 185 miles to Manila. She is the mother of thirteen children, thirty-six grandchildren, and seventy-eight great-grandchildren. Her life philosophy is to keep abreast of the times, think of others and serve them, trust in the Lord, be honest and fair in all dealings, and live the very best you can. Page 109 Contentment Is a Lovely Thing CHAPTER 5 (Conclusion) Dorothy S. Romney heart sang. She had been too busy to realize how much she had missed him. The next few days were busy ones. Then one afternoon Margaret came up from the barn after having fed the stock. She had gathered an apron full of fresh eggs, and before she had time to put them in a bowl the telephone rang. She clutched the ends of her apron in one hand and uncradled the receiver with the other. "A telegram has just come in for Mrs. Jackson. Her telephone doesn't answer, so I thought she might be with you," the operator explained, knowing that Margaret was Mrs. Jackson's nearest neighbor. "Mrs. Jackson isn't here, but I'll take the message and deliver it to her," Margaret answered. She wrote on the telephone pad with a hand that wobbled slightly, "Arriving six P. M. Wednesday," and it was signed "Richard Jackson." She was so excited that she almost forgot the eggs, but managed somehow to get them into a bowl without breakage before she flew down to tell Mrs. Jackson the news. She must be somewhere about the place. Wednesday, she thought, as she ran through the orchard to the Jackson cottage. But today is Wednesday, and it's already three o'clock. She found Mrs. Jackson working in her vegetable garden, and told her the wonderful news. Page 110 Ji is coming home, Margaret's When the six o'clock train pulled in, the Lansing station wagon was waiting, Kimmy gleeful at the sound of the "choo, choo," Margaret hopeful for Dick Jackson's physical condition, and his mother too happy to think of anything but that her son was returning. Margaret strained her eyes for a first glimpse of Dick, and scarcely noticed the several other passengers who alighted. Dick, of course, would be the boy in the uniform, taller seeming, and certainly thinner than she had remembered him. His dark eyes looked enormous in a face whose pallor told of long confinement in a hospital. She turned her eyes toward his mother, wondering if she would notice how really sick Dick looked, but there was so much joy shining out of her face there wasn't room for anything else. Suddenly Kimmy clapped his hands delightedly and_ shouted, "Daddy, Daddy!" and before Margaret knew what was happening Jed's arms were around her and Kimmy. She looked over Jed's shoulder. "Where are Mother and Dad?" she asked, the more familiar form of address coming easily to her lips. "They'll be down Saturday," he replied. "I came as an advance guard." "Your father's hand, Jed?" she asked anxiously. "How is it?" "He can use it,' Jed answered noncommittally. "I've talked them CONTENTMENT! S A LOVELY THING into spending the rest of the summer with us." "Oh, wonderful," she said. Then, as Mrs. Jackson finally released her hold on her son, Margaret turned to welcome him home. She clasped his long, thin hand warmly and looked up into his face, old beyond his years, as she said, "We're all so glad to have you back again." Jed stored his bag and Dick's army gear in the back seat of the station wagon, and they all got in and headed for home. 'The sun was setting in a glorious blaze of color and the gardens along the way were brilliant with summer blossoms. Margaret was especially grateful for all this beauty, realizing what it must mean to the war-weary boy. "IT was sure glad to find Jed on the train," Dick said.. "Let's say that we were glad to find each other," Jed replied. "I needed someone to talk with pretty badly myself." His voice held an unmistakable earnestness, something of the terrific strain which he had been under. Margaret could hold back her question no longer. "You said that your father could use his hand, but will he ever be able to operate again?" "No," he answered heavily. "And he knows the worst now. He will never be able to perform another operation." KO OK OK r= parents arrived on Saturday, as they had promised. Naturally Margaret had expected to see a difference in them, but she was in no way prepared for what she saw. Mrs. Lansing was still beautifully 1 groomed, with her blue-white hair in soft, sculptured rolls, but there were lines on her face, and her eyes that had been so serene now told of tragedy and weeks of anxiety. As for Dr. Lansing, he was not only thinner, but he had lost his sprightly assurance. He moved now so apathetically that Margaret could hardly resist crying out. We must do something for him, she thought. But what? What could anyone do to restore hope in a man when the best of his life's work had suddenly been denied him? Mrs. Lansing offered to take over some small tasks around the house, and while Margaret at first demurred, she soon realized that work was the best panacea she could have. She wished that Dr. Lansing would do the same. Actually there was plenty of work on the farm that he could have done, and Jed could certainly have used the help. Instead, he sat on the front porch and gazed stonily at the distant mountains until Margaret longed to shake him, just to get him to move. Only Kimmy could draw any response that was much more than a monosyllable. The grandfather's listlessness could not be proof against the child's happy prattle, and for Ey Margaret was extremely grateul. "Tf only we could get him to do something!" Margaret sighed for the hundredth time. "If he'd pick some fruit, or go fishing, or anything! It almost sends me out of my mind to see him sitting there so aimlessly. You'd never know it was the same man who was here in the spring." Jed nodded grimly. "Maybe some- thing will happen to make him snap out of it," he said. He paused a moment and then added, "Something has to happen." Each morning she asked the doctor to take Kimmy and walk down to the mailbox, pleading that she had no time to go herself. It was almost the only thing she could persuade him to do, and she was glad that Kimmy prolonged the walk by expending his curiosity on every bug and flower they saw along the way. As she kneaded her dough this morning, she watched their slow progress down the long lane. "Hot tolls for lunch," she called to Jed's mother, who was shelling peas out in the coolness of the screened service porch. "You're spoiling us," the older woman declared. "We'll never able to go back to city fare." "Must you go back?" asked Margaret, turning the dough over thoughtfully. "I couldn't help hoping that you would like it well enough here to stay," Margaret went on, a bit hesitantly. "Old Dr. Miller has long wanted to retire. If Dad could only be contented...." "Oh, no! I'm sure he wouldn't think of it,' protested her motherin-law. "No, I suppose not," Margaret agreed regretfully. "But we couldn't help hoping." HROUGH the long, feathery branches of the willow tree Margaret could see Kimmy and his grandfather returning from the mailbox. Even with their frequent stops she knew that they would arrive back all too soon, and Dr. Lansing would resume his position of waiting on the front porch. Waiting for what? Simply for the day to end. Covering the dough with a fresh cloth, she called to Mrs. Lansing, "I'm going to run over to Jackson's for a few minutes. Dick wasn't feeling well last night. Will you please keep an eye on Kimmy? I'd rather not take him along." As soon as she knocked on the door of the cottage, she knew there was something wrong. 'There was the sort of hushed silence that spreads over a house when someone is seriously ill. Mrs. Jackson's sister opened the door and, in answer to Margaret's surprised look, she said, "It's Dick. He's running an awful high fever. We've tried to get Dr. Miller, but he doesn't even answer his phone." "But you must have help at once!" cried Margaret. "He's in no condition to stand anything more right now. Perhaps Dr. Lansing— perhaps my father-in-law would... But no, I'm afraid not." Then, as she noted again the anxiety in the woman's eyes, she said, "I'll ask him. I can do that much at least." She took the short cut across the field, stopping only to ease herself through the wire fence, thinking, as one does of small things during such an emergency, it's foolish not to cut a gate here. This might be the turning point for all of them, she thought. If Jed's father could just be made to realize how much they wanted him and needed him, maybe—just maybe— there might be a chance of keeping him here. She ran_ breathlessly around to the front porch. "Dad," she burst out excitedly, "Dick Jackson is terribly ill, and 112 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1955 CONTENTMENT JIS A LOVELY THING Dr. Miller can't be reached!" The words tumbled out, one over another. "Won't you please go down and take care of him?" "No, I'm afraid not," he said immediately. "It wouldn't be ethical for me to go in and take over Dr. Miller's patient." Then he added, a note of unmistakable bitterness in his voice, "Besides I wouldn't be of much help." Oh, she thought wildly, my blundering has spoiled any chance we had of keeping them here. "['m sorry, in my anxiety over Dick I suppose I forgot... Everything else," she apologized quickly. The doctor seemed not to have heard her apology at all, but appeared to be deep in thought. Finally he said, "I'm the one to be sorry, my dear. I'm being both stupid and cruel. I was selfishly thinking only of my own feelings. Perhaps I can be of some help." He went into the bedroom for his physician's bag and Margaret watched him walk along the hydrangea-bordered path, noting the proud lift of his shoulders. She realized that his decision to attend Dick meant more than changing into the role of a general practioner. It meant his accepting of the bitter fact that his hand would never regain its skill, and that the facing of this fact had been the biggest hurdle he had to overcome. HE bent her head closer to her task of preparing lunch to hide the gleam of unshed tears in her eyes, as Jed's mother came into the kitchen. "Maybe you'd like to walk down to the field and remind your son that it's mealtime," she 113 said. "He never seems to know of his own accord." While the casserole dish she had prepared was baking, she fed Kimmy his special foods, then tucked him in bed for his nap. She set four places on the small table in the glassed-in patio. It was a matter of twenty minutes or so before Jed and his mother came back from the fields. "I was showing Mother how to run the harvester," Jed explained with a chuckle. "IT was doing right well, too," his mother smiled back. "Another lesson or two and I might be able to take over." She glanced towards the front porch and asked, "Hasn't Dad come back yet?" "No," Margaret replied, "and I'm terribly worried about Dick. His aunt said he had been running a high temperature all last night." Margaret served lunch, and they ate in silence. There were golden planes of sunlight slanting across the patio, as crystal clear as the blue of the sky through the emerald tracery of the nearby willow trees. Luncheon over, Jed went back to the fields, after asking Margaret to walk down and tell him what news there was of Dick's condition as soon as his father returned. His mother picked up the mending basket, which was full to overflowing, as usual, and took up a vigil on the service porch, where she had a clear view of the Jackson cottage. The hours passed slowly. AIthough neither had mentioned it, each of the women knew that the other had found the afternoon almost intolerably long. Finally Margaret said, "I'll run down and let Jed know it's dinner time." She stepped outside, glad to get away from the lagging hands of the clock and into the fresh air. She and Jed were quiet and thoughtful as they walked back to the house hand in hand. "This town could sure use a good doctor like Dad," was Jed's first comment, after Margaret had told him that his father was still at the Jackson's. "Dr. Miller can't hang on much longer. But I'm afraid Dad would never be satisfied here." "And Tm afraid your mother would be even less satisfied," Margaret said, a trifle hesitantly, "'to settle down to country life." "The more's a pity," said Jed, his eyes intent on the faraway mountains. There was no mention of waiting dinner until the doctor's return. They conversed but little during the meal, each being busy with his own thoughts. ONG after the sun had gone down in a blaze of glory and the sky grown dark, the Lansings lingered on in the comfortable farm kitchen. Margaret, clearing the dinner dishes from the table on the patio, saw the first stars appear, frostily aloof, in the velvet of the night sky. They had all grown restless with waiting. Jed moved silently to the window. There was a lone light in the Jackson cottage. He watched for some time then turned abruptly. "Isn't it time Kimmy was in bed?" he asked, and Margaret noted the tenseness in his voice. "Let me put him in," his grandmother said immediately, and Margaret nodded assent. She knew that the greatest pleasure either of the elder Lansings had at the present was the association with their only grandchild. She had just returned when the door opened and the doctor came in. His face was lined and weary, but there was a look of peace in his eyes that had been missing for many days. "Dick! Is he...?" Margaret's voice broke. "The boy is going to be all right," Dr. Lansing replied, looking into the three anxious faces. "He has a virulent type of pneumonia that strikes quickly and hard. And, of course, he was already weak to begin with. But he has passed the crisis now—I stayed until I had made sure of that. All that will be required now is good care and a little time." "Well, with you around, he'll get the best," said Jed heartily. Margaret's relief for Dick was only secondary to her other feelings. For the first time since the accident Dr. Lansing had spoken like his old self again. Tired as he was, his step had something of the old resilience. There was a quiet triumph in his face, and it had come alive again. "Thank goodness," she murmured softly, and none of them knew that she was not speaking wholly for Dick. "They'll call me if they happen to need me again tonight," the doctor said, as he moved towards his bedroom. "But I'm sure that he's going to be all right." As they went to their own room, Margaret turned to Jed with shining eyes. "This may be the turning point," she whispered. "There was something—surely you noticed it.". "Yes, I noticed it," he replied. 114 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1955 CONTENTMENT! S A LOVELY THING "Dad was a doctor again—instead of just a broken man. All we need to do now is scare up another urgent case tomorrow." THEY awakened early, as usual, except for Dr. Lansing who had been wearied by his unusual exertions of the day before. Margaret slipped over to the Jackson's to reassure herself and learned that Dick had spent a restful night. "I don't know what we'd have done without Dr. Lansing," Mrs. Jackson said, her voice breaking, "I'll never be able to thank him enough. I just couldn't have anything happen to my boy—not after all he's been through." Margaret pressed her neighbor's arm lovingly. "It did something for him, too," she said. "Last night he was himself again for the first time this summer." She hurried back to the house where Mrs. Lansing was giving Kimmy his morning cereal. ""Where is Dr. Miller's office?" she asked. "Around the corner from the church, on the northeast side. It's that white stucco house, with all the flowers," Margaret explained. "He plans to move to Arizona and live with a daughter if he can ever get away." "Could we drive over and see it this morning?" | "Oh, Mother!" cried Margaret. "Do you really mean it? Would you consider staying here? Could you be contented here?" "Tt must be Frank's decision, of course," replied Mrs. Lansing. "But I think after our talk last mght I might persuade him to stay...." "Plotting behind my back, eh?" a voice interrupted, and they turned 115 to see the doctor standing in the doorway. "So you think you would like to live in the country? Do you think you would be contented?" "Yes," she replied with decision, "T honestly think I could get along happily without city diversions. In fact, they all seem rather trivial compared to what we might find here— what we have already found," she corrected herself. "And you would like to see me go back to being a country doctor?" "It wouldn't be going back,' she replied. "The life you saved yesterday was as important as any you might have saved anywhere else. Wasn't it now?" "T've never been happier over any, as far as I can remember," he confessed. "And do you really think these children of ours could stand having us so near?" 'There was a twinkle in his eyes that brought a surge of joy to Margaret's heart. "I think that we could bear up under it," she replied. "Then I think we'll all go over and take a look at Dr. Miller's setup. But first I must have a look at my patient! And I also might remind you that I'm ravenously hungry—if anyone cares." "Tll deep-fry some scones," said Margaret. "They will be extra good this morning, and there's fresh butter and strawberry jam." "Tl have some, too," said Mrs. Lansing. As she lifted Kimmy down from his high chair she held him long enough to say gravely, "You look well fed and contented this morning." 'Then she added to no one in particular—certainly not to Kimmy, "Contentment is a_ lovely thing." From The F ield _ Margaret C. Pickering, General Secrcetary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1950, page 278, and the Handbook of Instructions, page 123. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Alta Fuhriman NAMPA STAKE (IDAHO) VISITING TEACHERS HONORED AT CONVENTION, August 12, 1954 Left to right: Clarissa Ashlock, stake visiting teacher message leader; Emma Tidwell, Homedale Ward, who has served as a visiting teacher for fifty years; Susannah Young, Homedale Ward, fifty-one years; Minnie Sorenson, Nampa First Ward, fortytwo years; Ella Bailey, Star Branch, fifty-five years; Nellie Montague, Nampa Third Ward, forty-two years; Mary Edgley, Nampa Fourth Ward, forty-two years; Ruby Gnffith, Homedale Ward, thirty-seven years; Ethel Olsen, Marsing Ward, forty-eight years; Hannah Call, Star Branch, thirty-nine years. These sisters were honored at the convention and presented with books as tokens of appreciation for their long and loyal service. The Nampa First Ward was especially honored for having the highest percentage of visiting teachers present at the convention. The Doctrine and Covenants Commentary was presented to this ward Relief Society for its library. Alta Fuhriman is president of Nampa Stake Relief Society. Page 116 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 117 Photograph submitted by Lavonae Hoopes ST. JOSEPH STAKE (ARIZONA) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE CONFERENCE Stake chorister, Geneva Green. Stands at the left in the center of the picture above the rostrum (wearing white blouse); Marie Farley, who directed the chorus, stands in front, at the left (wearing dark dress); stake organist, Lela McBride, seated at the piano; the assistant organist, Bernice Stowell, is seated at the organ at the right. This chorus is composed of over one hundred women, representing eight wards. Many of the women traveled almost one hundred miles to be present for this occasion. Lavona Hoopes is president of St. Joseph Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Jenna Vee Hall GOODING STAKE (IDAHO), JEROME FIRST WARD VISITING TEACHERS ACHIEVE A ONE HUNDRED PER CENT RECORD FOR FOUR YEARS Seated. Front row, fourth from the right: President Hazel Gines; third from the tight, Second Counselor Edith Byington; second from the right, Secretary-Treasurer Helen Kotter; front row, fourth from the left, Mildred Andrus, visiting teacher message leader. First Counselor Rachel Davis was not present when this picture was taken. Jenna Vee Hall is president of Gooding Stake Relief Society. 118 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1955 Photograph submitted by Inez B. Tingey CACHE STAKE (UTAH), LOGAN FOURTH WARD VISITING TEACHERS WHO HAVE ACHIEVED A RECORD OF ONE HUNDRED PER CENT VISITING TEACHING FOR SEVEN YEARS Seated, front row, left to right: Louise Seamons; Lillian Evans, visiting teacher message leader; Veressa Packer, First Counselor; Janett Bullock, President; Zelda Heninger, Second Counselor; Marian Izatt, Secretary-Treasurer; Florence Morgan; Linda Benson. Fifty women are active visiting teachers in the Logan Fourth Ward. On September 7, 1954. A lovely social was given, honoring these sisters for their faithful service to Relief Society. Inez B. Tingey is president of Cache Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Ruth O. Stapley PHOENIX STAKE (ARIZONA) VISITING TEACHERS CONVENTION, September 1954 Seated at the right side on the front row, left to right: Elnora Shupe, former president of Phoenix Stake Relief Society; Permella Haggard, First Counselor; Maud Pace, Second Counselor; Ruth O. Stapley, President, Phoenix Stake Relief Society; Havana May, stake Relief Society organist. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 119 Sister Stapley reports that Pearl Shumway, who has been a visiting teacher for fifty-four years, was especially honored at this convention and was presented with a gift. The oldest visiting teacher, Nettie Storey, age seventy-seven, and the youngest visiting teacher, Aletha Turley, nineteen, were also honored and presented with gifts. The theme for this occasion, "Come to Relief Society and Have Your Faith Lifted," mounted on a poster, was placed on a stand at the front of the chapel. Two hundred women attended the meeting, and each was presented with a booklet "'Deep Roots," prepared by the stake board. 'The slogan, "Every Latter-day Saint Woman a Member of Relief Society," was mounted on a poster and placed at the entrance to the chapel. Photograph submitted by Ina Ruth Perkins RAMEY AIR FORCE BASE, PUERTO RICO, RELIEF SOCIETY MAKES QUILT Standing, left to right: Ann Gardner, San Antonio, Texas; Charlene Sorenson, Brigham City, Utah; Alda Bradbury, Salt Lake City, Utah; Ruth Smith, Boise, Idaho; Norma Young, Merced, California; Mary Lou Greenfield, Charleston, West Virginia; Pauline Rudd, Parker, Idaho. The following members of this Relief Society were not present when this picture was taken: Beverly Halford, Burley, Idaho; Beverly Johnson, Cambridge, Idaho; Ina Ruth Perkins, Eagar, Arizona. This quit was a summer project, planned and executed entirely by beginners. Upon completion, it was presented to Sister Rudd, wife of the group leader, Captain Melvin J. Rudd, in appreciation for their services to the members of the Church. Stationed at Ramcy Air Force Base. Sister Smith designed the quilt. Ramey Air Force Base in Puerto Rico does not belong to any organized stake or mission, but is under the direct supervision of Elder Bruce R. McConkie, who has charge of the Latter-day Saint groups at all the military bases. 120 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1955 = — mnie ih WN Photograph submitted by Isabell C. Ellison RIVERDALE STAKE (UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE CONFERENCE, September 1954 Seated at the organ, Eva Mae Chapman, organist; seated, front row, at left, Katherine Miller, chorister. This chorus presented the music for the stake quarterly conference in September, and the group has also presented music for many other occasions, including stake Relief Society meetings. Isabell C. Ellison is president of Riverdale Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Minnie C. Dills FLORIDA STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS CONDUCT FUND-RAISING PROJECTS Seated, fifth and sixth from the left, front row: Sally Murray and Nancy Sellers, chairmen; inset, Josephine Jenkins, former President, Florida Stake Relief Society. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 121 This group represents former Relief Society leadership of Florida Stake and former board members, ward officers, and chairmen who, on October 1, 1954, closed a most successful fund-raismg campaign. 'The work mecting Icaders, under the direction of Ida Starling, former stake work meeting leader, invited the members to contribute a bazaar item. 'This was a most satisfying project. The contributions varied from articles for sales to lovely applique quilts and canary birds. One ward grew and sold cut flowers. The names of those contributing to the projects are recorded on the scrolls shown in the picture. These names are treasured in remembrance of outstanding co-operation. Effie F. Meeks is the new president of Florida Stake Relief Society. N - ea Photograph submitted by Marjorie M. Ward SALT LAKE STAKE (UTAH), SEVENTEENTH WARD OPENING SOCIAL September 29, 1954 The highlight of this opening social was a skit entitled '""The Spinisters' Convention," directed by Mary C. Neves and Tirza Eckersley, as an effective reminder of the annual membership dues. Front row, seated, left to right: Leona Jolley; Mary C. Neves; Maud Hartley; Belle Sessions. Second row, standing, left to right: Jessie Streeter, Nan S. Poll; Aurelia Shimer; Tirza Eckersley; Merrilla Worthington; Irene Safford, President Seventeenth Ward Relief Society; Martha Sequine. Third row, standing, left to right: Bertha DeLong, First Counselor, Seventeenth Ward Relief Society; Juanita Newsome; Doris Badger, Second Counselor, Seventeenth Ward Relief Society; Isabelle Wiberg; Caroline Brown; Esther Farnsworth; Lillian Snader; Joanne Roundy. Marjorie M. Ward is president of Salt Lake Stake Relief Society. Photograph submiited by Agnes M. Vincent MONUMENT PARK STAKE (SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS FURNISH MUSIC FOR RELIEF SOCIETY CONVENTION Front row, left to right: Viola Tueller, former stake chorister; Anna Beth Stucki; Lucille Sorenson; Lyle Pratt, First Counselor, Monument Park Stake Relief Society; Ina York; Abbie McKay; Loraine Richmond; Bessie Hopkins; Mary Merrill; Alice Bley]; Elaine Drake, stake Relief Society organist; Orzelle Fullmer; Grace Stevens. Second row, left to right: Erma White; Mae Farthingham; Jeanette Heistera; Millie Erickson; Orean Burton; Sylvia Weaver; Ann Kelley; Vada Bate; Annie Stoker; Gene Smith; Margaret Emery; Carol Gray. Back row, left to right: Nyena Nelson; Ruby Henderson; Helen Lach; Orlene Poulsen; Fern Campbell; Florence Workman; Ruth Walton; Ida Romney; Thelma Hammond; June Allen; Elanor Evertson; Phyllis Hansen, stake chorister. Reba O. Carling is president of Monument Park Stake Relief Society, Abraham Lincoln Mabel Jones Gabbott Lincoln stood above the crowds, Shoulders high, they say; Held his thoughts erect and true, Walked the Master's way; Lincoln spoke in simple words, Heart to heart, they say; Living words that ring with truth To our ears today; Understanding filled his soul For all men, they say; Tall in stature, thought, and heart, Lincoln knelt to pray. 122 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1955 IN DEPARTMENT Sheology—Characters and Teachings of The Book of Mormon Lesson 32—Peace Comes to the Nephites Through Righteousness Elder Leland H. Monson Text: The Book of Mormon: Alma, chapters 59-63 For Tuesday, May 3, 1955 Objective: Moroni's Letter to Pahoran HEN Moroni received Helaman's letter in the thirtieth year of the reign of the judges, he rejoiced over the success of Helaman in his part of the country for winning back the land the Nephites had lost. This information was sent to all the Nephites near where Moroni was, so that they might join in the rejoicing. Immediately, in response to Helaman's query as to why more strength was not sent him so that he could continue to maintain the re-conquered lands, Moroni addressed a letter to Pahoran, the chief judge, in the land of Zarahemla. He requested Pahoran to send reinforcements to Helaman's armies. Moroni then continued to make plans for winning back the remainder of the cities and possessions of the NeTo show the necessity of maintaining righteousness within a country in order to withstand the enemies without. Phites still held by the Lamanites. Before he was ready to proceed, however, he learned that the government had also neglected to reinforce the city of Nephihah as he had expected, for it fell into the hands of the Lamanites. This Moroni learned from those inhabitants who escaped and joined him.. When Moroni saw that the city of Nephihah was lost he was exceeding sorrowful, and began to doubt, because of the wickedness of the people, whether they should not fall into the hands of their brethren. Now this was the case with all his chief captains. They doubted and marveled also because of the wickedness of the people, and this because of the success of the Lamanites over them (Alma 59:11-12). Moroni was angered with the government because of its indifference to the cause of freedom, and he Page 123 wrote a second letter to Pahoran, comprising chapter 60 of Alma, couched in very strong words. Not only did he address Pahoran, but also:.. All those who have been chosen by this people to govern and manage the affairs of this war. For behold, I have somewhat to say unto them by the way of condemnation; for... Ye yourselves know that ye have been appointed to gather together men, and arm them with swords, and with cimeters, and all manner of weapons of war of every kind, and send forth against the Lamanites, in whatsoever parts they should come into our land. And now... Myself, and also my men, and also Helaman and his men, have suffered exceeding great sufferings; yea, even hunger, thirst, and fatigue, and all manner of afflictions of every kind... Great has been the slaughter among our people; yea, thousands have fallen by the sword, while it might have otherwise been if ye had rendered unto our armies sufficient strength and succor for them. Yea, great has been your neglect towards us (Alma 60:1 ff.). Moroni then demanded to know the cause. "Can you think to sit upon your thrones in a state of thoughtless stupor...?" (Alma 60:7). After setting forth the tragic results of their neglect of the armies, Moroni then asked and answered a question which has ever been of vital concern: Do ye suppose that, because so many of your brethren have been killed it is because of their wickedness? I say unto you, if ye have supposed this ye have supposed in vain; for I say unto you, there are many who have fallen by the sword; and behold it is to your condemnation; For the Lord suffereth the righteous to be slain that his justice and judgment may come upon the wicked; therefore ye need not suppose that the nghteous are lost because they are slain; but behold, they do enter into the rest of the Lord their God (Alma 60: 12-13). Wickedness of King-Men Moroni told Pahoran that he feared the judgments of God would come because of the slothfulness of the government and declared:. Were it not for the wickedness which first commenced at our head, we could have withstood our enemies.. Had it not been for the war which broke out among ourselves; yea, were it not for these king-men, who caused so much bloodshed among ourselves; yea, at the time we were contending among ourselves, if we had united our strength as we hitherto have done; yea, had it not been for the desire of power and authority which those king-men had over us; had they been true to the cause of our freedom, and united with us, and gone forth against our enemies, instead of taking up their swords against us, which was the cause of so much bloodshed among ourselves; yea, if we had gone forth against them in the strength of the Lord, we should have dispersed our enemies, for it would have been done, according to the fulfilling of his word (Alma 60:15-16). In contrast, Moroni depicted the true picture of the condition of the Nephites, with the Lamanites coming upon them, taking over their lands, murdering the people, and carrying women and children away as captives. Moroni even raised the question concerning the personal integrity of all to whom his letter was addressed. He asked if they were neglectful because they sat in the heart of the country in security, and he reminded them of the " thousands round about in the borders of the land who are falling by the sword, yea, wounded and bleeding" (Alma 60:22). Moroni also said to the Nephite rulers:... Now I would that ye should temember that God has said that the inward vessel shall be cleansed first, and then shall 124 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1955 LESSON DEPARTMENT the outer vessel be cleansed also. And now, except ye do repent of that which ye have done, and begin to be up and doing... It will be expedient that we contend no more with the Lamanites until we have first cleansed our mward vessel, yea, even the great head of our government. And except ye grant mine epistle, and come out and show unto me a true spirit of freedom... I will leave a part of my freemen to maintain this part of our land.... And I will come unto you. If there be even a spark of freedom remaining, behold I will stir up insurrections among you, even until those who have desires to usurp power and authority shall become extinct (Alma 60:23 ff.). The great patriot Moroni, lover of righteousness, merciful and kind, lover of freedom, declared that he did not fear their authority or power, he feared his God. He closed his great epistle with the commandment, ""... Now see that ye fulfil the word of God," and concluded: "Behold, I am Moroni, your chief captain. I seek not for power, but to pull it down. I seek not for honor of the world, but for the glory of my God, and the freedom and welfare of my country. And thus I close mine epistle' (Alma 60:35- 36). Pahoran's Patriotic Reply In reply, Pahoran answered Moroni:... I do not joy in your great afflictions, yea, it grieves my soul. But behold, there are those who do joy in your afflictions (Alma 61:2-3). Pahoran then confirmed the fears of Moroni in the need of cleansing the inner vessel. The king-men by flattery had won over the people and withheld provisions and freemen from the armies. Pahoran himself had been driven out and had 125 fled to Gideon with as many men as he could get. From there he had sent a proclamation throughout that part of the land, and the freemen were rallying to Pahoran in great numbers. While the king-men did not dare to come out to battle against Pahoran, they had taken possession of the city of Zarahemla, and had appointed a king Pachus over themselves. This king had entered into correspondence with the king of the Lamanites and had promised to maintain the city of Zarahemla, leaving the Lamanites to conquer the rest of the country of the Nephites. When it was all conquered, then Pachus expected to be made king over the Nephites "... When they shall be conquered under the Lamanites" (Alma 61:8). While Pahoran had been censured by Moroni, he said he was not angered, but rejoiced in the greatness of Moroni's heart. Pahoran did not desire power, save only to retain his judgment seat. He declared, "... My soul standeth fast in that liberty in the which God hath made us free" (Alma 61: 9). Pahoran stated, as had the other righteous leaders of the Nephites, that the Nephites would not destroy the Lamanites if they had not taken the sword against the Nephites. He even observed with hutility: We would subject ourselves to the yoke of bondage if it were requisite with the justice of God, or if he should command us so to do. But behold he doth not command us that we shall subject ourselves to our enemies, but that we should put our trust in him, and he will deliver us (Alma 61:12-13). Moroni was asked by Pahoran to bring a few of his men with him, and to gather such other forces as he could on the way, so that they might conquer Zarahemla. He instructed Moroni to leave Teancum and Lehi in charge of the army, "... To conduct the war in that part of the land, according to the Spirit of God, which is also the spirit of freedom which is in them" (Alma 61:15). When Zarahemla would again be captured, Pahoran promised provisions could be sent to Lehi and 'Teancum. Pahoran confided in Moroni that he had been worried as to what course to pursue, as to whether it would be just to fight his Nephite brethren. But Moroni had eased his mind because he had said that unless they repented, the Lord had commanded Moroni to go against them. Pahoran concluded: See that ye strengthen Lehi and Teancum in the Lord; tell them to fear not, for God will deliver them, yea, and also all those who stand fast in that liberty wherewith God hath made them free. And now I close mine epistle to my beloved brother, Moroni (Alma 61:21). When Moroni had read the epistle of Pahoran, he was very joyful to learn that Pahoran was not a traitor, but his heart was grieved because of the wickedness of the Nephites who had driven Pahoran from the judgment-seat. Moroni followed the instruction of Pahoran, and in whatever place he entered he raised the standard of liberty and joined to his force those thousands who wished to remain freemen and not be brought into bondage. King-Men Overthrown When Moroni and Pahoran had joined their forces, they proceeded to go down into the land of Zarahemla. In the ensuing battle, Pachus was slain and his followers were captured and tried with the king-men who had previously been cast into prison. In compliance with the law they were executed, as refusing to take up arms in defense of their country but rather fight against their country. Thus peace was restored to Zarahemla and Pahoran was testored to the judgment-seat. Immediately thereafter Moroni had provisions and an army of six thousand men sent to the assistance of Helaman. Six thousand men and a quantity of food were also sent to the armies of Lehi and Teancum. Moroni and Pahoran with a third large body of men marched against Nephihah. Four thousand Lamanites whom they captured on the way, after entering into a covenant of peace, were sent to dwell with the people of Ammon. Lamanites Driven Out When Moroni was camped outside Nephihah, he desired the Lamanites to come out to battle against him, but they feared the courage of the Nephites as well as their numbers, so they did not come out to battle that day. In the nighttime Moroni came upon the top of the wall of the city to discover in what part the Lamanites were camped. He then returned to his army and had them prepare strong cords and_ ladders which his men could let down into the city on the west side, while the Lamanites were asleep on the east side. By morning all the Nephites were within the walls of the city. When the Lamanites awakened they were so frightened that they sought 126 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1955 LESSON DEPARTMENT to escape by the pass, but Moroni sent his men after them and killed many and captured many others. The remainder fled to the land of Moroni on the seashore. 'The Nephites regained the city without the loss of one man. The Lamanite prisoners desired to join the people of Ammon, so Moroni was relieved of a great burden, and those Lamanites began to till the fields and raise grain and all kinds of flocks. As Moroni and his victorious army approached the other Nephite cities held by the Lamanites, they fled before them. Moroni's forces became joined with those of Lehi and 'Teancum: And the armies of the Lamanites were all gathered together, insomuch that they were all in one body in the land of Moroni. Now Ammoron, the king of the Lamanites, was also with them (Alma 62:33). When the two armies were thus facing each other, because of the weariness of both, none but Teancum conceived any stratagem. He, however, blamed Amalickiah and his brother Ammoron for all the wars and bloodshed, and famine, and in his anger, he let himself down over the walls of the city:... And he went forth with a cord, from place to place, insomuch that he did find the king; and he did cast a javelin at him, which did pierce him near the heart. But behold, the king did awake his servant before he died, insomuch that they did pursue Teancum, and slew him (Alma 62:36). The death of Teancum grieved Moroni and Lehi exceedingly, for:... He had been a man who had fought valiantly for his country, yea, a true friend to liberty; and he had suffered very many 127 exceedingly sore afflictions... (Alma 62: 37a). On the morrow Moroni drove the Lamanites out of the land and they did not then return against the Nephites. Moroni fortified sufficiently the parts of the land most exposed to the Lamanites, and then returned to Zarahemla; Helaman "... Returned to the place of his inheritance. (Alma 62:42) and there was once more peace in the land in the thirty-second year of the reign of the judges, after many years of war. There had been great wickedness among the Nephites, but they had been spared because of the prayers of the righteous. Moroni yielded up the command of the army to his son Moronihah. Helaman and his brethren again went forth to preach the word of Cod and regulate the Church. The people humbled themselves and again began to multiply, to become strong in the land and rich. However, they remembered the great mercies of the Lord to them and remained steadfast. Deaths of Helaman and Moroni During this happy period Helaman died, in the thirty-fifth year of the reign of the judges, and Shiblon took possession of those sacred things delivered to Helaman by Alma. We find that Shiblon and also Corianton did good continually and kept the commandments of the Lord. Moroni the great prophetpatriot died, "... And thus ended the thirty and sixth year of the reign of the judges" (Alma 63:3). It was during the next year that Hagoth, "... He being an exceedingly curious man..." (Alma 63:5) built a large ship in which many Nephites, with provisions, sailed away, taking their course northward. The following year Hagoth built other ships, and the first ship returned "... And many more people did enter into it..." (Alma 63:7) and they sailed again northward, but they were never heard of again. Many people went into the land northward and Corianton went to carry provisions to them. In the absence of Corianton, Shiblon, before his death, conferred the sacred things upon Helaman, son of Helaman. And all the records which Helaman possessed were written and sent forth among the children of men, except those parts which Alma had instructed should not go forth. The Book of Alma ends with the thirty-ninth year of the reign of the judges and completes the account of Alma and his sons Helaman and Shiblon. Questions on the Lesson 1. What comparisons can be drawn between the internal conditions among the Nephites, and those in countries of the world today? 2. Show how the teachings of Alma to his sons bore fruit. 3. How do you account for the lack of jealousy among the great Nephite leaders? Usiting Seacher IT lessages Book of Mormon Gems of Truth Lesson 32: "... My Soul Standeth Fast in That Liberty in the Which God Hath Made Us Free" (Alma 61:9). Leone O. Jacobs For Tuesday, May 3, 1955 Objective: To show that we must hold fast to that God-given liberty which ensures our freedom. IBERTY is a privilege for which men have fought and died since the beginning of time. And why have men been so tenacious in defense of this privilege? Because liberty is the God-given right of every individual, and there is inherent within man the desire to act for himself. 'The plan of salvation was founded upon the principle that man is an agent unto himself, and only by his own volition may he advance. But liberty is often confused with license. Liberty gives one the right to do as he wishes only in so far as he does not infringe upon the rights of others, while license may mean the abuse of freedom, or freedom used in contempt of law. There are two aspects to be considered regarding liberty: the freedom to act, and the responsibility that liberty imposes. Often we think only of the first, and give little consideration to the latter. We may be free to act but not free to avert the consequences of our actions — they 128 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1955 LESSON DEPARTMENT are irrevocable. No one can deny us the right to do as we wish, but each person must pay the price of doing as he wishes. Brother Richard L. Evans says, "All men have the God-given right to think and believe as they will, and all men have the God-given responsibility to render an accounting sometime, somewhere, for those things which they choose to think and believe." Repeatedly we hear people say, "T want to live my own life," or "It is my own life, isn't it?" — to which we may observe, "It is your own life to live as you wish, if you do not touch the lives of others, but others may easily be influenced 129 for good or ill by your actions." This is part of the responsibility incurred by the possessor of liberty. Physical liberty is greatly to be desired and to be defended, but far more importnat is liberty of the mind and spirit. To be in bondage to sin is spiritual imprisonment. The Lord said: Abide ye in the liberty wherewith ye are made free; entangle not yourselves in sin, but let your hands be clean, until the Lord comes (D. & C. 88:86). Obedience to the law is the means by which we may continue to stand fast in liberty. Work IT lecting—Selection, Care, and Use of Household Equipment (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 8—Utensils for Surface Cookery Rhea H. Gardner For Tuesday, May 10, 1955 AVING the right utensils can make the difference between a happy and an unhappy homemaker, and a successful or unsuccessful cook. There are many things to be considered in buying utensils for surface cooking. The size of the pan should be proportional to the amount of food to be cooked. Pans nearly the same size as the elements over which they are to be placed will insure the most economical use of heat. One utensil with a number of uses is a better choice than several suited to only one job. A rounded union on the inside of a pan simplifies cleaning. A lip on at least one side is a convenience when pouring liquids. If the cover is to be tightfitting, either the pan or the cover must have a beveled edge. A closefitting cover permits the maintenance of the boiling temperature when low heat is used. Handles of heat-resistant material insure safety. One should make sure that the handle is guaranteed to last as long as the kettle or pan and that it will not come loose. A handle too long may overbalance the pan or get in the cook's way. One that is too short increases possibility of burns. The most frequently used materials for surface cookery are aluminum, copper, glass, enamelware, and stainless steel. 'There is no one best kind of material for all uses, but each has qualities that make it particularly best suited for specific uses. Aluminum is the most widely used saucepan material and is moderate in cost. Aluminum tetains heat well at a low temperature. It also heats more quickly than steel or iron and thereby saves time. Since it is a good conductor of heat there is less danger of food sticking, when little or no water is added to fruit or vegetables. Experiments conducted by the United States Department of Health and Johns Hopkins and other universities entirely discredit the theory that cancer or other diseases may be caused by foods cooked in aluminum utensils. If food sticks to an aluminum pan, first try soaking. Should scouring be necessary, use steel wool, or a mild abrasive such as whiting (obtainable at most hardware stores). If an aluminum pan becomes a little discolored, boil something acid in it, such as water with a little vinegar or cream of tartar, or cook some slightly acid food, such as tomatoes or tart apples in the pan. This will brighten the pan and not harm the food. The best practice in the care of aluminum is to give it proper care each time it is used, and you will not have to resort to drastic cleaning measures. Copper is more expensive than other materials and requires constant care to keep it bright. Some manufacturers apply copper to the bottom of utensils made of stainless steel to improve evenness of heating. 'This combination makes for a more efficient utensil. For regular care, wash copper utensils with hot soapy water immediately after using them. Dry carefully and thoroughly. Copper utensils sometimes develop spots and become tarnished. These cannot always be removed with regular cleaning agents. 'Try rubbing them with hot vinegar and salt, lemon rind and salt, or hot buttermilk. Do not overheat a dry copper utensil or the copper will come off like powder. Glass is comparatively easy to clean, inexpensive, and holds heat well. However, it conducts heat poorly, therefore, breaks easily. 'The main advantage of glass is its transparency. Enamelware is glass fused onto a steel base by firing at a high temperature. 'Therefore, as with glass, care must be used to see that it does not boil dry or receive hard knocks. Enamel lids do not fit tightly, and this is a disadvantage in vegetable cookery. Food sticks to the bottom because of uneven heat distribution. The price is a factor in its favor. When food is burned or stuck on, soak the utensil in water before trying to clean it. Avoid sharp scrapers and do not use steel wool or a coarse scouring powder. Enamelware and graniteware can be cleaned simply by washing with mild soap and water. Tronware gives an even spread and good retention of heat, making it desirable for slow cooking. Its weight, color, and hot handles are disadvan- 130 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1955 LESSON DEPARTMENT tages. It will rust if not kept dry. Ironware seldom needs more care than a good wash in hot soapy water. You can scour it with steel wool and use a strong alkaline soap or water softener to remove grease. You may have an iron utensil that you use only a few times a year. 'l'o prevent rust from forming, put a thin coat of fat on it, then wrap in paper and put away in a dry place. Stainless steel utensils are increasing in popularity because improved evenness of cooking has _ been achieved by applying aluminum or copper to the undersurface or by using a special heat distributing core between two sheets of steel. Utensils made entirely of stainless steel form hot spots and cause food to stick because of uneven distribution of heat. Stainless steel is easily cleaned, is very durable and resistant to pitting. The high cost may be a disadvantage. It may be cleaned 131 with a gritless cleaning powder, such as whiting, or extremely fine steel wool. It usually requires only mild cleaning methods. A minimum number of well-chosen utensils in various materials may serve a homemaker better than a larger set all of one type of material. Slow cooking of food under a watchful eye and for the minimum time saves energy, time, and wear on pans, as well as preserving food nutrients and flavor. "Proper care means longer wear." Thoughts for Discussion 1. Did you "buy" or were you "sold" a large part of your kitchen utensils? What was the strongest motive in your buying them—actual need or high pressure salesmanship? 2. What utensils do you use frequently enough to justify the price you paid and the storage space they use? 3. Allow time for adequate discussion. > ima Literature of England Lesson 48—Matthew Arnold (1822-1888) Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: The Literature of England, II, Woods, Watt, Anderson, pp. 726-748; 527-561) For Tuesday, May 17, 1955 Objective: to English literature. One of the wisest men of our day, Judge Learned Hand, has not presumed to define liberty, but he has stated his own faith regarding it: The spirit of liberty is the spirit which is not too sure that it is right; the spirit To weigh and consider Matthew Arnold's considerable contribution of liberty is the spirit which seeks to understand the minds of other men and women; the spirit of liberty is the spirit which weighs their interests alongside its own wthout bias. Only in such a spirit are we ready to be taught; to be enriched; to grow; and we should approach Matthew Arnold in this spirit, as we should approach literatures of all times and peoples. Matthew Arnold is not everyone's favorite author. Throughout his life he maintained a personal aloofness which was both conscious and deliberate; to maintain this same interval between himself and_ later gencrations he directed that no biography be written, and he destroyed all papers save a few letters and his published works: it was in these that he wanted to live. Richly his wish has been fulfilled. Whatever phase of Victorian life we may choose to consider, there he stands confronting us, too considerable to be ignored, too penetrating to be silenced. Some have found Arnold to be the prophet of despair; for others he championed excellence and truth. All agree to his largeness and sincerity and depth. In _ his monumental work in the lnglish schools, in his poetry, and in his critical writings, there is a grand unity. Firm in his belief that "conduct is three-fourths of life," Arnold, more nearly than any of his contemporaries, exemplified in his own life the classical virtues he so loved: "to think clearly, to feel nobly, and to delineate firmly." If the mature Arnold spent his energies fighting to uphold the best, he was but fulfilling the pattern established by his father, 'Thomas Arnold, the famous headmaster at Rugby school, and the most dominant teacher and personal influence young Arnold knew. Thomas believed completely in the virtues of a truly classical, liberal education. This strong belief in the need for A Perry Piciure MATTHEW ARNOLD 1822-1888 traditional standards was bequeathed in full measure upon his son Matthew. After leaving Rugby, young "Matt" attended Oxford, graduating in 1844. He taught for a time, then for two years he lived in the realm of politics and power as secretary to Lord Lansdowne. But Arnold was not content amid these values, and furthermore he was in love and long engaged. In need of permanent income, he accepted, when, in 1847, Lord Lansdowne secured him a position as inspector of schools. For the next forty years he traveled England and the continent, examining students for scholastic profciency and constantly making recommendations which would give to the great English middle classes a thorough, free education compa- 132 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1955 LESSON DEPARTMENT rable in quality to schooling obtainable in Germany and France. When he retired he was highly esteemed by teachers and administrators alike. As a student Arnold had felt the great power of poetry, and had dedicated his life to it by keeping himself distant from his fellow students, since he felt their values would not help him in his poetic ambitions. After he became inspector he continued writing poetry, and at the beginning of each year he meticulously noted the books he intended to read. As he read each one in a few moments snatched in bumping railway cars, stations, and miserable hotels, he carefully crossed its title off. He copied from his readings the great and rewarding thoughts and systematically contemplated these throughout his life. In 1857 he was honored by being appointed to the chair of poetry at Oxford, where he lectured three or four times yearly for the next decade, the first in his position to give the lectures in English rather than in Latin. After his fortieth year he wrote little poetry, devoting most of his energies to criticism, not only in literary matters, but in politics, religion, and economics. His marriage was evidently a happy one. When he retired from his school position in 1886 at age sixty-six, his pension was not adequate, so, at the suggestion of Henry James and other friends, he made a lecture tour of America. He made money and was well received, at the same time enjoying himself immensely. His entire life was vigorous. At age sixty-five, still following his lifelong liking for exercise, he went skating; at sixty-six he continued to 133 go swimming. But his health began to fail after his retirement, and he died suddenly in 1888 at the pier while welcoming his daughter and grandchildren home from an Ametican port. Arnold's Creed In one of the great periods of dynamic change in western history, Matthew Arnold refused to believe that a value is valuable merely because it is new. 'True to his classical training, he found more of the best in the culture of ancient Greece than he did in his contemporary world. Imagine, if you will, Matthew Arnold circulating a questionnaire in his official capacity as your superintendent of schools. It is concerned with the TV habits of high school students. Suppose he were to receive the following answers (as did an enquiring teacher in a 1953 survey): "I'd rather sit and look than sit and exercise my brain." "Mr. Arnold, I suffer when I read." "A masterpiece is something you don't understand." "Who wants to read? It makes you feel sissified." Here, in chronic form, is our modern intensification of the symptoms Arnold feared. Like the legions of courageous souls who founded both our own nation and our own Church, Matthew Arnold looked about him and found almost everywhere absent his concept of the Ideal. 'The Real as he saw it was not encouraging: smugness, hypocrisy, self-tighteousness; worship of success, wealth, energy, things; a rampant individuality so uninformed, headstrong, and extreme as to have little concern for quality and excellence. To such a generation Arnold's constant message was, "Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is within you." Arnold knew full well that men cannot be driven either to Perfection or Heaven, but the passion of his life, both in his private actions as in his writings, was his belief in the values of education. Both within himself and his age Arnold acknowledged a great decline in faith. The most tragic result of this loss, Arnold felt, was that it made Man something less than complete—he became disunified, both within himself and within the society which produced him. For Amold was profoundly convinced that man is not saved alone, but within the society or culture of which he is a part. The vision of the Ideal can come only from an inward excellence— the greatest virtue in life, but the most difficult to earn. "As the Greek poet long ago said, 'excellence dwells among rocks hardly accessible, and a man must almost wear his heart out before he can reach her'" (text, p. 558, lines 44- 47). But if, through education, man attains this excellence, or culture, or rightness, then the awareness of perfection lies directly ahead. And for him perfection is the goal: Not a having and a resting but a growing and a becoming, is the character of perfection as culture conceives it... And individual perfection is impossible so long as the rest of mankind is not perfected along with us. When such lofty goals are presented throughout a lifetime, in words memorable for clarity, intensity, honesty, and sincerity, we can then begin to realize the great influence of Arnold upon the Victorian Age. Arnold's Poetry Arnold's poetry is the direct opposite of Tennyson's: rarely rich, it is always true. Sometimes, however, the truth it reveals is Arnold's own sense of being a fragment—of being a solitary part of a larger whole never to be realized, either within his own life or in his writings. His poems reveal his sense of loss; they also record his intense search for calm, for peace, for insight and intelligence in an age of turmoil and uncertainty. Because he probes searchingly into the depths and mysteries of existence, and does this with clarity and power, his poems can bring each of us to a richer awareness of self, and of one's own immediate life. Let us look briefly at four of his poems. 'Their stanza form is no more involved than the metrical pattern; their tone is quiet and subdued, even gray and melancholy, but a tone perfectly controlled, and uniform throughout. In his "Quiet Work" (text, page 726) Arnold praises the two duties of working constantly and at the same time tranquilly. Here is Arnold's distrust of the superficial and greedy values of his world, and his affirmation of the rare values of patience and unpublicized examination of life's problems. One of his most famous poems is "The Scholar-Gypsy" (text, pp. 734-739), which exemplifies the classical restraint and disciplined, polished lines of Arnold. He tells of a scholar who, more than two hundred years ago, left his books to join a band of gypsies. In escaping with them into nature and a serene singleness of purpose, he found a life filled with peace, meaning, and 134 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1955 LESSON DEPARTMENT unity. The immediate loveliness of Arnold's nature scenes recalls his own happy days at Oxford when nature sustained him, and man was good. Lovingly, almost jealously, Arnold recalls the many haunts where this scholar-gypsy spent his idyllic days: At some lone homestead in the Cumner hills, Where at her open door the housewife darns, Thou hast been seen, or hanging on a gate To watch the threshers in the mossy barns. (text, p. 736, lines 101-104) He envies the unity and peace of such a life, whereas our lives are worn out by change, and shocks, and a thousand schemes. The gypsy is: Free from the sick fatigue, the languid doubt, Which much to have tried, in much been baffled, brings. O life unlike to ours! [We] Who fluctuate idly without term or scope, Of whom each strives nor knows for what he strives, And each half lives a hundred different lives; Who wait like thee, but not, like thee, in hope.... (text, p. 737, lines 164-170) He then warns the gypsy to flee. Before this strange disease of modern life, With its sick hurry, its divided aims, Its head o'ertaxed, its palsied hearts.... (text, p. 738, lines 203-205) This same beautiful, reminiscent tone of longing for peace amid _nature's charms is continued and intensified in ""Thyrsis" (text, pp. 739- 743) one of the great English elegies, written in remembrance of his schoolmate and friend, Arthur Clough. Likewise "Rugby Chapel" (text, pp. 745-747) recalls happy 135 schooldays, but it is dedicated to his father, Thomas Arnold. Written fifteen years after his death, the poem radiates the buoyant warmth of his father's personality, his intense love for the best throughout all time, his great power to "fill up the gaps in our files," to encourage lesser men to go on to the City of God: And through thee I believe In the noble and great who are gone.... Yes! I believe that there lived Others like thee in the past..... Souls tempered with fire, Fervent, heroic, and good, Helpers and friends of mankind. (text, p. 746, lines 145 ff.) Rarely has a more noble monument to a father been erected and immortalized by a son. Arnold's most famous poem is "Dover Beach," since it contains both a flawless statement of his poetic art and the moving revelation of Arnold's own loneliness and his need for human warmth in an age devoid of faith, an age where nevertheless men fight and die ignorant of reason or need. Ah, love, let us be true To one another! For the world, which seems To lie before us like a land of dreams, So various, so beautiful, so new, Hath really neither joy, nor love, nor light, Nor certitude, nor peace, nor help for pain; And we are here as on a darkling plain Swept with confused alarms of struggle and flight, Where ignorant armies clash by night. (text, p. 744, lines 29-37) Arnold's Essays In 1880, when he was fifty-seven, Arnold published "The Study of Poetry" (text, page 552) as an introduction to an anthology. 'This essay contains Arnold's definition of poetry (page 552), his touchstone method of determining whether poetry is of the highest quality (pp. 553-557), his definition of a classic (page 554), and the difference between poetry and history. Poetry he defines, in the words of Wordsworth, as "the breath and finer spirit of all knowledge." The only real estimate of poetry must be free of the personal estimate, in which the individual's own tastes and _ prejudices prevent him from seeing the enduring poetic values, as well as the historical estimate, or poetry which has become great merely because of its historical place. In evaluating poetry, then, Arnold suggests it be compared to passages which have proved themselves through time, and cites several passages or "touchstones" of high poetic value (page 557). Only by comparing newer poetry with these lines of classical power and purity can true poetry be identified. While many of their more important ideas have already been mentioned in this lesson, the two essays in our text, "The Function of Criticism at the Present 'Time' (text, pp. 529-544) and "Culture and Anarchy" (text, pp. 544-551) will rove rewarding to those who really accept Arnold's concept of excellence and therefore read him at first hand. While criticism is lower than creation, it "is the true function of man" (text, page 530). Instead of believing in the values of the contemporary bustle, Arnold agrees with Goethe: ""To act is so easy; to think is so hard" (text, page 559). Action based on thought is the way to salvation, but this preliminary critical thinking, because it is hard, will never become popular. After finding very little that is best in England, Arnold gives his version of happiness:... To have the sense of creative activity is the great happiness and the great proof of being alive, and it is not denied to criticism to have it; but then criticism must be sincere, simple, flexible, ardent, ever widening its knowledge. The selection in our text from "Culture and Anarchy" (pp. 544- 551) distinguishes between Hebraism (energy, or practical doing), and Hellenism (intelligence, or contemplation), as Arnold sees these trends working about him in Victorian England. Arnold's prose, like Arnold himself, is clear, balanced, keen, penetrating, courageous, and idealistic. Like him, also, it compromises with nothing less than the pursuit of the best throughout all time. For a man of such stature as Arnold's there will ever be a crying need, whether he lived on the shores of the Aegean, on the Thames in Victorian England, or in the world of tomorrow. Meeting such a man deepens and strengthens us, for he forces us to come face to face with many of the universal experiences and conflicts of mortality in a world of growing frustration and complexity. Questions on the Lesson 1. Do you think Matthew Arnold might be described fairly as being only an educator? 2. Why is loneliness so ominous a symptom to Arnold? 3. Why did he find so little of the best in Victorian England? Where did he find the best? 4. What is the definition of a touchstone? 5. Discuss Arnold's definition and function of criticism; of poetry. 136 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1955 Seastal Seience Nie Constitution of the United States (It is recommended that each Relief Society member read the text of the Constitution relating to each lesson as printed before the lesson) ArTricLE XVI The Congress shall have powcr to lay and collect taxes on incomes, from whatever source derived, without apportionment among the several States, and without regard to any census or enumeration. ArTIcLE XVII The Senate of the United States shall be composed of two Senators from each State, elected by the people thereof, for six years; and each Senator shall have one vote. The electors in each State shall have the qualifications requisite for electors of the most numerous branch of the State legislatures. When vacancies happen in the representation of any State in the Senate, the executive authority of such State shall issue writs of election to fill such vacancies; Provided, that the legislature of any State may empower the executive thereof to make temporary appointment until the people fill the vacancies by election as the legislature may direct. This Amendment shall not be so construed as to affect the election or term of any Senator chosen before it becomes valid as part of the Constitution. ArTICLE XVIII Section 1. After one year from the ratification of this article the manufacture, sale, or transportation of intoxicating liquors within, the importation thereof into, or the exportation thereof from the United States and all territory subject to the jurisdiction thereof for beverage purposes is hereby prohibited. Section 2. The Congress and the several States shall have concurrent power to enforce this article by appropriate legislation. Section 3. This article shall be inoperative unless it shall have been ratified as an amendment to the Constitution by the Legislatures of the several States, as provided in the Constitution, within seven years from the date of the submission hereof to the States by the Congress. ArTICLE XIX Section 1. The right of citizens of the United States to vote shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or by any State on account of sex. Section 2. Congress shall have power to enforce this Article by appropriate legislation. ARTICLE XX Section 1. The terms of the President and Vice-President shall end at noon on the zoth day of January, and the terms of Senators and Representatives at noon on the third day of January, of the years in which such terms would have ended if this Article had not been ratified; and the terms of their successors shall then begin. 'Section 2. The Congress shall assemble at least once in every year, and such meeting shall begin at noon on the third day of January, unless they shall by law appoint a different day. Section 3. If, at the time fixed for the beginning of the term of the President, the President Elect shall have died, the Vice-President Elect shall become President. If a President shall not have been chosen before the time fixed for the beginning of his term, or if the President Elect shall have failed to qualify, then the Vice-President Elect shall act as President until a President shall have qualified; and the Congress may by Jaw provide for the case wherein neither a President Elect nor a Vice-President Elect shall Page 137 138 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1955 have qualified, declaring who shall then act as President, or the manner in which one who is to act shall be selected, and such person shall act accordingly until a President or Vice-President shall have qualified. Section 4. The Congress may by law provide for the case of the death of any of the persons from whom the House of Representatives may choose a President, whenever the right of choice shall have devolved upon them, and for the case of the death of any of the persons from whom the Senate may choose a Vice-President whenever the right of choice shall have devolved upon them. Section 5. Section 1 and 2 shall take effect on the fifteenth day of October following the ratification of this Article. Section 6. This Article shall be inoperative unless it shall have been ratified as an Amendment to the Constitution by the Legislatures of three-fourths of the several States within seven years from the date of its submission. ARTICLE XXI Section 1. The Eighteenth Article of Amendment to the Constitution of the United States is hereby repealed. Section 2. The transportation or importation into any State, Territory, or Possession of the United States for delivery therein of Intoxicating Liquors, in violation of the laws thereof, is hereby prohibited. Section 3. This Article shall be inoperative unless it shall have been ratified as an Amendment to the Constitution by Conventions in the several States, as provided in the Constitution, within seven years from the date of the submission hereof to the States by the Congress. ARTICLE XXII Section 1. No person shall be elected to the office of the President more than twice, and no person who has held the office of President, or acted as President, for more than two years of a term to which some other person was elected President shall be elected to the office of President more than once. But this Article shall not apply to any person holding the office of President when this Article was proposed by the Congress, and shall not prevent any person who may be holding the office of President, or acting as President, during the term within which this Article becomes operative from holding the office of President, or acting as President during the remainder of such term. Section 2. This Article shall be inoperative unless it shall have been ratified as an amendment to the Constitution by the legislature of three-fourths of the several States within seven years from the date of its submission to the States by Congress. Lesson 14—Amendments Sixteen Through Twenty-Two Elder Albert R. Bowen Texts: Your Rugged Constitution, (Y. R. C.), pp. 238-269; The Constitution of the United States, Its Sources and Application, (C. Of U. S.), pp. 251-263 For Tuesday, May 24, 1955 Objective: To study the Amendments to the Constitution since 1913. Power of Congress to Tax Incomes JN 1895, Congress attempted to —Sixteenth Amendment, (Y. R. C., pass an income tax law. This pp. 238-239; C. Of U. S., pp. 251-252) law was held to be unconstitutional because being a direct tax within The Congress shall have power to lay the meaning of the Constitution, and collect taxes on incomes, from whatit was not made proportional in its ever source derived, without apportionment licati Bei a: among the several States, and without re. 4pplication. Being a direct tax, in gard to any census or enumeration. Order for the law to be valid in LESSON DEPARTMENT conformity with the Constitution, it was required to be levied upon the basis of population. An income tax would be both unfair and unworkable levied upon a basis of population because this requirement would place upon the people of the states with large populations a much greater tax burden than upon citizens or residents of states with small populations. The Sixteenth Amendment was adopted in 1913 to overcome the Constituional objection of apportionment among the several states. The income tax laws began by providing only a small percentage of the revenue of the United States Government. 'This tax has now grown to the proportion of yielding by far the greatest percentage of tax revenue than from all other sources of taxation combined. Furthermore, the rates of taxation have tremendously increased until the income tax has come to be regarded by many serious thinking people, as confiscatory in its effect. There is a resolution now pending in Congress to limit the power of Congress in the percentage of income which it may tax, except under certain emergency conditions. This resolution has been adopted by several states and it is not inconceiyable that it may be adopted as a limitation upon the taxing power of Congress. Direct Election of Senators—Seventeenth Amendment, (Y. R. C., pp. 240-241; C. Of U. S., pp. 252-253) Reference has already been made to the Seventeenth Amendment to the Constitution which was adopted in May of 1913. It provides for the direct election of members of 139 the Senate of the United States by the voters themselves, instead of by the various state legislatures as provided in Article I, section 3. This Amendment was the source of long and protracted debate which began as early as 1826. Because the Amendment makes no significant change in constitutional rights or guarantees, it is not of great importance to understand more than its substance and, therefore, its text is omitted from this lesson. Prohibition of Intoxicating Liquors —Eighteenth Amendment, (Y. R. C,. Page 242; C. Of U. S., pp. 254 256) The Eighteenth Amendment is no longer part of the Constitution. Consequently there is nothing to be gained in quoting its provisions. It was the Amendment which provided for the prohibition of the manufacture, sale or transportation of intoxicating liquors, or their importation or exportation into, from, or within the United States. It was adopted January 29, 1919 and was repealed December 5, 1933 by the adoption of the Twenty-First Amendment. The history of the Eighteenth Amendment and its enforcement was a stormy one and forms one of the saddest stories of lawlessness and corrpution in the history of our country. It was designed to protect the citizens of the country against the ravages of alcohol with the accompanying degradation and crime connected with its manufacture, distribution, and use. It may be argued that the Amendment was a failure. Its faithful observance and proper enforcement, however, would have brought untold _bless- ings in health, civic, and economic improvement to the people of the country. Voting Rights to Women — Nineteenth Amendment, (Y. R. C., pp. 244-245; C. Of U. S., pp. 256-257) Section 1. The right of citizens of the United States to vote shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or by any State on account of sex. Section 2. Congress shall have power to enforce this Article by appropriate legislation. It seems strange to us now that a Civil War should be fought to free the slave, and the Constitution amended to give him the right to vote, and that this latter fundamental right of citizenship should be denied to any citizen on the ground of sex. The movement to remove the voting disability from women began in 1878 under the leadership of Susan B. Anthony. This was forty years before the Nineteenth Amendment was finally adopted. Before woman suffrage became national in scope, it had been adopted in several states. It became law in Wyoming in 1869, in Colorado in 1893, and in Utah and Idaho in 1896. (See Centenary of Relief Society, pp. 65-67.) The State of Montana elected the first woman to Congress in 1916, She was Miss Jeannette Rankin. This Amendment does not take from the states the right to fix qualifications for voters. It merely provides that this right may not be denied on the ground of sex, even as the Fifteenth Amendment prohibits a denial of suffrage upon the ground of race, color, or previous condition of servitude. Terms of Office Changed — Twentieth Amendment, (Y. R. C., pp. 246-249; C. Of U. S., pp. 258-260) Section 1. The terms of the President and Vice President shall end at noon on the 20th day of January, and the terms of Senators and Representatives at noon on the third day of January, of the years in which such terms would have ended if this article had not been ratified; and the terms of their successors shall then begin. Section 2. The Congress shall assemble at least once in every year, and such meetings shall begin at noon on the third day of January, unless they shall by law appoint a different day. There are three other sections to the Twentieth Amendment. Section three provides for the succession in the Presidency and Vice-Presidency in the event either or both have not been elected, or shall fail to qualify on the day fixed for entering upon the duties of those offices. Section four provides that the House of Representatives may, by law,*provide for the contingency of death of any of the persons from whom it may choose a President whenever the right of choice devolves upon them, and gives to the Senate the same right in its choice of a VicePresident under similar circumstances. Sections five and six merely provide for the time when the Amendment shall become effective and places a time limit upon ratification of seven years from the date of submission. The Twentieth Amendment was proposed March 3, 1932 and ratified February 6, 1933. Section one of the Twentieth Amendment is what is known as the "Lame Duck Amendment." Its purpose was to provide a Congress ready to function with a new Presi- 140 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1955 LESSON DEPARTMENT dent when he takes office. Under the provisions of the Constitution, prior to this Amendment, there was a period from December to March following the national election, during which the old Congress remained in office, even though it contained members who had been rejected by the voters. It was the practice of the President, at the beginning of his term, to call a special session of Congress to convene at the time he took office in order that necessary legislative matters would not have to wait until the regular session convened in the December following the inauguration, as provided by the Constitution as originally adopted. In the early history of the country, traveling conditions were poor and the time was needed to assemble the members of Congress from the distant parts of the country. In our modern day the members can be in Washington in a matter of hours from any part of the country. The Twentieth Amendment is, therefore, but a recognition of changed times and conditions, and makes it possible for a new President to begin his term of office with a Legislative branch in Congress which is truly representative of the wishes of a majority of the voters. Repeal of Eighteenth Amendment —Twenty-First Amendment (Y. R. C., pp. 250-251; C. Of U. S., pp. 261- 263) Section 1. The Eighteenth Article of Amendment to the Constitution of the United States is hereby repealed. Section 2. The transportation or importation into any State, Territory, or Possession of the United States for delivery therein of Intoxicating Liquors, in violation of the laws thereof, is hereby prohibited. 141 Reference to the Twenty-First Amendment was made in the discussion of the Eighteenth Amendment. It need only be added that the Eighteenth Amendment is the only Amendment to the Constitution which has ever been repudiated by the people. Under the TwentyFirst Amendment it is still unlawful to transport liquor into any state for delivery in violation of the laws controlling its manufacture, sale, distribution or use in such state. Limitation on Term of Office of the President — Twenty - Second Amendment, (Y. R. C., pp. 252- 253) Section 1. No person shall be elected to the office of the President more than twice, and no person who has held the office of President, or acted as President for more than two years of a term to which some other person was elected President shall be elected to the office of President more than once. But this Article shall not apply to any person holding the office of President when this Article was proposed by Congress, and shall not prevent any person who may be holding the office of President, or acting as President, during the term within which this Article becomes operative from holding the office of President, or acting as President during the remainder of such term. The Twenty-Second Amendment to the Constitution became effective February 26, 1951. This Amendment was the direct result of the controversy which arose because of the election of Franklin D. Roosevelt to four consecutive terms of office in the Presidency. Traditionally, no candidate had ever been elected to that office more than twice. The precedent against a third or fourth term as President was set in the beginning by George Washington, the First President of the United States. The Twenty- Second Amendment will prevent any other aspirant to this office from duplicating the record of the second Roosevelt. Regardless of the merits of a man and his capability for the great office, it is generally agreed that it is politically unwholesome for any man, no matter how capable or honest he may be, to hold the office of President more than two consecutive terms. The Pursuit of Happiness (Y. R. C., pp. 256-269) As beneficiaries of our great legacy, all citizens of the United States should know, understand, and appreciate the priceless freedoms which the Constitution guarantees to us. Yours is the obligation to protect those rights! Among them are: EUROPE Come With Us Nee Europe 1955 Eight Countries — 64 Days ONLY $987.00 Experienced Tour Leader MRS. ALONZO J. MORLEY Phone 2287-5, Provo, Utah Write 387 East 3rd North, Provo, Utah In Salt Lake Phone: MARGARET LUND — 6-2909 Write 3021 South 23rd East Salt Lake City, Utah Freedom to worship according to your religious belief. Freedom of speech. Freedom of the press. Freedom to assemble peaceably and petition Congress for a redress of grievances. The right to keep and bear arms. The right to trial by jury. Protection against having one's property searched or seized without due process of law. Protection against trial for an act committed before the passage of a law making such act a crime. Protection from being tried for a crime except upon indictment from a_ grand jury. Protection against being twice "put in jeopardy of life or limb" for the same offense. Protection from being compelled to act as a witness against oneself in a criminal case. The right, when accused of crime, to a speedy public trial by jury; to the help of a lawyer; and the right to call witnesses in your behalf. Protection against wrongful imprisonment. Protection against the requirement of excessive bail, excessive fines, or the infliction of cruel and unusual punishments. Equal protection of the laws. The right to be presumed to be innocent until proved guilty. The right of secret ballot to vote for anyone you want, not to be denied in any state on account of race, color, previous condition of servitude, or of sex. Protection by the American system of "checks and balances,' under which each department of Government works independently of the other and is prevented from gaining too much power. Meaning of Liberty — The Supreme Court of the United States has defined liberty as meaning the night of the citizen to be free in the enjoyment of all of his faculties—that is, his talents, gifts, and abilities, whether natural or cultivated; to be free to use them in all lawful ways; to live and work where he will; to earn his 142 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1955 LESSON DEPARTMENT livelihood by any lawful calling; to pursue any livelihood or vocation—that ls, calling, occupation, profession, or employment; and to enter into all contracts necessary and proper in carrying out these rights. Questions on the Lesson 1. Why was the income tax unlawful before the Sixteenth Amendment? 2. How did the Seventeenth Amendment affect the election of Senators of the United States? 3. Has any Amendment to the Constitution ever been repealed? Which one? 4. May the states determine the qualifications of voters under the Nineteenth Amendment? 5- By what popular name is_ the Twentieth Amendment known? 6. What event brought about the adoption of the T'wenty-Second Amendment? —_— An tidote Catherine E. Berry My house has never been so clean, My floors so shiny bright, Each shelf and cabinet primly neat, No clutter left in sight. This is no sudden urge to be Domestic on my part, But just a woman's way to numb The pain within her heart. ——— Water Afternoon Christie Lund Coles Here is a hushed, brief moment Of gray and timeless weather; The sky is like a speckled mare Held ominously at tether; The earth is like a charcoal scene From a children's picture book; The air is as cool as the crystal Caught in last summer's brook. The snow is like the silken fluff From a milkweed pod, new-broken, As it falls in exclamation points Where winter has spoken. 143 THE WORLD'S FINEST PIANOS Mason & Hamlin The Stradivari of Pianos EVERETT Finest Toned Spinet Piano Built Cable "| Nelson Finest Low Priced Piano Built ~ All Obtainable At Beesley Music Co. Pioneer Piano People 70 S. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH It's awaiting You... © YES there is still a tremendous amount of outstanding instruction and use awaiting you in this and other copies of the Relief Society Magazine. Your editions may be handsomely bound at the West's finest bindery and printing plant for $2.50 cloth bound and $3.50 leather bound per volume plus postage for mail orders. Follow these postage rates if you send your order by mail: Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles... 35 150 te 300 miles -.................0..2.2-0-- 39 300 to 600 miles 0.00.2... Eee 45 = 600 to 1000 miles..............54 1000 to 1400 miles............-------. S:00 64 1400 to 1800 miles................----.------ 76 Over 1800 miles.......--..2....2... E eee 87 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press 31 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah Phone 4-2581 -4@) Mama $ Plants Klea Evans Worsley M's" had a way with plants. As soon as the contents of a lard bucket had been made into flaky apple pies, baking powder biscuits, or peach cobblers, Mama punched some holes in the bottom, put in small pebbles, and then filled it with rich loam from under the Saginaw pine tree by the dining-room window. Next, she tenderly broke off a piece of one of the geraniums in the front-room window, or the coleus, whose brilliant colors brightened the winter days in the kitchen. It seemed that all she did was stick the new shoots unconcernedly into the dirt, but they always took root and grew. 'This went on and on until every window sill in the house was full of plants in various stages of growth. No one ever a why they flourished so under her care, except we all knew she sort of loved them along. Mama enjoyed sharing her plants. Whenever one of the children in the valley was ill and had to be in bed for a long time, Mama took a small can and planted a' child-size plant, covered the can with gay tissue carefully saved from the Christmas package, and left it at the bedside where a restless child might watch it grow. If we had company, and one of the ladies admired the plants, or even hinted that she would like a "'start," mama's face beamed with happiness, and nothing would do but she would wrap a generous cutting in a damp cloth, and put that in a paper cone made from a page of the Valley Independent. We never could see that the plants seemed to mind such pruning. In fact, two or three branches always shot up where one had been before. Great-Aunt Mattie was quite good with plants, too. Her husband, Great-Uncle Homer had more money than Papa, and Aunt Mattie brought "'boughten" plants home from town, plants that had flowers on them almost as pretty as those in the seed catalogues. Whenever Aunt Mattie came to our house she hardly had her coat off before she went around poking her pudgy fingers into the dirt around the plants and saying: "Mliss, this scented geranium is drooping a little, don't you think?" or "The bloom on your Martha Washington geranium isn't quite as large as it was last year, is it, M'liss?"' No one dared ask Great-Aunt Mattie for a start of her plants. She let it be known that she wasn't running a nursery for anybody, and if people wanted plants they could buy them like she did. Papa said that if the President of the United States himself asked Mattie for a start of her commonest geranium she would turn him down. Once Aunt Sarah snipped off a piece of the salmon-colored geranium when Great-Aunt Mattie wasn't looking, and hid it up her sleeve. But somehow, when she was at the door saying goodbye, it fell down right at Great-Aunt Mattie's feet. They didn't speak for over a year after that. Well, they are both gone now, but we seldom go to any of the homes in the valley without seeing one of Mama's plants blooming on a window sill. Yes, Mama had a way with plants. Page 144 Write or Phone VIDA FOX CLAWSON THREE PART "ert ean Sacred Music about the following: OF EUROPE 1955 $719 RELIEF SOCIETY CHORUSES EARLY RESERVATIONS NECESSARY -_— ) 1 ee Beside Still Waters—Hamblen...........20 SS UD Ue Hold Thou My Hand—Briggs.........20 $315 — If Ye Love Me, Keep My Commandments—Madsen...................20 Program for Historic Train will be out a oer canna ane Ot Just For To-day—Seaver 20 Cumorah Pageant has been set. Sf} | King of Glory—Parks 20 Let the Mountains Shout For Joy—Stephens 0. 5 i 20 ee My Redeemer Lives—Gates.............. — Thanks Be To God—Dickson.............16 PRIMARY SUPPLIES FAMILY RECORDS Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank STATIONERY ee eee a ae DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY GIFTS Salt Lake Ciy 1, Utah s% j \! I ' 1! \ Please send the music indicated above. L] On Approval CL) Charge: f[) Money Enclosed; |! J I | i 1 \! | | { i \ | | ITS Banbroked ( D Mice 24 EAST BROADWAY aynes SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH ( cmpany m7 mim n FT 5-47 sourn MAIN Salt Lake Ci 145 NORTH UNIVERSITY, —— WASHINGTON BLYD., OGDEN H A W A I I FOR..... Bless This House—Brahe.......0..00...... 16 i Lord's Prayer—Gates....0.00000000.0.........20 IDA F-I0-222-52372 DEC the ki YOU CAN DO BETTER Genealogy Work WITH THE RIGHT TOOLS 1. Our Family Through the 3. The ABC's of American - Years Binder Genealogical Research n indispensable aid for keeping your records orderlated leather, and stamped with the Temple (Salt in gold. $3.00 Li e to fill in family group sheets and pedigree charts, Genealogical Sheets genealogical research. $1.25 Our Family Through the Years Binder with an assortment of 100 genealogical sheets. $4.50 eg, alt Lake ity, ah is = er. Ee 4 1 SA DESERET BOOK COMP 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah Gentlemen: Enclosed you will find ( ) check ( ) money order ( ) charge to my account in the following amount $........... Ceccccececcetseecoees. For | \ \ 1 I I! 1! \ \ \ | the encircled (numbered) items: 1 2 3 } | 1 | 1 j I!! | 1 1 ly. Available in white, tan, maroon or black simuLake, Idaho Falls, Mesa, or Manti) of your choice 2. Binder with 100 E. KAY KIRKHAM This bock contains a wealth of information on how and treats in detail all the necessary steps in ay Tie we. MAGAZINE ~~ = — VOL. 42 NO. 3 "Unto the Glect Lady. "THE elder unto the elect lady and her children, whom I love in the truth; and not I only, but also all they that have known the truth; For the truth's sake, which dwelleth in us, and shall be with us for ever. Grace be with you, mercy, and peace, from God the Father, and from the Lord Jesus Christ, the Son of the Father, in truth and love. I rejoiced greatly that I found of thy children walking im truth, as we have received a commandment from the Father. And now I beseech thee, lady, not as though I wrote a new commandment unto thee, but that which we had from the beginning, that we love one another. And this is love, that we walk after his commandments. This is the commandment, That, as ye have heard from the beginning, ye should walk in it" (The Second Epistle of John 1-6). The Cover: "Verbena Bouquets on the Desert, Near La Quinta, California" Photograph by Joseph Muench Frontispiece: "Pansies," Photograph by Ward Linton Cover Design by Evan Jensen From Near and Sar Since I was a girl in my teens I have enjoyed reading The Relief Society Magazine. I always looked forward to reading the wonderful stories. After my marriage the Magazine was one of the first publications in my home. The stories still appeal to me, but I now enjoy also the articles and monthly lessons. Recently I was called to be president of our ward Relief Society, and the Magazine has become not just something to be enjoyed, but something to help me in this new calling. —Ora Stoker Whittier Rockland, Idaho THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE On every page I feel the need To read and read on more, And every single page I read, I'm richer than before. It is a blessing in my home, A helping hand to guide me; Its friendly words when I'm alone Are always there beside me. —Mrs. Irene O. Clawson Hyrum, Utah I love The Relief Society Magazine— everything in it. I have an invalid boy and I read it to him. I can't get to meeting very often, because I can't leave him alone, and I don't have anyone to stay with him. We read the Magazine from cover to cover. —Mary A. Ostler Roosevelt, Utah I am a convert to the Church, having been a member for the past six years, and for five years I have received The Reliet Society Magazine regularly, and I find it the grandest, greatest little Magazine. Therefore in October and November 1954, I obtained gift subscriptions for eight of my best friends, none of whom are in this Church. 'They have all told me that they appreciate The Relief Society Magazine and enjoy reading it. —Laura Jensen Long Island, New York Page 146 I always read every article in The Relief Society Magazine and often give it as a Christmas gift to friends. —Mrs. Lucile Roberts Fortuna, California The Relief Society Magazine has always been my favorite publication, both as a child, and especially now when the written word is our only contact with the Church. We are enjoying our stay in India, but like all Americans in foreign lands, we will return home with a deeper appreciation for our own great land, and the unlimited opportunities there for all. My husband. Is giving technical aid in the design section, aggregate plant, for the Bhakra Dam, which will be the second largest dam in the world. We have two girls, six and three. 'There are thirty American families here, and some of the first families here organized a Sunday School, which has been successful with at least seventy-five per cent of the children. I have the children from three to seven years of age, and it is gratifying to know that the children are forming the habit of attending church on Sunday morning. We have had several Christian missionaries and Christian medical missionaries visit our group.... I miss the stimulation of mind and spirit which I always received at our own Latter-day Saint meetings. —Mrs. G. R. Anderson, Jr. Nangal 'Township District of Hoshiarpur Punjab, India I hope The Relief Society Magazine continues to flourish, and that it will continue to go to many women in far-off lands. I met a fine lady from New Mexico on the bus. She said her picture had appeared in the "Notes From the Field" in a recent Magazine. I looked up the picture and found this lady with her four daughters, all singers, from Lordsburg, New Mexico. It is wonderful to realize how much good the Magazine does all over the world. —Mrs. Adella Waterlyn Provo, Utah THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY Ce BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - First Counselor Velma N. Simonsen - - - - Second Counselor Margaret C. Pickering - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Mary G. Judd Evon W. Peterson Christine H. Robinson Charlotte A. Larsen Anna B. Hart Leone O. Jacobs Alberta H. Christensen Edith P. Backman Edith S. Elliott Louise W. Madsen Mildred B. Eyring Winniefred S. Florence J. Madsen Aleine M. Young Helen W. Anderson Manwaring Leone G. Layton Josie B. Bay Gladys 8. Boyer Elna P. Haymond Blanche B. Stoddard RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - = = - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Bélitor - - - - - = - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Vol. 42 MARCH 1955 No. 3 Conten ts SPECIAL FEATURES "O Be Wise; What Can I Say More?".. 2 eeeAleine M. Young 148 I Go to Relief SYoles (-) 5 a a ee anNell B. Brenchley 16] Now, in the Twilight of My Life -.. Artemesia R. Romney 164 A Great Tradition—The American National Red Cross:...... Edwin H. Powers 165 Why Not Be Happy? On... CcsccscsececcecesececesesescesseccescreceeseseseoesescsesesecessunseesssesessessescenececcusseeneneseneneecaveesCelia Luce 184 Nature's Bouquet - a a senswssvee-. Cecil G. Pugmire 186 "FICTION. Survival Under Protest — Third Prize ne a.... Leola S. Anderson 150 The Legacy >... A.... Ora Pate Stewart 172 Mother's s Baked 7: 6) ©) (-. —— seve Stelle Webb Thomas 188 Green Willows — Chapter 20 ooeccccccccccicccccecccccesesee ences sven veeseses-ecnevenaeceeseaceseenseecesseseeDeone R. Sutherland 192 peiroyanl IN (Vote Code tal ) 30 eee err ee ee 146 Eighty-One Years Ago oocccceccccccssscesccsseseesesesssecccsoeeeeeeee _ ee 166 Woman's Sphere oneeeeceeccsccesesececeeesececessnsseeesssnenes eossecerseescassenseneearece a Ramona W. Cannon 167 Editorial: Relief Society for the Perfection of Women.......... Marianne C. Sharp 168 Notes to the Field: Organizations and Reorganizations of Stake and Mission Relief Societies for 1954 2. 170 Index for 1954 Relief Society Magazines Available ee teneeene 170 Announcing the Special April Short Story Issue 2o.... Ecce. C. Sceeeccccscececeecceceeeceeneeceeneseceneoeseseeese 171 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities......... SeescacesaoMargaret C. Pickering 198 FEATURES FOR THE 'HOME And Now It's Spring Again! 0... Ceceeecsceensreeseeseeseentenesseeeereeeeseeeeseeeeeeeeee-- Helen §. Williams 178 Home Laundering ooo. Eececccececcoceececeeeseececececceseeeeeeeeeeseeeeeenee.. Rhea H. Gardner 180 Martha Mary Barrett Tolman Finds a New Hobby 2........-ccccccssecesesceeceescteseescceseserceeetteccetetettettieereere 19] Herbs for Modern Cookery — Dill Elizabeth Williamson 208 POETRY Of Power and Love SS eeGenevieve Wyatt 156 What Is Youth? Soccer... Vesta Ball Ward 163 Field of Hyacinths 2200.2 a ww---bva Willes Wangsgaard 177 "Let There Be Beauty"' EE aaa. Maryhale Woolsey 179 Grandfather's Peppermints 22.0....2... Ceccecsececcesesssececoseceeesseateceseedteneneeceeeens.. Elsie McKinnon Strachan 183 Wiiratter splocrs tapi ira cytes nna awe ccsttcn sectegene te ercecee-nnccntteececccteresescensaceesenoeneseaceeeseesesesBernice T. Clayton 185 IDYS PN IDX NEY cece cement OCCMabel se Atkinson 191 Monday: TL ig Roberts 197 Fulfillment.... Margaret Evelyn Singleton 197 Perfume of Violets Zara Sabin 204 A Testimony Catherine B. Bowles 206 Words Ai a Christie Lund Coles 207 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 40 North Main, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, l5c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 8, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. "Unto the Elect Lady'? Ooo. C. Ccceccecccecececee cco cceecensecseesvesnesseeeeeesasenseeseee Perennials Preferred o......... Ecccceceeceeccceeseesecceseseeneeseeeseeeeeeecesenees Micrehiy Trnterlurley 21 terr......... Cevesecsccec--c-sccrerseteerscressccnsesasceonoevesveuseeoustatitussscsbunietetters. =< Let Seasons Linger 20... Ene ceecceceececcnceeseecneeeneeeeeceoeeeceaseneecescancensannenseeneesseeees 145 seeee----------Dorthea N. Newbold 157 Pansye H. Powell 187 Tris vSchow 197 "O Be Wise: What Can I Say More?" Aleine M. Young Member, General Board of Relief Society [Address Delivered at the Annual General Relief Society Conference, September 30, 1954] Y dear brothers and sisters, I M wish it were possible for me this afternoon, to express to my Heavenly Father and to you, the gratitude that is in my heart for the restoration of the gospel of Jesus Christ in these latter days, and for the organization of our own great Relief Society by the Prophet Joseph Smith. It is a real thrill to look out over this vast auditorium today and see all these wonderful sisters, and to realize that most of you are workers in this great women's organization. When we add to this great number all the sisters throughout the Church that are members, think what a wonderful power for good we can be if we will all be wise and live up to all the commandments that have been given to us. When Jacob, the brother of Nephi, was pleading with his people to believe in Jesus Christ and live up to all the teachings of the prophets, he concluded with these words: "O be wise; what can I say more?" This is the message that I would like to bring to you today, be wise. Last summer I attended a sacrament meeting and a fireside for the young people at Bryce Canyon Lodge. I was thrilled with the sincerity of the many young people who stood and bore their testiPage 148 monies. One of the things that impressed me most at that time was the statement of many of these young people that their parents had been their example; that they had not only taught their children the principles of the gospel, but they had lived it themselves. What greater happiness could come to a parent than to hear this and to know it to be true? These parents have been wise and are reaping the reward. This is the reverse of the words of Emerson, who said, "What you are stands over you the while, and thunders so that I cannot hear what you say." 'These young people have said of their parents, "What you are stands over you, and thunders so, that I, too, will be wise and follow your example." When the Pharisee came to Jesus and said, "Master, which is the great commandment in the law?" (Mt. 22:36) he replied saying:. Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. This is the first and great commandment. And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself (Mt. 22:37-39). I am sure that as Relief Society workers we are all endeavoring to live up to these two great command- "O BE WISE; WHAT CAN I SAY MORE?" ments, but there are others that we should also follow, if we are wise. We should at all times accept the advice and instructions of our leaders who counsel us so wisely. We will remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy. This commandment was given to us for our own good that we might have a day of much needed rest, and the opportumty to improve ourselves and to grow spiritually. If we are wise, we will attend our meetings and we will urge our children to go with us, for it is here that we learn of Christ and his teachings. It is here that we renew our covenants with our Heavenly Father. F' we are wise, we will keep the Word of Wisdom, for it is God's law and his will that we do this. Doctors and scientists and those who are living the Word of Wisdom today are proving that it is the right way of life and that everyone will benefit by doing so. If we are wise, we will accept in all humility any calling that comes to us in the Church, and give to it our best efforts, for it is through activity in the Church that we grow and our testimonies are strengthened. I have mentioned but a few of the commandments that we should adhere to, if we are wise. There are others just as important, and we are not in a position to choose the ones that we feel apply to us. 'The Lord tells us to keep all his commandments, and Jesus said: He that hath my commandments, and keepeth them, he it is that loveth me: and he that loveth me shall be loved of my Father... (John 14:21). 149 In Jesus' Sermon on the Mount, and also in his great sermon to the Nephites, he advises us in these words from The Book of Mormon: Therefore, whoso heareth these sayings of mine and doeth them, I will liken him unto a wise man, who built his house upon a rock—And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house; and it fell not: for it was founded upon a rock. And every one that heareth these sayings of mine and doeth them not shall be likened unto a foolish man, who built his house upon the sand—And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house; and it fell, and great was the fall of it (3 Nephi 14:24-27). Which are we like, the wise or the foolish man? Are we building our house upon the rock of obedience or upon the sands of disobedience? If we are wise, we will build it upon the rock and receive the blessings that have been promised to us in the sixth section of the Doctrine and Covenants, which says: Now, as you have asked, behold, I say unto you keep my commandments, and seek to bring forth and establish the cause of Zion; Seek not for riches, but for wisdom, and behold, the mysteries of God shall be unfolded unto you, and then shall you be made rich. Behold, he that hath eternal life is rich (D. & C. 6:6-7). We all believe this, and we are all working and looking forward to eternal life in the celestial kingdom of our Father in heaven, but in order to achieve it, we must always follow the advice of Jacob when he said: "O be wise, what can I say more?" I pray that we may all have the strength and courage to do this, and [I humbly ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. Shird Prize S tory Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest Survival Under Protest Leola S. Anderson HE first Monday night that Joanna jumped up from the dinner table to rush off to first-aid training class, George was amused. "Sure, [ll be baby-sitter, honey," he said magnanimously. "Never let it be said that the Georges, pappy and son, ever dimmed the lamp of our own Crusader!" Joanna pulled a face at him, running her fingers down her blue skirt over slim, lovely hips. It was a heady evening in early spring, with the setting sun sending gold fingers through the yellow organdy curtains to caress the blond heads of all three Camerons. The smell of freshly watered lawns from this corner up both sides of the subdivision came strongly through the open window. Serenity ruled inside and out, as if disaster were seven lightyears away. Poised behind their chairs, Joanna turned each blond head back and dropped a quick kiss on two turned-up noses, Geordy's little button one and George's strong skijump one. "Bye, precious. "Bye, hon." "Not so fast!" George caught her wrist as she zoomed past and pulled her down into his lap. "I deserve better than that for tubbing, pantsing, and bedding my son down. To Page 150 LEOLA S. ANDERSON say nothing of washing up your dishes!" "Oh, George, the dishes, too? When you hate them so?" The stars came out in Joanna's blue eyes. "You're the nicest husband I ever married." "Just this once, I will," he said, "because I have an idea there won't be another one. Just let that Red Cross expert start talking about great, gaping, bloody wounds, and Mammy's life-saving career will end at the rail." Joanna turned a little pale, but she swallowed hard and firmed her lips resolutely. "No! I'm going to SURVIVAL UNDER PROTEST get clear through this one. Why, it may mean our very survival." George's eyebrows went all the way up. "So bad?" 'There was laughter in his voice. Joanna nodded vigorously. "If we do as the Church tells us, we don't need to fear anything. And _ this we've been told to do. Besides, Civil Defense is warning us, too. The time has come when every home must be prepared for—for— well, for whatever comes." Geordy pounded his spoon in the soupy mess in his plate. "Mum, mum, mum!" he chortled. George nodded solemnly. "You're so right, both of you." He planted a swift, businesslike kiss upon Joanna's soft mouth and stood her on her feet, all five-feet-two of her. "Now you rush right out and prepare to detend our home, honey, while I mop up my son and heir." He grinned, towering over her. Outside a horn honked. Joanna flung her arms around his neck for a moment and ran for the door. 'Never mind the dishes," she sang. "I'll do 'em when I get back" George addressed his son, man to man. "She won't be able to look a greasy dish in the face by then. Come on, boy, let's harvest that mashed potato crop in your hair." That was the first time. JPANNe came home bubbling with pride and fairly oozing Jivesaelber Before George could bring himself to protest, she had bandaged him for a broken jaw, a dislocated shoulder, and a sprained ankle. She left him slightly shaken and all tied up on the divan while she made a tour of her small castle. 151 Geordy was sweetly, cleanly asleep in his crib; the dishes were in their proper cupboards; even the sink was washed and the dishcloth wrung dry. Joanna sighed ecstatically. The second time, George was thoughtful. "How long," he asked carefully, as dinner again neared a precipitate close for Joanna, "does this class go on?" "Nine weeks, two hours a night, every Monday at seven," Joanna smiled, while she stripped off her beruffled apron, smoothed down her skirt, and prepared to kiss her family goodbye again. ""l'onight we're going to do leg bandages and wounds." "Wounds, hon? Shall I send an ambulance around for you?" Outside the horn sounded, Joanna laughed. "Oh, I'm over that! There's Marge. 'Bye!" With Geordy in his arms, George followed her to the door. Marge grinned and shook her red head at him. "Isn't this something?" she trebled. "I've always wanted to dash off to the wars, leaving the little man at home!" George grinned bravely back. "Ours to worry and to wait!" He flinched as the tires gripped the asphalt and got away with a squeal. A little frown seamed his eyebrows together. "Your mother," he told his egg-smeared son, "is not that strong a character." He was right. She came home blanched and shaking. Marge brought her in. "Just let her lie down for awhile," she said. "She'll be all right. Little squeamish, that's all." George scowled. "She never could 152 stand the sight of blood. She can't even stand talking about it. This is the end of first aid here!" Marge backed out the front door and escaped. George laid Joanna on the divan and put a cold cloth on her head. After awhile she opened her eyes and smiled weakly at him. "IT should put my head down by my knees," she murmured. "Keep me from fainting. I'll be all right in a few minutes." "Sure, sure,' George "Better talk bandages." "You shouldn't ever use a tourniquet, except as a last resort," she said faintly. "But if you do, mark a I' on the victim's forehead with your lipstick." "T will," George promised. She swallowed. "You know, this is plain silly." "I'm glad you realize it," George exploded. "Well, you tried." "IT mean giving in to it like this!" She sat up and jerked the wet cloth from her head. "Anyway, we just talked about it. After all, what's b—blood?" She stood up, shoulders square — momentarily. Then she wilted. "Let's go to bed, huh?" soothed. HE third Monday night, there was a battle. "Of course I'm going." Joanna's blue eyes were never surer. ""T'onight we learn artificial respiration. You have to have artificial respiration to pass the course!" "Tll have to have it, if you pass the course!" She looked levelly at him. "That's nonsense. We'll both be glad some day that I didn't give up. Why, suppose Geordy got hurt, bad. Her face went white at the thought. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1955 "Look, honey." George was holding his temper by a small, serrated thread. "Dr. Peterson's office is in the next block, a fire station and a hospital within four. Do you really think it's a matter of life or death that you rush off like mad to learn to tie square knots? You can get that from my old scout book!" Joanna's eyes blazed blue fire to meet the smoke in his. "In case of disaster...." "Disaster! Disaster! All I hear is disaster!" he shouted. "Are you trying to scare everybody silly? How about a little peace at home, for a change?" "You don't have to wash the dishes, George," she said with dignity. "And I can bathe Geordy before I go. 'That's what is really bothering you, isn't it?" George knew when he_ was whipped—temporarily. But he was a tenacious person by nature, and personal injuries to his masculine pride could be laughed off only so long. Though he pushed Joanna out the door when Marge honked, though he washed the dishes in ten minutes flat (breaking only two plates and a brown pottery bowl), though he bathed Geordy and put him into his crib and kissed him goodnight, he rumbled like Mauna Loa all the time. And with his domestic duties scrupulously completed, he erupted down the block to compare outraged notes with Marge's husband. AN Johnson hadn't made such good time as George. He still wore one of Marge's aprons like a postage stamp on his vast front. "Don't fight it, boy." His huge frame shook with laughter. "The SURVIVAL UNDER PROTEST little women thrive on opposition. And it won't last. 'They'll get tired of it in a coupla weeks. 'Specially Marge. She isn't the crusading type." 'Joanna is," George mumbled glumly. "And she's obsessed with the idea there's going to be a disaster—on a magnificent scale—and ee we must be prepared! But even George didn't realize the significance of his own words. Not then. Not, in fact, until the night he came home from wo1k to find his fishing equipment, creels, reels, bait and all, stacked in neat piles on the back lawn, together with the two old tires he'd been saving almost a year now. Premonition hit him a low blow. He put his head in the door of what he had always fondly regarded as his own province, the little cubbyhole between the furnace and laundry. 'There was nothing left of all the familiar clutter of precious old hats, half-built wagons for Geordy, or assorted items of toolcraft. It was stark and bare, and the walls smelled faintly of disinfectant. Joanna was busily scrubbing the floor. "It's very sweet of you, honey, to clean out my work room, but it wasn't really necessary to fumigate," he said warily. Joanna pushed back a stray lock of hair with a grimy wrist. "This," she announced proudly, "is our Survival Room." "Our what?" he yelled. "When it's finished it will hold food, clothing, bedding, first-aid supples..." "Stop!" But he knew she couldn't. It 153 was like flying in the face of a tidal wave. That's why he found himself, during odd moments in the next few weeks, nailing shelves along the walls, lugging in folding cots, fashioning a rather fine clothes closet in one corner. The neighbors began dropping in to admire his work. "Why, you're quite a carpenter, boy," big Dan Johnson rumbled. "T almost wish Marge had_ got steamed up to make me do this. Snug little spot you've got here." George accepted the praises woodenly. S the green of spring ripened into crisp, golden autumn, so the barrenness of the Survival Room blossomed into plenty. Like magic, cans and bottles appeared on the paper-lined shelves—the magic of a robbed kitchen budget, George thought morosely. Hands on hips, he. Surveyed Joanna's folly. 'There were fruits, vegetables—dozens of them— and dry beans and split peas and cereals and canned potatoes and meat.. "Hey, are we going to invite the neighbors to share our cozy little disaster?" he wanted to know. "If necessary, yes, although Marge and some of the others are planning to start rooms like this now. George's grin was sardonic. It would be pleasant to watch that, from a distance. He held up a bucket with holes poked through the sides near the bottom. "What is this?" "A stove. When you get the charcoal burning down in the bottom of it, you put this grill on and cook hamburgers or potatoes or 154 corn in husks, or what-have-you. It also keeps us warm." "Lights up the gloom, too?" "Oh, no. Look!" She held up a kerosene lamp with a glass bowl and stand and a wick a foot long. It brought back memories of visits to Gramp's old ranch when George was a kid. Apparently Joanna hadn't forgotten a thing. Silently he picked up her Red Cross certificate of First Aid and Civil Defense and tacked it up over the door. "What on earth are you doing?" "Just hanging up your sheepskin, honey. We are now ready for disaster." Accordingly, disaster struck. It was nothing so dramatic as an atomic bomb or a famine. Not even a small earthquake. George was coming home from work, carrying the inevitable sack of groceries, and between the curb and his own door he got run over. By two racing bicycles. How it happened, or why it happened, only the testimony of two very frightened young boys would ever indicate. All Joanna knew was that there was a shout, two screams, the horrible grinding sound of metal on cement, and a terrifying huddle of arms, legs, and battered bicycles right there before her front door. Be calm, be cool, the well-trained first aider inside her head shrieked wildly. First, urgent rescue! Her head began a slow, agonized swimming, but her legs carried her to the spot. Almost at once, two bodies extricated themselves from the mess. 'They were Jim West and Paul Dean, boys who lived up the block. Jim's shirt was ripped right down the back, and a long scratch RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1955 began to show red beneath it. It turned Joanna's sight fuzzy. She shook her head impatiently. George lay motionless on the sidewalk, face down. She dropped down beside him just before her knees gave out on their own account. "Gosh, we didn't mean to, Mrs. Cameron," Jim babbled, and Paul began to sob. "He was looking back at his car and walked right in front of us!" "I know you didn't mean to," Joanna said gently, her lips continuing with a silent, steady prayer. CAREFULLY she ran quick, exploring fingers down George's back before she eased him gently over. A sickening gasp sucked itself through her clenched teeth. It looked as if the whole left front of him were bleeding. On the sidewalk were scattered groceries and the jagged pieces of a shattered bottle. She shut her eyes. "Paul, go into my house and call Dr. Peters." Paul was moving before she finished speaking. "Jim, go around to George's work room and bring me the First Aid box on the top shelf just inside the door. Quick!" Jim ran with a queer, one-sided gallop. The soft, fuzzy fog that began settling around Joanna's head was stifling. "This is George," she said aloud to keep her faculties awake. "And he is injured. Open his shirt and see where's he's hurt. Move!" Her fingers did as they were commanded. Most of the blood disappeared when she pulled the shirt back. Only the sleeve grew darker and darker. Jim was back with the SURVIVAL UNDER PROTEST 155 Leola Seely Anderson, San Bernardino, California, appears in The Relief Society Magazine, as a first-time winner in the short story contest, with her offering "Survival Under Protest.'"' However, Mrs. Anderson has had considerable recognition for her literary efforts. ""The Relief Society Magazine launched my first article from Brigham Young University ('A Personnel Department for the Home,' The Relief Suciety Magazine, October 1935), but I cut my literary teeth (news and fiction) on The Deseret News, The Salt Lake Tribune, The Sun-Advocate (Price, Utah), and The Toronto Star Weekly. Most recently Reader's Digest and Faith Today have printed articles. Next to my family, my seminary class is my greatest love, though I also teach the literature lesson in Relief Society, and college English classes. My husband (a language instructor at San Bernardino Valley College), and my sons, Richard (fourteen) and Brent (nine), are presently aiding, abetting, and heckling me in a program of "Mom Goes Back to School." Future grist for the literary mill—when it finds a spare moment to grind! I used to be a member of the Blue Quill (Ogden, Utah, writers) and also a member of the Southeastern Chapter of the League of Utah Writers." kit, and she cut the shirt away at the shoulder. As the cloth slid back, blood spurted with each thrust of George's strong, young heart. She groped for a bandage, but her eyes would not focus. All she could see was that bright, red life leaving George, her George. Dr. Peters would be here in a few minutes—but even a few minutes would be too late. First Aid is what you do before the doctor comes. Knowledge is to prepare you to act when it is necessary. You know what to do, Joanna. Do it! She shut her teeth tight together, and her nerveless fingers went down into that warm, scarlet stream and closed around the jagged flesh. The blood ceased to spurt. "Go get Marge Johnson," she mumbled, while nausea rose in an engulfing tide over her. FOR the next century Joanna knelt there, George's blood drying in stiff little smears on her hands, light and darkness confusing her thoughts. That awful bump on his forehead must have knocked him out, and his cheek is rubbed and bruised.... Joanna resumed her prayers. "Joanna, baby!" Marge's voice brought all the tension release of the arrival of the U. S. Cavalry. "Whatever happened?" Don't let go, Joanna commanded herself. This is a reinforcement, not a replacement. "Get the stretcher from the Survival Room." She found a dressing now, and though as she momentarily released her hold on the wound, the blood leaped at her again, it was a matter of seconds until the bandage was in place and securely tied—with square knots. 'They rolled George on to the stretcher and carried him into the Survival Room and _ laid him on the cot. "Fix Paul and Jim up, will you, Marge?" Joanna said, while she 156 bathed the blood and catsup from George's face. Why didn't he open his eyes? She put a cold compress on the lump that gleamed red, white, and bruised on his forehead. A car stopped out in front. Dr. Peter's quick, efficient footsteps and the music of his voice. ""What's up, here?" He leaned, over George, raised his eyelids, took his pulse. He examined Joanna's bandage and the wound beneath it. He tossed a smile over his busy shoulder. "Tl cite you for gallantry in action, Joanna," he said. "You probably saved your husband's life." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1955 "I—I did?" smiled Joanna moistly, and toppled over at his feet, out cold. That's when George Cameron sighed and opened his eyes. "Joanna!" he croaked. ""What's happened to Joanna?" Dr. Peters laid her on the other cot. "She fainted. I promise to give you full details when I'm not so busy with two of you." George viewed his own bandages with a grimace and rubbed a hand gingerly over his aching brow. "Well," he mumbled, "the little woman never could stand the sight of blood." Of Power and Love Genevieve Wyatt For God hath not given us the spirit of fear; but of power, and of love, and of a sound mind (II Timothy 1:7). Peace of mind I asked for, "Oh, peace of mind," I prayed, "God grant me this one blessing For I am sore afraid." And through the dark I struggled And through the dark cried out, For fear still lingered with me In troubled thoughts and doubt. Then, seeing peace in loved one's eyes, I saw, too, perfect trust, For peace of mind is perfect faith— God's love is true and just. And as my faith grows stronger God's greatest gift is sure. I know it will be completely mine When faith is full and pure.! Perennials Preferred Dorthea N. Newbold, Deseret News Garden Editor asked — numberless times — "Please tell me the name of a perennial flower that will bloom continuously throughout the summer." Perennials are herbaceous plants that live for many years — usually they die down to the rootstock in the fall and come up again in the spring — flowering every year. But certainly there is no one variety of these treasures of the garden which will bloom continuously throughout the growing season. By selecting from a wide assortment of perennial plants, however, the gardener may be assured of bloom from earliest springtime until late fall. E VERY garden editor has been Preparation of Soil Consider first the soil with which you will be working. For, without a rich, crumbly, well-drained soil, all the work of creating a garden and the expense of top quality plants, is wasted. Soil should be dug deeply, with ample humus material incorporated to make an almost inexhaustible storehouse of food for the plants. Remember that once planted, it will be many years before you will move those perennial plants. Give Perennials a Strong Background To show to the best advantage, perennials need a_ strong background. A free standing border makes a thin appearance — even though there are generous sized colonies of plants. Placed against a strong background, such as a border of shrubs, of evergreens, or against a garden wall, or a wooden fence (either painted or stained), or against the side of a building, the blooms will show off to much greater advantage. Width of Beds Width of the beds is very important. It is almost impossible to achieve continuous bloom or a varied effect in a narrow border. Consider beds five to eight feet in width for the best effects. However, you may have a narrow strip in which you prefer to plant perennials. 'Try peonies or iris or phlox or chrysanthemums for a big season splash of colorful blooms, and use an annual, such as petunias, for the front edging to give color throughout the summer and fall months. Wide borders allow plenty of space to use low-growing, early blooming perennials in the front of the borders, taller growing plants at the rear, with the medium growing plants placed in the center sections. This is not an ironclad rule to be followed, for a medium tall plant having attractive foliage — peonies for example, may be placed near the back of the border, or some delphinium plants may be brought close to the front edge. Emphasis on the Old Reliables Peonies, iris, delphiniums, daisies of every variety, phlox, hardy asters, Page 157 158 Derthea Nowbold COLUMBINE The delicately beautiful blossoms of columbine and the attractive foliage add airy grace to the perennial borders. Chrysanthemums — these are the old reliables, and plant hybridizers have worked wonders with them to give us plants with larger flowers, sturdier stock, better colors. Use these plants with a lavish hand, planting them in colonies of threes, fives, sevens, nines, or more, if desired. 'To create a garden picture which will have unity and strength, repeat like plantings in another section of the border. For example, you will find that a planting' composed of three peonies, five delphirtiums, and seven phlox carelessly scattered in an undesigned border says very little. The same number of plants grouped in colonies, with a like planting repeated in another section, will give greater pleasure and satisfaction. Front Edging of Borders It is extremely difficult to plan a border of any size which will disRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1955 play a neat, tidy appearance and at the same time be in bloom from April until fall. 'There will usually be unsightly spots where some perennials have passed their season, and where neighboring plants have failed to cover the traces of the earlier variety. Care must be taken, then, not to have too many of the early blooming sorts toward the front of the border unless they will retain their foliage until fall. The general appearance of a planting depends tremendously on the blossoms and foliage of the front of the border. Hardy candytuft — Iberis sempervirens — produces loads of lovely white flowers in the springtime, then the plants may be sheared back for a neat appearance for the remainder of the season Courtesy Jackson and Perkins Company DELPHINIUM (LOVELINESS) Delphiniums are an unsurpassed source of blue flowers. The tall spires of bloom add interesting form to the perennial border. ' PERENNIALS PREFERRED Courtesy Jackson and Perkins Company 159 SHASTA DAISY (WIRRAL SUPREME) A new form of an old standby, the Shasta Daisy, a thrifty plant which blooms lavishly. Dianthus, variety Cheddar pink, or Dianthus plumarius — old fashioned clove pink, will provide fragrance unsurpassed during its blooming season, then the seed pods may be trimmed off for a neat, attractive appearance throughout the remainder of the season. 'The evergreen coralbell, Heuchera, is a lovely thing, its geranium-shaped leaves remaining in perfect condition until after hard frosts. Early-Flowering Perennials Primroses of many varieties, Doronicum, (leopard's-bane), peonies, Pyrethrum, iris, bearded and_ the Siberian varieties, oriental poppies — there is an endless list of May and June blooming perennials. However, selecting a _ limited group of bearded iris is a comphcated business, for the varieties number into the thousands. Great self-control is needed on your part 160 or your garden will become a display of iris and not the varied perennial garden you desire. Early Summer As the springtime slips into the summer, oriental poppies take over the scene. Poppies need a careful setting, for a flaming orange will protest loudly if placed near a patch of rose. Still we would not forfeit the pleasure of growing poppies. Poppies disappear after the blooming period, leaving a blank space in the garden. 'The gardener soon learns to cover up their disappearance with plants of Chinese delphinium, Shasta daisies, Statice, or baby's-breath (Gypsophila paniculata), variety Bristol Fairy, planted in front of the poppies. Perennial Phlox for Midsummer Blooms With midsummer and with the coming of hot weather, the energy of the gardener is sorely taxed, but if the perennial phlox plants have been grouped with a generous hand, if they have been carefully watered and mulched with a layer of wellrotted manure, the borders will be a riot of color. No perennial quite equals the phlox for extravagance of blooms, for persistence, or for selfreliance. The New Day Lilies In recent years day lilies, Hemerocallis, have been undergoing some interesting changes through the efforts of plant hybridizers. A little thoughtful study of a catalogue will disclose the many new colors — pinks, purples, pale creams and yelRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1955 lows, white, deep yellow, and many blends as well. Then, too, you may select from long lists, varieties that will bloom during the spring or summer or fall. Indeed, one could have a most interesting garden containing only day lilies. Fall Arrives As the summer passes and the fall season begins, hardy chrysantheums, hardy asters, and anemones come into their own. No garden would be complete without hardy asters which are sogenerous with their blooms. Plant hybridizers have worked wonders with the hardy chrysanthemums, and there are dozens and dozens of new varieties listed in the growers' catalogues — waiting for you to use them in every spare corner of your perennial borders. 'They take up such a small area until well into the late summer, that with generous use of small, single starts set out in early springtime, the garden will, in the fall months, look as if it were a garden of chrysanthemums. From September until killing frosts, anemones will offer lovely white or delicate pink waxen blooms, lovely for either the house or the garden. Like people, perennials have their limitations, so learn to allow for these. At the same time, emphasize all their wonderful assets. Learn to evaluate. Though you desire a plant of every known variety when you begin to garden, you will soon learn to make discriminating selections — to please you and to suit your personality. J Go to Reliof Society Nell B. Brenchley HE things that happen to me on Relief Society day! I am sometimes tempted to believe that if I had not such an ardent love for that organization, I should have given up trying to get myself and two or more children to Relief Society meeting long ago. Somehow things seem to get all tangled up on that particular day. I have entertained the thought that life might run more smoothly, if I pretended not to be going to meeting at all, And then, say about 1:30, I would trick fate, change my dress, grab the children, and dash off to Relief Society without looking back. But no. I would most assuredly have to bathe John, my three-yearold, you know how little boys are, and then perhaps the baby would be asleep or hungry or—no, I must plan ahead. But you know when Sister Hammond read that quotation from Burns in her literature lesson last year, the one which goes, "The best laid schemes 0' mice and men, gang aft a-gley," well, I felt like Burns must have written that especially for the mouse and me. Just that very day I had hoped to be all ready to leave, and when I called John in, there he was with mud up to his ears. I have almost developed a sleight-of-hand act from some of those quick changes. I wasn't late, but I can't say I was unruffled. Then there was last week. I was going like a race horse to get things in shape so I could leave when the telephone rang. Goodness, I thought, I hope it's not.... My good husband's voice asked, "Aren't you going to Relief Society today?" "Yes, dear, I am," from me. "Why didn't you say you wanted the car at lunchtime?" he inquired. "Well, I did mention that I was going to meeting, but I decided to walk." Isn't that just like a man? He probably didn't even listen when I told him I was going. He was saying, "And carry that baby? I'll say not. Ill come and get you." "T can walk," I insisted, but then, thinking that I could use those extra ten minutes, I said, "All right, if it won't put you out too much—meeting's at two." I did use the extra ten minutes profitably, but at three minutes to two there was still no car in sight, so I wrapped up baby, and the three of us started out, thinking we would surely meet him coming for us. Baby was getting powerfully heavy by the time I reached the church, and I was puffing like the "little steam engine that could" or something, but still no husband in sight. I do hate to be late. Just as I reached the Relief Society room I turned, too quickly I am afraid, to see if young John was following. He was, and I smacked him in the poor little head with my swinging handbag. He sent up a wail that would put a banshee to shame. I found at suppertime that husband had forgotten completely about us. He was very penitent, but I think I shall not make any such arrangements another time. Page 16] 162 There was another day. I was helping with the program for the opening social, so I was planning to leave home a half hour early. I was finishing up the luncheon dishes and things seemed to be well in hand, when John's voice called to me from the bathroom. "Mommy, I can't open the door." I dried my hands on my apron and turned the knob, and my heart sank. "John, you didn't lock the door, surely?" I asked. "Locked, Mommy," he called nonchalantly. "But how could you, it's too high?" that was to myself, but he answered, "I standed on my toes." "Well, just stand on your toes again and unlock it." I was impatient. "T did, but I can't." "Keep calm," I kept telling myself, but as the minutes wore on and his three-year-old efforts were in vain, I became frantic. I thought of the one small window. It was my last chance. I hurried down to find the stepladder, hoping desperately that the window was unlocked. As I shouldered the ladder, I glanced at the axe in the corner and thought grimly to' myself that if the worst came to the worst, I could use that. HAPPILY, the window was unlocked, I found, after forcing the screen, but it was far too small for me to get through at that time. My five-year-old Patty was the only one available, but she took one look into the bathtub below and shrieked that she was afraid. I begged, coaxed, and pleaded, and _ finally dropped her screaming and kicking safely to the bathroom floor. 'The RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1955 three-year-old stood peacefully washing his hands, with the water running over the basin and into his Sunday shoes. We got to the meeting that day, too, finally. But do you know when I arrived home at four o'clock, I found my bread still baking. I guess I hadn't heard the bell in my excitement before leaving. I have heard somewhere that Brother Brigham Young liked thick crusts on his bread, but I do declare, I am afraid even he couldn't have eaten mine that day. I could name other hectic instances, some which have been more provoking than amusing. But I have adopted for my 'Tuesday creed, "Never say die." I must go to Relief Society. I simply cannot miss the theology meeting. I look forward to that day as a day when my life is enriched, and I may drink in the beautiful spirit of our class leader, our president, and her counselors, and as I listen to the staunch testimonies of the other sisters, my testimony grows, and I know that I am going to try to live closer to my Father in heaven and strive to understand my mission upon earth more fully. I must go to work meeting. That is the day that gives me courage to be a better homemaker. (Goodness knows I could improve my Tuesday schedule.) The leaders on this day awaken interest in so many homemaking arts that I have formerly thought beyond my reach. I do so want to make of my home a place where my little family will want to be more than any other. I must go to the literature lesson. Then my soul may rise above the | GO TO RELIEF SOCIETY commonplace things, and I may walk briefly with great minds. Could associations be more rich than those with Tennyson, Dickens, or Browning? Oh, the beauty of the literature day! I must go to the social science lessons. I am just awakening to the realization that we here in the United States have some things not 163 to be found in any other country. I must learn what I can do to help preserve the liberty that God has bequeathed upon this promised land, so long as we serve the God of this land who is Jesus Christ. Yes, I go to Relief Society, come what may. May I call for you next Tuesday? What Js Youth? Vesta Ball Ward You answer. Youth is impetuousness, hurry, Clothed in vibrant shades of red, Striped with rush. Shadows chasing self, Vainly seeking realness in shadowy future, Distant past; Too busy to peek between the pages of today's reality; Too busy to taste the present pleasure Or savor the sweetness of now. Too occupied seeking life, too frantic, Too busy, always too busy. Let the panorama slip by, While frantically You seek that indefinable Something that is not found, Though sought, In hectic disquietude. A sage seeketh such in quiet thought, in still depths, In tranquility, repose, and solemn contemplation. Youth knows not of such treasures, Hidden only by the veil of the mind. For only time, so little respected, can painfully teach. Only time, relentless in scope and depth and sameness, With cutting edge and sharp surety, need reprimand. So what is youth? Nothing more than youngness, That soon is tempered or broken in the maw Of aching search. What is age? You answer. Age is youth, softened by time, Mellowed by the ceaseless flow and surge Of that which it pleases us to name Experience. Tow, in the Swilight of My Life Artemesia R. Romney sidewalk of a large city one cold, dreary day (the year was December 1936), it seemed there were no love or friends left in all the world.. Now that I was widowed there was nothing to live for any more. Suddenly, as I passed a spacious store window, a beautiful oil painting attracted my attention and "held me spellbound for some time. I forgot my sorrow, for the moment, as I studied the work of art. The sun in the picture was just breaking with new light. As I observed it more closely, a thrill ran through me and seemed to fill my soul with new life and beauty. I said to myself, "There is no reason why I can't do something like that, paintings that would give joy and happiness and cheer up those who are sad. Everyone needs a hobby as she grows older to keep her mind bright and alert. Mine will be painting." We all feel the need of self-expression, and it is very necessary for our well-being. Anything that we create with our hands gives us a thrill and helps us to see the beauty around us and to express our personality. The poet said that all the good we send into the lives of others comes back into our own. We might also say that all the beauty we send into the homes of others comes back into our own and gives us happiness and comfort, for a thing of beauty is a joy forever. Emily Dickinson once said: A S I walked along the crowded If I can stop one heart from breaking, I shall not live in vain; If I can ease one life the aching, Page 164 Or cool one pain, Or help one fainting robin Unto his nest again, I shall not live in vain. I was determined to do something that would help someone to see the beauty of life. As I proceeded to work on my chosen hobby, I found many difficulties to surmount. One of the hardest was to get registered at the university and get started among all those young students, but finally I succeeded and became so interested in my classes that everything took on new life and beauty. 'The harder I worked, the more joy I experienced. I began to feel that life was worth living after all. There was so much for me to learn, and so much joy came to me in studying and progressing that my sorrow was lessened because my mind and hands were busy in creating something that would give joy to others. But I found in the hobby I had chosen there were many angles to master, among them: harmony, proportion, balance, rhythm, emphasis, and color. As we work, we find we are creating a picture, and our souls are filled with delight. We can see beauty in everything around us. Sunshine, mountains, valleys, sunsets, sky, the wind, sand, the snowstorms, rain, smoke, and the rocks are attractive. Even the fog in London was dreadful and ugly until some artist painted a famous picture of it and it took on beauty. Because of their perfect study of nature, the Chinese and Japanese NOW, IN THE TWILIGHT OF MY LIFE paint their flowers so that one can almost see the stems sway in the wind and the peony's leaves waft away in the breeze. One artist says he can't paint the perfume of the flower and so he paints the very soul of it and hands it to us. What joy he gives to his associates! President Brigham Young tells us 165 to beautify our homes with our own handiwork, and what better wav could we decorate them than with our art work? Now, in the twilight of my life, this chosen hobby of painting has brought many happy hours to me. When I feel lonely I have only to get out my paints and brushes or study my art books, and I am soon lost to the world in my work. — A Great Sradition—The American llational Red Cross Edwin H. Powers Director, Office of Public Information N almost every corner of the earth, the Red Cross is recognized as a symbol of the good neighbor. It may represent you—through your membership—in helping other people in time of trouble. Or it may represent warm-hearted people, whom you do not know, rallying to your aid in an emergency. There was a time in our early history when people counted entirely on direct help from their neighbors or close relatives to see them through periods of misfortune. Our way of life stems largely from that personal, across-the-fence sharing of adversity. Today life is more complex. Many of us live in the impersonal atmosphere of great cities. Much of our population shifts back and forth across the country, hardly finding time to get acquainted with new neighbors. The protective unity of families is weakened as individual members scatter from the home community. But people have not changed. In time of trouble, they need assurance that they are not alone. To help provide this assurance, millions of Americans turn to their Red Cross. Because they join and serve, they are able to extend a friendly hand to those who most need help. We see that help in the millions of pints of blood freely given through the Red Cross for those who would die without it. We see it when a New England fisherman who lost his boat in a hurricane is given another so he can earn a living for his family. We see it in emergency help to the family of a serviceman who is away from home. When the Red Cross answers the call of those in need, Americans keep alive one of our great traditions—friendly, neighborly help to our fellow men. This is an annual appeal for good will and help. Join the Red Cross and answer the 1955 call to service. &ightyOne Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, March 1, and March 15, 1873 "For tHE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE Women oF ALL NATIONS" Note: The heading "Eighty-One Years Ago" is substituted this month for the regular title "Sixty Years Ago," since no issues of the Woman's Exponent were published during the month of March 1894. 'The Woman's Exponent began publication in June 1872, and the following excerpts are from the issue of the following March. A UTAH LADIES' JOURNAL: The women of Utah to-day oecupy a position which attracts the attention of intelligent thinking men and women everywhere. They are engaged in the practical solution of some of the greatest social and moral problems of the age.... Who are so well able to speak for the women of Utah as the women of Utah themselves? "It is better to represent ourselves than to be misrepresented by others."" For these reasons, and that women may help each other by the diffusion of knowledge and information possessed by many and suitable to. All, the publication of Woman's Exponent, a journal owned by, controlled by and edited by Utah ladies, has been commenced.... Utah, in its Female Relief Societies, has the best organized benevolent institution of the age.... Miss Eliza R. Snow, President of the entire Female Relief Societies, cordially approves of the journal, and will be a contributor to it as she has leisure from her numerous duties.... —Louise L. Greene, Editor FLORENCE Beneath high, villa-dotted hills That in succession rise Like rich gemm'd parapets around; The lovely Florence lies. The Arno, broad and gentle stream, That flows meand'ring through, Divides, but in unequal parts, The city platt in two.... I see you, Florence, all the while, So beautiful and gay; I ask, is this your common dress, Or, this your holiday?... —Fliza R. Snow From Florence, Italy ADVERTISEMENT: H. Wallace has the best, largest and purest stock of confectionary in Salt Lake City. Just the place for ladies to purchase. RELIEF SOCIETY IN TOOELE: I believe our Society in Tooele can compare favorably with that of any other settlement. It is now nearly three years since we were organized, and we have been trying ever since to do our best. We have excellent meetings. 'The sisters are alive to their duties, and I believe will accomplish much good.... —Mrs. Mary Meiklejohn, President Page 166 ' ARJORIE M. McKINLEY has been awarded the 1954 Mary Swartz Rose fellowship by the American Dietetic Association for her outstanding success as a teacher and administrator in the field of institution management. She is the author of numerous publications on food costs, meal planning, and nutrition. She will continue her graduate work toward the degree of Doctor of Philosophy in Institution Management and Home Economics Education at Iowa State College. OMEN are playing a growing role in the field of medical research—a fact that was recently underscored when the Life Insurance Medical Research Fund awarded a total of more than $31,000 in grants and fellowships for heart disease research to half a dozen women in 1954. VIRGINIA CROCHERON GILDERSLEEVE, former Dean of Barnard College, student of international affairs, and the only woman appointed by President Roosevelt to the United Nations delegation at the San Francisco Conference, relates in Many a Good Crusade, the story of her ideals and accomplishments in the "educational liberation of women." Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon THE National Council of Jewish Women began a "golden age" program in 1946, to enrich the lives of elderly people — to prevent their later years from becoming "an empty thing and a burden of meaningless days."" In 1800 the average life expectancy in the United States was thirty-five years; in 1900, fortyfive; today, seventy. 'There are now ten million Americans over sixtyfive, and sixteen million past sixty. RINCESS MARGARET of Great Britain in February made a month-long tour of the romantic West Indies, flying in a stratocruiser to the Caribbean as a representative of the Crown. IRTHDAY congratulations are extended to: Mrs. Anna Stenquist, Tremonton, Utah, one hundred; Mrs. Melissa Ann Wells Dial, Willard, Utah, ninety-nine; Mrs. Olena M. Larsen, Moroni, Utah, ninety-five; Mrs. Bertha Olsen, Hyrum, Utah, Mrs. Esther Jane 'Tolman Sessions, Syracuse, Utah, Mrs. Ann Evans, Winnipeg Canada, Mrs. Ann Barrus Layton Jones, Salt Lake City, ninety-two; Mrs. Josephine Gibson, Tremonton, Utah, ninety-one; Mrs. Jennie W. Magleby, Mrs. Jessie Richardson 'Thomasen, and Mrs. Josephine Erickson Halverson, all of Salt Lake City, and each ninety years old. Page 167 C—D EDITORIAL m9 VOL. 42 MARCH 1955 Relief Society for the Perfection of Women I therefore, the prisoner of the Lord, bescech you that ye walk worthy of the vocation wherewith ye are called, With all lowliness and meekness, with longsuffering, forbearing one another in love; Endeavouring to keep the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace (Ephesians 4:1-3). O wrote Paul to the Ephesians while a prisoner at Rome, but his words are applicable to us today as much as to the early Christians in Ephesus. As the birth month of Relief Society approaches, one is led to marvel at the blessings to Latter-day Saint women which the organization of Relief Society was. Before its organization the women of the Church assisted in upholding the brethren, attended sacrament meetings, and encouraged and inspired their own husbands and sons, but there was no field open to them in the Church for teaching, exhorting, or systematic learning. It was not by chance that of all the auxiliaries the one for the advancement of the women of the Church was established first under divine inspiration to the Prophet Joseph Smith. Through Relief Society, women were given vocations and called to their offices by the Priesthood of God. In the days of the ancient apostles there was the term "elect lady" given to one by John of whom =he= said, "... Whom I love in the truth; and not I only, but also all they that have known the truth" (II John iam). Page 168 When Emma Smith, the wife of the Prophet Joseph Smith; had the word of the Lord directed to her through her Prophet husband, in July 1830, the Lord said to her, "... And thou art an elect lady, whom I have called" (D.&C. 25:3). She was also told, "And thou shalt be ordained under his hand to expound scriptures, and to exhort the church, according as it shall be given thee by my Spirit" (D. & C. 25:7). In the concluding verse of section 25, it states, "And verily, verily, I say unto you, that this is my voice unto all. Amen" (D. & C. 25:16). On March 17, 1842, nearly twelve years later in Nauvoo, Illinois, when Relief Society was organized and Emma Smith was made the first president of Relief Society, the Prophet Joseph Smith wrote: I gave much instruction, read in the New Testament, and Book of Doctrine and Covenants, concerning the Elect Lady, and showed that the elect meant to be elected to a certain work, &c., and that the revelation was then fulfilled by Sister Emma's election to the Presidency of the Society, she having previously been ordained to expound the Scriptures. Emma was blessed, and her counselors were ordained by Elder John Taylor (D. H. C., IV, pp. 552-553). EDITORIAL What a glorious opportunity was thus bestowed upon our Heavenly Father's daughters in this the last dispensation to be elect ladies and be called to serve in the greatest woman's organization in the world. What great development is offered an individual member through each particular calling in the society. When a calling comes to any woman through the inspiration of the Presiding Priesthood, that woman can fit herself to be worthy and successful in it. Sometimes it is well to consider those attributes of which Paul spoke as necessary in order to "... Walk worthy of the vocation wherewith ye are called" (Ephesians 4:1). With all lowliness and meekness, with longsuffering, forbearing one another in love; Endeavoring to keep the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace (Ephesians 4:2-3). Hardly attributes which the world would hold up as a criterion for successful filling of a calling! One wonders at the lasting accomplishments performed by women who have accepted a calling in humility and lived by the attributes listed by Paul. One may tecall some sister who has fulfilled every calling which came to her no matter how small it might be, and then who has been called to a most responsible calling, such as a ward president. Sometimes the appointment is criticized on the ground that this particular woman _ lacks leadership qualities. Yet it works out in accord with eternal principles. Through her loyalty, faithfulness, and acceptance of the call, she be- 169 comes entitled to the inspiration of the Lord in her calling. 'Vhen her humility inclines her to ask for counsel and to follow it. No word of criticism passes her lips against those who criticize her, for she has learned to be longsuffering. She meets opposition with meekness and concludes by keeping a "unity of the Spirit," in her society "in the bond of peace." Her character has been trained to be obedient to those in authority over her, and through the inspiration of her calling and seeking counsel from those in authority, she gathers around her other women who excel in the attributes which she needs to make a perfect Relief Society organization. So may any woman perform a calling given to her, no matter how inadequate she may feel. And through her acceptance her own soul will be given development in the very qualities which she may lack. Only one thing was needful for the perfection of the rich young ruler who came to Jesus. With perfect knowledge Jesus advised him,... If thou wilt be perfect, go and sell that thou hast, and give to the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven: and come and _ follow me" (Mt. 19:21). 'The rich young ruler, however, did not accept the opportunity to gain perfection, but went away sorrowing. Relief Society members who seek perfection will accept each calling which comes to them and step by step strengthen their weaknesses. Relief Society is veritably a gift of the Lord to his daughters to help perfect them for eternal life. —M. C. S. Wotes. 0 THE FIELD Organizations and Reorganizations of Stake and Plission Relief Societies for 1054 ORGANIZATIONS Stakes East Phoenix Grand Coulee Las Vegas Orange County North Sacramento South Blackfoot 'Taylorsville West Boise Missions Central States Finnish Hawaii No. Central States Swedish Western States Stakes Alpine Berkeley Blackfoot Boise Butte East Cache East Long Beach Farr West Florida Gunnison Inglewood Juarez Lethbridge Minidoka Moapa Mount Logan Nebo North Box Elder North Carbon North Rexburg Oneida Palo Alto Page 170 Formerly Part of Appointed President Date Appointed Phoenix Stake Northwestern States Mission Moapa Stake East Long Beach Stake Sacramento Blackfoot Stake North Jordan Stake Boise Stake Lola M. Shumway Alfreta Gail Jardine Alice Alldredge Marion Almira Woodhouse Edna M. Hill Anna Wright Paula G. Wilson Elnora T. Loveland REORGANIZATIONS Released President Appointed President February 28, 1954 May 23, 1954 October 10, 1954 June 27, 1954 December 12, 1954 June 20, 1954 November 18, 1954 November 28, 1954 Date Appointed Annie M. Ellsworth Mae Pace Matis Stella C. Nelson Laura M. Hawkes Annie B. Johnson Mildred M. Dillman Released President May E. J. Dyer Hortense Robinson Maurine M. Haycock Dora Rose H. England Ethel E. Blomquist Mildred P. Elggren Appointed President February 26, 1954 December 1, 1954 June 11, 1954 April 16, 1954 March 31, 1954 February 24, 1954 Date Appointed Alice W. Carlisle Vera H. Mayhew Alice §. DeMordaunt Elnora T. Loveland Gretta L. Karren Lois W. Sorenson Mildred D. Harper Geneva J. Garfield Josephine W. Jenkins Ruth P. Christiansen Lavena L. Rohner Gladys K. Wagner Fern R. Laycock Katherine Barnes Alice Alldredge Mae E. Jenkins Lucille H. Spencer Lucille L. Wight LaPreal Richards Adalena M. Withers Chloe M. Howell Agnes F'. Lindsay Edna S. Walker Irene Thorley Ranker Florence Christiansen Edna S. Millar Marie J. Monson Vera H. Peart Betsy MacNey Geneva M. Law Effie F. Meeks Rebecca M. Anderson Beth M. Stallman Nilus S. Memmott Ruth F'. Heninger Bertha Burch Lola D. Bryner Anna O. Smith Mary Kotter June I. Hunsaker Elva Judd Mary G. Shirlev Grace C. Gamble Violet B. Smith June 27, 1954 July 17, 1954 June 20, 1954 November 28, 1954 November 28, 1954 June 20, 1954 January 1, 1954 April 24, 1954 October 20, 1954 August 22, 1954 September 26, 1954 May 16, 1954 May 2, 1954 November 17, 1954 October 16, 1954 May 30, 1954 April 18, 1954 March 8, 1954 November 14, 1954 August 22, 1954 June 20, 1954 May 16, 1954 NOTES TO THE FIELD Stakes Pasadena Stake Phoenix Portland Richland Riverdale Santaquin-Tintic Sevier Smithfield South Bear River South Summit Star Valley Released President Appointed President 171 Date Appointed Madge P. Fowler Lola M. Shumway Mima C. Hainsworth Pearl O. Clement Nona W. Slade Janet P. Lee Ivy C. Ashby Ita C. Allen Rebecca C. Mortensen Luella W. Walker Nellie B. Jensen Thelma Johnson Nebeker Ruth O. Stapley Jennie R. Scott Naomi L. Brimhall Isabell C. Ellison Josephine Cannon Crook Beth V. Anderson Vera R. Cantwell Isabella P. Walton Vera Dugdale Eliza R. Robinson September 12, 1954 February 28, 1954 December 5, 1954 April 26, 1954 February 3, 1954 May 16, 1954 June 6, 1954 May 30, 1954 September 5, 1954 September 20, 1954 September 15, 1954 Summit Mary E. Wright Elva F. Richins February 21, 1954 Timpanogos Margaret J. Olpin Florence O. Gillman January 24, 1954 Twin Falls Leah Kirk Mona Hulbert Brown May 23, 1954 Weiser Della W.- Alder Dorothy Zaugg August 22, 1954 Index for 1054 Reliof an Mlagazines Available COPIES of the 1954 index of The Relief Society Magazines are available and may be ordered from the General Board of Relief Society, 40 North Main Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah. The price is 15c, including postage. Relief Society officers and members who wish to have their 1954 issues of The Relief Society Magazine bound may do so through the Deseret News Press, 31 Richards Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah. The cost for binding the twelve issues in a permanent cloth binding is $2.50, including the index. If leather binding is preferred, the cost is $3.50, including the index. These prices do not include postage, and an additional amount to cover postage must accompany all orders for binding of the Magazines. Sce schedules of postage rates in this issue of the Magazine, page 207. If bound volumes are desired, and the Magazines cannot be supplied by the person making the request, the Magazines will be supplied for $1.50 by the Magazine Department, General Board of Relief Society, 40 North Main Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah. Only a limited number of Magazines are available for binding. It is suggested that wards and stakes have one volume of the 1954 Magazincs bound for preservation in ward and stake Relief Society libraries. Announcing the Special April Short Story Jssue HE April 1955 issue of The Relief Society Magazine will be the special short story number, with four outstanding stories being presented. Look for these stories in April: "Reap If You Will," by Elaine J. Wilson "The Wall," by Myrtle M. Dean "Her Own Life," by Ruth Moody Ostegar "Steak for Thursday," by Rosa Lee Lloyd The Legacy Ora Pate Stewart known about the old, roundtopped sea chest in the attic of Grandmother's house, if it hadn't been that a big chain store company needed that particular corner for a supermarket. Grandmother had been gone for many years. She never would have stood for selling it, nor did Aunt Elon want to move. She was living alone in the big house at the time. She was a widow, and all her children were married and gone. "My roots are here," she persisted; and she wouldn't budge until finally a lawyer came out and told her that the property was going to be condemned, and she'd do well to sell and get out while she had a good chance. "Condemned, my foot!" Aunt Elon ejaculated. "They don't build houses like this today. Adobe walls nearly two feet thick! My father made those adobe with his own two hands. Of course, we had it faced over with brick at the turn of the century for the golden wedding; and then two years ago I had it stuccoed. But I was born in this house, and I'd hoped to die in it!" It was a sturdy old house. The four rooms on the ground floor were each exactly sixteen by sixteen feet, and ten feet high. There were no halls or corridors. Each room was communicable with the two that it adjoined by thick oak doors, each eight feet tall. 'The upper rooms were precisely the same. As an afterthought, a veranda had been Page 172 | would probably never have added, running the length of the house on the north side, and wooden steps ascended on the outside to the upper story. About the time of the golden wedding, this stairway had been cased in, and the place under the stairs had been made into a pantry. A _ kitchen lean-to had been added at the back at the time plumbing had come in. It was considered easier to extend the house out to the water pipes, as sort of a half-way compromise, than to bring the pipes all the way in through brick and adobe. No, there wasn't another house just like it. Grandfather had not been a builder of houses; he had been a schoolteacher. When the house was wired for electricity sometime in the twenties, the inspector asked to see the attic. "We never had an attic," Elon told him. And it was true. They had never had access to it. But the regulations said there had to be an attic. So Aunt Elon had an oblong hole cut in the ceiling of the northeast room upstairs. She had it framed, like a little window. And when the inspector came again, she brought in the eight-foot stepladder from the apple orchard, and he went up and poked around in the rafters. It was just as it had been when it was built seventy-five years before, so he was quite surprised when he stumbled onto a bulky, roundtopped sea chest. It was too large to get it through the tiny dormer Aunt THE LEGACY window. And how it got up there on the rafters was a mystery to him. "Who in the world would build a house around an old_ battered relic like this?" he muttered, and turned his flashlight the better to examine it. It was made of wood, covered with leather, and banded heavily with thick iron bands. The leather had been broken in several places. The top was dusted over with sawdust and cobwebs, and the feather-soft residue of seventy-five quiet years. UNT Elon's curiosity was sufficiently aroused so that she climbed up the stepladder to a point where she could put her head and shoulders through the oblong hole. It was her first glimpse of the sea chest. She was then seventy years old, and for sixty years or more the sea chest had never been mentioned; and for forty years it had been forgotten. It took some time for Aunt Elon's thoughts to travel back into the remote corridors of memory. "Oh, that—" she said at last— "that was the legacy." The inspector looked expectant. "No," continued Aunt Elon, "'it's not what you think. It's not important. I remember now, Ma told me about it when I was very small. But she was always sort of ashamed to talk about it. Ma was a proud woman. And whenever she had a hurt she buried it. That's why she had the sea chest built into the attic. It arrived from England just when the rafters were going up. It's all she ever got out of her parents' estate." The inspector looked doleful, and 173 shook his head. "Tt doesn't look like it's locked," he ventured. "Looks like the padlock has been chiseled in two." "As I remember the story, they never even sent the key," Aunt Elon said. "But, like I say, there was never much talk about it. You can open it, if you want to.' It's no skeleton in my closet." Aunt Elon had pulled herself up onto the solid old beams now, and the inspector helped her to pick her way over to the old chest. After a few jostling tugs the hinges creaked and the lid came loose. The inspector bent for long seconds while his flashlight probed over the contents. "Well, [ll be hornswoggled!" he exclaimed at last. Aunt Elon said, "Like I told you —that's all she ever got." T was fifteen years after they'd put in the electricity that Aunt Elon wrote to me and told me about the supermarket people and the lawyer. She put up a lot of bluster, but, as she said in her letter, she was eighty-five now, and she probably had passed her prime, and if I'd come and help her with the dismantling, she guessed she'd give in. They'd promised her a sum that would keep her in comfort for the rest of her life and bury her in Style, she said. And it was time to begin to think about those things. Besides, a nice new supermarket would be a pretty addition to the neighborhood. It was a sign of progress. So I went out to help her with disposing of her things. It was just before I was married. There's a lot of sentiment in an 174 old house. Love and life and death all leave their traces. You find them in the fingerprints between the layers of wallpaper. You find them folded away in yellowed linen in the bottom of deep drawers. You find them in button boxes, and especially in old albums. I never saw my grandmother. She died about the time I was born. Aunt Elon was the oldest and my mother was the youngest of her children. But it gave her a definite texture and substance when J found a braid of her black-brown hair in a remote place in an old trunk. I held it up to my own. It matched exactly. Everyone always said I was the "spittin' image" of Grandmother. "Ma felt disgraced when they cut it off,' Aunt Elon informed me. "She respected the scripture that Says a woman's hair is her glory. But there was an epidemic of scarlet fever, and Ma had to give up her glory along with the others. She said she guessed she would have died, if she could have reconciled herself to being put away without her hair. She simply had to live until it grew out again." THE task of sorting and moving Aunt Elon's possessions took longer than we had thought. I guess we talked too much. She had to tell me the history of each piece in the patchwork quilt. She was so full of history herself. She told me about her old beaux, and the dances at Social Hall, and there was always a glove or a scrap of brocade or a tortoise-shell fan to illustrate the story. "Now that young man of yours," she finally said, pointedly, "what RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1955 about him —his background — his people?" "You mean Cameron Eldridge?" I asked, knowing very well that she meant Cameron Eldridge. Cameron Eldridge was the only young man in my life. He was not exactly what you'd call a native, and this disturbed Aunt Elon a lot. I suspect that the whole reason she had asked me to come was so that she could scold me about it. She thought it a prodigality that one of her nieces would be interested in anyone outside the valley. Cameron Eldridge was practically a foreigner. What folks he had had lived in Johnstown, Pennsylvania. His grandparents and all the rest of his family had been missing since the great Johnstown flood. His father had worked his way out West as a young boy to seek his fortune; and his entire fortune had turned out to be Cameron Eldridge. 'The pretty little wife he chose had died at the child's birth. Cameron's father's name was John, and he thought his grandfather's name was John also; and he'd heard talk of a Lafayette, or Lafalgar—they'd called him Lafe —who might have been his greatgrandfather. But he wasn't sure of anything; and that was all he knew about himself. This was not nearly enough to satisfy Aunt Elon. Being missing in a flood was too easy a way to dispose of one's ancestry. "Tt isn't that there's any shadow on your young man," she admitted sympathetically. "It's just that there's no light on him." "T didn't know you were so interested in genealogy," I said. And then she went and got a big book with long, hand-written pages. THE LEGACY "To tell the truth," she confessed, "I've worked on our genealogy for fifty years. I've written hundreds of letters back to England. I've copied all the answers I ever received right here in this book. And you know, I've run up against a stone wall in every case. Theie's not a single lead in all this. There's not a soul could help me out. Pa and Ma left England in 1853, night after they were married. Pa was a young schoolmaster—and the only thing we know about Ma is that her folks disowned her because she married Pa. All they had against Pa was that he had joined the Church." "Didn't they ever write to each other?" I asked. "Ma and Pa wrote back many times," Aunt Elon said. "But they never got any answers.. Ma quit writing when she found out her mother was dead." "But how did she find out," I asked, "if they never answered?" "Her mother willed her the old sea chest that had belonged to her father's family. Ma's sisters sent the chest after her mother had died. It was her legacy." "How exciting!" I said. And in my eyes flashed the butter-yellow ambers from Oran, the delicate old ivory miniatures from farther east, loose rubies, unset, wrapped in soft linen, and fragile silks spiced away in the days when the Orient was a land of silks and spices. Silver and jade from the Caribbean, and golden sandals from the Andes. Laces from Spain and Italy. And my nostrils drew in the rare essences of Paris and Cologne. 175 66ATO, child, there was nothing exciting," Aunt Elon said. She watched carefully while the ambers and ivories slowly faded from my eyes, and my nose got reaccustomed to the familiar smells of the old house. "As a matter of fact," she said, 'Gf you'll go out in the orchard and get the stepladder while I rig up a long extension cord, we'll go up and examine that sea chest." I brought up a couple of planks to bridge the beams, and a large cushion for Aunt Elon, because we had to sit on the planks. Then I helped her up carefully, and I dangled the light globe while Aunt Elon raised the lid on the chest. The while she was telling me the story. "Ma was never so disappointed and hurt in her life. All the pretty things her grandfather had collected around the world while he was a ship's captain had been stored in that chest when she was a girl. She told me about a Spanish shawl that was embroidered all over in rich, bright colors, and of a carved ivory fan that had come from India. But you see they are not here. Ma had two older sisters. They did not have the blessing of the law to break the will, but they found a chisel to break the lock." At that moment my light globe revealed a yellowed letter, tightly folded, and written in a fine, cramped hand. 'There was no envelope, and the page was written over itself, crosswise. "T never knew there was a letter," Aunt Elon said. "Or if I ever knew, I had forgotten. Read it, child." I wead: 176 To our sister, Emily Preece, who, without blessing of bishop or kindred, deserted the home that nourished her, despised the country that protected her, and spurned the faith that fostered her, to become the consort of the infidel, one Reyburn West, who together with him did go to dwell — in a land of savages and heathens: Emily, you have broken your mother's heart. Ma is dead. She departed this life on the 27th instant. She left a last testament. We, your older sisters, Charlotte and Rhoda, do jointly inherit the house and grounds. To you, Emily, is left the old sea chest. 'The testament reads: ''the old sea chest and contents." The contents, you see, are not itemized. We, Charlotte and Rhoda, knowing full | well that you will never have any need for silks and ivories in a wilderness of buffaloes and Indians, have taken it upon ourselves to supply a suitable contents which will satisfy the demands of the will. Respectfully and oblige, Your sisters, Charlotte and Rhoda Preece. P. S. You asked for news. So we are sending you news. We are sorry that much of it is charred. The firemen were careless when the church burned down, and the printing establishment also caught fire. We were able to rescue this much. Respectfully, C. P. & R. P. HE trunk was full of rubbish— broken plaster, bits of brittle stained glass, charred wood fragments, chips of stone, and old papers, many, many old papers, blackened around the folds where the flames had eaten in, and yellowed and water-stained in the centers where the fire had been arrested—just the sweepings from the street where the rubbish had been strewn. Poor Grandmother Emily! No wonder she had closed the trunk forever. No wonder she had had it placed up on the rafters where RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1955 it would never be seen or mentioned. A legacy of rubbish! Her mother had forgiven her enough to send her the chest and contents. But her sisters had forgiven her only enough to send the chest. I tugged at one of the larger fragments of "news." It was an editorial to justify the Bill of Rights. It was hard to make out, but there was spirit in it. Another scrap eulogized the virtues of Prince Albert. I dug deeper. Here was a court case between one Simon Pender and the Crown. The Crown won, and Pender was sentenced to clean the stables of the royal mounts for a term of two years. Deeper still, my fingers found the edge of a document, notebook-like, hand written, and badly bitten by the fire. Many of the pages were stuck fast together. But many names could be made out. 'They read like vital statistics. 'This, then, had been salvaged from the church. It was a minister's log. 'l"here were marriages, births, christenings, and deaths. And the most interesting names—names like Andrew Preece and Charlotte Pemberton. There was something I couldn't make out, and then, "married in Westertown Chapel on this first day of Marche, in the year of our Lord eighteenhundred and twenty-four." There was another entry: "Reyburn West, infant son of Julian West and Peerless Crosby, was christened this eighteenth day of October, eighteen hundred and twenty-nine." Aunt Elon's eyes grew deep and bright. "Why, that was Pa! Read 2?) more, child! THE LEGACY THE pages were stuck badly. But every once in a while a familiar name recurred—Preece, Pemberton, West, Crosby, Reyburn, and Julian. And enough dates and genealogy to bring great lights into Aunt Elon's face. "Oh, Aunt Elon," I cried, "here's some Eldridges! 'Rupert Eldridge, eldest son of Lafayette Eldridge and Margaret Cameron....' I can't make out what happened to Rupert—but it says Lafayette Eldridge was married to Margaret Cameron! Oh, yes, and here's a John. Oh, Aunt Elon, listen to this—'John Eldridge's wife Rebecca Winslow died and John left for America to forget his grief." It's the same one. It's got to be. It says here that later his parents followed and they settled in Johnstown, Pennsylvania. Here's a little scrap of a letter from Margaret to the minister. It's practically glued to the ledger. And guess what! The minister's name was Eldridge. It says, 'My dear cousin, Reverend Eldridge.' " Aunt Elon wasn't listening at all. "Does that throw any light on my 177 young man?" I nearly shouted. "Now do you believe the flood story? Now do I have your blessing to marry Cameron Eldridge?" Aunt Elon was on her knees, looking into the old chest. But her eyes were not seeing rubbish or rubies. 'There was a kind of heavenly look, and it was my first intimation that Aunt Elon was so nearly through with the things of this world. It wasn't a fevered brightness—it was more of a soft luster, like the first rays of the sun, just before it breaks into its glory. "The legacy!" she exclaimed softly. "Even hidden treasures. Better than rubies. Pearls of greatest price." She gathered the bits we had removed and placed them tenderly back into the chest and closed the lid with great care. "Diamonds in the rough!" 'Then she took up the cushion and picked her way carefully toward the ladder. "First thing tomorrow," she said, "we'll call the wreckers. Tell them to start with the attic. But the old sea chest, that, child, is our legacy!" -<—- Field of Hyacinths Eva Willes Wangsgaard Here lies a field of starry hyacinths As deeply blue as any mountain lake That gathers blueness from its labyrinths To spread before the sun for beauty's sake. Oh, there are mirrored stars where skies have spilled Their uncut gems down midnight's purple way, And stars on water where the sun has filled The lake's blue bowl upon a windless day! But never were they beautiful as these With fragrance added, freed by sun and wind, And never could their thousand galaxies Be gathered in the eager hand and pinned Upon the breast, with petals redolent Of Aprils lost, and all too briefly spent. € e ome Res oes as nee cmecietaeenmennanas. Hal Rumel TABLE ARRANGEMENT BY FLORENCE S. WILLIAMS And Now Fis Spring Again / Helen S. Williams Rfolas are blooming, and spring is in the air. There never could be a lovelier season in which to entertain! Florence Williams looked out of her window and saw violets pushing their way through the dark earth—over in the corner of her garden rested an old rustic log. Yes, it's spring and time for another party, she thought. Um, um, what an unusual centerpiece that log would make. I'll fill it with violets from my garden and these African violet plants from my window sill, and then, for a touch of color, I'll find some deep-red roses. An idea was born on a spring day, and from it a beautiful and different table for a party evolved. The old log was hollowed out and filled with the deep-purple violets and roses. There were small corsages of violets marking the places for the women guests and red boutonnieres for the gentlemen. Page 178 ' AND NOW IT'S SPRING AGAIN! 179 The log, as you see in the picture, curved naturally, and was proportioned perfectly for the table which was laid for twelve guests. The beauty of this unusual centerpiece was that the flower arrangement was low, and guests seated opposite each other had no difficulty in conversing and admiring each other over it. This same rustic log will be used again and again as the different seasons roll around. For early summer, perhaps, it will be filled with buttercups, daisies, and forget-me-nots. These will be arranged in the log. Hot paraffin wax will be needed to secure the containers holding the flowers. Then the flowers will stay as they are arranged without danger of slipping or falling. When summer comes and gardens are a riot of color, Florence may fill this same rustic log with bachelor-buttons, poppies, roses, Shasta daisies, baby's-breath, and _perhaps lovely little figurines, quaint and colorful, will be placed along the sides of the log. After summer, fall days will roll around. Nothing could be more colorful or lovelier than to use this same log with green, red, and purple grapes, rosy apples, yellow pears, and, maybe, ears of corn and green peppers to give evidence of the bounteous harvest days. With each changing season, the cloth used will carry out the color scheme and harmonize with the colors used in the centerpiece. Yes, it's spring now, and violets are blooming, but summer and fall are sure to follow soon. Each season has its own measure of beauty and is resplendent with flowers and foliage, just waiting to be plucked and used by Florence to make tables and parties beautiful and different. 'Let Shere Be Beauty... Maryhale Woolsey They err, who say joy cannot be in "'things'— That paintings, tapestries, a willow plate, Or even priceless books and jeweled rings, Are only dead stuff, quite inanimate. They do not understand what I can see Beyond some fragile object in my hands... What voices, through my treasures, speak to me Of bygone years, from strange and distant lands, For Persia's patient weavers were my kin, And China's old men at their potters' wheels; Smiths, sculptors, poets—all who knew within Their hearts, such love for beauty as mine feels. Across dim centuries we speak the common tongue Creativeness has known since time was young. Home Laundering Rhea H. Gardner Extension Service Home Management and Furnishings Specialist, Utah State Agricultural College HE term "blue Monday" T arose out of the common practice of homemakers doing the family wash on Monday. With the meager and _ inefficient equipment and supplies homemakers had to work with, there is no wonder a state of depression settled over the homemakers of bygone days as they faced their laborious task of doing the family wash. 'Truly it was a full day of hard work for many mothers. While women in general were laboring, often without the help of any mechanical aid, to free clothes of soil, there were men and women working almost as energetically in laboratories to discover easier and more efficient ways of doing the task. As a result of the labors of this group, much of the worry and hard work has been taken out of washday, and the life of laundered items has been greatly extended. Efficient labor-saving equipment and supplies in the stores, however, are just part of the solution leading toward snowy white washes done with a minimum expenditure of time and energy. Equipment must be used efficiently. Good work habits must be practiced by persons doing the home laundering before "blue Mondays" can be entirely forgotten. Kinds and varieties of laundry aids seem to increase almost daily. Shoppers wishing to make the best choice for their particular needs are often bewildered as they view the vast array now available. There is no doubt regarding the great advance Page 180 that has been made in providing more efficient products for the home laundress, but they must be bought with caution and understanding, if progress is to be noted in the final results of their use. Today's home laundress will do well to read labels and follow directions with great care. Measuring devices and temperature indicators are needed just as much today in the laundry room as in the kitchen. Easier washdays and fewer gray washes are easily attainable with correct use of laundry aids now available. By far the most important laundry aid is a good cleanser or detergent. 'Today we have two kinds of detergents, soap and soapless. The latter are commonly referred to as synthetic detergents or syndets. Within each group are mild and all-purpose detergents. The first are intended to remove light soil from delicate fabrics. 'The latter are heavy-duty cleansers intended for the general family wash. Great damage may result from using a cleanser stronger than is necessary. Likewise, washday blues are almost sure to result if mild cleansers are used to remove deep soil from cottons and linens. Just what is the difference between these two kinds of detergents, soap and soapless, and how can they best be used? These are questions many are asking. Soap is an efficient and economical detergent when used in soft or softened water. When it is put into hard water, free minerals in the HOME LAUNDERING water mix with ingredients in the soap to form a scum. By adding more and more soap, the scum is eventually dissolved, but it is expensive to use soap as a water softener. A better practice, if wash water is hard, is first to soften the water, and when the softener is dissolved, add soap. The idea that soaps have a definite advantage over even the best synthetic detergent for washing clothes, provided that the water is soft or softened, is not without support from many who have done extensive research in this field. Soaps seem to have the ability to remove dirt that syndets just won't get out. The effectiveness of soap depends on maintenance of active suds to float the soil, keeping it from settling on the clothes. Broken-down suds permit the soil to collect on fabrics, thus a dingy wash results. Syndets, like soap, are also made from oils, but they are treated in a much different way and are much more complex in their chemistry. In addition to fat, general purpose syndets have other ingredients added, such as water softeners, bleaches, fluorescent dyes, ordinary bluing, and products that will protect metal parts of the washing machine. 'The big advantage in the use of syndets is that they can be used successfully in either hard or soft water. While they will completely dissolve in cold water, they, like soap, clean best in hot water (140° to 160°F), a temperature too hot for your hands. A good two-inch suds is important for good performance. 'Too much or too little will minimize the cleansing power, therefore, it is wise to use the least amount of detergent that will do the work. 181 Don't change from one detergent to another every washday or so, and never mix detergents. Washday blues await if you start a wash with one brand, then add another one to the same wash water. HE removal of soil from clothes is just one part of the laundry process. A thorough rinsing of clothes is likewise important. If wash water is hard, soften the first rinse, at least, for it is in the first rinse that scum causes most trouble. If the conventional washer is used, lift clothes up and down in the rinse water several times before putting them through the wringer. Minimize wrinkles in clothes by putting them through the wringer as smooth as possible. Sheets, towels, and underclothing are almost wrinkle free when dry, if care is taken to eliminate unnecessary wrinkles earlier. The sale of bleaches has greatly increased during the past few years. A bleach is a poor substitute for a good washing, but it is frequently necessary. If a bleach is used in proper amounts and_ thoroughly rinsed out of clothes before they are dried, very little, if any, damage is done. Chlorine bleaches are fast acting and are safe to use on white and colorfast cottons. Sodium perborate bleaches are designed for use on synthetic fabrics. They can safely be used on all fabrics, but, because of their comparative mild, slow action, they are not recommended for cottons. All bleaches increase in efficiency with increase in water temperature up to that recommended for general washing. In every instance instructions that appear on the label should be carefully fol- 182 lowed. Some dry bleaches are so highly concentrated, real damage could result if they were used without being properly diluted. If you are sure bluing is needed, use it with, caution. Some brands may be added to the wash water prior to adding the clothes. Other brands must be used only in the rinse water. If there is iron in the wash water, it reacts with certain kinds of bluing to cause rust spots and finally holes in clothing. When used only in the rinse water this does not happen. Even though fabric manufacturers are making more and more materials with finishes that are not appreciably removed by washing, there is still hardly a fabric that will not stay clean longer, wash easier, and last longer, if it is given a touch of starch when it is laundered. Starch replaces some of the smooth finish which eventually washes out of many washable fabrics. The smooth, slightly crisp surface finish of a starched material sheds dust and dirt much better than the rough surface of unstarched fabrics. As a result, clothing that has been lightly starched may be worn longer than unstarched articles. Soil is also removed more easily. The tendency of nylon tricot slips to stick to the wearer is much less when they are lightly starched. Stains are much easier removed from items 'such as luncheon cloths, if they are lightly starched. Soak or not to soak clothes prior to washing has been a controversial issue for a long time. Now it is quite generally believed that a twenty-minute soak in warm water softens the fabrics, loosening RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1955 the soil. This practice shortens the washing period and is a good practice before plunging them into hot wash water. If the water is very hard, add a little water softener to the soak water. Many of the newer synthetic fibers require special care in laundering. 'The finishes and chemical composition of them cause soil to be attracted to them and released from them in a manner quite different from the natural fibers we have used for so long. Synthetic fibers are generally easily washed, because dirt is not carried into the fibers. Thus the cleansing of these fabrics is more a matter of washing off the dirt, rather than getting it out of the fibers, as is necessary with cottons, woolens, and some rayons. Most synthetic fabrics can stand water just as hot as can any other fibers, but because soil is not imbedded in the fiber, it is seldom necessary. Also, outer garments made of synthetic fibers may be unnecessarily wrinkled if washed in very hot water since the fibers are thermoplastic. That is, they melt when high temperature heat is applied. White nylon, although generally not regarded to be readily dyeable, does have a phenomenal ability to pick up color from other articles washed with it. Such discolorations are often very difficult to remove. White nylon should, therefore, always be washed alone, preferably before anything else has been washed in the suds. Nylon, dacron, and orlon blouses or shirts pick up dirt rather permanently around the neckbands and around the edges of the sleeve cuffs. HOME LAUNDERING This is due to the electrastatic properties and to their absorbency of oily dirt. Before putting these articles in to be washed, rub the deeply soiled areas with a soft brush and a good wetting agent, such as a hair shampoo or mild syndet. Stains of this kind are much more difficult to remove after the article has been washed than before. After washing and rinsing, remove excess moisture by squeezing the fabric through the clenched hand or patting it with a bath towel. When washing a fabric of blends of two or more fibers, treat it as you would the most delicate fiber present. Because little heat can be applied to the newer synthetic fibers to remove wrinkles, it is important to minimize wrinkling, by folding blouses, shirts, and even curtain panels and washing them in that shape. There will be far fewer wrinkles formed than if the article is put into the washing solution in a mussed up condition. If there is 183 an ample amount of sudsy water, so articles can move freely about during the washing process, there will be less chance that the fabrics will be damaged, wrinkles formed, and seams damaged. The advent of automatic appliances and rapid development of new detergents, bleaches, and other washing aids, new synthetic fabrics, and finishes and treatments of all kinds of fabrics, have made laundering practices and techniques of past generations obsolete. Today it is more important than ever before that we buy carefully, keeping in mind such all-important factors as colorfastness, shrinkage control, and fabric and garment construction. Buying with complete washability in mind, followed by careful observance of proper laundering methods, will reap rewards in money, appearance, time, and effort for today's homemaker, and "blue Monday" will be a thing of the past. Grandfather s Peppermints Elsie McKinnon Strachan Grandfather's pocket always held a store Of peppermints—not to be eaten fast But agate-hard, which a small tongue might explore And savor slowly, a sweetness coined to last. Inseparable from him as were his cane And pocket watch; aroma of the mints Accompanied his voice and sage advice; Till "talks" with Grandfather left their mezzotints Upon my growing mind as flavorsome and nice, This later day, nostalgia-dipped, mint scent Brings back those flavored hours to be re-spent. Why Not Be Happy? Celia Luce HE search for happiness is the T greatest search of the ages. All men are constantly searching, yet the way is there and clear for those who really take the trouble to look. Fundamentally, happiness is a habit and a way of life. You can form the habit, if you will. First, act happy. When things seem worst, just put on a smile and start to sing. It may not work the first time, nor the second, but if you keep trying, it will. Psychologists tell us that we tend to feel the emotions we act out. Act out happiness and you will begin to feel hapBut there is more to happiness than just a smile and a song put on for the moment. Real happiness is a deep glow from inside that a smile and a song help create. The selfish person cannot attain real happiness. Look around you. Do what you can to make your neighbors happy. If someone is ill or in trouble, try to help him and your own worries will seem less. A surprise for the children brings a glow of happiness to their faces that will rub off on you. A smile of encouragement and love for your husband brings smiles and love back to you. How can you make life more interesting for your family and those around you? Each way you find is reflected back in happiness for you. Give all the service you can to others. But give it with a smile and a song in your heart. Duty done merely because it is duty will bring a sense of satisfaction, but not Page 184 real happiness. Add love to duty and happiness will glow around you. If you have to do a certain job and can find no satisfaction in it, be sure you have interesting things to do in your leisure time. Hobbies and a variety of interests can keep you so busy that you will have no time for boredom and worry. And your interest in hobbies will spread through the family, helping everyone to be happier. Do you use your eyes to add interest to life, really use them I mean? An artist and his family moved into a neighborhood. 'They employed a neighbor girl to help with the housework. One evening they sat on the porch watching the glorious sunset. The girl asked permission to return home for a few minutes to show her family the sunset. "There is no need to go," smiled the artist. "They can see it from your home." "No, they can't," insisted the girl. ""T never saw sunsets until you came, and they won't see it unless I go and show it to them." A whole world of beauty is just waiting for you to look at it. Even the ugliest neighborhood has a sky. And there is the beauty of each plant as it grows—even a weed has symmetry and grace. Artists like to paint old boards because of the rich play of colors over their surfaces. Snow turns blue at dusk with the lighted windows shining a contrasting orange and changing the drabest spot to a fairyland. Use your ears, too. Some sounds are full of beauty. WHY NOT BE HAPPY? Look for the beauty in people. Every person on earth has much of beauty in him. But to find real happiness you must face life for what it is. You cannot expect to have a life free from trouble. 'Trouble is part of life, and it has its uses. Each person who goes through great trouble and faces it comes out with a greater appreciation of life, and of the singing happiness in just an ordinary, trouble-free day. Little annoyances fade, and the way is cleared for great happiness. Thank God for your great blessings, and let the minor annoyances take their proper place in the background. 'The great singing happiness of an ordinary day is too wonderful to be missed. Facing life for what it is means facing death, too, realizing it means 185 a continuance of our life which opens up wonderful new worlds of happiness for each one who has lived righteously. Accept the fact that no man knows when his last day on earth may be. This may be it. Look death full in the face, then live each day as full of happiness and goodness as though it were the last you had to spend. Savor the happiness of each moment with your husband and children and friends. A calm acceptance will surround each day with its due glory. Take each worry and annoyance out and look it full in the face. Is it important enough to take up your time? If, like most troubles, it is a little one, discard it. If it is a big one, fill your life as full as possible with service which will bring happiness and smother it out. Winters Last Sling Bernice T. Clayton Late winter smiled and promised spring And then swirled snow on everything. Down from the north an icy blast Gave proof that winter had not passed; An outraged nature, near to leaf, Rebelled at promises so brief. Great branches cracked as trees bent low And snapped beneath their weight of snow. Our cat, perched on a snow-piled rail, Switched disapproval with her tail, And shook wet paws as if to state Her great disgust with snow so late. llatare $ Bouquet Cecil G. Pugmire pReiur country lane! I have walked your path so many times! Would that I could share your soothing balm with all this tired, harassed and busy world. I drop the limp wire gate and drag it back against the foaming, spraying headgate, guarded over by gnarled poplars —— grandfathers in their half-bald, half-bewhiskered attire, but still standing in erect defiance of time, wind, and sleet. Whiffs of the pungent bitterness of the closely knit willow trees on either side strike and sharpen my nostrils as I plod my way through the deep wagon-rutted channels of the dampened, weaving lane. Fresh spears of timothy, like pastel paint splashed against deeper greens, cling to the enfolding willow branches, telling me that a load of hay has but recently pushed its way down the narrow lane. A scarlet-breasted robin flutters low from the worm-laden, spongy ditch where last night's irrigation stream ran rampant to the meadows below. Interspersed, here and there, between the graceful willows, the full-blown wild rose flaunts her delicate pink blossoms and sends dainty perfume to mingle with the crisp bitterness of the willow. I love the hollow sound of the rattling planks as my footsteps reverberate above the brimming ditch beneath the bridge. Here, time is no element—the world stands still just for me—all time waits just for me. I linger to watch the swirling waters carrying bits of flotsam and jetsam from unknown regions above and beyond—dried, broken twigs, loosened moss, a farmer's old glove, porcupine quills. A speckled trout flashes her brilliant colors. My mesmeric fascination is broken as a baby water snake slithers from the sodden bank and plunges into the pressing stream and is quickly lost to sight. The willows drop behind, as I start up the hill, and are replaced by the lopsided log fence, toppling in aged abandon as if leaning for support one log against the other. The onc rich, sappy brownness of the logs has turned to brittle silver. 'The lane meanders through the green alfalfa, where bounties of butterflies flit from blossom to blossom, playing hide-and-seek with the honeybees as they seek golden nectar from the blossom cups. 'The coolness and the greenness slip away as golden sunflowers rear their beacon faces above the blue sage brush. Bluebells, with their stepsisters, the sticky aromatic arnica, hug the earth, seeking coolness in its depths. Up, up, I climb, around the brow of the hill, where small, freshly pawed mounds rise like tiny pyramids where the squirrel and the gopher have tunneled their underground villages. A small, beadyeyed squirrel slyly pokes his head above his mounded home and watches me as intently as I watch him. I wink an eyelid! He is gone. The nearness of the winding lane slowly broadens into an expanse of golden yellows. Broad fields of waving dry-farm wheat crown the sloping hills. Soft breezes send the grain bowing and curtsying in ripples of amber waves. I look down—down from whence I wandered. In the valley below the farm houses are tiny homesteads sketched on a pastoral painting—a church, a schoolhouse, and then I see—like a blue satin ribbon spread the length of the valley, the lake—Bear Lake. Blue, like the azure sky so near me, then clear as an aquamarine changing next to the greenest of emeralds, she flaunts her fairy beauty as if constantly touched by a magic wand. All of nature's beauty God has gathered together into a beautiful bouquet and bound with the streamers of the blue satin bow of the lake below. Page 186 } Don Knight MOUNT TALAC, CALIFORNIA Viewed From Lake Tahoe Ma rch & n terlude Pansye H. Powell This is the quiet time before earth wakes— The silent hour before the robin sings. Now overhead the beat of eager wings Covers the stealthy step the jonquil takes Out of her winter dungeon as she breaks The crusty earth. Each dewy morning brings A greater warmth, recalling other things When sun jewels crescented on frosty lakes. Though every movement nature makes is slow, When skies are clear like these and lupine-blue, No one can question what the end will be; For underneath the calmness, firm and low, There beats the surge of life arising new, Strong as the sun and constant as the sea. Page 187 Mother's Baked Apple Estelle Webb Thomas HERE was a loud clatter and T a muttered exclamation from the kitchen. I shuddered and braced myself, knowing the hard work Tom made of cooking. I'd said I could eat only a piece of toast and a cup of cocoa for supper, and he seemed to be tearing the house down preparing even that. Presently, he shoved the bedroom door open and came in with a tray. He looked so funny, so tall he barely made the bedroom door, and with his face so flushed, his black hair hanging over his forehead, one of my aprons across his stomach with the strings twisted in his belt, and the little tray in his big hands, the cup swaying perilously and the toast already thoroughly dunked, that I laughed. "What's so funny?" Tom planked himself down on the foot of the bed and a wash of cocoa stained my nailhead spread. "You made such heavy going of acup....' I peered into the bit of muddy fluid that was left, and amended, "'a half cup of cocoa and a piece of toast!" Tom and I had always kidded hard and boasted we could take it, but now he glared. "And just why wouldn't it be heavy going, when you have to crawl over two chairs and under a table to make a piece of toast around here? Can't you arrange the kitchen any better than that?" "And is such a piece of toast worth all that effort?" I drawled, glancing at the poor little burnt offering, sodden with cocoa. "'And Page 188 whose fault is it, Tom Thorne, that we live in a pint-sized house and have to be contortionists to make a piece of toast. Is it my fault I'm lying here helpless for you to wait on? If 'Tommy had anywhere else to play, I'd never have stepped on that marble...." But Tom grabbed up the tray and stalked out, without another word, banging the door behind him. Someway, that bang reverberated clear down to my toes. I had started to cry with self-pity, but T'om's set, white face and hurt eyes kept getting in front of the pathetic picture of myself as a poverty-stricken, overworked wife, and I had a sinking feeling that maybe I'd said too much. I knew I had when Tom didn't come in to kiss and make up, as he always had done before. I lay there tensely, waiting for his step, mentally preparing my defense; but as the bedside clock ticked off a half hour, I decided to be sweet and forgiving when Tom returned. I could hear Tommy's prattle as Tom gave him his supper, and Tom's low, brief replies. No laughter, no shouts of glee from Tommy, just the clatter of dishes and an occasional exchange of words. I began to feel terribly hollow inside, and not alone from lack of food. Presently I heard them go into the bathroom and the sound of running water. Later the door opened and Tommy shouted, "Now carry me in to kiss Mommy, Daddy!" "Run in by yourself," Tom answered, and 'Tommy dashed in and MOTHER'S BAKED APPLE clambered up to kiss me. I whispered, "Now, run, honey, before you catch cold." In an incredibly short time, considering 'Tommy's usual bedtime ritual, his door closed and Tom clomped into the kitchen. 'There was silence for a minute and then Tommy's tearful voice raised, accusingly, "Daddy, I'm ready to say my prayers!" "Go ahead!" Tom shouted, above the clatter of dishes. "But, Daddy, I want to say them to you!" There was a moment's pause and then Tom said, gruffly, "You don't Say your prayers to me. I'm not...." He checked himself, "Not anybody," he muttered, and the bitterness in his voice stopped my heart for a moment, "not even man enough, it seems, to support my family." Then he raised his voice, "Go ahead, 'Tommy. You know how to say your prayers, you're a big boy, now!" THERE was a startled silence, and then Tommy's little voice, hesitatingly fumbling at his prayers for the first time alone. Warm tears ran down my face, but I knew this was no time to override Tom's authority, and I checked my impulse to call Tommy to me. Proud of my restraint, I went even further, I decided that when Tom came to bed, I'd admit frankly the quarrel was practically all my fault. I began trying, mentally, to word my apology, because [ really had not had much practice, since usually it was Tom who asked my forgiveness. I could imagine his laughing, "Forget it, kid!" his warm, vital kiss, and the big bowl of soup he'd 189 insist on bringing me as a token that all was well. But he didn't come! And presently, a loud burst of music from the radio, told me he had settled down in the living room for the evening. Last night he had sat on the side of the bed and told jokes and made love to help me forget the pain in my fractured ankle. I shed a few more tears and tried to be patient. He'd have to go to bed sometime. When he snapped the radio off, hours later, I started to wipe my eyes, and then decided I'd be more appealing with tear-drenched lashes. I forgot it when the unmistakable squeak of the hall closet door and his footsteps going back into the living room, announced as plainly as words that he was making up a bed on the davenport. Well, I had a long night before me for thinking. I had evidently hurt 'Tom desperately. Men were so touchy! I began wondering how Mother and Dad had always sailed along so smoothly and wished Mother had given me her secret. But Mother never preached. She had her faults, just like the rest of us, and yet Dad almost worshipped her. 'They never quarreled, although Mother had a gay disregard for order and system, and Dad was a perfect old maid about such things! I remember him saying patiently, "If you only had a place for everything, Lucy, and everything in its place, you'd save yourself a lot of time and trouble," and Mother's flip answer, "I do, dear. It's the library table!" But in spite of their differences, they were the most devoted couple I'd ever seen and the happiest. After Dad's sudden death, Mother had 190 just seemed to fade away, although she had always seemed as sound as a winter apple. * OK PPLE. 'The word suggested something — then it popped into my mind. Of course, the baked apple! It had been during Mother's illness. We had been terribly worried because she couldn't seem to eat. 'Then I had remembered Daddy always said, "I'll just fix your mother up a nice baked apple, girls. If there's anything she relishes when she's sick, it's a baked apple, and she thinks nobody can bake it like me!" So I had baked an apple beautifully, and Mother hadn't touched it. "Oh, Mother," I had cried, and I couldn't keep the tears out of my eyes, "you must be awfully sick, or you'd eat a baked apple! Or is it because Daddy...?" "Listen, dear." Mother had taken my hand and pulled me down onto the side of her bed. "Don't be hurt, but I can't stand baked apples!" Then I had begun to cry in earnest. "Oh, Mother," I had sobbed, "you're delirious, you don't know what you're saying. You love baked apples!" "Honey," Mother had said, with the twinkle again in her eyes that had been gone ever since Dad had, "I'm going to tell you a secret. Your daddy was a darling, but he never could cook. Not up to — not ever. But he never knew it, bless his heart. I remember the first meal he ever made for me—some trifling illness soon after we were married." She smiled her old, mischievous smile. "It was simply impossible. 'That is, all but the baked apple. 'There isn't RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1955 much you can do to spoil one of those, provided it's a good baking apple. Well, I detested baked apples, but I ate every bite of it and pretended it was so good I didn't have room for the rest of the meal." "But, Mother...." "Your father was so pleased and proud, he never forgot." "You mean...?" Mother nodded, solemnly. "I had you six children and a broken leg, besides all the small illnesses flesh is heir to, and I ate baked apples through it all." "But why didn't you tell Daddy? Teneanelater wf"), Mother looked horrified. "And hurt his pride and spoil all the pleasure he'd had baking apples for me through the years? I'd have choked on them first! I never told a soul before, and don't you tell him, either!" I knew now Mother was not delirious, for the hereafter was as real and close as the here, since Daddy was there. She was silent for a few minutes and then said, with an apologetic smile, "I promised never to preach, dear, but always remember this one thing: a man's pride is a vital part of him. He can't live and be himself if you take away his pride and self-respect. A woman can recover from shattered pride, but not a man. That's the one thing he must never lose!" After a moment, she had added, "I'll be seeing Daddy again soon, I hope." Her radiant smile robbed the words of all hurt, "And when I do, he'll undoubtedly meet me with a heavenly baked apple. But until then, dear, just let me rept." (Continued on page 205) Martha _ Barrett Jolman Finds a New Hobby sil O years ago, when she was eighty-eight years old, Mrs. Martha Mary Barrett Tolman found herself a new hobby. At that time her eyesight became so impaired that she was not able to do the fine fancywork which had been her hobby for many years, so she decided to try her hand at making crocheted rag rugs. In this project she has found success and happiness. She makes her own design, chooses her own colors, and has completed twenty-five rugs in the past year. She cuts the strips of material on the straight of the goods, and she uses both cotton and wool material, but she does not mix the two types in the same rug. Using old materials, almost exclusively, she tries to find pieces that are colorfast, so that her rugs will be "bright and cheerful looking." Working with a steel rug hook, she uses the double crochet stitch, which gives the rugs a firm texture so that they will not pull to pieces when laundered. Many of Mrs. Tolman's beautiful rugs find their way into the homes of her relatives and friends, and in this way she spreads happiness. In her girlhood Mrs. Tolman lived in Farmington, Utah. There she married Alexander Tolman and moved to Marion, Idaho. She attended the first Primary which was organized by Aurelia Spencer Rogers in Farmington, Utah, in 1878. Later, she was a teacher in Primary. She also served many years in the M. I. A., and was a Relief Society visiting teacher from her early womanhood until she was eighty-three years old. She now lives with her daughters, Mrs. Elva Lunt of Los Angeles, California, and Mrs. Alice Earl of Ogden, Utah. Day Js Done Mabel Law Atkinson When the flames of life are embered Slowly, one by one, Let me hear a robin-bugle Calling, "Day is done." Page 191 Green Willows CHAPTER 2 Deone R. Sutherland Synopsis: Lillian and her friend Pat make pocket money by bicycling around Green Willows selling Kold-ayde. 'They visit the old-fashioned Diffendorf home where Pat's three unmarried aunts live. Agnes and Margaret are schoolteachers. Karen, the youngest, is preparing to follow the same profession. Margaret had once been in love with Dr. Turner who lives across the street, and Lillian and Pat cannot understand why Margaret doesn't marry the doctor, now that he is a widower. VERYTHING wasn't all right EK; when I woke Sunday morning. My jaws were very painful. "Mumps," said my father. I could hardly believe it. There were only two more weeks before school let out. 'This was the best time of the whole year, and I had to come down with the mumps! "Oh, dear," said Mother. "Just think of all the people she's exposed. I suppose she's exposed everyone who bought drink mix powder from them yesterday." "Pat!" I said. "I've got to call Pat." "You lie in bed,' Mother said. "Tll do all the phoning necessary. We'll have the doctor in to look at you, and then I'll call Pat's mother. We'll get a list of everyone else I should call." Father held my hand while Mother called Dr. Turner. "Don't worry, kitten, I'm sure most of the people you've exposed have already had the mumps. Of course, I don't know about Pat." Page 192 "T don't think she's had them," I said. It was beginning to hurt to talk. I couldn't tell where the hurt began and the lump in my throat left off. Dr. Turner didn't laugh or try to console me, which made me feel better. I liked it better when people treated me as if I had some sense. After all, I was no slouch upstairs. "Since both sides have come out at the same time, you'll probably be out within a week. This is a fairly light disease. Now, what about the people you directly exposed? Did you go inside anyone's house yesterday?" He snapped his bag shut and stood up. He was really tall, as tall as Daddy. He wasn't too old looking either. On consideration, I could see why Myra Johnson might be chasing him like everything. He was smoothing his sandy hair back, waiting patiently for my answer. "Well, yes, I did directly expose Pat's Aunt Agnes and _ het sister Margaret Diffendorf. We were right next to Margaret for a long time," I added. "If Pat hasn't had them, she probably will now." Dr. Turner looked out into the sunshine through my window. "T'll call Agnes and—Margaret. I can give them a test to see if they're immune or not to mumps if they haven't had them. If they're already immune to mumps, they won't need the ' GREEN WILLOWS shots." He smiled at me. "Of course I may not be able to get either one to come to my office. I suspect Margaret's immune because when I was a little boy, I exposed her once myself." "But she should come in for the test," I reminded him when he didn't say anything for a moment. "Oh, definitely," he said, "but I rather doubt that she will." He stood up to go. "Why?" I asked. "ec ¥ You ask far too many questions, Lillian," Mother said, coming into the room. "Oh, that's all right," said Dr. Turner, "I always asked a lot myself. It's not getting the nght answers you have to worry about, Lillian." Mother and Father followed him out, getting all the last-minute instructions and directions about me. Well, I'd probably be back for the last two or three days of school, anyway. I wished I could use the telephone, but that was absolutely forbidden. One thing, Beany wouldn't have me to pester. I thought a moment. I was going to miss seeing Beany as much as Pat. I turned over and went to sleep. HAT week I read through several of the Louisa May Alcott books I had and started on Robert Louis Stevenson. Mother said I read too much, but it helped the time pass more quickly. Pat wrote me a letter every day, and Beany wrote me twice. Beany began with "Hi, Jerk!!!" I liked Pat's letter better. She wrote: Dearest Friend, I guess we won't sell Saturday because you'll still be too swol- 193 en??? Ant Agnes is sure she's immune to mumps, because she had both sides a long time ago. Ant Margaret doesn't think she is immune, but she hasn't gone for her test yet. She is too busy, she says. Maybe the first part of next week, though that may be too late for the shots if she isn't imune. Ant Margaret isn't going to Europe. She's going to help with the straw hat theater here for the summer. We could help, but we're too young, as usual. An instructor from the University up in Orchard City is going to be the director. Ant Margaret's going to help him. I guess they hope everybody from all around will drive out here to see the plays. We can go if we ern enough money for tikets. I bet we can anyway, because I'll just ask Ant Margaret for tikets if we don't ern enough. I am dying to see you. Dr. 'Turner's boy Philip is coming and boy are the girls getting excited. I hope you get well soon so we can be ready for all the things that are happening. Miss Fitch says you don't have to worry about making anything up. I wish I had your brane. Love and kisses, Pat. On Wednesday of the next week Mother dropped into Dr. Turner's office with me for my slip to go back to school. We sat in the outer office and waited. The nurse said it wouldn't be very long, because there were only about three people before us. Mother and I went over and sat by Pat's Aunt Margaret. "Oh, Margaret," Mother said, "I'm so sorry about Lillian exposing you. Are you having to get the shots?" Margaret Diffendorf looked up from the magazine she was holding. She wore a brown tweed skirt with a beige sweater across her shoulders buttoned at her throat over a creamcolored blouse. She was really pretty, I thought, but. She seemed so nervous. She put the magazine back on the table. 194 "Well, not really," she said. "You see, I'm just coming in for the test. In fact, ''m not even sure I'll wait. Agnes was so sure I'd be immune, but I thought perhaps I should stop by for the test." She fumbled with a button on her sweater. "T thought you were supposed to come in within three days after exposure," I said, and then I could have bitten my tongue. I never was careful enough of what I said. Suppose I'd spoiled it. "Yes, well, you see, I'm afraid | just never did get around to it. I guess this is all useless.... I really shouldn't wait. Been so busy with school on, you know." She turned to go, but Dr. 'Turner came out just then. "Margaret!" he said with real warmth. "Did you come at last? Oh, yes, about the mumps. Well, Lillian, be with you in a moment. You should have come sooner, Margaret. Oh, no, don't go. Come in, and we'll try the test anyway...." Margaret hesitated again. "I guess it's really too late...." "No, it's not too late," the doctor said urgently. "You can come in this room," the nurse said to Mother and me, and we followed her in. The doctor stopped in with us a moment, felt both sides of my neck and wrote out a slip. "You never looked better, Lillian,' he said. He seemed very happy, and his blue eyes sparkled. "He's certainly happy today," Mother said when he slipped out again. Mother picked up her purse to go. We could hear him talking to Margaret. "Just slip back the sleeve of your sweater, Margaret. We inject the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1955 fluid just under the skin in your arm. How have you been? Remember when I exposed you to the mumps? I never did return your Robinson Crusoe book." "Agnes wouldn't let me take it back. She said it was contaminated." Margaret laughed. "T really must be immune. I would have caught them from you, if I hadn't been." "Tm sure you must be, too," said Dr. 'Turner. "Well," said Mother dryly, "I suppose we can settle our bill with Miss Kennicott?" "Oh, surely," said Dr. Turner's nurse. "I can take care of your bill." Mother hustled me along, but I could hear Margaret's laugh coming clear and sure through the door and the warm, rich voice of Dr. 'Turner. The day seemed wonderful. 'Tomorrow I was going back to school. And as soon as I got home I was going to call Pat. "We'll have to hurry or your brother's going to get home before we do and spoil his dinner by sampling everything he can find." Mother started the car, and I slid in beside her. I thought of asking if I couldn't walk over to Pat's, but I decided it was too close to dinnertime. It was a beautiful spring afternoon. 'Tulips in all the front yards sparkled in all their color against the background of green grass and blue sky and golden sun. I got on the phone as soon as we got home. "Pat? Pat, this is Lillian." I held the phone away from my ear while she squealed. "I'm coming back to school tomorrow." I held it away again while she squealed. Then GREEN WILLOWS we got down to business. There was everything that had been happening at school for us to discuss. I'd missed Church last Sunday. "Lillian, you have to come to dinner next Sunday," Pat said. "Ask your mother tonight. Yes, it's still your turn. You couldn't come last Sunday, so we just postponed your Sunday. I'll hold the line while you ask her." I asked Mother. She was busy with the dinner in the kitchen. "Ts it your turn, Lillian? Yes, I guess it's your turn to go there. All right, dear. Now hurry up and get off the phone. Daddy will be coming in any minute, and he doesn't want you to use that phone too long at one time." "Yies," I told Pat, "I can come next Sunday. I'll stop by for you in the morning. If Mother insists on driving me, we'll pick you up just the same on the way to school. Oh, just because of the mumps, she's making me be careful for a little while." "T'm glad I didn't get them," Pat said. "Don't be so dumb, Pat. You may come down with them any time for the next few weeks." "Oh, no!' Pat screamed. Just then Daddy came in the front door so I hung up. It seemed strange to go back to school for just the last three days of the year. We really felt bad school was letting out. Vacation was wonderful, but it was sad just the same to say goodbye to the teachers and school. Saturday we didn't go selling because Mother wasn't sure my strength was back. It was back, but Mother thought I'd better not, so I really looked forward to Sunday. 195 Sunday in Green Willows was wonderful. I couldn't remember a day more sunny or warm or nice. Almost everybody in Green Willows went to Sunday School. Pat was already there, and we shared a book for the singing. I could hardly wait to get to my class. "Dr. Turner's here with his mother and Philip, his son," Pat whispered. "Phillip's dreamy. He's grown during the winter so he's almost as tall as we are!" F'TER Sunday School we waited on the steps so I could get a good look at Philip, who had been going to school in his other grandmother's town. I'd seen him many summers before, and, of course, when he was younger, he'd lived here all the time. But since his mother's death, he had stayed mostly out of town with his maternal grandmother, who grieved so over her only daughter's death. Dr. Turner's mother was in a wheelchair most of the time. "Hi, Phil," Pat and I said almost in unison. "Hi," Philip said, and he hurried on to catch up with his father who was settling his mother in the car. Phil had nice, blonde curly hair, but he didn't seem very enthusiastic about Pat or me, I thought. "It's just because he doesn't know us yet," Pat said. "You wait, we'll have him eating out of our hands. Come on, Daddy's waiting." "Oh," said Pat's mother when we were halfway home, "are you coming to dinner today, Lillian?" "Mother!" Pat said leaning forward on the car seat, "I asked you!" "That's right," said Pat's mother. "Well, we're eating dinner up at 196 Aunt Agnes' today, if you girl's don't mind. I forgot all about your coming, Lillian, and promised her at Church." "Well," I said, "do you think she'll mind my coming up there?" "Oh, no, no, no! They always have more than enough to eat. I'm sure they'll love having you. Call as soon as we get home to make sure. We're not going to eat until two." Pat groaned. As usual we were starved, but I thought it would be fun to visit up there. We thumbed through Grimm's Fairy Tales while we waited for Pat's mother and father. "Well, I think we can go now," said Pat's mother. "Aunt Agnes says to tell you you're more than welcome, Lillian. 'They expecting the director of the summer theater for dinner, also. Agnes said Margaret said he literally invited himself. I guess it's lonely way out here for him." "There's only the cast, the crew, and half the local people to keep him company out there every day," Pat's father said dryly. "He probably wanted a home-cooked meal." "Yes, that must be it," said Pat's mother. We drove up the long driveway that circled around in back of the old Diffendorf house. 'There was an old carriage house in back that we loved to play in. Pat's father parked the car in front of it. Karen stood on the back steps smiling at us. "Dinner ready?" Pat's father wanted to know. | Karen laughed. "It is. Agnes is delivering the final blows. She won't let us fuss much on Sunday, you know." Pil RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1955 "That's the way it should be." Pat's father kissed her on the forehead, and Pat's mother kissed her on the cheek. Margaret opened the back screen door. "Come in this way. You don't need to walk all the way around to the front." We entered the tall, cool back hall. Pat's father called hello at the kitchen door. - "Go in the front room; take care of them, Margaret. Our dinner's been cooking while we were at Sunday School, so we're almost ready to eat," Aunt Agnes called from the kitchen. FE, went up the hall toward the front of the house. "Would you like to come upstairs and freshen up a_ bit?" Margaret stopped at the bottom of the stairs. "I would," I said. Everybody laughed, but I loved to see the high old-fashioned beds with their huge feather mattresses. Looking out of the high windows reminded me of princesses in castles. We walked upstairs, and Pat's mother left her purse on the bed. I put my sweater beside it. "Say," Pat's father called, "I hear we're not the only ones coming to dinner. What's the director of those plays called?" We went back down the stairs. "Tt's Alder," Margaret said. "John Alder. He's very good, I understand. I've only met him once." Karen stood in front of the small fire they had built to take the chill off the room. "I think there's someone at the front door now," she said. "Oh, yes," said Margaret. She went into the front hall. "Just a small family dinner," she was saying as she came into the room. GREEN WILLOWS Pat and I stared at John Alden, fascinated. He was tall and dark and very nice looking, but he looked almost too normal to be a director. We had hoped he'd be wearing a beret and a monocle or something. Margaret made the introductions. "T've already met Karen," John said, looking at her gravely. Karen was fumbling with the poker at the fireplace again. Her cheeks really looked warm from the heat, I thought. "Oh, have you?" Margaret asked in surprise. "You didn't mention that, did you, Karen?" "Well," said Karen, putting the poker down carefully, though it still 197 clattered against the coal scuttle. "It was quite a while ago, really. I liad a class from Dr. Alder in drama at college." "And then she promptly forgot me, I guess," said John Alder, coming over by Karen to help settle the irons that were now rocking precariously. Just then Agnes came to the door and, after she was introduced to the new director, we all went in to dinner. Roast duck my very favorite! I unfolded my _ napkin _ blissfully. There were definite advantages in having Pat as a best friend. (To be continued) >>> she Seaso ns Linger Iris W. Schow Let some snow fall in what we know as spring; In summer have a few last leaves unfold; When autumn comes and plants are tarnishing Let late chrysanthemums mint burnished gold. Send some belated dry leaves floating down Where winter's dunes of snow lie gently piled; And grant old age that life-prolonging crown— To be companioned by a little child. +13 Monday Dorothy ]. Roberts Today I have no secrets; I walk upon the land Open as a flower Summered on the sand. Today I have no darkness In the world of me; Faith is on its landscape Healing mightily. Fulfillment Margaret Evelyn Singleton Into days of sowing Whispers rain Reminders of growing For plot and lane. Hard buds swell As blossoms rise In the promise kept well By springtime skies. From The Field 2 Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1950, page 278, and the Handbook of Instructions, page 123. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Elaine B. Curtis COTTONWOOD STAKE (UTAH), SOUTH COTTONWOOD SECOND WARD VISITING TEACHERS WHO HAVE ACHIEVED A ONE HUNDRED PER CENT VISITING TEACHING RECORD FOR SIX YEARS Front row, seated, left to right: Marian M. Hanson; Maggie W. Smith; First Counselor Merle R. Mackay; President Frances L. Hull; Second Counselor Fern S. Rice; Secretary Hazel J. Janke; Edith T. Ferguson, visiting teacher message leader. Second row, standing, left to right: Claudette R. Nielson; Donna R. Marsden; Ruth K. Reynolds; Gertrude H. Suess; Vivian R. Tuft; Elsa O. Fors; Helen K. Schulz; Minnie S. Fors; Ella J. Reynolds. Back row, standing, left to right: Vir Jean H. Reynolds; Helen C. Naubaum; Gloria R. Reynolds; Minnie A. Barrett; Alice M. Dunster; Irene R. Reynolds; Flora B. Reynolds; Mildred M. Wilkins; Emma S. Holt; Berniece M. Madsen; Anita M. Maynes. A number of the visiting teachers who helped to achieve this record were not present when the picture was taken. Elaine B. Curtis is president of Cottonwood Stake Relief Society. 198 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 199 Photograph submitted by Elizabeth B. Reiser BRITISH MISSION, SCOTTISH DISTRICT, GLASGOW BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY BAZAAR Left to nght: Anna Harvey; Isabella Kelly; Katherine McQueen; Mary Porch, Second Counselor; Fllen Martin; Margaret Hamilton; LuBeth Thomas, missionary; Vivian Brooks, missionary; Elizabeth Wilson; Grace Herbertson; Catherine Richardson, President; Mary Wishart, First Counselor; Mary 'Toughill. Elizabeth B. Reiser, President, British Mission Relief Society, reports: "This picture is representative of the annual bazaars which are usually held in each branch. The Relief Society members enjoy planning and preparing for these bazaars during the year." _ Ua BeatigeE Photograph submitted by Rhoda Thorpe HYRUM STAKE (UTAH), PARADISE WARD VISITING TEACHERS WHO HAVE ACHIEVED A ONE HUNDRED PER CENT RECORD FOR SIX YEARS Front row, left to right: June Nielsen; Otella Atkinson; Julia Goldsberry; Amelia Fredrickson; Ida Newbrand; Zelda J. Howells; Bessie Nielsen, Secretary; Jennie Danielson, First Counselor; Esther B. Shaw, President; Maud Obray, Second Counselor; Zoe 'Tams; Josephine Bishop; Shirley Gibbs; Kate Obray. Back row, left to nght: Beth Rawlins; Clara Pearce; Illa Rae Richman; Winona Law; Veda Curtis; Bertha Johnson; Illa Pulsipher; Annie Obray; Dora Burrell; Sylvia Obray; Ada Nuhn; Edna Smith; Ferris Goldsberry; Veda Berry; Maxine Pearce. Rhoda Thorpe is prsident of Hyrum Stake Relief Society. 200 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1955 Photograph submitted by Lola D. Bryner MOAPA STAKE (NEVADA), OVERTON WARD BAZAAR AND LUNCHEON October 12, 1954 Left to right: Zelma Leavitt; Effie Perkins; Lola D. Bryner, President Moapa Stake Relief Society; Rosetta Bagshaw; Clara Logan, Second Counselor; Maudie Whitmore; Roma R. Anderson, President, Overton Ward Relief Society; Arabell Hafner; Dora Perkins; work director Dorothy Langford. Many beautifully sewed dresses and aprons, as well as children's clothing, were displayed at this bazaar. An outstanding exhibit of house plants was one of the most unusual and popular features. Many items of exquisite handwork, including crochet and embroidery work, added to the beauty and interest of the occasion. Autumn flowers were used to decorate the luncheon tables. Lola D. Bryner is president of Moapa Stake Relief Society. 3 z 3 af Photograph submitted by Nida G. Jorgensen RIGBY AND EAST RIGBY STAKES (IDAHO) RELIEF SOCIETIES PRESENT "THE VOICE OF THE PEOPLE," July 4, 1954 Front row, seated, left to right: readers from Rigby Stake Lola Williams and Thelma Dutson; readers from Fast Rigby Stake Mary Smith and Paula Newman; Anna Brady, chorister, Rigby Stake; Charlotte Brown, organist, Kast Rigby Stake; Ruth Ses- NOTES FROM THE FIELD 201 sions, chorister, East Rigby Stake; Esta Brizzee, organist, Rigby Stake; Bob Burtenshaw, narrator; Willard Adams as George Washington, Gerald Lee as Benjamin Franklin; Morgan Lake, Jr., as James Madison; Charles Henry as Thomas Jefferson; Nita G. Jorgensen, President, Rigby Stake Relief Society; Virginia K. Campbell, President, East Rigby Stake Relief Society. This patriotic program was presented before an audience of about one thousand people, who thoroughly enjoyed the pageant. 'The Singing Mothers choruses from the wards of the two stakes combined to make a wonderful chorus, with about 160 singers participating. Photograph submitted by Bernice O. Dyer WEST GERMAN MISSION RELIEF SOCIETY, BIELEFELD, RUHR, AND COLOGNE DISTRICTS HOLD CONVENTION AT HERNE, September 11, 1954 Front row, seated, left to right: Bernice O. Dyer, President, West German Mission Relief Society; Berta Hommes, Ruhr District Leader; Betty Noble, missionary; Crysta Gorts, Cologne District leader. Lucie Wachter, Bielefeld District leader, cannot be seen in the photograph. Sister Dyer, in reporting the activities in her mission, tells of a number of recent conventions held throughout the mission: "At each convention there were two sessions. The morning session was only for the officers of each organization, and instruction was given to them regarding their function as officers. 'The proper procedure of holding Relief Society meetings was also discussed, and messages of visiting teachers, prayer meetings, monthly officers meetings, Singing Mothers organizations, the November and March Sunday evening meetings were taken up. The afternoon meetings were held for all the sisters, and a good attendance in each convention was evidence that they are eager for such occasions.... At each convention also a handwork display was held, and the beautiful articles made by the sisters in each organization were exhibited to advantage. Much warm winter clothing was included among the articles, in addition to the excellent handwork, such as knitting, crocheting, and embroidery. One group has purchased a knitting machine, with which they make all kinds of warm knitted clothing. The sisters of the home branch in each case prepared a simple lunch for all who attended." 202 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1955 Photograph submitted by Vera R. Cantwell CACHE VALLEY (UTAH AND IDAHO) STAKES SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSICAL, October 10, 1954 The Singing Mothers of eleven Cache Valley stakes presented a musical at the Tabernacle in Logan on Sunday, October 10th, for all the people of the valley. 'The musical was directed by Florence J. Madsen of the general board of Relief Society, and included a reader, piano solos by Irving Wasserman, and a trio by members of the Singing Mothers. The tabernacle was well filled, and the chorus sang songs they had learned for the general conference. The following stakes were represented: Franklin Stake (Idaho); Montpelier Stake (Idaho); Oneida Stake (Idaho); Logan Stake (Utah); Cache Stake (Utah); East Cache Stake (Utah); Mount Logan Stake (Utah); Hyrum Stake (Utah); Benson Stake (Utah); Smithfield Stake (Utah); and Bear Lake Stake (Idaho). Vera R. Cantwell is president of Smithfield Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Adriana M. Zappey EAST CENTRAL STATES MISSION RELIEF SOCIETY, ASHLAND (KENTUCKY) BRANCH BAZAAR, November 20, 1954 Left to nght: Mary O. Haney; Drema Harris; Beulah Sheffield, Second Counselor; Thelma Harper, district Relief Society supervisor; Myrtle Rice, President, Ashland NOTES FROM THE FIELD 203 Branch Relief Society; Emogne Ferguson, Secretary-Treasurer; Gladys Tuttle, First Counselor; Wilma Jean Hays; Mollie Kirk; Amye McKinster; Elizabeth Smith; Mary Baker, literature leader; Betty 'Tuttle, social science class leader; Josephine Davidson. Adriana M. Zappey, President, East Central States Mission Relief Society, reports that these devoted sisters travel long distances to attend their meetings, some of them traveling as far as sixty miles. The November bazaar was unusually successful, and the sisters were enthusiastic over the displays, which included dolls and other toys, baked items, including cakes and pies, also various kinds of candy; quilts, aprons, pillowslips, pot holders, shopping bags, and numerous crocheted and hand-embroidered articles. Photograph submitted by Julia N. Barg PIONEER STAKE (UTAH) RELIEF SOCIETY SERVES DINNERS FOR BUILDING WORKERS Left to right: Julia N. Barg, President, Pioneer Stake Relief Society; Bertella Ashard, President, Twenty-Fifth Ward Relief Society; Lovell Smith, Second Counselor, Pioneer Stake Relief Society; Ellen Thompson, President, Poplar Grove Ward Relief Society; Sarah Marchant, First Counselor, Pioneer Stake Relief Society; Alice Vonk, President, Thirty-Second Ward Relief Society; Adeline Weaver, Secretary-Treasurer, Poplar Grove Second Ward Relief Society; LeOra Roush, President, Thirty-Fifth Ward Relief Society; Lucille Noyce, President, Riverview Ward Relief Society; Rura Woodall, President, Poplar Grove Second Ward Relief Society; Zada Jones, President, Poplar Grove Third Ward Relief Society; May Hans, Second Counselor, Poplar Grove Second Ward Relief Society; Ida Deters, First Counselor, Poplar Grove Second Ward Relief Society; Winifred Stanley, President, Twenty-Sixth Ward Relief Society. When construction of the new Pioneer Stake Center started in April 1953, the Relief Society members of three wards volunteered their services, by rotation, each Saturday, to prepare food for the brethren volunteering their services on the building. At one of the union meetings President Julia Barg asked the board members and ward presidents if they would all like to help taking turns in preparation of food for the brethren, cooking a hot meal each Saturday. Everyone was happy to offer this service. A schedule was made up, with the stake Relief Society presidency and board members serving first, then each of the nine wards taking a turn. Photograph submitted by Ida A Gallagher MURRAY STAKE (UTAH) CONDUCTS SUCCESSFUL FUND-RAISING PROJECT Front row, left to nght: Louise Hansen, organist; Rhea B. Nelson, First Counselor; Ida H. Steed, Second Counselor; Hennie Huetter, Secretary; Lazella Spencer, organist. Back row, left to right: Peggy Dyches; Gertrude Humphnes; Alice Turpin; Clara Duffin; Eva Eddington; Reggie Erickson. President Ida A. Gallagher reports that the making of the friendship quilt shown in the picture was a most enjoyable as well as a profitable project. "Each person whose name is embroidered on the quilt gave one dollar to help in the building of our new stake chapel." Perfume of Violets Zara Sabin Violets! Perfume of violets. For a moment we were together again, Down on our knees by the violet bed, Picking them eagerly, while overhead The apricots bloomed, and across the street A brown lark was singing so piercingly sweet I thought his velvet throat would burst— A bee droned near, the very first Which had dared to leave his fast-sealed Home.... A church bell pealed.... Nothing was left but an old, old pain And the perfume of violets! 204 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1955 Mother's Baked Apple - (Continued from page 190) S I thought of this, I was surprised to find my face wet with tears, for I felt so warm and comforted that, for a few minutes, I had forgotten Tom and I were at sword's point. Well, I knew what to do now. Mother had just told me, and the first thing in the morning— but why wait for morning? 'That was hours away, and I knew I'd never sleep. Besides, Tom was not sleeping either. I could hear him through the thin wall, flopping restlessly about. Undoubtedly, there were eight or ten inches of him hanging off at the foot, or jackknifed under his chin. I didn't dare call him. He was angry enough to ignore me. I looked at my cutglass water pitcher on the bedside table. Just like a man to bring the very best dishes into the sickroom. It was one of our wedding gifts, and I loved it, but it wasn't any more important than my pride, and that must be shattered, too. I deliberately reached out to get a drink of water and knocked the pitcher on the floor. There was a splintering crash. Then Tom, looking haggard and very wide awake, stood in the doorWay. "What happened?" he demanded. "I was trying to get me a drink." "TI get you a drink." Looking guilty, but sulky, he marched out to the kitchen. "Anything else?" he asked, when I had gulped the unwanted water. "You might see if 'Tommy's covered up." "Fine," he said, brusquely, sticking his head in a moment later. Vd WIP ror FINER. (y! ORGAN MODEL 2D ine a FOR YOUR CHURCH Your Church deserves the very finest organ music possible, to complement and enrich every service... So why not investigate Connsonata NOW! No other organ offers so much. Come in or Phone 9-7633 for Demonstration. A private demonstration can be arranged for your convenience... So you can give Connsonata every test. No obligation. Daynes Mace 145 NORTH UNIVERSITY, PROVO «/ 2860 WASHINGTON Page 205 206 THE WORLD'S FINEST PIANOS Mason & Hamlin The Stradivari of Pianos EVERETT Finest Toned Spinet Piano Built Cable - Nelson Finest Low Priced Piano Built ~~ All Obtainable At Beesley Music Co. Pioneer Piano People 70 S. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Then he hesitated, "Ankle hurting?" he inquired, reluctantly, "want a pain tablet?" "[m in a lot of pain," I said, "but it isn't in my ankle. It seems to be around my heart." Tom strode over to the bed, an expression of consternation on his face, "Why didn't you say so?" he demanded. "I'll call the doctor!" "T don't need a doctor," I said, talking rapidly before he could get away, "just a lot of love and forgiveness from the one who promised to love and cherish me in_ sickness and».. 24 "You know, darling," 'Tom murmured a moment later, with his lips against my ear, "you married me for better or for worse, and just beRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1955 cause it's all been worse so far, you shouldn't...." I put my hand over his mouth, "Hush, Tom! You know it's all been wonderful! I wouldn't change a day!" Then I made the supreme sacrifice. "There's a pain in my stomach, too," I said, weakly. His anxious look returned. "What on earth is it?" "Nothing," I said, "absolutely nothing—but emptiness. Just bring back that supper you snatched away and I'll be all right." Tom looked embarrassed, "Oh, that? I threw it in the garbage. But I'll open some soup or something." A big bowl of steaming soup! How good it sounded. But I shook my head, firmly. "No, just what you brought before!" I insisted, and knew I was sentencing myself to a lifetime of muddy cocoa and scraped toast whenever illness struck. But the look on Tom's face was worth it, a thousand times over. Already, I could hear him climbing over the two chairs and under the table to hook up the toaster, whistling loudly off-key as he did so. "All right, Mother," I said, in the general direction of the ceiling, "Satisfied? It's cocoa and toast for me, not baked apple." >_> A Jestimony Catherine B. Bowles There is a nugget of gold to find If sought by the searchers of nght, Moulded and shaped in God's design— A precious jewel in his sight. The value, priceless, needs great care And is only found by faith and prayer. (Vor S Christie Lund Coles Words are gulls That lift the curve, Above the clay-bound, Listening earth. Words are moons That wax and wane And light the night To dawn again. Words are cups With water fulled, Where those who thirst Are beauty-filled. Words are fire In warmth and scope, Flaming, alive; And words... Are hope. Can fill for THOROUGHLY TRAINED Office Workers L. D. S. Business College offers training in a wide variety of subjects @ Accounting @ Business Machines @ Shorthand @ Hy-Speed Longhand @ Machine Shorthand ® Grommar @ and many others L. D. S. Training Doesn't Cost.. L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE Branch of Brigham Young University 70 NORTH MAIN e SALT LAKE CITY. It Pays It's awaiting You... E YES there is still a tremendous amount of outstanding instruction and use awaiting you in this and other copies of the Relief Society Magazine. Your editions may be handsomely bound at the West's finest bindery and printing plant for $2.50 cloth bound and $3.50 leather bound per volume plus postage for mail orders. Follow these postage rates if you send your order by mail: Distance from Up to 150 miles. 150 to 300 miles 300 to 600 miles.............. 600 to 1000 miles.% 1000 to 1400 miles 0. 1400 to 1800 miles 0 76 Over 1800 miles 2.0.0 eee 87 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press 31 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah Phone 4-2581 fo %@) Write or Phone VIDA FOX CLAWSON 966 East South Temple Telephone 4-2017 about the following: Annual Spring Tour HAWAII Sail on the Lurline, April 8th EUROPE Tour will include Temple Dedication at Berne, Switzerland Leave August 15th HISTORIC TRAIN Tour will include the Pageant at the Hill Cumorah Leave Friday Evening, August 5th Page 207 Salt Lake City, Utah Rate 208 Herbs for Mlodern Cookery Dill Elizabeth Williamson p™ (Anethum graveolens) is an annual herb which grows to two feet, and, occasionally, three feet in height. It is a pretty herb, bluish-green in color, with lacy foliage and small, yellow, clustered flowers. It should be planted in the center of the herb garden because of its height. Originally it came from Asia and the Mediterranean area, and was probably carried across Europe by the Romans. Some varieties are native to Egypt and southern Africa. The English use dill water for digestive disturbances. Of course, dill is most famous for its use in making dill pickles, but the seeds and leaves are good in many different dishes. Use the leaves chopped in salads, soup, and stews; sprinkle the seeds on boiled potatoes, lamb, and fish. Sauce for Broiled Fish (Pour over before broiling) % ¢c. Melted butter % tsp. Dill seed * tsp. Chopped parsley salt and pepper to taste 1 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1955 What do You Need in Music? We Carry A Complete Stock of All SACRED PIANO and ORGAN BOOKS, plus ALL CHORAL NUMBERS for SINGING MOTHERS, CHOIR and MUTUAL CHORUSES. Immediate attention given to Mail Orders! During Conference, make our Store your Headquarters! GLEN-BROS. MUSIC CO. 74 So. Main Salt Lake City Provo Ogden Electric _ WATER HEATING costs the average family only about 10¢ a day Quy From Your Dealer Or Plumber Be Modern Live Electrically UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. poct ges] - cALvaAl® < ' pert p= uf Sed aa iy Stalwarts of Mormonism Preston Nibley You'll meet sixty pioneer 'stalwarts' in this colorful beok, such as Jacob Hamblin, Korl G. Maeser, Heber C. Kimball, Orson Pratt, and many others —pioneers who suffered persecutions and hardships to establish a religious and cultural kingdom of Zion in the western wilderness $2.50 2. Doctrines of Salvation Sermons and W ritineg of los ph Fielding Smith Complied by Bruce R. McConkie Is God progressing? What was the nature and purpose of our pre-existent life? What is the real story of the creation? Can the theories of organic evolution be harmonized ith the gospel These questions, and man others, are answered th refreshing frankness and authority, and with new material, not otherwise available i D. S. Literature $3.00 3. Mary Bailey Ruby K. Smith For an intimate view of the Prophet Joseph's family, be sure to read this glowing account that tells the tender love story of Samuel H. Smith, brother of the Prophet, and Mary Bailey. It's a wonderf ory of devotion and integrity set against a back-drop of the suffering of the Saints during the early days of persecutior $2.00 DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah. Gentlemen: Enclosed you will find { ) check ( ) money order ( ) charge to my account the following amount $ - for the encircled (numbered) book(s City a. Zone........ State......... 2. Residents of Utah include 2% sales tax. Hy Beneficial Years 7T When Beneficial Life was founded, near the turn of the century, the empire-building engineers had already bound the West to the East with iron rails, and were spanning gorges and tunneling mountains to bring American cities closer together. The West was built by stalwart men... Willing to endure hardships for the growth and progress they could envision. The West was also built with dollars... Including Beneficial Life dollars. Since 1905, Beneficial has financed countless thousands of homes and important commercial, civic and industrial enterprises. From the $754,000 worth of insurance written the first year, Beneficial Life has grown with the West until it now has over 300 million dollars worth of life insurance in force... A consistent, sound growth over fifty Beneficial years. BENEFICIAL LIFE Be cmmpany U a Jusuunee (s: asrarnce Salt Lake City, Utah ie ~ BENEFICIAL Dawid O. Mc Kav. Pres.: [eatin SOME MAGA BZISE 7 & VOL 42 NO 4 Dette Story Isste APRIL 1955 First to See the Risen Lord The first day of the week cometh Mary Magdalene early, when it was yet dark, unto the sepulchre, and seeth the stone taken away from the sepulchre... (John 20.1). Vesta P. Crawford While it was yet early on the northern hills, She came alone and stood beside the tomb. Her grief was like the darkness roundabout That veiled the temples and the towers And lay upon the turrets and the gates. Quiet was the street of sorrow, And darkly rose the four great hills Encompassing the valleys of Jerusalem. While it was yet early in the garden, In the first far reaches of the dawn, Mary came to Calvary and waited near the tomb. Mary of Magdala, her home the shore of Galilee, A follower of the Master and one who loved him well. Short days ago she wept beside the cross And saw the soldiers and the sword.... Saw Arimathea's rock-hewn sepulchre Wherein the faithful laid their Lord. So quiet in the garden, no stir of bud or leaf, Only the woman waiting there, beset with grief. Mary of Magdala, in the early day, First to hear the question Where the stone was rolled away. Then she looked again into the sepulchre And saw two white-robed angels sitting there. Trembling, as wind might shake an olive bough, She heard the words, old as earth's questioning, "Why weepest thou...?" Softly, as wings of the dove might stir, Mary turned in the morning light And Jesus spoke to her.... Mary of Magdala, first to hear his voice, In that eternal moment, in that lighted place, First to bear the message that he lived And first to see his face! The Cover: "Wood Hyacinths," Photograph by Ward Linton Frontispiece Photograph: "Easter Lily Portrait" Photograph by Josef Muench Cover Design by Evan Jensen Srom Near and Sar Thank you for an outstanding issue of The Relief Society Magazine (February 1955). Arriving today (January 26th), it came like a very special gift for my birth. Day, all the more so because you used for a frontispiece my mother's exquisite poem written for me. I then found my poem (written for my daughters) "The Unanswerable," page 108. Also I noted how every one of the other poems and each of the stories are well above average in quality. 'The Magazine always has something special in it, but this time it deserves superlatives! —Mrs. Lael W. Hill Salt Lake City, Utah Thank you for the story "Faith and Prayer and Johnnie Morton" (January 1955). I feel it is an answer to my prayers. We have a little daughter eleven years old who had polio when she was a baby, and, in spite of our prayers, exercises, braces, and massage, her back has continued to twist — very rapidly the last few months. On January 4th she had another appointment with a specialist to see what his verdict was after seeing X-rays taken the week before. So, on fast day, January 2d, our family, including those who are away, had a special prayer after fasting, and afterwards our daughter was administered to. The doctor said she would have to have a serious operation that would mean being in the hospital about six weeks and at home on_ her back in a cast for six months. On our way home she nearly broke my heart by saying, "What good did it do to fast and pray?" I tried to explain that sometimes our prayers aren't answered as we want to think they should be, but sometimes they are answered by our knowing where to go for help to doctors who are skilled and know what to do, and I told her the story of Naaman and _ Elisha. Then came the Magazine and the story of Johnnie and his problem—just like — hers. I read the story to her and I know it helped her to understand that God had not deserted her and was still mindful of her and our prayers. She is going to need her faith to get through the coming year cheerfully. —Mrs. Theron §. Tall Springville, Utah Page 210 During the past one and one-half years my family and I have been in Pakistan. Contacts with the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints have been very few. When I left Panguitch, Utah, friends gave me a subscription to The Relief Society Magazine. It has followed me over halfway around the world to bring cheer, comfort, and reassurance of the stability of the spiritual values of our life, and to which we cling very tightly. 'The Magazine is a never-ending source of knowledge and inspiration. I have enjoyed the group photos immensely, too, being able to recognize many friends I have known in various wards. Being so far from home I can more sincerely feel the influence the Magazine is having upon every corner of the world. May every Latter-day Saint realize the values to be gained and not let a single edition lie unopened. —Mrs. Clyde T. Low Rawalpindi, Pakistan I wish to express my thanks for the Magazine. I read it from cover to cover. Mrs. Woolsey's poem "'Poet's Mother" in the February issue is very fine. —Gene Romolo Provo, Utah The Relief Society Magazine has just come, and I have read Mrs. Sharp's splendid editorial "Take Time to Safeguard Children" (February 1955). It is most carefully worded and written. It is one of the best that I have read. —Charles V. Worthington Los Angeles, California We ladies of the Seventh Ward, Mt. Logan Stake, do love our Relief Society work and thank you sincerely for the Magazine, and especially for the 'Greetings for the New Year" (January 1955). I, for one, am going to try to make the greetings a part of each day's living. —Mrs. A. R. Gibbons Logan, Utah I would like to tell you how much I enjoy our Magazine. Since my husband is in the Air Force, and we are away from home, it brings home so much closer to me. —Mrs. Beverlee Nilsson Cibolo, 'Texas THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - First Counselor Velma N. Simonsen - - - - - Second Counselor Margaret C. Pickering - - Secretary-Treasurer Mary G. Judd Evon W. Peterson Christine H. Robinson Charlotte A. Larsen Anna B. Hart Leone O. Jacobs Alberta H. Christensen Edith P. Backman Edith S. Elliott Louise W. Madsen Mildred B. Eyring Winniefred 5. Florence J. Madsen Aleine M. Young Helen W. Anderson Manwaring Leone G. Layton Josie B. Bay Gladys S. Boyer Elna P. Haymond Blanche B. Stoddard RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - = = 2 - S = = - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spatford Vol. 42 APRIL 1955 No. 4 Contents SPECIAL FEATURES The Resurrection oo ooenbeessetteeseooeeesitesissiititimussaan George Q. Morris 212 Land of the Water Birds ou... A oan. Nnnn cle cee Fillard Luce 221 We Serve As God's Hands Caroline E. Miner 242 Cancer—A Quiz That may § Save Your Life occ Sandra Munsell 244 The Lower Hills. Ed "Lucille Waters Mattson 253 A Handful of Dirt. — _Vivian Campbell Work 261 An Understanding Heart. A Anne S. W. Gould 261 The Ruby-Throated Hummingbird.. Fo Roy B. McClain 262 "And Ye Shall Fim') ccc ccecccccccaeccececscceeceneseseceeeenseceseescesenecseescoesesesesneasereceeeeneees"Beth G. Christensen 263 FICTION—SPECIAL APRIL SHORT STORIES Reap, If You Will. OcccccccessescscssscsssesseescescesceesescesssesnussnsssesnssaessectessessatsassaseeaceaseneenesseseeseeeeoessElaine J. Wilson 216 The Wall once cee eceeeeneeeeees ee.. Myrtle M. Dean 225 Steak for Pumeiey, IE IE. Sseecorceneeeroeeen nacceneacesers tt asaRosa Lee Lloyd 245 Her Own Life - eeRuth Moody Ostegar 254 SERIAL Green Willows—Chapter 3 reDeone R. Sutherland 265 GENERAL FEATURES From Near and Far........ Ssccecccccsseccsoceceresoocreceoenecsecnensssoseceasesncvennseneeorocencensencserenscesacecersseasecsonsncenssneanasacsacescoeeseecsecrs 210 DOME ECTS ZAC) eee ee 238 Woman's Sphere ooo... Ceececececceseeceeeeeeceeceee coe... Ramona W. Cannon 239 Editorial: Appreciation of the Gospel) 22.......... CccecececececesseececeeeceeneeseerseseteeeeeeneceeeesVelma N. Simonsen a Notes to the Field: Book of Mormon Reading Project..... An 242 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities 2222.. Ccceeeceeeee eee'Margaret sol "Pickering. 270 FEATURES FOR THE HOME Lilies—1955 Varieties ono... Ce cccececceccccececneneeececeeeseeees.. Dorthea N. Newbold = Jessie Evans Smith—Artist of Unusual Hobbies oo... Eeccccccccescssecesseeececceeeseeeeneeeengupeneseenenesucoeseseeneneseenteense The Hen Party IN Co) CMe OM ote eeRuth K. Kent 260 Heirloom Quilt Presented to Missionaries at Carthage Jail 20... Josephine Brower 264 Eggshells for the Garden 200... EcccccccecccccccecsssecessescneececesecceeeccuecoessoeseecensceseceeeeeesoeeseeueeesElizabeth Williamson 279 POETRY First to See the Risen Lord—Frontispiece ~...............-....;.. Vesta P. Crawford 209 So Long As Springtime Comes 0...... EccccececceececceeeecececcnceeeeeeeenecececeeccnencneeserereceneesMabel Jones Gabbott 215 T Did Not Know oooo. O. Cceccccececceececceeceeeceeecnersecccectcececsaeeecsseseceneneceeees Zara Sabin 220 Silence........0....-.--- a i E. Berry 220 At Easter Dawn.... Schow 224 The Reason......... I cree reeSadie Ollorton Clark 230 Strange Chemistry. _ PIE. Nv nescovancsenseeneeteeeeenessEva Willes Wangsgaard 231 Let Me Hear Laughter 2... Cee seen ceseeeseneneeeeeaeneeeeecsneaescteceseeraseetseceseeeneseseeseFrances Myrtle Atkinson 237 Blue-Blossomed Jacaranda —_ ze.... Elsie McKinnon Strachan 241 hiendshp EEE — EEE ==. Ae eee. Elsie Sim Hansen 244 Cinquain....... A_i. ——Vesta N. Lukei 253 Moment of Music ccc -Dorothy J. Roberts 259 Friendship's Garden:. EEGene Romolo 264 Heernt) Sorc ss acca ncn peencooncectnereseseseeIda Isaacson 269 Home, AArleen Sessions Bogue 278 Reflective Aitivertrsyp ea aac nscere eeepc ent trerenascenconacceeeMabel Law Atkinson 279 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 40 North Main, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, l5c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. The Resurrection Elder George Q. Morris Of the Council of the Twelve Thou madest man, he knows not why, He thinks he was not made to die. HE question of life after death has always been one with which people should have been seriously concerned. 'There has been much speculation about it among pagan philosophers and Christian writers. The sure and clear answer is to be found in the gospel of Jesus Christ as taught in the primitive Church and the restored Church. The famous Roman scholar Pliny probably expressed the prevailing notion of his time and people when he said: It is not even within the power of God to endow mortals with an eternal existence and recall the departed from the grave. Pliny lived in the Roman Empire from the year 23 A. D. To the year 79 when he was destroyed by the sulphurous vapor coming from the eruption of Mount Vesuvius which overwhelmed Herculaneum and Pompeii. What he had with such certainty declared God could not do was spoken in ignorance of the fact that when he was ten years of age there came forth from the grave in faraway Palestine, then under the dominion of the Roman Empire, Jesus Christ, who was the first fruits of the resurrection. Having had power given him over life and death, through his atonement for the sins of the world and by the appointment of the Father, he instituted the resurrection from the dead. By this act he provided that every soul who Page 212 (Tennyson: In Memoriam). Had died from the beginning of time or who would die until the end of time would be resurrected as he was resurrected. 'Their belief or unbelief, their being good or bad mattering not. The Lord declared: Marvel not at this: for the hour is coming, in the which all that are in the grave shall hear his voice, And shall come forth; they that have done good, unto the resurrection of life; and they that have done evil, unto the resurrection of damnation (John 5:28-29). The resurrection does not apply alone to man. When man became mortal through the fall, the earth and the life on the earth also became mortal. As man has an immortal spirit so has the earth, and it is to die and be resurrected as thus revealed through the Prophet Joseph Smith: And the end shall come, and the heaven and the earth shall be consumed and pass away, and there shall be a new heaven and a new earth. For all old things shall pass away, and all things shall become new, even the heaven and the earth, and all the fulness thereof, both men and beasts, the fowls of the air, and the fishes of the sea; And not one hair, neither mote, shall be lost, for it is the workmanship of mine hand (D. & C. 29:23-25). You will note in this revelation that what the poet expressed in the couplet, that God did not make man just to die, is confirmed in this scripture, which clearly implies that THE RESURRECTION this restoration occurs because it is the workmanship of God. HERE are many who seem to have difficulty in believing that the resurrection consists in the coming forth of the physical body, the idea being that if a body does come forth it must be a body without substance. The Prophet Joseph Smith has proclaimed the doctrine that there is no "immaterial matter," that what we call spirit is matter, but of a more refined nature than the matter that we are familiar with in this life (D. & C. 131:7). When the Savior appeared to some of the disciples after the resurrection they were afraid of him; they thought he was a spirit. He calmed their fears, saying to them, "a spirit hath not flesh and bones, as ye see me have" (Luke 24:39). And he invited some who were still skeptical to feel of his hands and to put their hands in the wounds of his crucifixion. When the Savior appeared to the people on this continent after his resurrection, he invited twenty-five hundred of them to do the same. Some are still unwilling to accept this demonstrated truth as applying to all who are resurrected and argue that a bodily resurrection was for him alone. But showing this to be an error, the apostle Paul in Philippians 3:21, expressly states, referring to the resurrection at the coming of the Savior: Who shall change our vile body, that it may be fashioned like unto his glorious body, according to the working whereby he is able even to subdue all things unto himself. So the teachings of the gospel are very clear that the resurrection has 213 to do with the bringing forth of a purified, cleansed, and immortalized body of flesh and bones to live forever—those who have kept the commandments of God to live in a condition of glory, and those who have rejected the gospel to live in a condition of banishment from the presence of God. As to the time of the resurrection, there was the first resurrection marked by the coming forth of the saints at the time the Lord himself was resurrected. Looking to the future, the saints and the just are to arise to meet him when he shall come again to the earth at the beginning of the millennium. The resurrection of the wicked will not take place until the end of the world. Referring to this first resurrection of the future, this is given: And then shall the heathen nations be redeemed, and they that knew no law shall have part in the first resurrection; and it shall be tolerable for them (D. & C. 45:54). And after this another angel shall sound, which is the second trump; and then cometh the redemption of those who are Christ's at his coming; who have received their part in that prison which is prepared for them, that they might receive the gospel, and be judged according to men in the flesh (D. & C. 88:99). The time and glory pertaining to the resurrection are clearly explained in the 76th and 88th sections of the Doctrine and Covenants. The question is sometimes raised as to the resurrection of the sons of perdition who are referred to in these sections. Verse 32, section 88, thus describes their coming forth: And they who remain shall also be quickened; nevertheless, they shall return 214 again to their own place, to enjoy that which they are willing to receive, because they were not willing to enjoy that which they might have received. HE Lord is explicit in stating that all shall come forth. So, through the atonement of Jesus Christ, comes the renewal of the earth and the renewal of life upon it. Death and the grave are overcome, and all are raised to immortality when the body and spirit do not again separate, made so clear in this scripture: Now, this restoration shall come to all, both old and young, both bond and free, both male and female, both the wicked and the righteous; and even there shall not so much as a hair of their heads be lost; but every thing shall be restored to its perfect frame, as it is now, or in the body, and shall be brought and be artaigned before the bar of Christ the Son, and God the Father, and the Holy Spirit, which is one Eternal God, to be judged according to their works, whether they be good or whether they be evil. Now, behold, I have spoken unto you concerning the death of the mortal body, and also concerning the resurrection of the mortal body. I say unto you that this mortal body is raised to an immortal body, that is from death, even from the first death unto life, that they can die no more; their spirits uniting with their bodies, never to be divided; thus the whole becoming spiritual and immortal, that they can no more see corruption (Alma 11:44, 45). Those who have obeyed the gospel also have eternal life "even the glory of the Celestial Kingdom," others such glory or absence of glory as belongs to the lives they chose to live. Much ignorance and error exist and much unnecessary sorrow has been endured by bereft loved RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1955 ones regarding the fate of children. Great and comforting truth has come to us through the Prophet Joseph Smith: first, that little children are resurrected as little children, to grow to maturity in a resurrected condition. Also that children who die before the years of accountability die without sin and eriter the celestial kingdom, which is explained in this scripture: Listen to the words of Christ, your Redeemer, your Lord and your God. Behold, I came into the world not to call the righteous but sinners to repentance; the whole need no physician, but they that are sick; wherefore, little children are whole, for they are not capable of committing sin; wherefore the curse of Adam is taken from them in me, that it hath no power over them.... And after this manner did the Holy Ghost manifest the word of God unto me; wherefore, my beloved son, I know that it is solemn mockery before God, that ye should baptize little children. Behold I say unto you that this thing shall ye teach—repentance and baptism unto those who are accountable and capable of committing sin; yea, teach parents that they must repent and be baptized, and humble themselves as their little children, and they shall all be saved with their little children. And their little children need no repentance, neither baptism. Behold, 'baptism is unto repentance to the fulfilling the commandments unto the remission of sins. But little children are alive in Christ, even from the foundation of the world; if not so, God is a partial God, and also a changeable God, and a respecter of persons; for how many little children have died without baptism! Wherefore, if little children could not be saved without baptism, these must have gone to an endless hell. THE RESURRECTION Behold I say unto you, that he that supposeth that little children need baptism is in the gall of bitterness and in the bonds of iniquity, for he hath neither faith, hope, nor charity; wherefore, should he be cut off while in the thought, he must go down to hell. For awful is the wickedness to suppose that God saveth one child because of baptism, and the other must perish because he hath no baptism. Wo be unto them that shall pervert the ways of the Lord after this manner, for they shall perish except they repent. Behold, I speak with boldness, having authority from God; and I fear not what man can do; for perfect love casteth out all fear. And I am filled with charity, which is everlasting love; wherefore, all children are alike unto me; wherefore, I love little children with a perfect love; and they are all alike and partakers of salvation (Moroni 8:8-17). 215 Thus, through the resurrection, is established the truth of the Lord's words: "And whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall never die" (John 11:26). The only real death is in sin and banishment from the presence of God, which is both the first and the second death (D. & C. 29:41). What we commonly call death is but the doorway to immortal life which cannot end. Each of us, therefore, as the immortal offspring of our Father in heaven will finally live to come to the personal experience described in this scripture: For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ; that every one may receive the things done in his body, according to that he hath done, whether it be good or bad (II Cor. 5:10). So Long As Springtime Comes Mabel Jones Gabbott Some springtimes enter like a warm green breeze, Through budding elm and oak and maple trees, A slender grass stem pushing earth apart, A low, round violet leaf, a tulip dart. And spring sometimes in yellow is arrayed, Wide fields with dandelions overlaid, Forsythia that frames my neighbor's walk, And sunshine in the sky, in smiles, in talk; And often spring will beckon all in pink, Glowing like children's cheeks, or dawn's wide wink, Peach blooms, and white-pink apple witchery, Rose-throated robins in the cherry tree; Oh, I care not what colors first appear, So long as springtime comes year after year. Reap, If You Will Elaine J. Wilson Y Grandma was a stickler for M fair play. She was sure that if you were honest and thoughtful, you'd receive just that in return. She had a good argument for her feelings, too. And that comprised one of her favorite stories... About Grandpa. She loved to tell about how Grandpa had come to agree with her. Jake, that was Grandpa's name, went north in a wagon about four times a year carrying supplies. Sometimes he went as far north as the Snake River before he got rid of everything. He always came back with a load, in return, of everything from fine pelts and hides or gold ore to sacks of onions. He and Grandma had been married three years then, and with the second baby just arrived, she wanted him to settle down to farming steady. He was going to do just that after he returned from this last trip... If everything went all right. He figured to get enough this time to pay for a real good spread. He had placed such emphasis on that "if everything went all right" that she had made him promise to be extra careful. "Now, Bessie," Grandpa told her, a little provoked, "you know I can take care of myself." "Jake, I haven't been married to you this long without knowing you pretty well. You sure live up to your red hair, letting your temper blaze away. Now you be cautious and patient, promise?" Jake gave equal measure for all Page 216 the love he saw in her clear gray eyes and sweet face. He put his arms around her and held her tenderly. "For you, I'll do anything! I promise, Bessie, I'll hold my temper. I won't make a move unless I have to. Besides, there's no need to worry; I haven't seen an Injun on the trail the last two trips. Everyone else knows who I am and I know them." "Well, remember... You'll only reap what you sow." Jake had laughed some at her fussing, but as he rode along in the wagon, he was anxious to get back to his sweet wife and babies. He was sure he was meant to be a farmer; to live closer to his family; no more leaving them behind. And it seemed the good Lord meant it that way, too. Not only did he have the usual amount of furs and produce, but he had a nice little sum of money, six hundred and fifty dollars. One trading post had paid up in full for the last three loads of supplies he'd brought them. Jake found a nice place to make camp, where the land wasn't quite so hilly and rather barren. He stopped by a little stream, with a few big rocks near and a scrubby tree. He tied the horses to the tree, so they could get a drink and graze some, and then he made a fire. He was hungry and tired, and anxious to get started early in the morning. He walked over to the front of the wagon to get something from REAP, IF YOU WILL under the seat. There were three things under there: the money, his loaded gun, and some cornmeal. As he reached under, he realized two men had ridden up. But before he could turn around, he heard the unpleasant words, "Put 'em up!" N the seconds that it took him to draw a deep breath, Jake's mind played a series of thoughts. It would be simple to reach for the gun, swing, and fire. He was a better than average shot and could probably get one of them. But Bessie's words of caution kept stirring up a cloud in his mind until he felt he'd better not try anything yet. So his hands went up slowly. "Turn around." Jake turned uneasily. He looked into the gaunt, strained face of a young man, and the hard, expressionless face of his older companion. Both wore dusty, sweat-stained clothes, evidence of a long, hard ride. Both held guns on him. Behind them stood the most done-in looking pair of horses Jake had seen for a long time. They had been through a rough time. "We want the cash and pelts you got... Quick!" the younger man spoke. Jake was outwardly silent, but within him a conflict was raging. He was trying to stick to his promise to Bessie to be patient and careful, when he longed to lunge at them; to keep them from his store under the wagon seat. "Come on, we know you got it. We been following you since you left the trading post," the older one said dryly, almost without interest, so sure of him that it made Jake's blood fairly boil. 217 "That money's mine. I need it...." He ted to talk calmly, as Bessie would have him do, but he felt like shouting. Even with two of them, he could probably give them a fight they'd not soon forget. "Where is it?" the younger fellow snarled at him. Jake pushed the words out of his mouth, hesitating, forcing himself. "It's under the wagon seat." Right now, seeing the gleam of victory come into the two bandits' eyes, Jake felt like swatting himself. What did Bessie know about handling trouble? While the older one held a gun on him, the other reached under the wagon seat, and pulled out first the gun, which he pocketed, the bag of cornmeal, and dropped it, then the sack of money. They took the string of pelts from the wagon, too. "This should get us to Cheyenne, Marty." The younger one chucked the money into his pocket. "Let's pa" This was just like giving up. Almost as if you had no brain to think with, Jake thought. Bessie's logic wasn't meant for this. What would Bessie do now? Why, she'd ask them to dinner, probably. As he watched the two men mount their horses, Jake heard himself saying something mighty strange. "As long as you've taken my money and gun, there isn't much I can do. But you might as well stay and have some food with mes..." HE surprise that flooded their faces only egged him on. "I was fixin' to make some johnnycake and I got some comb honey and fresh churned butter to put on it." They 218 only stared at him. "I make the best johnnycake ever. You look like you could stand some nourishment." Marty, the older one, burst out laughing. "Listen to that, Les. After we rob him, he asks us to dinner....". Les didn't laugh, however. "I'm hungry enough to do just that. But no smart stuff or you won't need to at..." Both walked back toward Jake. Jake knew he'd said it. It was up to him to go through with it now. He fed the fire and arranged some rocks around it on which to set the frying pan. Marty raised his gun suspiciously when Jake went to the wagon for pans. As he stirred the yellow batter in a blackened saucepan, he could hear the horses blustering their breath and stamping. Off a way, a coyote set up his nightly solo. "This is good cornmeal," he began, unable to bear the cold silence longer, "the kind that comes from good corn, like I'll raise on my farm... That is, I was going to...." Marty sneered, "Only we took your money! What a pity." Jake held his head high and looked right into his face. "Oh, Pll get it someday, anyway. I got two young'uns; may have more. They need lots of room, good food, and a dad that's home. And that's what they're going to have." Marty started to laugh like it was a big joke, but Les cut him short. "T wonder how I'd have turned out, if my dad had been around home once in a while...." Jake turned to look at the younger bandit and saw not a hardened man like the older one, but a boy RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1955 deprived of companionship, lonely and afraid of life. Jake took a small crock of butter from the wagon and put a dab in the frying pan to melt. That butter had been the last payment on a bolt of calico for a sheep rancher's wife, up near the fort. She was still churning it when Jake had come by. It was fresh and tasty. Then he began to fry the cakes. "T only have one plate and a mush dish," he told the men, "you use those, and I'll eat out of the pan as soon as the batter's gone. I'll take the last johnnycakes." He put the crock of butter on a rock and got a small bucket from the wagon, pried the lid off, revealing a broken comb of honey. There were a knife, a fork, and the large spoon he used to stir the batter. He put the first three cakes onto the tin plate, handed it to Marty, then poured out more batter to fry. Marty slapped on butter and honey and promptly began to gorge himself. They watched the yellow cakes bubble and listened to the crackle of the fire. Then Les eyed Jake curiously. "If you wanted that farm so bad, why didn't you gun us down instead of handing the money over?" | ao knelt to flip the cakes over before answering. "Well, Bessie, my wife, has a strong code of living. And I'm coming to believe it, too. You reap what you sow. If I'd gone for my gun, you'd have done the same. One of us would be dead, and you'd have got my money anyway. You look like you need it! Only probably no more than I do. But, the other way wouldn't have been any better." REAP, IF YOU WILL He dished up the other cakes and handed them to Les. 'Then he poured out the rest of the batter for himself. He didn't feel like eating, but he wasn't going to let them know it. "Yessir," he went on, "if folks would be more patient and think about what they'll get back later, instead of grabbing all they can right now, this would be a much better world." They ate in silence while the world darkened around them, only the glow of the sunset to give light. Finally Les stood up. "Let's get goin', he said gruffly. Jake watched them walk to their horses. Funny, despite the great loss they were causing him, he felt no hate toward them. A little disgust for Marty; a little pity for the younger one. "Aren't you going to ask us to come again?" Marty asked, and roared with laughter. "You're a good cook... Thanks," Les said quickly, then spurred his horse and rode off at a gallop. Marty had to move quickly to catch up with him. Jake sat for a long time staring in their direction. 'There went his big hope. For a moment he felt remorse for adhering so directly to Bessie's whims. It was sort of like being whipped. He knew what Bessie would say when he told her. "['m proud of you, Jake. Using your head! I'd much rather have you safe and sound than all the gold in the world." He wanted to go right on to Preston that night, but he knew his horses were tired and night traveling was hard. 'The sky was black all over with no trace of sunset left, when he finally moved. There was a9 a thin strip of the moon showing, but no stars. The fire had gone out. He felt depressed clear through. He walked over to the horses, checked them, and walked around the wagon. He knew he'd never sleep, but he couldn't walk around all night. At last he pulled some blankets from the wagon and spread them thickly on the ground, then lay down. He didn't remember ever being annoyed before by the coyotes' howling. But now it made him feel foreign and unwanted. Suddenly he drew up sharply. A horse was approaching. He gritted his teeth as he remembered the bandit taking his gun. They probably decided their horses were too done-in and were coming back to take his. Well, a fellow could take only so much! HE wouldn't give up without a fight. He reached silently for a large limb to use as a club. Then he edged over to the side of the wagon. The horse was close, coming slowly. Then it stopped. "Hey, you.... Johnnycake cook!" Jake held his breath as he heard Les' voice. "Come out where I can see you." Jake. Gave all his emotions vent as he yelled at the bandit. "You robbed me and ate my food. What more do you want?" and he walked boldly over to the approaching horse. In the soft night light, Jake could see Les' face, and he felt a tinge of surprise that he still saw the insecurity there. He tightened his grip on the dead limb, just the same. Bessie dear, he said to himself, 220 I'm sorry, but I can't see doing your way any longer. "Is it really true about your wife and two kids, I mean...?" Les asked, mumbling. Jake gasped under his breath. "Call me a liar now, too," he yelled. "Do I look like the kind of man to let you take all I had without a fight unless I had a good reason?" Les, on the horse, towered above him. He held the money and the furs. "I want those kids to have a good life. I had a hard time convincing Marty that you needed this worse than we did. It's been so RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1955 long since anyone asked me to stay to dinner. I want you to know it's the best meal I ever had...." He threw the money and furs to the ground, hesitated a second, and threw Jake's gun down, also, then wheeled his horse and rode off. Jake stood for a long time, listening to the last of the hoofbeats die out, before he started to pick up his belongings. In his heart, he silently thanked God for Bessie's way of life and prayed that the young bandit would find peace for his good deed. And, yes, the older one, too. O>} JF Did Not Know Zara Sabin I did not know the locust trees had bloomed— It seems just yesterday each branch was bleak And bare, stiff against the morning light; No sign of leaf or bud, but now they speak A myriad tone from songs of seeking bees— For suddenly the air is redolent With perfume drifting down from flower-filled trees. > Silence Catherine E. Berry The day walks silently away As night draws down the shades; There is no sound when stars come out, Or when the twilight fades, No one can hear the crescent moon That drifts across the sky; And there is not a breath of sound When clouds go sailing by. The shattered dream, the passing time, Play out their silent part, And no one in this room can hear The breaking of my heart. Land of the Water Birds Willard Luce ODAY you don't have to sail T down Bear River in a buffalohide canoe to reach Bear River Bay and see "millions of ducks and geese," as Jim Bridger did in 1824. Not at all. You just take the fifteen mile, hard-surfaced highway west of Brigham City, Utah. This takes you to the headquarters of the Bear River Migratory Bird Refuge. From here you take a twelve-mile circle over a gravel road placed atop dirt dikes constructed to keep the fresh water from the river free from the salt water of Great Salt Lake. Of course you won't see those "millions of ducks and geese" unless you happen to arrive at the height of the fall migratory season which reaches its peak during September. But then ducks and geese make up only part of the 198 species recorded at the Refuge, sixty of which nest there. One of the most interesting nesters is the small, brown and white avocet. Gliding along on tall, stiltlike, blue legs, this bird could do things to the hundred yard dash record for shore birds. When he flies along with your car, he makes a noise that could easily startle you into reaching for the oil can. If you should get there during the avocet's nesting season, late May and early June, you might find a nest along the dikes. The birds make no effort to hide their nests, and there are certainly plenty of them beside the road; but unless you actually see a bird leave her nest, you'll likely not find it. 'The eggs are large, grayish-brown with black markings. They are laid in shallow depressions in the ground lined with a few blades of grass. And should you find a nest, or especially a baby bird, the avocets will put on a show such as you have never seen before. 'They will lie down and hold one wing up in the air as if it were broken. They will run down the road for half a mile in front of you or in front of your car in various attitudes of distress. They will hold up both wings and come straight at you as though intending to run you through with their long, thin, curved bills. They'll squawk and scream and fly around like mad, all to keep your attention on them instead of on the nest or the baby. Another nester, about the same size and build as the avocet, is the black-necked stilt. This bird _ is black and white and has long, red legs. From 3000 to 40ooo Canadian geese also use the Refuge as a nesting ground. As soon as the young hatch they are found along the dikes. As a car approaches they move out onto the ponds like a flotilla of battleships and destroyers —mother and father at both ends and all the young between. Here a' pair of field glasses comes in mighty handy, since a family of geese aren't exactly the most sociable birds in the world when it comes to striking up acquaintances with mankind. Page 221 222 a Courtesy United States Fish and Wildlife Service RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1955 BLACK-NECKED STILTS There is still another nester you should become acquainted with, since he stays around the Refuge most of the year. 'This is the western grebe, often called the helldiver. He's the magician — now you see him, now you don't. His is a simple act, but one you'll never tire of watching. When you get a little too close, he simply dives down under the water. The real sport is to guess where he'll come up again. Ten to one, you will be wrong. HERE are;. Of course, a great many other birds you'll see. The largest concentration of whistling swans in the United States, for in-: stance, is found at the Bear River Refuge during the fall migration. Flocks of 15,000 are sometimes seen. Long lines of pelicans can be seen in the air and offshore, where they catch trash fish for themselves and their young. 'The snowy egret (Brewster's egret) and the blackcrowned night heron can be found fishing at most of the spillways. The yellow-headed blackbird is a bright and beautiful nester. And, of course, there are the little black mud hens, or American coots, fighting and quarreling among themselves or sailing along the canals with their young. They are awkward out on land, and when trying to get into the air, they make a terrific racket, churning up the water for a hundred feet or more before succeeding. You likely won't see many animals except possibly the muskrat. Conditions seem to be just right for the propagation of this little animal; so much so that each year trappers with special permits invade the area. Each trapper is allowed so many pelts—providing he can catch that many during the short season. All rats are skinned at the Refuge, and half the furs go to the trapper and half go to the Government. LAND OF THE WATER BIRDS Around 7,000 pelts are taken each year. Two things brought about the establishment of the Bear River Migratory Bird Refuge. Indications are that the Indians used the Bear River Bay area for hunting and egg gatherings, and all the early explorers remarked about how nuwmerous the birds were there. 'Then in the late eighteen hundreds, commercial hunters invaded the locality. It is estimated that during the last ten years of the century, 200,000 ducks were slain annually for the eastern markets. Soon after this terrific destruction a disease known as botulism was noticed. The disease grew and spread until in 1910 half a million ducks died around the mouth of Bear River. Local gun clubs and sportsmen's organizations attacked the problem, and, in 1928, the Bear River Migratory Bird Refuge was established by a special act of Congress. The W. Grant McFarland 223 Refuge had three purposes: to devise means of curbing the heavy loss of bird life from botulism; to provide a suitable resting and feeding area for the birds during spring and fall migrations; and to give food and shelter to birds that breed in the locality. LL these purposes have been accomplished and more. Although established for the birds and not the people, the Bear River Refuge has from 20,000 to 25,000 visitors of the human variety every year. A banding program has numbered and banded more than 36,000 birds on the Refuge. 'These have been traced to twenty-nine states, to Alaska, Canada, Mexico, and Honduras. A pintail was found at Palmyra Island in the Pacific Ocean just eighty-three days after it had been released from the Bear River bird hospital where it had been treated BREWSTER'S EGRET Photographed at Bear River Migratory Bird Refuge, Utah 224 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1955 LONG-BILLED CURLEW, TRUMPETER SWAN, AND AVOCET for botulism. Palmyra Island is 3,600 miles from Bear River. Continuous bird and nesting censuses are taken. Sick birds are treated and areas of botulism concentration have been drained. Bird food has been planted. A hundred-foot steel observation tower has been erected at the Refuge headquarters. From the tower, and with the aid of fieldglasses, you can see over the entire 65,000 acre Refuge. All this adds up to more and healthier birds. It gives additional knowledge concerning bird migrations. And, more important to traveling America, it provides a convenient area for observing and studying wild birds in their natural habitat—birds which most of us would never even see if it were not for the Bear River or one of the other refuges run by the Fish and Wildlife Service, United States Department of the Interior. At Caster Dawn Tris W. Schow I woke to see that bars of light Announce the Easter dawn, And knew the sunrise song was sung; The moment was withdrawn. I thought how many must have slept Long on that sacred night When morning came for every soul Before the dawning light, While those astir through loyal grief ' Beheld in wonderment And mounting joy, a fallen stone, A folded cerement. The Wall Myrtle M. Dean fence that separated their lot from the neighbor's. "It will need a lot of repair of broken pickets and a new coat of paint," he said. ""Tt looks quaint and charming. I like it," Paula answered, "but of course we don't want any barriers between us and our neighbors, do we? If it is too bad, we'll just have the fence taken away." They had just bought this place and moved in late yesterday. It was a big, old-fashioned house, out on the edge of town. "It's like getting out of jail for the children, after their being cooped up in a tiny place in town," Jeff said, looking pleased. "Maybe later on we can build a modernistic, dream home, but, for now, this is heavenly," Paula told him. Paula walked with Jeff to the car. He would have to ride into town each day now to his job. They stood for a moment watching Judy's chubby, little, three-year-old legs toddling after her six-year-old brother, Steven, as they ran joyously about the wide lawn. Paula and the children waved goodbye to Jeff, then she wandered about the grounds. She loved the tall birches at the back and the oldfashioned yellow roses in one corner of the lot. As she walked near the old picket fence she was startled as she saw a small, thin-shouldered boy, with enormous brown eyes and solemn face, watching her. His face i pointed out the old picket was pressed close, peering through the pickets. How nice, Paula thought, someone for Steven to play with. She smiled and drew closer. "Hi, there," she said. The child did not answer her greeting, but studied her closely. His face held a distrustful scowl. Paula tried again, "We are your new neighbors, and we have a little boy, just about your size. Maybe you can play together, huh?" For a moment the. Child's face softened and his eyes lighted. Then suddenly the frown returned, and he said firmly, "I don't want neighbors." He stood looking at the ground, digging the toe of his shoe into the dust, then turned and moved slowly toward his own house, leaving Paula in shocked surprise. Well, something must have really upset him this morning. Another time he may be anxious to be friends. [ll just let the children make their own advances of friendship, she told herself. Paula had almost forgotten the boy, when a little later, Steven came screaming as though a desperado were after him. She ran to the door, startled. "That naughty boy... That mean, naughty boy chased me with a big stick, and he won't play with me. He hit me," Steven wailed. Paula felt puzzled and rather discouraged at such a beginning, when she had thought everything was going to be so perfect here. Page 225 226 "What did you do to make him act that way, Steve?" Paula asked. "Nothing, nothing at all. I just went on his side of the fence; he told me to git, and he hit me." I'd better go have a talk with the boy's mother, Paula thought, then decided to wait and talk the matter over with Jeff. Jeff took the matter lightly. "Just the animal instinct, king of the jungle, cock of the roost stuff," he said. "They will be playing like David and Jonathan, soon.' T didn't seem to go that way. Every time the boys got together things ended in an argument, or Steve came crying from a hurt. Paula had learned a few facts about the neighbors, although they had never called. She had seen the child's mother take a bus in front of the house. The boy had told Steven that his mother worked downtown. Paula had noted that she was young and blonde and very pretty; perhaps a few years younger than she. The boy's name was Danny. But about the child's father she had learned nothing so far. She had never seen a man about. Another thing she was curious about, who looked after Danny? Then one day as she watched the children playing, she heard Steve and Danny talking. She had noticed often how Danny came to the fence and watched hungrily, when Jeff romped and played with the children as they met him when he returned from work. Now she smiled at the competitive attitude they were taking in regard to their daddies. "My daddy is going to take me fishing next Saturday. Don't you RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1955 wish that you were going fishing?" Steve spoke in a tantalizing tone. For a moment Danny's countenance fell, then, after a little thoughtful study he came back boastfully, "Naw, my daddy knows where the biggest fish are. He takes me, and I can catch fish this long." The child measured his hands, stretching them two feet apart. Steve's eyes showed envy. Then he spoke again, "My daddy plays horse with me, and I can ride him, even when he bucks like a bronco." Danny looked very solemn for awhile, then brightened as he said, "Ah, but my daddy bought me a really live pony. We keep him in a pasture, but when my daddy comes he'll let me ride him." "Where is your daddy? I haven't seen him yet?" Steve asked. A trace of color stained the boy's cheeks as he hesitated for quite awhile, then he faced Steve with firm lips, "My daddy... Why, my daddy is a jet pilot. He can fly faster than anybody in the whole army. Sometimes he buzzes right over our house. Sometime you will hear him." Steve came to his mother, his eyes wide with excitement. He spoke half accusingly, "Mother, Danny's daddy is a jet pilot, and he can fly awful fast." Then, looking rather dejected, he complained, "Why can't my daddy fly a jet, instead of working in an old bank, downtown? 'They catch big fish, too, and Danny has a real live pony." "Yes, but your daddy loves you very, very much, Steven. He comes home every night to play with you...." Paula gave her boy a loving pat, and said, "Run along THE WALL now, and play." She watched him go. 'There was still a bit of envy in his eyes. Danny and his daddy have suddenly become heroes, she thought. She could not help comparing the two children: Steven, with his healthy, fine body and wearing a neat and clean cotton play suit; Danny, thinshouldered and with spindle legs, wearing faded jeans and T-shirt. PAvLs felt impatient. With a father being a jet pilot, they should have plenty. Danny's mother should be able to remain home with him. He's likely to turn out to be a juvenile delinquent, Paula said to herself. Jeff doesn't make one third as much as a jet pilot, but T'll do without all the extras, and take care of my children, she thought with self-pride. Just this morning she remembered Danny saying, "Mommy, please stay home, like Steven's mommy does. I want 'ou to be home with me." Paula could not hear the mother's reply, but she had kissed the boy, then hurried to catch her bus. Paula's peace of mind was not increased by Mrs. Rigby's visit. Mrs. Rigby lived down the highway a few blocks. She had lived out here for years, so she seemed to know about all the people. "T hear you have bought this place," Mrs. Rigby said. "Yes, we think we will like it here very much. So much more freedom for the children, and it's a nice old place," Paula said. "Well, I hope you won't be disappointed." Mrs. Rigby waited, watching Paula's face, then continued, "That neighbor boy is quite a problem, they say. I hear that the 227 last two families left here on his account." "Oh, surely it isn't that bad. I think we shall stay out here." Paula did not want to get tangled or prejudiced by neighborhood gossip, yet that child had proved to be unfriendly, and hard to understand. When it was time to plant the bedding plants, Paula let Steven help her. He carried water in his little watering can and poured on each plant, as Paula set them in the rows along the picket fence. As usual, Danny came running and stood on the other side of the pickets, watching with solemn eyes. "Wouldn't you like to have a pretty flower garden?" Steve asked, innocently. Danny replied quickly. "My flowers are on the other side of our house. There's pretty roses and everything." Early the next morning Steve ran out to see the flowers they had planted. "I want to see if they bloomed in the night," he said. "Oh, flowers don't blossom that fast," Paula told him, laughing. In a few moments the child came from the yard, crying heartbrokenly, "Oh, Mommy, come and see, come and see our flowers, hurry, our flowers are all spoiled." "What do you mean, all spoiled, Steven?" There could be only one answer to the disheveled flower border. Some of the plants were uprooted, and many trampled. The whole border showed evidence of small footprints in the damp earth. Paula's impatience had turned to anger. She saw Danny peeking from behind his house, watching Steve's tears and 228 her discovery. His mother had already gone, and her first thought was to rush out and give the boy a sound spanking, with her own two hands. Someone should correct the child. She thought of going and finding out who was really responsible for the boy through the day, but hesitated long enough to decide to wait and turn the matter over to Jeff. EFF showed surprise at her proposal that the old, picket fence be taken away and be replaced by a nice tall, block wall. "Why, walls are for new, modernistic places," he said. "A picket fence looks much more appropriate, here. I thought I heard you say once that we didn't want any barriers between us and our neighbors." "You know that it is that child, Jeff. I just can't cope with him longer." 'Tears of exasperation sprang to her eyes at the light way Jeff spoke of the matter. Jeff's eyes grew serious, and he spoke carefully, "Listen, Paula, we just can't do away with a problem by hiding it behind a wall. Perhaps there is something deeper than we know behind the boy's behavior.... Maybe we can help." "Yes, with you gone all day, it becomes my problem, Jeff." Paula spoke intensely. "But we cannot isolate our children. We must face life and its problems, Paula. Down in town, there were too many children, all kinds. Here we have one problem child, we must help correct that, too," Jeff spoke earnestly. "Let his own jet pilot of a father come and pilot his own son for awhile," Paula decided firmly. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1955 Jeff conceded quietly. 'The wall was completed in a few days. Paula felt glad; her own two children played peaceably together. No Danny near to disturb them. She had really expected that he might not let the wall hinder. "T don't like that old wall," Steve said one morning. "I want to play with Danny." He will have to get used to it, Paula thought. He actually looks on Danny as quite a hero.... She saw that Steven was lonely and even becoming resentful. I'll have to do something about it, she told herself. "T'll take you to the park," she told him, "there will be lots of children there to play with. You can ride the ponies, and swing and slide and everything." Paula found that Steven was not the only one who missed Danny. Often she caught herself wondering what the child was doing. As she would walk along the wall, tending the flowers, she could almost feel the boy's presence, and she would think of the thin-faced child, and now as she thought of him, his eyes looked big and sad, and almost accusing. At times she heard footsteps, close on the other side, but always they receded and died away. But she could not see through the wall. Well, the boy isn't my responsibility, she told herself. I have a right to have a wall built. Nearly every one has nowadays. One thing is certain, Danny's mother must have forbidden the child to intrude on our premises. She can take a hint at least. Maybe this will teach her a lesson, Paula THE WALL thought, trying to salve her conscience. Then it was Saturday, and Jeff had taken Steve and gone up Cherty Creek to fish. 'They had left early. Now baby Judy was taking her nap, so Paula went to work in the border of flowers along the wall. She heard a sound on the other side. Yes, surely it was a child crying. It was not a cry of anger, or from a hurt, but a broken-hearted sobbing. T is Danny I'm sure, but what has happened? She thought. His mother is at work, but why doesn't someone come to him. Suddenly, she wanted to be the one to go to him. But I can't, she thought. He wouldn't want me. She felt suddenly very ashamed. I should have learned more about the family, she told herself. "Danny," she called through the wall. The sobbing ceased for a moment, then she heard stifled, low weeping, but Danny did not answer. Paula walked around the wall to where the child lay, his head buried in his arms on the grass. "Danny, what is it, what is wrong?" Paula's voice was tender. The child raised his tear-stained face, his eyes hard and fierce, and his body tense. "Go away.... Said savagely. "But, Danny, I want to help you.' Paula bent down to touch the child on the shoulder, but he tightened and drew away from her. "You don't like me. And you made a big wall to keep me away. You are like all the others; you go away." Danny spoke between sobs. "But, Danny, you didn't want to Go away," he 229 be friends. I tried, but you trampled the flowers, and you didn't play like a nice boy." For a moment the child's head lowered, but Paula could not see shame in his face, only heartbreak. "Nobody wants me around. You are like old Mr. And Mrs. Daniels. When they moved here, they told me they didn't want any pesky kids around bothering them. I just went over to see if they had any kids to play with. Then one day I picked just one pretty rose that was sticking through to our side of the fence. Old Mrs. Daniels saw me and she called me a little thief. I wasn't stealing, I just wanted it for my grandma." Paula felt a tight lump in her throat as she watched the child try to stifle a sob, as he continued, "The next family had two boys. They were bigger than me. They called me a little squirt, and told me to git home, they weren't going to have me tagging them around." He hesitated slightly, then said, "I took one of their baseballs and hid it, because they wouldn't let me play." "Oh, Danny, I'm so sorry; come now and let's wipe your tears on this nice clean hanky." Paula tried to raise the child to his feet, but he was still tense in his thin body. "T want to be a friend, Danny, and so does Steve." ANNY said forcefully, "But Steve and his daddy went fishing today, didn't they? I saw them go this morning in the car.' "Why, yes, they did go, but. "And I didn't get to go. They went without me." Danny's tears coursed down his face in fresh rivu- 230 lets. 5 too: "Why didn't they let me go I wanted to go." "But Danny, you said that you would go with your daddy. 'That you knew where the biggest fish are." For a moment he stood there looking small and frightened, and, somehow, desperate. 'Then he lifted his eyes to hers, and they held a look of pleading. "T don't go fishing... Never, not ever at all. And I don't have a real pony either, nor a flower garden by our house, like I told Steve." The child hesitated briefly, then went on with a burst of emotion, "And I don't even have a daddy, not even a daddy. I don't at all, 'cause he got killed when I was just little. He wasn't a jet pilot, like I said. He just got killed in an old car." "Oh, Danny, dear, I'm so sorry. I didn't know." Paula had trouble 'meeting the child's accusing: eyes, she was so aware of her petty injustice, of her misjudgment of him and his mother. She put her arm about the boy's slender body. He relaxed now, and leaned against her. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1955 He looked weary and emotionally spent. "T want to be your friend, Danny. And Steven has missed you a lot. You and he can play together again, and you can share Stevie's daddy. He has such a big strong back; I'll bet both of you can ride him for a horsie. You won't let him throw you when he bucks and jumps either, will you?" Paula was smiling now, "You want to be friends, don't you?" The child raised his flushed, eager face. His eyes were wide and shining, as though a light had just been turned on. As though he knew she really meant it. "But Danny who cares for you all day, while mother is away at work?" Paula asked him. "It's my grandma. I like my grandma; but she can't come outside or do much of anything, 'cause she is sick and crippled. She has to stay in bed or in her chair." "T want to meet your grandma, Danny. Please take me to her." The boy's hot, little hand rested confidently in her own, as he led her in to meet his grandma. ———>- She Reason Sadie Ollorton Clark Why did I fall in love with you, dear heart? I'll tell it in a sentence short and sweet. You smiled at me one morning and my heart— It skipped a beat. It was autumn when we met and thus did greet; The leaves were falling and the wind was sharp. But to my ears the birds were singing sweet, And spring is with me still, though years depart. That first performance often does repeat; Your smile can still play havoc with my heart— It skips a beat. Constance Cole WATER LILIES — St range Chem istry Eva Willes Wangsgaard By what strange chemistry Does April conjure gold From loam and sun and sea For lily cups to hold? Through what solution pass The sheets of ice and snow To form this ruby glass The tulip goblets show? The beakers filled again With lke ingredients Create a cool, green stain And purple lilac scents. From these same chemicals The butterfly takes wing, The petal comes and falls, And wild canaries sing. Courtesy Oregon Bulb Farms HEART'S DESIRE LILIES The blossoms are enormous, widely expanded, a soft greenish-ivory tint. The texture is soft and velvet-like, rather than smooth and shining. Lilies—1955 Varieties Dorthea N. Newbold Deseret News Garden Editor ET'S talk about lilies for your L garden — lilies that are as new as tomorrow, and _ lilies that are as old as the ages. Let's talk about lilies that have their origin in the far corners of the earth: in Palestine, Lebanon, Japan, China, and in the United States and Canada. Let's take a look at what the hybridizers have done with the original wildlings — the results of years Page 232 of painstaking efforts, for there are hundreds of new varieties of lilies that will thrive in your garden. We refer to the true lily, and the hybrids, members of the genus Lilium, which is a very small part of the much greater Liliaceae family. Botanists have placed such widely separated plants as onions, asparagus, Fritillaria, day lily, grape hyacinth, tulip, Sansevieria, and yucca LILIES—1955 VARIETIES in the Lilaceae family. 'Then there are many other plants which are called "'lilies," but they belong to other plant families. An example is the lovely perennial, Eremurus, commonly known as the foxtail lily. Polyanthus lily is not a lily at all, but is the fragrant tuberose. T'here are many others. 'he true lilies are few in number, there being a few more than eighty-seven known species, while in the greater family of Liliaceae there are more than 2,000 separate species. By "specie" we refer to the origi- © nal wildling lily, found growing in woodlands, high on mountain peaks, at sea level, on the sun-baked hills and prairies, or in swamp lands. Specie lilies are found everywhere in the world. It is a matter of history that soon after Canada was discovered, lily bulbs were among the first items to be transported to the Old World. They were eagerly sought by amateur gardeners. Early records show that lilies, native of Canada, were grown in gardens in London and Paris. Later, when trade with China and Japan was opened, thousands of lily bulbs were gathered and shipped from those countries to other parts of the world. In 1832, the beautiful Lilium speciosum arrived in America from Japan. Lilium Henryi, which has been used extensively for hybridizing and has exerted such influence on our modern lilies, came from Japan to the United States in 1889. Then, with the advance of civilization to the west coast of North America, dozens of new specie lilies were found. 'These were collected, named, and shipped to growers all over the world. 233 Lilies have been tagged with the label "difficult to grow." 'This reputation is undoubtedly the result of distributors digging and shipping the bulbs of specie lilies to all parts of the country, with no thought about being able to duplicate the conditions under which the specie lily had been thriving. All specie lies will grow in gardens, providing the prevailing conditions are similar to those under which the lily has been growing while in the uncultivated areas of our lands. HE: ethereal beauty of lilies has intrigued hybridizers, and their Courtesy Oregon Bulb Farms LILY (PROSPERITY) Belongs to the Mid-Century hybrid lies, a lovely cool lemon-yellow; outward facing flowers. Vigorous and hardy, it makes large clumps in borders, and grows to four feet in height. 234 Courtesy Oregon Bulb Farms LILIUM AURATUM PLATYPHYLLUM RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1955 A vigorous and broad-leafed lily, with the upper part of the ray crimson, and the remainder golden and heavily spotted crimson. Efforts with those plants have shown surprisingly good results. 'They have been able to develop hundreds of new varieties of unexcelled beauty. With the introduction of these newer, hardier varieties, and armed with a wider knowledge of lily culture, the amateur gardener can now ignore that label of "difficult to grow," and go ahead, assured that the hybrid lilies will bring unsurpassed beauty to his garden. Vital factors in successful lily culture include the procurement of good, firm bulbs with the root sys tem intact. A lily bulb with a severed root system is hampered from the very beginning. Avoid purchasing bulbs that are dried out. A lily should be handled as a living plant. It does not have a dormant period as do tulips and daffodils. Bulbs should be kept moist and cool even in transit and storage. Plant as soon as you receive them. Never let a lily bulb stay around waiting until you can find the time to do the planting. A good lily bulb deserves prompt attention. Most gardeners are familiar with the terms "perennial," "annual," and "biennial." Did you know that a lily is all three of these? The stem is annual, growing from the soil to LILIES—1955 VARIETIES produce stem, leaves, flowers, and seeds, and dying, all in one season. The bulb is perennial, as it lives on from year to year. And the roots are biennial. Let's consider the root system, because it ls so important to the welfare of the bulb. Roots formed during the growing season when a bulb is planted will furnish nutrients from the soil to the new shoot as it is formed. These same roots live a part of, or in some instances, all of the following year, and at the same time, another set of roots is forming. 'These roots provide for a great increase in foliage. That is why lilies planted from newly purchased bulbs will do much better the second year, providing they are left undisturbed in their new garden home. 285 Garden soils that will produce good vegetables, will, as a general rule, produce good lilies. The soil should be porous, and contain plenty of humus and leaf mold. Most lilies prefer a slightly acid to neutral soil. However, if your garden soil is on the alkaline side, do not be discouraged, there are lilies which tolerate alkali. Among these are L. Candidium; Martagon hybrids; Lilium Davidi; Lilium — Henryi; Olympic hybrids, Mid-Century hybrids, and Lilium auratum. ERFECT drainage is a must for successful lily culture. A slight slope in the garden is fine. Lacking that, and desiring to plant a large area in lilies, you might raise the beds above the level of the surrounding areas. Naturally, this inCourtesy Oregon Bulb Farms JOAN EVANS LILY Late-flowering, broad-petaled, golden-yellow flowers spotted with maroon; blossoms held upright on the stems. 236 volves work. But do not be guilty of thinking that you can provide the needed drainage by placing a pocket of sand in which to set each bulb. If the surrounding soil is heavy, water is drawn to the sand pocket, and will cause the bulb to rot. The Horticultural Department of the University of Saskatchewan, Saskatoon, Sakatchewan, Canada, was faced with the problem of winter hardiness of lilies. As a result of extensive tests and hybridizing, they have produced some outstanding lily varieties that are completely hardy. 'The named varieties you. Might like to try in your garden inCourtesy Oregon Bulb Farms SUNBURST LILIES Available in apricot, ivory, orange, pale yellow, and in a bi-color. Plants form clumps in the border. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1955 clude two creamy-whites, White Gold and White Princess. Pink Charm and Edith Cecilia are pink; Rose Dawn and Rose Queen are deep old rose. Plants of these varieties will grow three to six feet tall, blooms are of the reflex type and range in size from three to five inches across. Bulbs can endure temperatures to forty degrees below Zero. Plant lilies in groups in the perennial borders, or set them against a shrubbery border, where their beauty can show to advantage. Plantings may be made along drives and walks. Or plant them in beds. Be sure the soil is rich in humus and leaf mold and that the area is well drained. Lilies love a cool root run, but this does not mean that they should be planted in the shade or even semi-shade. Rather, give them a mulch and let them bask in the sun. If securing mulching material is a problem, use a living ground cover. 'Try a shallow rooting annual as candytuft, portulacca, or annual phlox. F you garden in an area where summer rains are few, be sure you irrigate the lilies about once each week, soaking the soil to a depth of six inches. Avoid wetting the foliage. Damp _ foliage encourages disease. The near perfect lily of them all can be found in the Aurelian group from the Heart's Desire strain. 'The enormous, widely expanded flowers have a texture unlike other lilies, for it is soft and velvet-like, rather than smooth and shining. 'The blooms are a soft greenish-ivory. LILIES—1955 VARIETIES Courtesy Oregon Bulb Farms ENCHANTMENT LILY Upright lily of excellent habit. Flowers are a vivid nasturtium-red. Easy to grow, vigorous, hardy, and _ disease-resistant. (patented ) From the Mid-Century group comes a new color in lilies. Lilium prosperity has blooms that are a cool, lemon yellow; flowers are outward facing. 'This delicate coloring 237 has been eagerly sought by hybridizers. Plants grow to four feet, make large clumps through natural division. Disease resistant, the Mid-Century groups are extremely vigorous and hardy. Enchantment is probably the best known variety in this group. Sunburst lilies will be an asset in the perennial border. They form good sized clumps and come in apricot, ivory, orange, pale yellow, and yellow. Then there are the Rainbow hybrids, the Green Mountain hybrids, Fiesta hybrids, and Miss Preston hybrids. This is only a partial listIng. The correct planting depth for lilies is a problem. They should not be planted too deep. Lilies are divided into two groups: the baserooters, which produce roots only from the bottom of the bulbs, and the stem rooters which also send out roots from the stem above the bulb. Stem rooters should be planted a little deeper than the base rooters. When you purchase lily bulbs, make sure that the nurseryman gives you this important information. Let Me Hear Laughter Frances Myrtle Atkinson When I am old and wait the twilight call, Though body-worn, may I with youth's delight Hear quiet laughter in a waterfall While moonbeams veil the loveliness of night. May April fingers, tapping out a song Upon my window, bid me see the hills With greening bluebelled carpets; and a throng Of nodding, waving, dancing daffodils. Let me still hear the meadow lark in spring Playing his flute, releasing crystal showers. Let my glad heart forget its age and sing, Climbing the hills of thought for April flowers. Let me hear laughter in a waterfall, When I am old and wait the twilight call, Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, April 1, and April 15, 1895 "For THE RiGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomeEN OF ALL NATIONS" MESSAGE FROM THE PROPHET JOSEPH SMITH: Nothing is so much calculated to lead people to forsake sin as to take them by the hand and watch over them in tenderness. When persons manifest the least kindness and love towards me, O what power it has over my mind while the opposite course has a tendency to harrow up all the harsh feelings and oppress the human mind.. The power and glory of Godliness is spread out in a broad principle to throw out the mantle of charity. If you would have God have mercy on you have mercy on one another.... We must walk uprightly all day long. How glorious are the principles of righteousness a ee the sisters love the Lord let them feed the sheep and not destroy them.... The best measure or principle to bring the poor to repentance is to administer to their wants— the society is not only to relieve the poor, but to save souls.... From the Proceedings of the Eleventh Meeting of the Nauvoo Relief Society PATRIOTISM: We believe that patriotic teaching in the school, the introduction of the American Flag into every schoolroom in the land and its salute as the symbol and prophecy of peace, of progress, of universal liberty, and obedience to the laws of the land, and of equal rights under the Constitution, would unite the nation's children, strengthen love of law, and develop the spirit of patriotism, which is the life of the Republic, —From Resolutions Passed by the National Council of Women, 1895 HUNTING A HAT With superstitious dread I view A thing all black and sober, No matter if I was born in The late month of October. Nor do I want my hat to bear Art's tinsel grapes and cherries, Or like Italian vender's tray Piled up with flowers and berries... ~—Augusta Joyce Crocheron RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE AT MONTPELIER, IDAHO: President Lindsey was pleased with the reports given, also thankful for the good condition of the Relief Society on this side of the river as this shows the sisters are improving. Said we had a great labor to perform as daughters of Zion, and there are great blessings in store for us if we are faithful, we should remember the teachings of our Savior and try to follow his worthy example and be kind and charitable towards all, not allowing ourselves to indulge in selfishness.... She oe of continuing to celebrate the 17th of March the anniversary of Relief Society. —Jane Osborn, Asst. Sec. HOW TO RAISE MULBERRY TREES: After trimming the old trees, take the slips and cut to about eighteen inches long, and plant in the bottom and against one side of a ditch eight inches deep; the slips about two feet apart and with one or more buds in the soil, and two or more buds above the top of the ditch. —Ella Pyper Page 238 KA eS N the Eighty-fourth Congress, which convened in Washington, D. C., January sth, seventeen women —the highest number to date—were seated. Fourteen women—the second highest number—sat in the Fighty-third Congress. Mrs. Margaret Chase Smith (R), Maine, remains our only woman Senator. The new members of the House of Representatives are: Mrs. Iris Blitch (D), Georgia; Mrs. Joseph Farrington (R), delegate from Hawaii; Mrs. Edith Green (D), Oregon; Mrs. Martha Griffiths (D), Michigan; Mrs. Coya Knutson (D), Minnesota. Members reelected are: Mrs. Frances P. Bolton (R), Ohio, in the House since 1940; Mrs. Marguerite Stitt Church (R), Dlinois; Mrs. Vera Buchanan (D), Pennsylvania; Mrs. Cecil Harden (R), Indiana; Mrs. Elizabeth Kee (D), West Virginia; Mrs. Gracie Pfost (D), Idaho, second term; Mrs. Edith Nourse Rogers (D), Massachusetts, member of the House since 1925; Mrs. Leonor K. Sullivan (D), Missouri, first woman elected to Congress from her state; Mrs. Katherine St. George (R), New York; Mrs. Ruth Thompson (R), Michigan, first woman elected to Congress from her state; Mrs. Edna Kelly (D), New York. Ie Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon HRISTIANE RITTER'S A Woman in the Polar Night, translated from the German by Jane Degras, is a narrative of the author's life with her husband for a year, off the northern coast of Spitsbergen. The drama and bleakness, the peace and serenity of that mysterious region, with their effect upon the human soul, are beautifully told. ABEL HARMER, well-known Latter-day Saint author, and contributor to The Relief Society Magazine has a new book off the press in February—T'he True Book of the Circus, published by The Children's Press, Chicago. Beautifully illustrated by Loran Wilford, it is one of the series of True Books which are published under the direction of the University of Chicago. KERSTI ILVESSALO and DORA JUNG, young girls from Finland, won two of the twenty-seven grand prizes awarded at Milan, Italy, at the tenth Triennial of Decorating and Industrial Arts. IRTHDAY congratulations are extended to Mrs. Dolly McFerson Brown, Clearfield, Utah, ninety; Mrs. Annie Poxon Rhinehart, ninety-three, of Hazelwood,. Pennsylania, and Mrs. Sarah Ann Smith Boren, ninety-three, Salt Lake City, Utah. Page 239 CD EDITORIAL 9 VOL. 42 APRIL 1955 AL pprectation UCH of the unhappiness that prevails in the world today comes from an ignorance of the purpose of life, and an uncertainty of that which awaits us after this life. In these times of great calamity that has befallen the world, when the hearts of men and women are failing them, there is an increasing need for comfort and guidance from a higher source than earth can produce, a fuller understanding of the purpose of earth life, and an increased hope of life and happiness after death. How highly blessed are the Latterday Saints, as a people who have received so much light and knowledge on these subjects through the channel of divine revelation! In this respect, if in no other, the Latterday Saints should be the happiest, the most contented, the most joyous, and the most appreciative of all people. That live; for, not only has the knowledge of the purpose of this earthly existence been communicated to us, but we have had revealed to us an understanding of where we came from, how our earth life can be made to contribute the most to our own happiness here and _hereafter, and also much knowledge concerning our future estate, and how eternal happiness may be obtained. Everyone is seéking for happiness; it is said to be the goal of our lives, our life's work, indeed, the purpose Page 240 of the Gospel of our being. The Book of Mormon prophet Lehi said it this way: "... Men are that they might have joy" (2 Nephi 2:25). But the world does not know how to obtain that joy. In order to obtain happiness we must understand and abide the laws governing it. Again we are fortunate in having modern-day revelation, for another Book of Mormon prophet, Alma, gives us the law upon which happiness is predicated. He tells us that there is no real happiness in wickedness, no real enjoyment in sin and transgression, that the only source of real enjoyment and perfect happiness is in the observance of the laws of truth and righteousness. Where Latter-day Saints are not enjoying the peace and satisfaction the gospel is designed to give them, the cause is generally a lack of appreciation and gratitude for these blessings, which result in a failure to render obedience to the commandments of the Lord. It is well for us to review, from time to time, some of the gifts and blessings of the restored gospel, as an aid in the cultivation of a proper feeling of appreciation and gratitude to our Father for the blessings and privileges which we enjoy as a people. Blessed indeed, are we who know for an absolute certainty that God has inspired prophets and apostles on the earth, to enlighten EDITORIAL and guide his people through all the vicissitudes of life; blessed indeed, are we to know that these divinely appointed men will be instructed and prepared for the events that are to transpire before the great and dreadful day of the coming of the Lord, of which glorious event the present sorrows and confusion of the world are but the predicted indications. With this assurance, the faithful Latter-day Saint can pursue life with a sense of peace and security. And as an additional blessing, spiritual light and guidance are not confined to a few chosen men who stand at the head of the Church. Every member who has obeved the laws of the gospel has received the gift of the Holy Ghost for his own light and guidance into peace and 241 joy. But in order to receive any of these gifts and blessings, we must accept corresponding duties: to live in obedience to the revealed gospel of Jesus Christ. If we are true Latter-day Saints we will always keep before us the recognized standards of religious and moral life, which modern revelation has set up for our guidance. Strict adherence to these standards will make us the happiest and the most secure people on earth. Let us each strive to be worthy of the great blessings of the gospel which have been given to us in such abundance and to show our appreciation by accepting the responsibilities that rest upon us to live the gospel, thereby gaining happiness here and hereafter. —V. N. S. BlueBlossomed Yacara nda Elsie M. Strachan Could it have been a woman, A woman with a thirst For shade trees and for blossoms, Who set these trees out first? Could it have been a woman Who coaxed each bannered sprig To reach beyond the hitch rail, Beyond the weathered ng, To climb toward the heavens With pioneering will— Unfolding petaled beauty And letting blossoms spill Across those frontier Aprils, Where land lay strange and new— Where there was need of blossoms And Jacaranda blue? Notes TO THE FIELD Book of Mlormon Reading Project EPORT forms on The Book of Mormon reading project will be sent to stake and mission Relief Society presidents in May 1955, and should be returned not later than July 15, 1955. 'The general board wishes to encourage all sisters to do the reading of The Book of Mormon for this year, which includes the Book of Alma, chapters g through 63. In order for a sister to receive credit, the reading must have been done during the year in which the lessons have been studied in Relief Society. > We Serve as God s Hands Caroline E. Miner OT by me, but through me shall come accomplishment. This is a humbling and ennobling thought. We have always been taught in our Church that we are the instruments through whom God works; we are the hands to carry forward his purposes. Hands sometimes become crippled, palsied, and in other ways unable to carry out the wishes of the mind that directs them. In like manner we may become unwilling, unable hands to carry on the work of our Father in heaven. Other hands then must do the work. The purposes of God will not be halted. How can we ever become proud in our earthly accomplishments? They are in reality the opportunities which God has given us. "For thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory, for ever. Amen" (Matthew 6:13). So end the Lord's words in the prayer pattern he gave the world. We can be humbly grateful in the accomplishments made through us: the great invention, the glorious picture, the brilliant musical composition, the beautiful poem. Truly great people are ever humble and kind. Only little people, little in the soul sense of the word, are vain and haughty and disdainful. The philosophy that accomplishments are through us but not by us should not lead us to a feeling of irresponsibility for our actions, but instead to a feeling of profound responsibility. "Make me a worthy instrument in thy hands" may well be ouf humble prayer. This philosophy makes us realize the divinity in each other, and makes us tolerant and merciful. Page 242 Gessie Comas Smsth = Artist of Unusual Hobbies ISTER Jessic Evans Sinith, wife of President Joseph Fielding Smith of the Council of the Twelve, is widely known for her beautiful contralto voice, and for her graciousness in sharing this gift with others. Many are surprised to learn that Sister Smith also finds time for several interesting and useful hobbics, particularly various types of needlework In the living room of Sister Smith's apartment is a beautiful maroon rug that was woven on a frame and looks like an onental. Sister Smith used her own original design and her own color scheme of gold, brown, blue, and fuchsia on the maroon background. A lovely needlepoint screen, purchased in France, and stamped only in black and white, was made by Sister Smith in soft colors of her own choosing. She has many other articles of needlepoint and petit point, and has crocheted three tablecloths, two bedspreads, and five afghans. Her latest achievement is a beautiful and unusual quilt. After observing a quilt made from pieces of girls' silk dresses, with a few men's ties mixed in, she conceived the idea of making a quilt entirely of men's ties. Wath this in mind, she started collecting ties from male members of the Tabernacle Choir, and succeeded in obtaining most of the ties from this source. The ties were first carefully laundered, and then Sister Smith ingemously made her own design. Finding in her collection only fourteen ties the same size, she used these in the center, then worked skilfully from the sides and ends into the center, forming the unique pattern. All of the ties were first sewed onto a sheet, then she featherstitched around each tie. The South Eighteenth Ward Relief Society, of which Sister Smith is a member, was asked to do the quilting, using maroon satin as a background. Under the expert direction of Sister Emma Imlay, quilting chairman, the sisters made an individual design in each tie. Sister Smith declared the quilting to be a perfect job, and then she worked a featherstitch around the entire quilt to make just the right finish. 243 Cancer — A Quiz Shat Mlay Save Your Life Sandra Munsell Supervisor, Magazine Services, American Cancer Society QUESTIONS What is cancer? Can cancer be cured? How can cancer be discovered in time? What is the American Cancer Society? What has it accomplished? Does that mean it has solved the cancer problem? Can I help to prevent this tragedy? What will my contribution be used for? ANSWERS An uncontrolled growth of cells. If permitted to spread through the body, it inevitably Jeads to death. Many types can be cured, but only if they are discovered and treated early. By your doctor who has available many diagnostic tests. The only national voluntary agency which fights cancer by research, education, and service to cancer's victims. It helped save an American from dying of cancer on an average of every seven minutes last year. Unfortunately, no. Despite the advances made, more than 235,000 Americans will die of cancer this year. Yes. By having regular health examinations yourself. And by contributing to the American Cancer Society. For research that may some day save your life, for education, and for helping cancer's victims. Strike back at cancer, man's cruelest enemy. Give to the American Cancer Society. Friendship Elsie Sim Hansen With silver threads of friendship, I weave a pattern true Into my tapestry of life, My joyous hours with you. Page 244 ' Steak for Thursday Rosa Lee Lloyd RISTEEN McCarthy — put C Yommy in his high chair and tied a bib around his neck. "Mulk!"" he crooned as his little hands went around the cup she handed to him. He gulped rapturously. "Just like your daddy," she observed, glancing at 'Tom as he sat contentedly eating his bacon and eggs. "Give your daddy enough to eat and a place to sleep, and he crows with delight. He likes to live in a rut. Even when he has a chance, he won't get out of it!" Tom put his fork down with a little sigh. 'The smile went away from his thin, Lincolnesque face. "Gre." He reached for her hand, but she balled it into a little fist. 'Tom had to learn, she told herself with a determined shrug, that he couldn't kiss away every argument they had. He always counted on her love and the warm touch of him to melt her down like maple sugar. But this time she was going to hold out if it took all summer, as General Grant once said. Or was it General Lee? Cris was never too sure about American history. She was much better in arithmetic, even if she did get a little mixed up in her budget. "Now look," she persisted, "your Aunt Julia has left us her house on Circle Drive. It's ours, every lovely inch of it. Your cousin Willa gets most of the furniture, and I'm glad because she loves all that old teakwood and those oriental rugs. I'm not the tvpe for teakwood...." Tom pushed his chair away from the table, unwound his long legs, and stood up. "And I'm not the type for a mansion on Circle Drive!" he almost shouted. "I'm a hard-working commercial artist, a nine-to-five guy. You knew that when you married me. I can't afford to own a home on Circle Drive!" Cristeen's smile was a nice combination of wisdom and_ supplication. "But you do own one, 'om McCarthy. A very beautiful home just a little way from Verny Sherman's. 'Think how wonderful! 1 can visit her every day. She and Arch entertain every night. She'll surely invite us when we live on the Drive. Just imagine going to one of Verny's parties!' Tom groaned and sat down as though the thought was too much for him. "Yes. Imagine. Me in my old tux I had in college and you in a budget formal from Karbecks!" Cristeen glared at him. "T can get along in a budget frock... If I have to!" His eyes had that haunted, hardpressed look that Cristeen dreaded. Then he demanded, "But will you tell me how we can live on Circle Drive and still eat three times a day?" Her voice chided him. "There you go," she said, "utterly earthy. Always thinking of food instead of counting the stars...." "Mulk!" Tommy yelled and Page 245 246 banged his chair table with the empty cup. Tom looked at the baby and his heavy brows were bushy points. "See what I mean?" he countered. RISTEEN put Tommy's cereal in a bowl and handed him a spoon. "The house was a gift, Tom," she went on. "Your Aunt Julia must have wanted us to live there or she wouldn't have willed it to us...." 'Tom shook his head. "T can't believe Aunt Julia was that stupid! She knew what my salary was. How did she figure we could furnish a ten-room house since she left the furniture to Willa...?" "Only the teakwood and_ the rugs." Cristeen was eager. "There are a lot of old pieces Willa wouldn't have. We can redecorate them." Tom got up again and began to pace back and forth. "Did she think I could take care of that threetiered sunken garden and cut that two-acre lawn after I got home from work?" "She counted on me, too," Cristeen consoled him. "The last time I went to see Aunt Julia I told her how much I liked her home." He stopped pacing and glowered at his wife. "You didn't tell Aunt Julia you wanted to live there?" he questioned thickly. "Of course not.. Ly... 2" Tom tossed his hands up. Eyes were bleak. "If she had only left us money, instead. Then we could have bought that little place out in Or-. Not exactHis RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1955 chard Bend and had money left over..." he sighed. "Sleep money I call it. The kind that gives a fellow like me a little cushion of security so he can go to sleep at night. Cristeen met his glance and her eyes had fierce, challenging lights in them. "Security!" she repeated. "You're making me hate that word, 'Tom McCarthy. At least you're making me hate what that word means to you—a safe little rut whether your wife is happy or not...." Tom held her shoulders with firm, steady hands. "Listen, honey," he said, "'security is what I do want for you and Tommy and for more children. Let's sell that house on Circle Drive. We can get a good buy at Orchard Bend. Some of the gang from the office live out there. You remember Sid Garns and Buff Hatch?" Cristeen did remember them. Nice enough fellows in their middle twenties, with nice enough wives who were willing to settle down in a nice enough rut. But that wasn't what she wanted. "They like it out there!" His voice coaxed her. "Only an hour from town—they have fruit trees and a little garden and there's a golf course—their kids have a?? Pony.... She would die, thought Cristeen. She'd simply die. She had been reared on a small farm, and she was not going back again. Verny would laugh when she heard about this! Verny had always thought that Tom wouldn't get ahead. She had the condescending manner of a woman who has been STEAK FOR THURSDAY smart enough to marry a man who was already rich. Why couldn't Tom remember how Cristeen had struggled to get away from a small town? Did she have to remind him of the effort it took, after she was graduated from high school, to earn money to pay her tuition to business college? And had he forgotten how determined she was to make good on that first typing job at Langs? Hadn't she progressed steadily until she was one of the top secretaries before they were married? HE twisted away from him. "Orchard Bend!'' she scoffed. "Where is your vision, Tom? If you're contented with a place in Orchard Bend, you'll end up being like Orchard Bend. If you want to live on Circle Drive, vou'll be like Circle Drive." Tom folded his arms across his chest. He had a worn, defeated look. "T want a little peace and rest, Cris," he said. "Maybe we who have been through one war and half expect another one and are now fighting taxes and inflation are willing to settle for a safe little spot without all the glitter." His face had that haunting appeal that always gave her a guilty stab. Her eyes flickered away from his. She didn't want to hurt him, but she simply had to make him realize how much she wanted to live on Circle Drive and how important it was to take advantage of the opportunity Aunt Julia had given to them. "When you sulk," she - said, dimpling, "you look determined to hold out till the end of time...." His mouth curved a little. Then 247 he caught her hand in both of his and pretended to bite the tips of her fingers. Tom's strong arms went around her and drew her close to him. "Why do you have to be so persistent?" His voice was husky. "A guy doesn't stand a chance with a persistent woman—if he loves her," he whispered against her cheek. Cristeen's smile was a wide, sweet curve across her face. "You mean—we're moving to Circle Drive?" "Isn't that what you want most of all?" he countered. Her eyes were blue as sapphires. "If you say so, Tom," she murmured. "If I say so," he repeated. His voice was edged with misgivings. "As though what I have to say means anything. I'm only the guy who pays the bills and does the wortrying for this family...." Cristeen hugged him. "You're the guy who carries the whole world on his shoulders—my world, that is. Now finish your breakfast. You'll need strength for the big move." Tom sat down at the table again. "T need my head fixed," he muttered. '"'My state of mind is a perfect example of the world's confusion...." "You'll feel like a king of Circle Drive," Cristeen told him. Tom didn't answer. GHE was the busiest woman in the world, Cristeen thought two hours later, as she backed their little car from the garage and sent it humming down the highway. Tommy, rosy-cheeked and_ freshly bathed and in clean white rompers, 248 cuddled close to her side. She was fresh and rosy, too, in her pink linen suit. "You're a nice young man,' teen told him proudly. Like to go with Mama?" "Go—go!" he gabbled. "First, we'll stop at Central Market for the groceries. Then we'll go up to Circle Drive and see our new home. Or shall we stop in and visit Verny first?" Tommy clapped his hands, and Cristeen concluded that what they did wouldn't make much difference to him. Just being alive was fun for 'Tommy. Verny hasn't any little boys—or girls either, she added to herself, her brows puckering. She is busy being Mrs. Arch Sherman and entertaining. Cristeen wondered if she even wanted children, but maybe she was misjudging her, she thought. She and Verny had lived together in a little apartment on Bassford Street before they were married. Verny was LaVern Haynes then, a commercial model, slender, darkly fascinating, with a swing to her walk and a lift to her chin that told you she was going far in this world. Was Verny the real reason she had been so persistent about moving to Circle Drive? Was it because Verny lived there? Did she want to show her they could live there, too? Then her heart hurt a little as she remembered how 'Tom's shoulders had drooped when he walked along the sidewalk to get the bus so she could use the car. He was too young to have drooping shoulders— only twenty-eight—two years older than she was. " Cris- "Do you RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1955 Love, she thought, fiercely, is a necessity. And the kind of love she felt for Tom couldn't be a mistake —it was the very essence of life, the magic that made the everyday heartaches endurable. It was her love for 'om that made her so determined for him to succeed; it was her love that would melt Circle Drive. She could hardly wait to tell Verny about it. How surprised she would be. Cristeen decided to go there right after she bought the groceries. She parked the car, lifted Tommy in her arms, and hurried into the Central Market. He squealed with joy when he saw the wire baskets in their metal carts, so she placed him in the front end of one and wheeled him from one department to another. The butcher gave her a gleaming white smile when she stopped before his counter, and as Cristeen smiled back at him, she thought how much she appreciated a neatlooking butcher. She would miss his cheerful greeting when she moved from his neighborhood. "Hello, Mrs. McCarthy," he beamed. "Isn't this your steak night? It's Thursday. How about a nice thick prime sirloin?" Cristeen hesitated. It was their steak night, but they would have to cut down on things like that now they were moving. 'They would barely be able to get by if Tom gave up his Saturday golf and their Thursday steak, and their Friday movie and dinner out.... She shook her head. "Not tonight. I think I'll take some chipped beef.. "You're missing something," he STEAK FOR THURSDAY said, tipping the steak so she could see it better. "I know," Cristeen answered slowly, watching him put it back on the tray. Tom needed that steak. He ate only a sandwich and a bowl of soup for luncheon. And he was thinner lately. But they just couldn't af-- ford it now, she told herself, with a frown. T was after eleven o'clock when Cristeen turned the car from Edgehill Boulevard and entered the exclusive Circle Drive district. Her heart winged with pride as she looked at the expansive parkway, velvet smooth as though even the grass in this district grew to wellgroomed perfection by some princely right. Each house was of a different design, individually characteristic of its owner. At the very top of the curving street, on a stately hill with a full view of both the mountains and the valley was the home Aunt Julia had left to them. It was a large white stucco house with a curving cornice and a rounded picture window that was unique, and yet as regal as Aunt Julia had been. It's the prettiest place on the Drive, Cristeen thought, as she stopped her car in front of Verny's English gabled house about a block below it. It had charm and character and looked like something out of a Chadwick novel. She jumped out, took Tommy in her arms, and was halfway up the steps that circled the terraced lawn, when she stopped dead still, staring at the big sign on the grass in front of her. For Sale! 249 She couldn't breathe. She put Tommy down by her feet and stood there with the world spinning around her. Why hadn't Verny told her? They had lunched to gether only last week, and_ she hadn't mentioned such a_ thing. Something must have happened, something serious.... She lifted Tommy again, hurried to the front door, and rang the bell. She could hear the chimes echo inside. After a minute she rang again and then the third time. Now she could hear someone close a door and then swift, impatient footsteps coming through the hall as though the one coming to answer was doing so only because the ring had been so insistent. Probably the housekeeper, Cristeen thought. But it was Verny who opened the door, a pathetically pale Verny, thin, drawn, with a dark satin robe pulled tightly around her, buttoned crookedly. "Verny! What's happened? The house—I didn't know...." "Oh, Cris—come in—" Verny's hands smoothed her dark hair. Then she pressed them hard against her face. "T can hardly think—things happened so fast. " She turned and led the way into the living room, and Cristeen followed her. She sat down on the nearest settee and put Tommy on the floor. "Tell me—" she said, feeling weak and dizzy. Verny's hands fluttered to her throat. "It's Arch—he's in the hospital ox.." "Oh, no..." Cristeen breathed. "A complete breakdown." Her 250 voice was ragged. "He collapsed at the office—last Monday—I think it was—and he's so young, Cris—only twenty-nine. 'Too much work—and worry—Dr. Garns said." Cristeen couldn't speak. She could feel her heart begin to thump inside of her. Too much worry—it might have been Tom! "Oh, Verny," was all she could say, and it sounded so inadequate. But she couldn't tell her that she had thought Arch Sherman was tich, and that he didn't have a worry in the world. She hadn't dreamed that anything could happen that would take Verny's house away from her. "Cris—I was so wrong," Verny was saying. "You don't know what it's like to know you've been so terribly wrong....." Her voice trailed away. Cristeen's eyes squeezed shut. She couldn't bear to see Verny so unstrung. Verny was the strong confident kind who sailed through life on a high wind. "He bought this house for me when he really needed the money for his business—he gave me everything I asked for—and I kept on asking and asking. Oh, Cris—I'm so ashamed!" She bent her head and turned away. Cristeen touched her hand. "Verny — please don't — Arch loves you — he wanted to give you things. Don't blame yourself." "But I do—I do. I didn't know how much he meant to me until this happened. If you could see him so—so exhausted—so sick." Cristeen pulled her gently down beside her. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1955 "Tm glad I came," she murmured. Verny's eyes wavered and she wet her lips. At last she spoke. "I'm glad, too—now that you're here. But—I wouldn't have called you, Cris—I couldn't." "Verny! Why not?" Cristeen demanded. She shrugged and her shoulders were sharp under her black robe. "IT guess—because I've been so envious of you, Cris," she said in a voice like dry leaves. "Envious—of me!" "Yes, Cris. That's why I didn't go to see you very often or invite you here. Seeing you and 'Tom— and the baby in your cute little home made me realize so many things. You are the kind of wife I want to be, Cris—the kind who works along with her man and makes him feel rich when he doesn't have a dime." Her voice stumbled Her eyes glistened. 'Then she went on bravely. "I'll try to be like you, Cris, if the Lord will give me another chance. 'That's all I ask—a chance to show Arch that I can be the right kind of wife, too." RISTEEN felt a great hot lump in her throat. She turned her head so she could look out of the picture window and see Aunt Julia's house at the top of the hill; the beautiful white house with the crystal chandeliers and the rooms opening 'one into another— What could she say, she asked herself, wishing she could hide somewhere. Should she tell Verny about the house and that she had made 'Tom promise. To live there even though he couldn't afford it? Or would it be kinder to let her STEAK FOR THURSDAY friend think she was perfectly happy in a little place they could afford? Her mouth quivered and she blinked hard to hold the tears back, but they glazed her vision and she saw the white house in the distance through a misty blur. It was so far away. She took a deep breath. The noonday sunshine flickered through Verny's heavy mesh draperies and sprayed gold across the carpet. Cristeen could tell her that she had envied her all of this, but she realized that was not the way to help Verny now. She looked at Verny. "If you sell this house," she asked, "where will you live?" Verny lifted her head and Cristeen thought she saw a bright new courage come into her eyes. "We'll have enough for a little place somewhere," she said. "We can start over. I'll have to work until Arch is strong enough. But I won't care—if he can just get well." RISTEEN took a long deep breath and listened as the big clock in the hallway chimed the half hour. "You might like Orchard Bend," she suggested in a tender little voice. "Tom and I are thinking of a home out there. We want a place where we can have fruit trees and a few chickens—and a pony." She gave Verny her rainbow smile. 251 "Tom wants the kind of place a fellow can afford and still have sleep money." € She bit her lip. Have said that. "Sleep money?" Verny repeated, and she almost smiled. "I like that. I think Arch will like it, too, when I tell him. We'll like a place out there, Cris—especially if you and Tom live there." Tommy squirmed and sat up. Then he began to yell and kick and pull at his mother. "He's hungry," Cristeen said as she got to her feet. "'He's just like Tom. He likes to eat on time. I have some milk in the car." Verny stood up, and Cris saw that hope had warmed her eyes. And when she led the way to the front door a gentle, confident swing had come back to her walk. "Why don't you come over for dinner after you go to the hospital?" she asked. She tried to keep her voice casual, but she knew this was a terribly imShe shouldn't. Portant moment in their lives. _ If Verny accepted, it meant the beginning of a new kind of companionship for all of them. Verny toyed a moment with the buttons on her robe. Then she smiled. "T'd like to, Cris," she said, "and I will-if Arch is any better. But please—nothing fancy." "Oh, no," Cris called over her shoulder as she hurried out. "We'll just have salad—and steak. I always have steak for Tom on Thursday." Hal Rumel TABLE ARRANGEMENT BY FLORENCE C. WILLIAMS She Hen Party Helen S. Williams H'*YE you ever thought about giving a Hen Party at Eastertime? Florence Williams found a colorful china hen and nested her right in the center of the table. From this friendly, comfortable-looking hen came dozens of ideas to make the midmorning party unique and delightful. Scattered over the table were kernels of wheat. Small flower frogs held tall stalks of wheat as gracefully as if they were growing and blowing in an open field. On each place card were miniature hens, roosters, and chicks, and even the fruit cup was served in chicken-shaped dishes. Not only did the table pictured here create an atmosphere for the Hen Party, but the food served carried out the idea and was delicious. Each guest had been asked to bring a favorite recipe which used eggs or chicken. 'These were exchanged and written in recipe books with cover and pages outlined in the shape of a hen. Have you ever tasted Eggs Benedictine? If you haven't, try this recipe which Florence used. You and your guests will have a real treat. On a round piece of buttered toast, place a piece of ham, a poached egg, and cover with Hollandaise Sauce. HOoLLANDAISE SAUCE 2 egg yolks % tsp. Pepper 1 tbsp. Water 1% tbsp. Butter 1 tbsp. Lemon juice 1 tbsp. Flour % tsp. Salt 1 cup boiling water Page 252 THE HEN PARTY 253 Mix the first five ingredients. Melt butter and flour, then add water slowly. Pour into egg mixture stirring constantly until thick. Pour over the poached egg and serve piping hot. It is delicious, and such a glorified way of serving eggs! The Hen Party at any season of the year is exciting and different, and can be given by any one who has a little originality and who wants to do things a little differently. Besides, it's fun to be invited to a Hen Party, because women are sort of like comfortable little hens, they love their chicks, and they like to keep careful watch over their brood. They love to cluck a bit about their friends and children—so what could be more fun than to entertain at a delightful Hen Party? Cinguain Vesta N. Lukei Silver— Gray cloud figures Trail purple shadow-veils And scatter raindrop sequins as They go. She Lower Hills Lucille Waters Mattson SSNAOTHER, look! I can see the Teton Peaks! Why can't I see them from home?" I glanced out the car window at the majestic snow-capped pinnacles in the distance and answered briefly, ''Well, son, it is because at home we are too close to the lower hills, and they obstruct the view. Even though we are actually nearer to the peaks at home than we are here, we cannot see over the little hills." As the car sped homeward the little boy's question started a train of thought. What a good simile the incident was for the ways of life. How often we come close to the higher peaks, but involved in the business of living and earning a living, we cannot see the higher purpose of this mortal life. It is so easy to live in a rut of routine, habit, and worldliness that we go along for days, months, and sometimes years without putting ourselves in a spiritual position to view the ultimate heights of perfection for which we should be striving. So easy to live away a lifetime with no broader view, no higher goal in sight than the foothills of worldly success. It is dangerous to live thus, for we are receptive to Satan's wishes, and when worldly disappointments and sorrows befall us, we find our souls have become small and hard and bitter. How much more rewarding it is to weigh any questionable pleasures of our immediate surroundings at their true value, and keep in sight the goal of eternal salvation. My son, my prayer for you is that you may regard worldliness with detachment, and during this visit of testing and trial on earth, have always before you the pinnacle of celestial perfection. Her Own Life Ruth Moody Ostegar HE soft, rose-tinted light of the early spring dawn was beginning to permeate the room where Myra Glennon lay dreaming. She wore the gown of a bride, and seemed to float over a gossamer bridge of dreams into a shining, joyous land of warmth, happiness, and love. Suddenly she was awake; the dream was gone forever, and she was faced with reality. Well, it's entirely possible, she thought. Why shouldn't I become a bride? Even if I am twenty-five, Pve still got a good future, and I'm really not bad looking. If I could only get away from this—this stupid town! Everyone here thinks of me as "Poor Myra, a schoolmarm and nursemaid to an invalid mother." It just isn't fair at all! I should have a chance to live my own life! Four years previous to this, when Myra was a senior at the university, the sudden death of her father had left a situation which had changed her plans completely. Her mother, an invalid, was left a home with a mortgage, a car not completely paid for, a pile of small debts, and no means of support. Of her three children, Myra alone was free to care for her. Her oldest, a son with a wife and two children, was attempting to finish law school on his G. I. Funds. Her second son was in Korea. Bravely giving up her plans for a B. A., Myra had faced the situation, finished her teaching requirements, signed a contract as a teacher in the Page 254 city schools, and had taken upon her young shoulders the responsibility of her mother and her home. She had willingly volunteered her services in this matter, and had never regretted it. She loved her mother, and no sacrifice was too great for her sake. But this morning, with spring in the air, she was frankly rebellious, and longed for a husband and children of her own. If I were only back in school, she thought. I'm sure I'd meet some nice, older fellow there, perhaps someone taking out a higher degree. Her mind was carried away for a few minutes on the incoming tide of imagination. 'Then she sighed, at any rate, if not a husband, I might have a career: I've always wanted to write. Who knows, I might write the great American novel, or be a foreign correspondent flying to interesting spots all over the world? "My-ra," her mother's tired voice interrupted the wild ebb tide of fancy. "Are you awake? It's time to get up, dear." "Yes, Mother, I'm awake." Once again she sighed. "Myra, will you please bring me a cup of hot water when you get up?" "Hot water?" Myra yawned and sat up on the edge of her bed. "Yes, of course, Mother, I'll have it there in a minute." She hastily slipped into a housecoat and_ slippers, and for the next hour and a half had no time whatever for dreams. When she was HER OWN LIFE finally ready for school, she helped her mother into her wheel chair, set the telephone and radio beside her, and made ready to leave. "Now, Mother, I've got everything ready for your lunch. Mrs. Manning (the woman next door who cared for her mother while she was away) will find my note in the kitchen. I've got to run now; I hope you'll be happy." She stooped and kissed the frail, wrinkled cheek. "Be careful, Myra. Don't drive too fast." "I won't, Mother, "bye now." A few minutes later Miss Glennon let herself into the room at the Jefferson Street School where she taught the third grade. She took off her coat and hung it up, dusted her desk, arranged the apple blossoms she had brought with her, consulted her lesson plans for the day, and began copying an assignment on the blackboard. As her hands performed these familiar tasks, her mind was busy with but one problem. How could she arrange her affairs in order to attend the uni versity again next year? John, her older brother, was now a struggling young lawyer, having a hard time to meet the payments on his newly acquired home. His house was already full, his wife overworked, and his children, whose number had grown to four, made her mother nervous. Dick, the second brother, now an engineer, was here and there on one job or another, and a construction camp was certainly no place for an invalid. The door opened, and two little girls came into the room. "Good morning, girls," ed them. 255 "Good morning, Miss Glennon," they chorused. "What brings you here so early?" "We didn't want to be late." "Well run out of doors and play; it's nice this morning, and I have work to do." "Can me and Sandra take out the ball?" "You should remember to say 'Sandra and I,' Judy. You're almost through the third grade." "Well then, can we?" "Yes, Judy, you may. Come here a minute, Sandra. Will you please?" The little girl stood before her teacher who inspected her closely. "Before you go to play," Myra suggested, "I think you should go to the rest room and wash your face. You don't want all the children to know that you had egg and jam for breakfast, do you?" "No-0." "Well run along now, and be sure and get it good and clean." As the door closed, Myra once again took up her task, this time in an annoyed manner. Am I going to have to spend the rest of my life correcting the grammar and inspecting the faces of the Judys and Sandras of this world? She asked herself. It's so—so frustrating, telling the same children the same things day after day. It isn't that I don't like teaching, for I really do, but I don't want to spend my whole life at it! QNCE again the door opened and Mr. Johnson, the principal, entered. "Good morning, Miss Glennon, the contracts finally got here. I suppose. We can count on you again next year, can't we?". She greet- 256 Myra didn't like to be taken for granted. "Well, to be frank with you, Mr. Johnson, I'm planning on going back to the university." "You are?" The principal did not try to hide his astonishment. "Well, that is—I mean I'm going if I can make the proper arrangements here at home,' Myra stuttered. "It isn't certain yet, but I do so want to go!" "It would surely be nice for you, but I don't know how I'd get along without you. I've come to depend upon you more and more." Myra remained silent, slightly stunned by her own revealing of her innermost secret. "Here's the contract anyway, so keep it and see how things work out. Good luck!" and the principal was gone. Myra, feeling suddenly weak inside, sat down. She crossed her arms on her desk and laid her head upon them. Why on earth did I say that? She silently asked herself. By tonight the entire school will be aware that "Poor Myra" won't be here next year. Now I've got to do something or be the laughing stock of the whole community! Hot, burning tears started to her eyes, but she choked them back. A few moments later she raised her head, picked up the contract, and thrust it into the drawer, took a pencil and paper and began putting down figures. "Let's see," she mused. "I've saved almost twelve hundred in the last four years. 'That would see me through school, in fact, I could spare a little to help with mother's care. Now if I could get John and Dick to each agree to send mother RELIEF SOCIETY NAGAZINE—APRIL 1955 a check every month, and get the Mannings to move in with her...." On and on, her mind raced as she saw the fulfillment of her dream becoming a reality — at least on paper. The words of the little engine record which she often played to her children came to her mind: I think I can, I think I can, I know I can, I know Ican.... "And I will, too," she added aloud for good measure. A very excited young woman, with but half her attention focused upon her work, conducted the third grade that morning. The day proved to be warm, the children restless, and the teacher nervous. N the middle of the morning she noticed Jimmy, a tall, lank, tenyear-old, gazing off into space, daydreaming. His faded, blond hair was badly in need of a haircut, his clothes were shabby and not too clean. His old, runover shoes failed to hide the holes in his socks. Jimmy was from the old trailer camp down by the river. But he was bright, in fact, Myra felt that in spite of his apparent lack of parental care, the boy had high potentialities. There was something good, sweet, and genuine about him, that seemed to be ever reaching above his sordid home conditions. She had always been interested in him. "Jimmy, why aren't you doing your arithmetic?" she asked softly, as she stopped by his side. "Oh, I'm all through," he answered. "What are you doing?" "Tm writing you a poem, Miss Glennon," Jimmy shyly admitted. HER OWN LIFE "Well, that's nice. I like your poems, Jimmy. When it's finished, just put it on my desk." Myra dragged through the morning. As she relaxed for a few moments before going to lunch, her eyes fell upon Jimmy's poem. She smiled as she read his crude verse, which was practically without meter and had very little rhyme. It ended: We will always try and be quiet in school And not make hardly any fuss, For we all love you Because we know you love us. What a sweet thing for a child to say, she thought to herself. I just don't know how he could pay me a higher compliment. And I really do love them, every one. At the close of the day, she was busy correcting papers when the door opened and a very angry little girl entered. "Miss Glennon, Jimmy's throwing rocks at us. Come and make him stop. He almost hit Annie." "Why is Jimmy throwing rocks, have you been teasing him?" "No, honest, Miss Glennon, we didn't say nothing about him." "Well I'll have to get to the bottom of this." At the gate of the school yard, she found the boy, very much upset, with a rock in each hand. "T'm goin' to get 'em! I'm goin' to get 'em!" he wailed. "Jimmy!" Myra's voice held all the authority she was capable of putting into it. "Drop those rocks this minute and come with me." "Miss Glennon, they said mean things about my brother, and I won't stand for it!" "Come on in and tell me all about it." She put her arm around 257 the sobbing boy and led him back to the room. When he finally got to the state that she could reason with him, they talked about boys whose brothers belonged to gangs, and did things which were not right, and about little girls who hurt the boys they liked best just to attract their attention. 'Then Miss Glennon abruptly changed the subject. "Jimmy," she said smiling, "you need a haircut." "Yes, Ma'am. Mom was going to cut it the other night, but I ran away and wouldn't let her. She don't know nothin' about cuttin' hair." IS teacher, overlooking the grammatical errors, replied, "You know it's spring, and I need a boy to help dig up my garden. 'T'omorrow is Saturday, why don't you come over and help me for a few hours in the morning? I think you could earn enough to get a hairrc "Could I really?" he asked enthusiastically. 'Then his face fell. "T haven't got a bicycle. How would I get there?" "How about the bus?" she asked. Then, slipping a coin into the boy's hand, she added, "Well run along now, I'll see you tomorrow at nine. Do you know where I live?" "Yes, Ma'am. Leastwise I know about where it is, 'cause I found your address in the telephone book one night when I was over to Don's. I can find it all right." She gave him a few simple instructions for getting there, and the boy left, smiling happily, the incident of the rock throwing forgotten entirelyn I fear for Jimmy, she thought as she watched him run across the 258 school yard. He's a good boy, but he has a temper, and he is easily led. I wish I could do sqmathigg for him. Monday morning, after a satisfying week-end of garden work and letter writing, mixed with church going and relaxing, Myra arrived at school. Her plans for the future, now that the letters to her brothers were actually written, seemed much nearer consummation, and_ she smiled happily. But her happiness was short lived. The children began arriving, and soon the whole schoolground buzzed with excitement. Snatches of conversation came through the partially opened windows. Myra did not like what she heard, and walked outside. "What's all this about someone being sent to jail?" she asked. "Tt's Jimmy!" "They smashed all the windows!" "She's going to send them to jail for a year!" "The cops got 'em!" Many excited voices, all talking at once, tried to inform her. "Wait a minute!" she said, holding up both hands. Then, turning to one of the older boys, she said, "John, you tell me about it." It developed that three boys had broken into a woman's — house, smashed her windows, lamps, and dishes, thrown things all over the floor and generally made a shambles of it. A neighbor, seeing something was wrong, had notified the police. The boys had been apprehended and had spent the night in the juvenile detention home... Two of them, one of whom was Jimmy's brother, belonged to a gang and had caused trouble before. 'The third was Jimmy. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1955 Fear clutched Myra's heart. She realized that he was in serious trouble. She also felt that he was undoubtedly innocent of any offense except that of tagging along or being present. She knew that there was usually a morning paper in the teachers' room, and she hastily made her way there. S juvenile delinquency usually made the front page, she had no trouble finding the article. She scanned it quickly. The story was much as she had gleaned it from the children, with no names mentioned. The woman, a Mrs. Weems, was pressing charges, and the three boys were to be arraigned before Judge Toft at three that afternoon. I must do something! I've just got to help Jimmy; I must see Judge Toft! The telephone directory promptly produced his number, and as the distance to his office was a short one, she made an appointment for the noon hour. "You'd have made a good lawyer, Miss Glennon," the judge smilingly remarked after she had poured out her tale of the neglected boy who expressed the beautiful thoughts of his soul in poems, and was ready to fight for his brother's good name. "His age is in his favor. We rarely send a ten-year-old to a detention home. This is also his first offense, but he should be taught a lesson." Judge 'Toft, with the tips of his fingers pressed against each other, looked off into space, deep in thought. "Miss Glennon, if I were to put Jimmy on probation for a year, and make him accountable to you, HER OWN LIFE would you be willing to—well, sort of be responsible for him?" "Oh, yes, certainly, Vl do anything! [I know what [Il do, I'll give him a permanent job helping me in the yard. He's large and strong for his age, and he loves the garden. 'That will give him some responsibility and also a little money for some decent clothes, haircuts, and the many needs of a boy. It will help me keep track of him, too, and he'll be in good company at least part of the time." "Well, we'll try and handle it that way, Miss Glennon." Myra's mind was so full of Jimmy and his problem that she never thought of her own until she got back to the schoolroom and pulled out the drawer of her desk. 'There she saw the teacher's contract. "What have I done? What have I done?" she cried aloud. "T can't do this! I'm going away to school!" She dropped heavily into the chair. The smarting tears stung her eyes. She bowed her head down upon her arms. She would have burst into uncontrolled sobbing, but her school teacher's aplomb and selfcontrol quickly asserted itself. 259 What should she do? Phone Judge Toft and tell him she'd changed her mind and couldn't help Jimmy? Or give up all her golden dreams of the future? Deep within her heart she slowly began to realize that all along she had known that her plans were not feasible. She couldn't go her own way and leave her mother, her home, and now—Jimmy. After all, was not her job of guiding the feet of the young into paths of knowl edge, integrity, honesty, and love of their country much more important to this land than writing the great American novel? Or for that matter, was it not more important than even her own selfish happiness, which she would be seeking at the expense of others? Finally she raised her head, took the contract from the desk, and signed it, unwaveringly. "Someone must look after the Jimmys of this world," she said, "and I guess the job falls to me." Myra was dreaming again, but this time her feet were firmly implanted in the soil of reality, and by the hand she led a shabby, uncared for, ten-year-old boy. [Tloment of Music Dorothy J. Roberts Joy, joy—something sings inside me. How could I have earned this tune of peace; Where could I have paid the precious coinage Time must have taken for its bright release? Long ago did I select this music; By some stern barter make the just decree That for some sacrifice I have forgotten This sudden gladness should now sing in me? Make a Srain Ruth K. Kent 'ANT to make a train of matchboxes? All you need in addition to the matchboxes are half a dozen empty spools of equal size, a few pipe cleaners, and one bright button. To make the engine, use the outside of the match box, the part that the box slides into, and the box, too. First glue one of the empty spools upright near one edge of the top of the outside box (for the smoke stack). Now turn a spool down behind the upright spool that was glued to the top of the box (for the cab). Pull the ends of the pipe cleaner down around the sides of the box and fasten underneath, PIPE CLEANER + SPOOL 0 BUTTON - SPOOL 4 LE fsroot l WHEELS Now, for the wheels, run pipe cleaners through two spools. Turn the box over and cut out two oblong places from the bottom, one inch wide and a little longer than the spools. Place one spool with the pipe cleaner through the hole at the front of the box so half of the spool sticks out underneath the box. Now pull the pipe cleaner up over the box and fasten at the top. This makes the front wheels. Now do the same thing at the other end of the box with the other spool for the back wheels. Glue the bright button onto the front end of the box for a headlight. A red button is best. Now your engine is finished. Cut QUT FOR WHEELS BOX La: PIPE CLEANER i \ WS CY soot To make the cars, cut out the places in the bottoms of the boxes for the wheels. Then punch holes in the sides of the box a half inch from the bottom of the box and just above the cut-out places in the bottoms. Put the spools with the pipe cleaners run through them into the cut-out places, then pull up the pipe cleaners and insert the ends into the holes that you punched in the sides of the box, then fasten the ends together inside of the box, and the cars are finished. Page 260 MAKE A TRAIN 261 PIPE CLEANERS REAR FRONT To make couplings cut the pipe cleaners in two. Fold one of the pieces so the ends are together and push the ends through the back end of the engine. Reach inside under the spool wheel and bend the ends back half an inch. Bend the part sticking out up to make a hook. Make the same kind of loop at the back end of one of the cars. At the front end of the cars, push the two folded ends of the pipe cleaner through and bend back the ends. Make a loop of the part sticking out and loop it over the hook made at the back end of the engine and the other car. (Milk cartons can also be used in place of matchboxes. ) Now your train is ready to run and carry a lot of cargo, A F landful of Dirt Vivian Campbell Work Take a handful of dirt, feel the dampness and the softness; feel the life in it. There, within the plain brown cover of the earth, lies a power that cares for all living things. Get a wrinkled, dried-up little seed, and take a handful of dirt to cover it. Water this carefully for a few days, and watch, watch the life come creeping forth, stretching bright green fingers to the sun! The seed and the water cannot do this without the power in a handful of dirt. Think of all the trees and plants and grasses that are anchored firmly in the soil. All mankind depends on these for life. Thus, our life, too, is held within that handful of earth. More than life comes from the earth. From her bosom wells forth beauty—the beauty of outstretched fields, running gold and green and copper in the sun. She gives us the shadows of the forests and the rugged upward thrust of hills. Surely beauty comes from the earth! Her themes and patterns are repeated in every story picture and song. All the loveliness that man creates he fills with the beauty he sees about him, the beauty that comes from the earth. Take a handful of earth now. Feel the softness, the beauty, and the life of it. Within this handful is a little bit of yesterday, a part of today, and all the promise of tomorrow. The soil is precious. Guard it carefully, use it wisely, and work it reverently. —_ An Understa nding Heart Anne S. W. Gould WE only see the surface of people, and know little of their struggles, tears, and heartaches. We can only live nobly by the cultivation of compassion. She Ruby-Shroated Hummingbird Roy B. McLain tT hidden, sequestered touch-me-nots were in the glimmering height of their inevitable glory. Their extensive seed pods were intermittently snapping open at the slightest touch. Suddenly, there came a zooming, sinister noise and a flash of dazzling color. With grace and swerveless poise, a tiny, ruby-throated hummingbird was thrusting its long bill into the delicate colored, speckled flowers. Its bill inflexively remained very rigid while the bird's body seemed to gracefully vibrate up and down. It could not have weighed more than half an ounce. It withdrew its bill, and with rapidly vibrating and rotating wings, it backed up, and like a helicopter, stood still, swaying from side to side, while it selected the next spicy flower from which to draw nectar. Its untiring wings rotated so fast that they appeared as a gray film; then it flew away at a speed of at least sixty miles an hour. (This rate of speed enables it to spend its winters in the region of the Gulf Coast and Central America.) The hummingbird lit on the limb of the huge oak tree that shaded the touch-me-nots. What was this I saw? A tiny nest not an inch long! Two tiny, beautiful, and aggressive heads popped up and were fed by the parent by regurgitation. Instantly the father bird disappeared. An examination of the cup-shaped nest revealed the fact that it was attached lengthwise on the limb, which caused the nest to take on an elongated appearance. The outside was made of lichens. The inside was composed of the softest material — like milkweed silk. A chicken hawk gave out its erratic cry, as it spied with its keen eye the tiny nest. Page 262 ' THE RUBY-THROATED HUMMINGBIRD 263 The ruby-throated hummingbird accepted the hawk's sweeping challenge. Like a plane, the bird climbed for elevation. With its sharp bill it stabbed the hawk. The rubythroated bird wheeled, maneuvered decisively below the hawk, and landed a very distressingly and painful jab to the hawk's heaving breast. The hawk flapped its wings and hastily departed. Our red-throat considers the hawk and the crow its number-one enemies and usually attacks them with vigor and drives them away. Of the more than five hundred species of the hummingbirds, the ruby-throated is the only species found east of the Rocky Mountains. The male has a very beautiful patch of ruby-red on its throat. The firm-faced female has a whitish throat and dull gray coloring. Usually only two eggs of a whitish color are found in the nest. In romance their actions seemed very peculiar. The delicate female sat mutely on a twig. The ruby-throated male zipped an arc around her at a terrific rate of speed. She appeared not to notice him. Next he passed her, flying on a straight line, and uttered a very peculiar sound. Next he zoomed by like a flying saucer, but she quietly withdrew to the wild touch-me-nots. © Fed We Shall Fad" Beth G. Christensen [ was the usual hurry around our house. Relief Society work meeting always means lots of planning and preparation. I had set the table and fixed the lunches the night before in order to save the valuable morning time. Everything was going along very well—extra well in fact. My next-door neighbor had offered to keep the two younger children, which would relieve me of their care. I am the second counselor and in charge of work meeting. This meeting promised to be an exceptionally busy one, so with the children taken care of, I could surely do more. With my husband off to work, my older children on their way to school, and the younger ones settled next door, I was ready to go. I rushed in to gather up my things. I had just enough time to go the ten miles to the chapel. Suddenly, I realized my car keys were nowhere to be found. I searched the usual places again and again without success. I had to be there! I had to have those keys. My first feeling was one of complete bewilderment, but then I decided to ask our Heavenly Father's help. I rose from my knees and walked straight to a set of keys we had not seen for weeks. I thanked the Lord for this blessing, and hurried on my way. How marvelous it is to know that we have help so close and so freely given! Do we appreciate it? Do we use this help as often as we should, not only for the big problems of life, but for the little things as well? Our Heavenly Father meant it when he said: "Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and ye shall find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you" (Matthew 7:7). Photograph courtesy Josephine Brower Heirloom Quilt Presented to Missionaries at Carthage Jail Josephine Brower Tus beautiful quilt was not originally owned by Latter-lay Saint people. A pioneer family settled in Tlinois in 1819, at which time a daughter made the quilt. It was hand-woven, hand-dyed, and hand-quilted, with thousands and thousands of smallest stitches. The quilt remained as a precious heirloom in the family for many years, finally being handed down to Bessie and Lillian Geyer of Fort Madison, Iowa, from their great-great-aunt Ann Kar. On June 21, 1954, Mrs. Bessie Geyer visited the old Carthage jail. The story she heard impressed her so much that she was prompted to return the following week with her family. It was then that she presented this quilt to the missionaries at Carthage jail, Elder Richard A. Brower, and Sister Josephine Brower. As recipients of this treasure, the missionaries feel that the quilt adds much to the bedroom of the old jail, in which the Prophet Joseph Smith and his brother Hyrum sealed their testimony with their blood. ~- Friendship s G arden Gene Romolo Two must create friendship's garden, It takes two to make it grow; Each must aid its cultivation Through the years, its seeds resow; Love and patience must keep vigil To destroy intruding weeds Lest there be no perfect blossoms To produce renewing seeds. Page 264 Green Willows CHAPTER 3 Deone R. Sutherland Synopsis: Lillian and her friend Patricia are very much interested in the affairs of Pat's three unmarried aunts — Agnes, Margaret, and Karen. The two older sisters are schoolteachers, and Karen is preparing to follow the same profession. Lillian and Pat, however, cannot understand why Margaret should not marry her neighbor Dr. Turner, who is a former suitor of hers and now a widower. Lilhan and Pat and Pat's parents are invited to the Diffendorf home for dinner. Another guest is John Alder, the new director of the summer. Theater in Green Willows. It appears that John and Karen have met before. And Pat and I helped serve and clear the table. Karen was sitting next to John Alder, and she kept trying to get up to help, but Agnes said we could do it fine. I don't think she talked to the director at all, though he said two or three things to her that I couldn't hear. Margaret said that yes, she'd heard about Dr. Turner's son coming home for good now. Yes, she had meant to be at Sunday School. This was the first Sunday she'd missed in she didn't know how long. Yes, it was certainly nice that they were going to be together all the time now. 'Two winters apart were too much even though they did visit at Christmas and in the summers. No, she hadn't heard whom they were going to get for a steady housekeeper. Well, it was partly that Gwennie's mother hadn't been able to part with the boy after she'd lost her daughter. Yes, everyone could understand wanting to hold onto Pome father carved the meat, something that was Gwennie's. Gwennie had never had good health from the time she married, Agnes said. 'The conversation went on and on while we ate. Pat and I didn't say anything, but we did prick up our ears when they talked about the plays that were going to be presented at the straw-hat theater that summer. "Tm trying to persuade Karen to come down and take a part, but she won't co-operate," said John Alder to Margaret. "Oh, I'm afraid I've too much to do with my music this summer," Karen said hurriedly. "Drama is Margaret's field, really, not mine." "You were just passing the time away when you took those drama classes last winter?" John asked lightly. "Yes,"' said Karen in a low voice. "That is, I was filling hours. I really enjoyed them, you know. I'm going to be teaching this winter. I have lots of obligations, Dr. Alder, that I have to repay." "What obligations?" Agnes asked. "You certainly have not. You're going into teaching because you love it, Karen. You don't have anything to repay." John Alder broke his roll. "Why don't you come back for your Master's Degree, Karen? Didn't you say once that's what you wanted to do?" "Well, I do, but after I've saved enough money...." Page 265 266 "There are teaching fellowships," John Alder persisted. Pat's mother looked up. "Oh, are you interested in going on to school, Karen? Daddy's business is doing so well now, we can repay Agnes and help you a little, too." | "Please," said Karen, "I really don't know what I want to do now. I thought I knew what I had to do, or ought to do. Now I don't even know what I want todo...." She stopped helplessly. "For goodness sakes, Karen, do talk sensibly," Agnes said. "Mashed potatoes, Margaret?" "Yes, Pll get them." Margaret got up and left the room. She brought back the bow! Filled again with whipped potatoes with butter yellowing the dips. "Do what you want to do, Karen," Margaret said. "That's the best way in the long run. "Of course," said Agnes. ""That's what we all do. You'll make a wonderful teacher, Karen. You have no idea the satisfaction one can get out of teaching children." "It must almost compare with teaching one's own children," said John Alder. "Well, I wouldn't know about that," said Agnes, looking at him in some surprise, "but it is a very satisfying profession as you should know yourself." "Oh, I quite agree," said John Alder. FTER dinner we sat at the long dining-room table cracking softshelled walnuts and eating them. Pat's father had leaned back comfortably in his chair. At last Aunt Agnes said we really should go into the parlor. Karen could play a little RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1955 music for them. Pat's mother and Aunt Agnes and Aunt Margaret cleared the table. Karen, after one short selection, hovered between the kitchen and dining room. John Alder came to the door of the dining room. "If you won't play any more, Karen, won't you show me the garden. I'm really very interested in seeing the grounds around here." 'Are there enough helping in the kitchen?" Karen asked. "More than enough," Margaret said. "Run along." "T''d love to, then," Karen agreed. "The gardens are interesting to us because we have kept the original patterns and flower beds as outlined by our great-grandparents...." Pat and I went out and sat on the back porch. We were too full to move. Why did dishes always follow every meal? But no one asked us to help. ) "What do you say we walk in front and see if Phil's out in his yard?" Pat asked. "Okay," I said. We went around the corner of the house. Karen was disappearing up a path toward the little wooden gate that led to the orchard. John Alder followed, almost touching her arm. "See," he was saying, "all your arguments, your imaginary obligations, everything disappeared like magic at dinner. Why are you so fearful about admitting to youran His words disappeared into lower tones when he caught sight of us. We went up the front walk. The Turner house was very similar to the old Diffendorf house. It GREEN WILLOWS was large, with rounded cupolas and long porches. 'Trees crowded the yards. No one seemed to be out. We crossed the street and walked up and down the front ditchbank. There was a bench swing under one of the trees. We waited, balancing ourselves on the little bridge across the ditch. "Maybe he's taking a nap," Pat said. "A boy our age taking a nap?" I scoffed. "Let's try the swing." We walked into the yard to the side of the house and began swinging. "Well, hi," said Dr. Turner, coming out of the French windows on the side of the house. "Have you seen Phil?" "No," we said hopefully. "Is he out here some place?" "He came out with his book a few minutes ago. I was going to talk with him, but I got called to the phone. Phil!" He cupped his hands. "Over here," Phil said. He got up from behind the lilac bushes. "I was just resting until you came out." He didn't look at us. "I wonder where all the fellows are?" "Well, there comes Mike now," said Dr. 'Turner. "Hey," yelled Mike, wheeling his bike over to the ditch. "I came down to see you for awhile." "Swell," said Phil. Us uncertainly. We ground. "Why don't we go on up to my room, Mike? We can talk all right up there." They ran into the house. "Tm sure he'll get to be a little more civilized before long,' Dr. Turner said to us. "Oh, that's all right," said Pat. He looked at stood our 267 "All the boys our age are like that now." "Well," said Dr. Turner, "I'm glad you understand anyway.' He looked over toward the Diffendorf house. "Are all your aunts home, now, Pat?" "Yes," said Pat. "We just had dinner. John Alder came to din- "Oh, yes, he's the new director of the theater for this summer, isn't he?" Dr. Turner broke off a twig from the lilac tree. "I really ought to check on Margaret's arm. Come on, and I'll walk you kids back." We went across the street to the Diffendorf's. WE went around to the back of the house. I couldn't see any sign of Karen or John Alder. Dr. Turner opened the back door, and we preceded him into the kitchen. "Hi," he said. "Give me another dishtowel, and I'll help." Pat's Aunt Margaret had both hands deep in the dishwater suds. Everyone laughed, but Pat's Aunt Margaret didn't turn around after the first quick glance at Dr. Turner. "We're almost through," Agnes said. ""There's a sliver of pie left if you want it." "She remembers how I used to come begging slivers of pie years ago," Dr. 'Turner said. Agnes untied her apron. "It's too long altogether since you came for pie, Mark 'Turner. You shouldn't keep so busy." "Well, lots of things happen with the years. But your pie hasn't changed. The best I ever tasted." "Well, you don't have to eat standing up," Pat's mother said. "Sit there at the table." 268 "Oh, I'm all right." Dr. Turner cut another piece. "I'll mix business with pleasure. I'll take a look at your arm, Margaret, when you're through with the dishes." "IT was going to call the nurse about it tomorrow or this afternoon," Margaret said. "I'm sure I'm immune; there's a very strong reaction." "My word," said Agnes, "I forgot your arm. Wash yourself off and go sit outside and rest a bit...." "Oh, how silly. It's nothing at all," Margaret said hurriedly. "Besides I'm almost finished." "So am I with the pie," said Dr. Turner. "Come outside, Margaret, where the light is better." Margaret washed her hands in the little bathroom by the kitchen. Dr. Turner and Pat and I went out on the back porch and waited. In a moment she came out the door. "Really, I'm sure everything's just fine. We have nothing to worry about." Dr. Turner took her hand and examined her arm. "You're quite tight, Margaret. You're immune to mumps. But I hope you're not going to be immune to my friendship any more." Pat and I walked around the house again. Maybe Phil and Mike had come out by now and needed a couple of My Girl Fridays. Pat's father came out on the front porch. "Got to get started back, girls. We need a little time to get ready for Church and do a little reading. Agnes and the girls need some quiet, too. Did you have sweaters?" FE ran up the stairs to get my sweater that Mother had made RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1955 me wear, though it was far too warm for one. We stood at the high narrow windows. " "The Lady of Shalott' or should I say Two Ladies of Shalott?" I asked, looking out of the window with Pat. "I didn't think you were such a romantic,' Margaret said, coming into the room. "Your father wants you girls to hurry." "Tm not,' I said. "I'd much rather bounce just once on that feather bed than be a dozen Ladies of Shalott at castle windows." "T've thought of something. Why don't you and Pat come and spend a night or two with us during your vacation, and you can bounce a few times on the feather bed in the guest room? Agnes might not like you bouncing all over her bed." "Oh," Pat squealed, "can we really come? Lillian and I both at the same time?" "Surely," said Margaret. "We'll name the day. Let's see. It can't be next week end, but how about two weeks from Friday? No, the plays are starting. We'll make it three weeks; everything in the theater should be running smoothly by then. You can go to the play on Friday night and spend Friday and Saturday nights with us. Is that too far ahead for you to remember?" "Oh, no," we both said emphatically. We were going to a play, too! Pat's mother called from the stairs. "Girls, we really must be going. We all went down the stairs together. Dr. Turner was talking to Karen and John Alder. "T'd love to give you all a ride to Church with me," Dr. Turner was GREEN WILLOWS saying. "I've got to go home and slick Phil wp some. We can call for you in about an hour. Is that all right with you, Margaret?" Margaret was on the stairs behind us. "Yes," she said, "that's quite all right with me. We'd love a ride." "Tll leave my car here, then," said John Alder. "I'm sure the five of us can get in the same car. This will make my first Sunday evening in your ward a pleasant one, though I've never hesitated about going alone. That was the first thing I'd look up when I was away to school." Karen laughed, "They'll rope you in on a fireside, John, and I don't know what all. We have a celebrity in our midst." "Tm not," John Alder said. "We're not going to make it unless we leave right now," Pat's father said firmly, so we all followed him at a trot to the car, shouting our goodbyes and thanks. We could hardly wait to get into the car to tell Pat's mother about our invitation for coming to stay with Margaret. "How kind of her. Tl talk to Margaret later about it and to your mother, Lillian, 'They have always 269 done so much for Pat and us," Pat's mother said. "You've got to start repaying Agnes for all the help you've had, Arthur." "T will. Yll make arrangements tomorrow,' Pat's father © said. "They're a wonderful group of girls. Too bad none of them ever married. All of them pretty in their own way. Agnes is maybe a trifle firm, but there's nothing wrong with Margaret's and Karen's looks." "Well, Arthur, you can hardly call Karen an old maid. She's just getting out of college. And just because she's going to teach a year doesn't mean—" "Now, Mother, look what it's meant to Agnes and Margaret," said Pat's father. "Of course, it was Margaret's own fault." "We'd better discuss this later—" Pat's mother nodded her head toward the back seat. "Look at the forsythia at Sister Daly's, girls. Isn't that lovely?" "Yes," we answered in a chorus, a trifle disappointed in the change of subject. We leaned back against the seat. Would three weeks take forever to pass, we asked each other? It was so hard to wait. (To be continued) Heart Song Ida Isaceson Sweeter tones than a bow ever drew Across a string, Sing from my heart All my glad days And wing... To you. (sore | Hom Tae FEED I Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "'Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1950, page 278, and the Handbook of Instructions, page 123. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photographs submitted by Hazel M. Robertson UPPER PHOTOGRAPH: HAZEL M. ROBERTSON AND FERN TANNER LEE VISIT HONG KONG, CHINA LOWER PHOTOGRAPH: JAPANESE MISSION, TOKYO FIRST AND SECOND BRANCHES RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS AND TEACHERS Page 270 271 NOTES FROM THE FIELD The upper photograph shows Sister Hazel M. Robertson, President, Japanese Mission Relief Society, and Sister Fern Tanner Lee, wife of Elder Harold B. Lee, riding in jinrickshas in Hong Kong, China. 'The picture was taken in September 195+ during the visit 0 Elder and Sister Lee to the Far East (Japan, Okinawa, Hong, Kong, the Philippines, and Guam). Sit, Sister Rob Commenting on this vi tion to all the Relief Society sisters in the Fa of the divinity of the gospel of Jesus Chris and her beautiful testimony k will always be remembered by the sisters of the Far East." d Second Branches R Society Wor The lower photograph shows the Tokyo First an officers and teachers. Ee was an inspiraand counsel, t and Relief ertson reports: "Sister L r Fast, and het words of advace elief Society ted, left to right: Chiyoko Sasa; Katsuko Inagaki; Atsuko Uda; FuMission Relief Society; Front row, S¢4 azel M. Robertson, President, Japanese @ Matsumoto,;. Sister Hidaka; Sister Hiramatsu. D, left to right: Hiroko Nanjo; Chiyo Sato; Chiyoko Sagara; Moto; Miyoko Noguchi; Masae Sakuma. Ster Ozaki; Sister Yamaguchi, Yoko Takahashi; da, Ethel Young; Masako Miyajima. Fumiyo Saito; Kiyoko Yamagishi, mik Kyoko Azegam}; Second row, seate toko Nara; Mutsuko Matsumo Third row, standing, left to right: Si Masako Kimura; Hideko Hata; Taeko Ishi Fourth row, left to right: Ikuko Kato; Kanai; Kikue Yoshino; Miyoko Horikoshi. "taken 4 ts that this protograph was beloved Prophet and founder Mikiko t our Christmas party of the Relief Society." Sister Robertson repor ing the birthday of our commemorating raph submitted by Eliza L, Robinson ONSORS Photog WYOMING); FREEDOM WARD SP STAR V ALLEY STAKE ( QUILTING PROJECT n; Cherie Luthi; Ida Robinson; Ida Jen aderlie; Ina Erickson. Left to right: Charleen Putma Brower; LaVerla Bateman, Annie Crook; Josephine Laker; Fern Ha der the direction of Work Director This project was conducted un Robinson and work meeting leadet Arlene Clinger. Stake Relief Society. Fliza L. Robinson is president of Star Valley 272 | RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1955 Photograph submitted by Miriam Knapp OAHU STAKE (HAWAII) RELIEF SOCIETY STAKE BOARD MEMBERS MAKE UNIQUE AND BEAUTIFUL BLOUSES, April 1954 Front row, seated, left to right: Christie C. Robertson, First Counselor; Miriam Knapp, President; Eugenia N. Logan, Second Counselor. Back row, standing, left to right: Marion Cook; Mildred Jenkins; Eva Newton; Louise Kaanapu; Irene Cannon; Virginia Quealy; Elisa Uale. Irene Cannon, work director, Oahu Stake, reports this unusual and rewarding project: "These blouses are made from men's dress shirts. They are worn by the members of the Oahu Stake Relief Society. There is still much wear in a shirt, even though the collars and cuffs are frayed and worn. Have fun, be your own designer, and decorate your blouse. The hard part of the sewing is already done, for the sleeves are in, the buttonholes made, and even the buttons sewed on, unless you wish to change them. The neckline is already made and may be easily changed to any desired style. "To make the blouse: 1. From the waistline, take in the sides up through the underarm, and taper down the sleeve. 2. Make two large darts in front from the waistline tapered up towards the bust. 3. Make two pleats in the back about three inches from the side seams, and stitch across the waistline, so that they will stay in place when the skirt is on. "Tf the shirt is still too large, it can be taken in down the center of the back, nght up through the collar. If you wish to have a collar on your blouse, use either the lower end of the shirt or some contrasting material which may be placed on top of the shirt collar, allowing about % inch to turn under. Baste the top collar and sew around the edge. Material for the cuffs may be taken from the lower end of the shirt, or contrasting material may be used. The cuff is a double straight piece sewed on the underside and turned up on the right side. A longer sleeve, reaching below the elbow, may be made by cutting the shirt sleeve off just above the placket, making two large pleats to fit the arm below the elbow, then sewing on the cuff. A blouse with a Chinese neckline is very attractive and mav be made by cutting the shirt collar off at the band to which it is sewed, then trim with braid, rows of rickrack, or bias tape. A round, square, or V-shape neckline can be cut, faced with white bias tape, and then trimmed. Lace is also a good trim for these necklines. "Nearly every ward in our stake showed interest in this project." NOTES FROM THE FIELD 273 SEVIER STAKE (UTAH), RICHFIELD SIXTH WARD RELIEF SOCIETY SINGING MOTHERS FURNISH MUSIC FOR RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE, November 1954 Austrid B. Jenson, chorister, is seated at the left on the front row; Ella Gregerson, organist, is seated at the left on the third row. Beth V. Anderson is president of Sevier Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Laura S. Beckstrand MILLARD STAKE (UTAH), FILLMORE FIRST WARD VISITING TEACHERS WHO HAVE ACHIEVED A ONE HUNDRED PER CENT RECORD FOR THREE YEARS Front row, seated, left to right: Rosetta Utley; Mollie Carling; Minnie Whatcott; Mary Smith; Olive Wilkins; Martha Bushnell; Millie Callister; Hattie Partridge. Second row, standing, left to right: June Smith; Alene Mitchell; Eva Robison; Melba Anderson, Secretary; Eva Neilson, First Counselor; Alice Robison, President; Nada Melville, Second Counselor; Jannett Robison; Laura Warner; Hattie Whatcott; Clara Robison. Third row, left to nght: Lottie Anderson; Josie Ashman; Jane Cox; LaNola Turner; Edith Nechsic; Zina Hunter; Olea Davies; Ester Robison; Mary Jean Robison; Afton Nielson. Laura S. Beckstrand is president of Millard Stake Relief Society. 274 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1955 Photograph submitted by Aliene N. Bloxham HUMBOLDT STAKE (NEVADA), ELKO WARD OPENING SOCIAL "LET'S GET ON THE RELIEF SOCIETY TRAIN," October 5, 1954 Front row, seated, left to right: Vilate Bowers; Vera Crissey; Catherine Sargent; Mabel Villaneuva, First Counselor; Patt Scott, engineer. Second row, standing, left to right: Clara Hogge, Second Counselor; Gladys Turner, Secretary-Treasurer; Beverley Probert; Gladys Jensen; Alice Schoenfeld; Jennie Alan; Vivien Hansen, President. Aliene N. Bloxham is president of Humboldt Stake Relief Society. NEW ZEALAND MISSION RELIEF SOCIETY CONDUCTS SPECIAL PROJECT "WHAT RELIEF SOCIETY HAS DONE FOR ME THIS YEAR" Alice W. Ottley, President, New Zealand Mission Relief Society, reports a successful and inspirational project in which the sisters were asked to write articles on the subject: "What Relief Society Has Done for Me This Year."" 'These compositions were first judged in the branches, then in the districts, and finally the best ones were sent to the mission Relief Society board. The article written by a Maori sister, Eleanor Ormsby, was judged to be the best composition submitted. It will be printed in the mission magazine Te Karere, and Sister Ormsby will be given special recognition at Hui Tau in April 1955. Excerpts from Sister Ormsby's article are given herewith: "Relief Society has helped me to develop in so many ways this past year. I have only been a member for a year, and in that time my mental outlook alone has broadened considerably. When 1 think of each separate lesson, I realize that in some way cach one has had its own influence and has taught me so imuch of many things. | think of the theology classes and those wonderful Book of Mormon lessons. How they NOTES FROM THE FIELD 275 have strengthened my testimony by increasing my knowledge of the first peoples of the American Continent.... I think of the social science classes [''Signs of the Times" | and am humbled by the feeling that I am at last beginning to grasp the principles and meaning of existence and the creation. "I think of the work and business mectings and the joy and fellowship we enjoy in our small Hamilton Branch. How, as our fingers are working to make useful articles, our minds are occupied with the lesson, and we learn more about the management of our homes. We get to know each other more intimately, and, united in our interests and beliefs, we know the true meaning of the word 'friend.' "Most often I think of the literature lessons, which is only natural, as I am the teacher. I read a lot, perhaps not always wisely, but too much! 'lhe literature lessons have given me a purpose and a road to follow in my reading.... I never could quite bring myself to read poetry before. Somehow, it seemed dead. Now it is vibrant and alive, at least most of the poems I have read in connection with the lessons are alive, and they have whetted my appetite for more. I do not now pass the poetry section in any library without a glance. The classical novels we have studied this year have developed my judgment, and now I am much more demanding of any novel I read.... "For all these things and many more, I am truly grateful." Photograph submitted by Zina P. Dunford EAST PROVO STAKE (UTAH), BONNEVILLE WARD MAKES QUILT AND PILLOW Front row, seated, left to right: Cecil Rowberry, First Counselor in ward bishopric; Merle Stone, First Counselor, Bonneville Ward Relief Society; Helena, Jorgensen, Second Counselor; Beth Pace, wife of the ward bishop; Kenneth Pace, Bishop of Bonneville Ward; Faye Loveless, President, Bonneville Ward Relief Society; Reed Barker, Second Counselor in ward bishopric. This friendship quilt and pillow were made by the Relief Society members of Bonneville Ward. The names of three hundred ward members are embroidered in the leaves and squares of the quilt. Each member whose name appears on the quilt contributed one dollar to a fund-raising project. The quilt was then presented to the bishop as a personal gift at a ward Christmas party. Zina P. Dunford is president of East Provo Stake Relief Society, 276 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1955 Photograph submitted by Mavil A. MecMurrin NORTHWESTERN STATES MISSION, SOUTHERN OREGON DISTRICT, COQUILLE BRANCH BAZAAR, November 20, 1954 Left to nght: Jennie Wornstaff, Magazine representative; Mildred Elgmand, theology class leader and former president, under whose direction most of the work for the bazaar was accomplished; Gladys Mullen, Work Director Counselor; Phylis Wolfe, President. Sister Wolfe, in reporting the activities of this new Relief Society organization, tells of the unusually successful activities of this small group: "The Coquille Relief Society was organized in October 1953, and the picture shows the results of our work for our first bazaar, November 20, 1954. It was held in connection with a hobby fair. In addition to dish towels, aprons, pillowslips, doilies, pin cushions, tablecloths, and our first quilt, we had made 'and canned mincemeat and plum puddings, and filled decorated cans with homemade candies. This was the first Relief Society bazaar to be held in this community, and it was well received. All but ten articles were sold. There were seven members of our Relief Society at the time of our bazaar. We have since grown to a membership of nine." Mavil A. McMurrin is president of the Northwestern States Mission Relief Society. Photograph submitted by June Orton BEN LOMOND STAKE (UTAH), NORTH OGDEN FIRST WARD VISITING TEACHERS HONORED FOR THEIR ACHIEVEMENT OF A ONE HUNDRED PER CENT RECORD FOR FIVE YEARS December:29, 1954 Front row, seated, beginning fourth from left, left to right: Werna Campbell, First Counselor, North Ogden First Ward Relief Society; Hazel Gibson, President; Lavora Mathis, Second Counselor; Bishopric of North Ogden First Ward: H. Eugene Niclsen, First Counselor; Grant L. Alder, Bishop; Arthur Campbell, Second Counselor. Third row, standing, second from the left: Diana Hadley, visiting teacher message leader; fourth, fifth, and sixth from the left, Clara Larsen, Ellen Bailey, and Etta Storey, who were each honored for thirty years of visiting teaching, Fifth row, standing, left to right, Ben Lomond Stake Relief Society officers: Mildred Cragun, First Counselor; Eleanor T'. Nielsen, President; Olive Larsen, visiting teacher message leader. Beginning seventh from the left: June Orton, Secretary, North Ogden First Ward Relief Society; Violet Jones, Ben Lomond Stake Work Director; Melba Heiner, visiting teacher supervisor. Zina Orton, who was not present when the picture was taken, was also honored for thirty years of visiting teaching service. 2 KOLOB STAKE (UTAH) RELIEF SOCIETY PUBLISHES HISTORICAL BOOKLET Relief Society from the time of the first organization in Springville in 1859 to the present time. Names and dates of serv ice of every stake and ward organization are contained in the seventy-eight pages of the book. The book was written and compiled by Hannah Mendenhall Clyde, who was born in Springville and attended Brigham Young University. She married Edward Clyde' and is the mother of a daughter and five sons. A devoted Relief Society member and officer, she served as a member of the Kolob Stake Relief Society Board from 1924 to 1927, when she was appointed President. In 1954, because of illness, Sister Clyde asked to be released from her position as stake Relief Society President. A few years later, she became a class leader in the Fifth Ward. In December 1953, she again suffered a heart attack, and it was while she was convalescing durig the summer of 1954 that she completed her work on the history which she started in 1951. HANNAH M. CLYDE Springville and Mapleton areas assisted Sister Clyde in the many details of compilA beautifully arranged and historically ing her outstanding history. Clara J. Authentic and valuable booklet Relief Sumsion, Minnie F. Groesbeck and Ardilla Society History, Springville and Mapleton, Perry helped to obtain the photographs Utah, has recently been published by used in the book. Thelma Carter and Kolob Stake Relief Society. Bound in Phyllis W. Clyde assisted with the typing. Blue, and lettered in gold — the Relief Aileen H. Clyde, LaRue Walker, and Society colors — the book contains 687 Kolob Stake Relief Society President individual pictures and eighty group picGrace C. Crandall gave much help and tures of women who have worked in encouragement. NOTES FROM THE FIELD Photograph submitted by Grace C. Crandall 277 Many Relief Society members in the 278 Home Arleen Sessions Bogue The quiet hand of trust, The busy hand of making, And two hands clasped in prayer First thing upon awaking; The happiness of giving Without possessive fear; The peace in the forgiving Of someone who is dear; A humble place of learning Truth in words and deeds; A constant faith that heaven Will supply our needs; Reciprocating smiles While each performs his part; The warmth of being wanted By some loving heart; A place to hurry back to And know as you are known; The spark of inspiration; These make a house, a home. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1955 MONUMENTS AND MARKERS Ronie Johnson Salt Lake Monument Co. 186 "N" Street Opposite City Cemetery "Our Motto" Drive Carefully — We Can Wait TWO NEW TOOLS for the Missionary Two thought-provoking books THE A. B. C. OF MORMONISM and THE MORMON MISSIONARY'S MESSAGE by Aubrey J. Parker One time Methodist minister To help the missionary to become a masterful representative of his Church and a successful missionary. Beautifully bound in green and gold cloth, hard back, in the popular pocket size for greater convenience. Sent to you anywhere in the world for $1.00 postpaid Address: Elder Aubrey J. Parker 616 West on Carrillo Santa Barbara, California It's awaiting You... © YES there is still a tremendous amount of outstanding instruction and use awaiting you in this and other copies of the Relief Society Magazine. Your editions may be handsomely bound at the West's finest bindery and printing plant for $2.50 cloth bound and $3.50 leather bound per volume plus postage for mail orders. Follow these postage rates if you send your order by mail: Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Up to 150 miles 0.00... Eeeeeceneeeeeese35 150 to 300 miles..... F 300 to 600 miles..... 3 1000 to 1400 miles 1400 to 1800 miles Over 1800 miles........ 2 nzeoss Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press 31 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah Phone 4-2581 Se) @ 600 to 1000 miles..............-.222..0..... ' Eggshells for the Gar en Elizabeth Williamson CAN remember my grandmother tossing crushed eggshells out the door into her kitchen garden. It never occurred to me why she did it, until I read that herbs and kitchen gardens thrive if they have a sufficient amount of lime in the soil. Now I always put the eggshells in a paper bag, and when the bag is about half full, I crush them by squeezing the bag, and empty the contents into the garden. It is neater to trowel them under the soil out of sight. > Reflective A rtistry Mabel Law Atkinson Now, when we are sketching Every beauty-etching For the face to wear, Bid each thought-reflection Be serene perfection For our silver hair. Page 279 Gain a Full Quarter ATTEND SUMMER 22 SCHOOL %._ o th 5 Leadership Week — A week of inspiration with Church authorities and scholars. Timpanogos Hike — Famous annual climb, experience of a lifetime. Recreation — Full program of outings, dances, athletics, and the scenic Wasatch Mountains near at hand for brief trips. Music Festival — Thrilling summer-long series of concerts by finest artists; also dance, drama, and lectures. Workshops and Clinics — Special attention on exceptional child, personnel and guidance, educational administration, history, band, orchestra, voice. Full Curriculum — A _ complete quarter of credit possible in 48 departments of instruction. Of College Study With All the Vacation Extras — — Many students now finish college in three years by taking advantage of Summer School. Teachers will find special helps for certification and specialization. First Term: June 138 — July 15 Second Term: July 18 — August 19 FREE CATALOG: Just write to the Director of Summer School, B. Y. U., Provo, Utah. BRIGHAM YOUNG UNTVERSITY PROVO—UTAH Three Part Choruses for Mother's Day Songs My Mother Taught Me— That's What God Made Mothers For— Wood occ ccc cece 25 That Wonderful Mother of Mine— COTY. 1 15 Those Songs My Mother Used To Sing—Smith...000.....0 eee 16 Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank = ~~ "DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY | 45-47 South Main | Salt Lake City 1, Utah Please send the mus'c indicated above. _} On Approval LD Charge | Money Enclosed ': Name Address City & State Write or Phone VIDA FOX CLAWSON 966 East South Temple Telephone 4-2017 about the following: Annual Spring Tour HAWAII Sail on the Lurline, April 8th | EUROPE Tour will include Temple Dedication at Berne, Switzerland Leave August 15th HISTORIC TRAIN Tour will include the Pageant at the Hill Cumorah Leave Friday Evening, August 5th KENMORE VACUUM Brand New SEARS oneagves ewe ~~ Not Rebuilt 93 $5 Down $5 Month Try any or al of Kenmore machines in your own home on Sears Courtes plan. You'll be happier with a Kenmore! Includes wenis M-G-T-H-E-R—Morse Mother—Rubinstein-Nordman Mother Beloved—Dunlap Mother O'Mine—Tours Mother Machree—Ball My Man—Donaldson Dvorak 25 a. 220.20.20 15.20 10 PR 56 WALKE) From the Writings of President David O. McKay COMPILED BY CLARE MIDDLEMISS the cherished experiences of our President who has visited the Saints throughout the world, healing the sick, and leaving the force of his faith as a guiding light. This book indeed offers "treasures of inspiration'' to build increased faith in the hearts of all Latter-day Saints throughout the world. 3 MILLIONS OF MEETINGS Harold Glen Clar 2. Just off the press is this excellent guide on conducting successful Church meetings Whether the particular meeting is formal or of @ classroom-type this book offers helpful hints on planning procedure that will greatly aid Priesthood leader and auxiliary teachers throughout the Church. You will find the information both practical and nes 2 MARY BAILEY Ruby K. Smith 3. Told with vitality and armth is this story of Samuel Smith, brother of the Prophet Joseph and first missionary of the Church, and his devoted wife, Mary, who left the comforts of a skeptical Bostonian society to become a Mormon. Here is a true portrait of Joseph Smith's family, and a colorful account of the trials and tribulations of the early converts $2.0 — iii Book (0. Sao eS as Sal Lake City Utah Gentlemen: following amount ae 2 for the encircled (numbered) books: 1 2 3 Name.. Address Envelosenl you owill tind Cine checks, | money order, } charge iny acewount the Zone.........-+ State Where Lilacs Grew Alice Morrey Bailey Lilacs pioneered this western place Before begonias and delphinium. Nurtured in the wagon's premium space They rode beside the apple and the plum. Down across the sage-locked valley floor They sent a line of waxen green to grace A cedar fence, a gate, a rustic door With alien lavender and perfumed lace. And many hearts that ached with homesick grief Were salved by bits of home, transplanted here, For courage grew in thrusting root and leaf, And triumph waved in lilac's scented spear. The coyote's wail, the hard, unyielding clay, Were robbed of strength where lilacs led the way. The Cover: "Lavender Lantana,' Photograph by Ward Linton Frontispiece Photograph: "Lilacs," Photograph by Ward Linton Cover Design by Evan Jensen From Vlear and Sar We think The Relief Society Magazine is wonderful. When it comes we just want to sit down and read it right away. The August issue (1954) arrived today. I have just been reading it. It is most inspiring to read in "Fruits of a Living Faith" by Elder Clifford E. Young of the wonderful faith and courage of the pioneers, and the story "New Light" by Lucille Tournear is really lovely. The stories in the Magazine are surely inspired. They touch the heart and inspire one just as the gospel does. —Enid Layton Bendigo Victoria, Australia May I express my appreciation and enjoyment of the Magazine. I read each issue from cover to cover. I read with special interest the December issue and the article "The Relief Society Building Cornerstone-Laying Ceremony." It thrilled my heart and filled my eyes with tears of happiness and gratitude that the dream of having a Relief Society Building for the women of the Church is being fulfilled. The prophetic promise has become a teality, and the picture of the building now under construction is evidence of that fulfillment. 'The smiling faces of our beloved general presidency as they are standing near the building are inspirational, and also the picture of the General Authorities of the Church and officers of Relief Society at the ceremony. The picture of our dearly beloved President Spafford as she deposits the records in the cornerstone brings us the thrill of that memorable and historic moment. —Emma M. Gardner Sacramento, California The Magazine always brings me great comfort and guidance for my needs as a mother of three very young children. It is my prayer at this time that the inspired and very well-planned Magazine will continue for years to come. —Ethel T. Kurihara Marbo AF Guam Page 282 Our Relief Society group here in Gilversum wishes to thank you for the Magazines we have received and want to tell you that we have enjoyed them very much. We could look at the pictures, and some stories could be translated by one of our sisters. It is very nice to read about our sisters so far from here, but, by our Church and our wonderful gospel, we know that we belong all together. —Susanne van der Wal President Gilversum Branch Relief Society Gilversum, Holland Living here in Rocky Boy, I have been unable to attend Relief Society, and so have enjoyed the Magazine more than ever. I imagine the same situation will exist in Standing Rock, our new home, as it is also a very isolated reservation. (Incidentally, my husband, who works for the Bureau of Indian Affairs, will be Range Management Supervisor there.) We hated to move still further away from Salt Lake City, our home town, and also from the Havre Branch, where we have been members for four years, but the wonderful Magazine does much to keep us in touch. —Maurine B. Hansen Standing Rock Agency Fort Yates North Dakota When I thumbed through the pages of The Relief Society Magazine for February this evening and saw the name and picture by the story "A Home for Holly," I found the story very much to my liking and it leaves such a pleasant taste. Then I found on the last page (in the biographical sketch) why the name Harmer was -rather familiar. My teen-age girls read Mabel Harmer's stories in The Deseret News quite regularly and their dad also — wholesome stories, often about animals — and animals, furry, feathered, scaly — are quite important around this house... —Dr. ]. Sedley Stanford Department of Zoology Utah State Agricultural College Logan, Utah THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - - - - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - First Counselor Velma N. Simonsen - - - - - Second Counselor Margaret C. Pickering - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Mary G. Judd Evon W. Peterson Christine H. Robinson Charlotte A. Larsen Anna B. Hart Leone O. Jacobs Alberta H. Christensen Edith P. Backman Edith S. Elliott Louise W. Madsen Mildred B. Eyring Winniefred S. Florence J. Madsen Aleine M. Young Helen W. Anderson Manwaring Leone G. Layton Josie B. Bay Gladys S. Boyer Elna P. Haymond Blanche B. Stoddard RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - = - - = = = = Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Vol. 42 MAY 1955 No. 5 Contents SPECIAL FEATURES The General Presidency of Relief Society With Three ie for the Relief Society Building 284 MC Can ance cancn escent ona cece ene snsereetiessttessiesasovesscecsaecenscssensonauensssencsessElna P. Haymond 285 Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest... = Relief Society Short Story Contest oc ccsccssssrssccssessveseesswwevssossesinvensnsenanueseevsssinnneenscstnapaneetessenuseesee 290 On Writing the Short Story..000. ——... Pansye H. Powell 292 FICTION BoeeNt{ep9 (OF LeI ovFrances C. Yost 298 Highly Organized....... Ea woes Dorothy Boys Kilian 311 Hurrah for Pete! A... _.... Mabel Law Atkinson 315 Green Willows — Chapter 4 _00000...... Eee... Se sagaceceserennasee SteeDeone R. Sutherland 321 From Near and Far 282 pd? Wevetis| PVo fe) ee res 302 Ramona W. Cannon 303 me C. Sharp 304 Woman's Sphere - ore ee Editorial: A Word of Appreciation 22.00... Magazine Subscriptions for 1954.......... Ail ne w.. Marianne C. Sharp 326 The Magazine Honor Roll for 1954 oo. Ccecceceec ce sseseseeceeeseeeeeenesenseeseceacececgssesnceeeeceeeesseegeeeeenseeeeseeeseenacens 330 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities...0.0-..2-...-.----... Margaret C. Pickering 334 FEATURES FOR THE HOME Designing Original Applique and Block Quilts Velma MacKay Paul a Mary W. Platt Has Enough Hobbies to Make Her Happy.. Coo Herbs for Modern Cookery — Chives 0.........-: c: c---cececceeneceesessneectecenesecnsacnecneeaceneElizabeth Williamson a4 Cement Chimney Blocks as Planting Boxes 0.020.02..2..-c-2eccececeeececeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeees... Willard Luce 342 Where Lilacs Grew — Frontispiece Alice Morrey Bailey 281 First Friend.0.0........ Ceeceeececeeeeeeoes. Ees Christie Lund Coles 288 The Lifted Wall. Eon Dorothy J. Roberts 291 Between the Bud and the Fruit. "Alberta H. Christensen 295 LEGACY -n--ceececcnnccccscneecnnssnsensnssenttesettecsetterteeesa... VeinieenteiivnesewElsie McKinnon Strachan 305 My Magazine 222. = _ ceeeeeeeeeseeeeseseeeeeeee-Mabel M. Tanner 314 Of May wees SS.. —Iris W. Schow 320 On Washdgays....... SI oe June B. Wunderlich 340 Suddenly Butterfli = Lael W. Hill 343 Father's Garden............ Se Bernice T. Clayton 343 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 40 North Main, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 8, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1108, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Contest Announcements — 1955 ooo cceeceececeeeeseeeeeeenen cee sesucaescacansnenesesecesenstocessesensenenenenseeeeeses 2 THE GENERAL PRESIDENCY OF RELIEF SOCIETY WITH THREE GIFTS FOR THE RELIEF SOCIETY BUILDING Left to right: President Belle S. Spafford; Counselor Marianne C. Sharp; Counselor Velma N. Simonsen. In the background, a beautiful ryiji from the Finnish Mission, a wall hanging in shades of browns and tans, showing plowing (hidden at bottom), sowing, and reaping, The sisters prepared and dyed the wool, then wove the hanging. The two lovely cut crystal vases are from the Swedish Mission, representative of Swedish crystal ware. In front is the interesting top of a low table, the gift of the Hawaiian Mission, made of monkey tree wood which grows in the Hawaiian Islands. Page 284 Mother Elna P. Haymond Member, General Board of Relief Society What must this earthly home of divine destiny be, to become the celestial family of infinity (President J. Reuben Clark, Jr.)? HE above statement causes T one to wonder. It causes one to reflect on the home of his childhood and to ask the questions: Did my mother play her part well? Did her mother honor the Godgiven role of motherhood? Am I carrying on the great work they began? In contemplating the joys and tresponsibilities of motherhood, I reflect upon the lives of my parents and grandparents and draw from many of their marvelous and wondrous teachings — teachings that cause me to evaluate the role of mother in the home and the farreaching effect her teachings, her actions, yes, and even her innermost thoughts have on the generations to come. In going through valuable family papers, I found a "Last Will and Testament" left to the family by my grandparents. It does not bequeath lands, stocks, bonds, and riches, but it does bequeath a burning testimony of the divinity of Jesus Christ and of the divine origin of his Church, with its saving principles which will lead to salvation and exaltation, if put into practice in the daily lives of their numerous posterity. President McKay, in a talk entitled "Pioneer Women," relates the story of a young mother having given birth to a baby girl during the long, hazardous handcart trek across the plains in 1856. Years after this baby was born, great criticism was being expressed by some of those present at a gathering, against the Authorities for allowing the handcart company to proceed to Salt Lake City. Over in the corner sat an old man, his face white with emotion, listening to criticism of his and his wife's own story as they crossed the plains. In dignity, and with great earnestness and sincerity, he said, "I ask you to stop this criticism. You are discussing a matter which you know nothing about. Was it a mistake? Yes, but I was in that company, and my wife was in it, too. We suffered beyond anything you can imagine, and many died of exposure and starvation, but did you ever hear a survivor utter a word of criticism? Not one of that company ever apostatized or left the Church, because every one of us came through with absolute knowledge that God lives, for we became acquainted with him in our extremities. Was I, or the mother of my child, sorry we chose to come by handcart? No, neither then nor at any moment in our lives since. The price we paid to become acquainted with God was a privilege to pay." We are all aware of the many dangers, the periods of near starvation, severe, biting cold, sickness, death, and poverty experienced by the pioneers. During this time the women became mothers, and with Page 285 286 that God-given mother love and devotion, they gave themselves in every way for their children, and for the righteous preservation of the home. This soul-stirring story recalls to my mind a similar one of my Grandmother Doney who came in the Ellsworth Handcart Company in 1856. She, too, gave birth to a daughter during her arduous trip. Grandmother walked twenty miles the day her babe was born. After the birth, she was allowed to ride in one of the two covered wagons in the party. After the tenth day she carried the infant in her apron the rest of the way, fording streams, climbing hills, trudging the long sagebrush and barren waste ahead. She did not complain. She, too, found and knew God through her trials and hardships. Rightly can we say of the pioneer mothers: They loved righteousness because it was right. They were peacemakers because they loved peace. They loved the poor, for they administered unto them. They remembered the widow, the orphan, and the aged, for they comforted them. They were pioneers in word and thought and deed. They fought the battles of life with the weapons of love, determination, and faith. They taught spirituality, love, harmony, obedience, and _ tolerance. They honored the Priesthood, taught and lived the celestial law of marriage. They prepared themselves for the "earthly home... To become the celestial family of infinity." These precious truths and _precepts have become the family heritage of many Latter-day Saint families. These teachings, if carried RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1955 into our homes and coupled with the other principles of the gospel, become the code by which our children should be reared. HEN we reflect on the home of our childhood and the part our mother played, these things come to mind: Mother was gentle, calm, and serene. She taught us to put first things first. She placed purely social activities in their proper position, never sacrificing children, Church, or home to them. The stranger was never turned from the door. The hungry were fed, and the naked were clothed (Mt. 25:35-36). We all remember the Christmas and Thanksgiving baskets laden with food, which we, as children, took to the families who were less fortunate than we — the turkeys, chickens, potatoes, apples, and flour prepared and sent by mother to gladden the hearts and homes of many families. We mothers of today may well pay homage to the great concourse of mothers who have played their roles well. They have brought forth boys and girls, men and women, statesmen, generals, and Church leaders who can look back on their mothers' training and say: "She was the signal light, the beacon. She stood at the crossroads and showed me the way to go." Our beloved President David O. McKay has said: I emphasize the increasing power and influence of the Relief Society and of womankind in general, having one purpose in mind: That increased attention be given and more intensified effort put forth to maintain and preserve the dignity of motherhood (The Relief Society Magazine, December 1950, pp. 798-799). MOTHER His advice to Latter-day Saint women decries the practice of wives postponing, for worldly pleasure, lack of finances, or similar reasons, motherhood and the rearing of families. ""Wifehood is glorious, but motherhood is sublime." President McKay admonishes mothers to "have more religion in your homes, teach the gospel and honor the Priesthood." The late President George Albert Smith said of his mother: But my training was different. I was trained at the knee of a Latter-day Saint mother. One of the first things I can remember was when she took me by the hand and led me upstairs... I can remember it as if it were yesterday. She sat down by my little trundle bed and had me kneel in front of her. She folded my hands and took them in hers and taught me my first prayer. I will never forget it.... It is one of the loveliest memories I have in life, an angelic mother sitting down by my bedside and teaching me to pray.... That prayer opened for me the windows of heaven.... From that day until now, while I have covered approximately a million miles in the world, every day and every night wherever I have been when I have gone to my bed or arisen from it I have felt I was close to my Heavenly Father (Conference Address of President Smith, October 1946, quoted from The Deseret News, Church Section, October 12, 1946, pp. 12, 20). The Prophet Joseph Smith's mother was quick to recognize that her son had been chosen of God as an instrument through whom his gospel was to be restored. She, his mother, expressed faith in him against all odds and persecution of the mobs. She was his constant and devoted champion. Her faith in him inspired his faith in himself at a time when the world was against him. Without his mother's un- 287 swerving faith, at a time when he so needed it, he would have felt much more keenly the opposition against him. President Joseph F. Smith paid tribute to his mother's love for him: It was life to me; it was strength; it was encouragement; it was love that begat love or liking in myself.... When I was fifteen years of age, and called to go to a foreign country to preach the gospel —or to learn how, and to learn it for myself — the strongest anchor that was fixed in my life, and that helped to hold my ambition and my desire steady, to bring me upon a level and keep me straight, was the love which I knew she had for me who bore me into this world. Only a little boy, not matured at all in judgment, without the advantage of education, thrown in the midst of the greatest allurements and temptations that it was possible for any boy or man to be subjected to — and yet, whenever these temptations became most alluring and most tempting to me, the first thought that arose in my soul was this: Remember the love of your mother. Remember how she strove for your welfare. Remember how willing she was to sacrifice her life for your good. Remember what she taught you in your childhood.... This feeling toward my mother became a defense, a barrier between me and _ temptation... (Gospel Doctrine, chapter XVI, page 394). HEN the Prophet Joseph Smith "turned the key" in behalf of the women of the Church, he placed upon them great responsibilities as mothers in Zion. As the Relief Society is to the women of the Church, so is the mother to the home. It symbolizes woman's place in God's plan. When Joseph Smith thus spoke under divine guidance, he gave to us the plan of Jesus Christ for women, for mothers. God placed on women in all ages the great and ennobling task of 288 motherhood. God's plan to give mortal bodies to his spirit children that they might progress along the paths of righteousness to exaltation, became dependent on mothers as co-workers with him. Jesus, while on the cross in his hour of greatest trial, gave as one of his last considerations his concern for his mother. Now there stood by the cross of Jesus his mother, and his mother's sister, Mary the wife of Cleophas, and Mary Magdalene. When Jesus therefore saw his mother, and the disciple standing by, whom he loved, he saith unto his mother, Woman, behold thy son! Then saith he to the disciple, Behold thy mother! And RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1955 from that hour that disciple took her unto his own home (John 19:25-27). In closing, may I again quote President McKay: Motherhood is the one thing in all the world which most truly exemplifies the God-given virtues of creating and sacrificing.... The mother who, in compliance with eternal law, brings into the world an immortal spirit occupies first rank in the realm of creation (Gospel Ideals, page 456). God gave mothers this great role. It now becomes a challenge to us to make of "this earthly home of destiny" one that might become a "celestial family of infinity." First Sriend Christie Lund Coles Over the red dirt road that lay between us Day by day went our questing feet, And all the things that are part of childhood Made the world enchantingly sweet: The river bed low in the lush, late summer, The sandy shore where our feet ran, bare; The marsh where the cattails were taller than we, The first star like a drop on a chandelier; The milkweed pods we robbed of treasure, The feel of the down blown from the thistle; The dusty road that led us homeward The willowed lane, the high, dark trestle; The high swing tied in the poplar's branches, The breathless and ecstatic thrill Of soaring into the purple twilight, Into the sky above the hill; First friend! First memories made to cherish, Over the years with their passing gain, Childhood and a world of wonder... Not to be captured quite again. Contest Announcements—1955 CONTESTS CLOSE AUGUST 15, 1955 Contest are conducted annually by the general board of Relief Society to stimulate creative writing among Latter-day Saint women and to encourage high standards of work. Latter-day Saint women who qualify under the rules of the respective contests are invited to enter their work in either or both contests. The general board would be pleased to receive entries from the outlying stakes and missions of the Church as well as from those in and near Utah. Since the two contests are entirely separate, requiring different writing skills, the winning of an award in one of them in no way precludes winning in the other. It is suggested that authors who plan to enter the contests study carefully the article on story writing which appears in this Magazine, the article on poetry writing to appear in June 1955, and also Tc Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest and the Relief Society Short Story similar articles in the June issues for the last eight years. It should be noted that the opening and closing dates of the contests are one month earlier this year. Eliza RK. Snow Poem Contest THE Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest opens with this announcement and closes August 15, 1955. Prizes will be awarded as follows: i 25 DeGond) Prize: -z.--s--.---$20 Third prize -..............---$15 Prize poems will be published in the January 1956 issue of The Relief Society Magazine (the birth month of Eliza R. Snow). Prize-winning poems become the property of the Relief Society general board and may not be published by others except upon written permission from the general board. The general board reserves the right to publish any of the other poems submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rates. Rules for the contest: 1. This contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women, exclusive of members of the Relief Society general board and employees of the Relief Society general board. 2. Only one poem may be submitted by each contestant. 3. The poem must not exceed fifty lines and should be typewritten, if possible; where this cannot be done, it should be legibly written. Only one side of the paper is to be used. (A duplicate copy of the poem should be retained by contestant to insure against loss. ) 4. The sheet on which the poem is written is to be without signature or other identifying marks. 5- No explanatory material or picture is to accompany the poem. 6. Each poem is to be accompanied by a stamped envelope on which ls written the contestant's name and address. Nom de plumes are not to be used. Page 289 290 7. A signed statement is to accompany the poem submitted, certifying: a. That the author is a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. B. That the poem (state the title) is the contestant's original work. That it has never been published.. That it is not in the hands of an editor or other person with a view to publication. E. That it will not be published nor submitted elsewhere for publication until the contest is decided. 8. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. G. The judges shall consist of one member of the general board, one person from the English department of an educational 0 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1955 institution, and one person who is a recognized writer. In case of complete disagreement among judges, all poems selected for a place by the various judges will be submitted to a specially selected committee for final decision. In evaluating the poems, consideration will be given to the following points: Message or theme Form and pattern Rhythm and meter Accomplishment of the purpose of the poem e. Climax 10. Entries must be postmarked not later than August 15, 1955. 11. All entries are to be addressed to Relief Society Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest, 40 North Main, Salt Lake City 1, Utah. Aon Relief Society Short Story Contest HE Relief Society Short Story Contest for 1955 opens with this announcement and closes August 15, 1955. The prizes this year will be as follows: First prize.............-.-.-----$50 Second prize.............-.-$40 Third prize................-$30 The three prize-winning stories will be published consecutively in the first three issues of The Relief Society Magazine for 1956. Prizewinning stories become the property of the Relief Society general board and may not be published by others except upon written permission from the general board. The general board reserves the right to publish any of the other stories entered in the contest, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rates. Rules for the contest: 1. This contest is open to Latter-day Saint women—exclusive of members of the Relief Society general board and 'employees of the general board—who have had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication. 2. Only one story may be submitted by each contestant. 3. The story must not exceed 3,000 words in length and must be typewritten. (A duplicate copy of the story should be retained by contestants to insure against loss. ) 4. The contestant's name is not to appear anywhere on the manuscript, but a stamped envelope on which is written the contestant's name and address is to be enclosed with the story. Nom de plumes are not to be used. 5. A signed statement is to accompany the story submitted certifying: a. That the author is a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. B. That the author has had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication. (This state- CONTEST ANNOUNCEMENTS—1955 ment must give name and date of publication in which the contestant's work has appeared, or, if not yet published, evidence of acceptance for publication. ) c. That the story submitted (state the title and number of words) is the contestant's original work. D. That it has never been published, that it is not in the hands of an editor or other person with a view to publication, and that it will not be published nor submitted elsewhere for publication until the contest is decided. 6. No explanatory material or picture is to accompany the story. 7. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait for two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. 291 8. The judges shall consist of one member of the general board, one person from the English department of an educational institution, and one person who is a recognized writer. In case of complete disagreement among the judges, all stories selected for a place by the various judges will be submitted to a specially selected committee for final decision. In evaluating the stories, consideration will be given to the following points: a. Characters and their presentation b. Plot development c. Message of the story d. Whiting style g. Entries must be postmarked not later than August 15, 1955. 10. All entries are to be addressed to Relief Society Short Story Contest, 40 North Main, Salt Lake City 1, Utah. The Lifted Wall Dorothy ]. Roberts Through the lens of a tear the world may tremble, quake, Become distorted, unproportionate; Splintered by the swollen waters of your grief, Rinsed in your sorrow, yet soon will steel Twisted in the flood, repair; the road Be mended over fields you walked before. With no drill's stutter nor tractor's throb, All shall be restored from the sabotage. A thousand facets of the earth must break And reassemble for new vision's sake. Your eyes alone have seen the town which fell In trembling segments through the wavering air; The bright land stricken, the shattered waste. Remember, to others, the world is still the same, The rooftops adamant against the sky In the same rectangular horizon line. Only for eyes that watched the ramparts fall Shall a new grace be mitered in each lifted wall. RT. OVD On Writing the Short Story" Pansye H. Powell HERE is very little new to T be said in regard to how to write the short story; just about everything has been said over and over again. But there is one important thing that can never be said too often, and that is the principal message of this article: Welcome advice and criticism! How can we convince would-be writers of the necessity for taking constructive criticism to heart? No one can answer that question, but it is a well-known fact that few writers become successful, even in a small way, without having learned to be objectively critical of their own work and without learning from others. Much that is profitable can come from the experiences others have had. Beginning writers must take their feelings off their sleeves, open their minds, look at their own work with clear eyes unclouded by pride and self-delusion, and realize that they have much to learn, and that there are more efficient ways to learn it than by the trial-and-error method. 'They must become objective toward their own work; if criticism seems applicable and remedial, they should accept it and put it to work. Good material should not be mistaken for a good story. That incident that happened at the fair last summer makes an interesting anecdote for conversation—but is it a story? Not unless it has within it a conflict of two opposing forces; otherwise it is only the nucleus around which a story could be built—the story is the conflict and its resolution. The new writer does wisely to build his story around a wholesome, normal situation. He should believe in his story and feel its importance himself—otherwise it will be ineffective because it is insincere. He should not be disturbed because his plots seem hackneyed; there are only so many basic plots, and they have all been used countless times. It is the individual writer's talent that takes the timeworn situations and brings them forth in fresh, new raiment, attractive to the reader. A good plot should be simple. Leave complicated plots to the novel. It should be plausible; a convincing plot has growth, developing logically toward the point at which the problem is solved or the conflict is ended. Mere chance or accident should not work out a plot. A character (or characters) should solve the problem in a_ believable manner. What is done must seem the logical thing for this particular person to do under these particular circumstances. Whatever the plot, a story needs an underlying theme. 'The writer should be able to say to himself, for instance: "The basic idea of this story is that the old and the young do have a common meeting ground." Or "A man's duty to humanity at large may, at times, supercede his duty to his own immediate family." Or "Simple neighborliness is one of the most satisfying of *A helpful article on poetry writing will appear in the June Magazine. Page 292 ON WRITING THE SHORT STORY human sentiments." Having determined the basic idea, the writer then deliberately avoids overt preaching of the idea. His skill lies in influencing the reader subtly through incident, conversation, and characterization to realize the idea, without deliberate indoctrination. THE beginning of a story, the first 150 words, should introduce the reader to the principal character and indicate the problem involved. It should stir the reader to react emotionally. In other words, the opening lines should be vital enough to attract and retain interest. 'They should establish the reader in a way of thinking and feeling. From the first word, the story should move in one direction; nothing extraneous should be permitted to intrude. If the writer finds he has introduced foreign material, he must ruthlessly cut it from his copy, realizing that he will have a better story without it. Even the appearance of the opening lines on the page is important. A compact, solid paragraph of twenty lines is not as attractive to the reader as short paragraphs, interspersed with dialogue. One successful writer always begins his stories with movement, preferably of a human being. "A small, barefoot boy was walking slowly through the dust of a backcountry lane." "The old man sitting on the wooden bench before the general store in Walters Corners, slowly lifted a gnarled hand to shade his eyes as he squinted down the pavement toward the oncoming automobile." Movement takes the reader along with it, and the story is off to a good start. Characters are more likely to talk 293 and move naturally in a story if the writer has in mind real people he has known; places are more believable if the writer uses locations with which he is familiar. 'The writer feels more secure of his ground, too, and can pay more attention to other details, if he knows his people and his places are authentic. Dialogue is an important part of any story. Like action, it should be the reasonable expression of the character being presented. Most short story critics recommend that writers read plays to note the economy of words with which exposition and necessary explanations are given. Plays by Shaw, Barrie, and Milne are particularly recommended for this. Anyone who is interested in writing should be always aware of voices, and what they are saying, and be alert to catch unusual or characteristic phraseology. A short story should cover a short period of time. It should move forward rapidly. Beginners can use no better advice than that of the King in Alice in Wonderland: "Begin at the beginning, go to the end, and then stop." This is the path with the fewest pitfalls. Simple, straightforward narrative with lively dialogue, suspense, and plausible characters, plus a plot which involves the working out of a problem by one or more characters, equals one creditable (and credible) — short story. The best stories give the reader ample opportunity to live in the story. 'The more a reader is permitted to experience vicariously through sensory impressions, the more effective the story will be. The world contains many people whose friends have told them that 294 they ought to write, but such people are not writing. What is wrong? They have not realized that one learns to write by writing, not by looking and acting literary. No one ever became a writer by sitting around talking about being one. Writing is a lonely occupation, and no one can write who is unwilling to isolate himself, at times, from human companionship and apply pen to paper. HERE are some hints to help those who seriously wish to write: Read widely in good literature. Think consecutively. Force yourself to think logically, if your mind tends to wander haphazardly. This sounds easy, perhaps, but it is the most difficult trait for a writer to acquire. Discuss short story techniques, human nature, world affairs—anything and everything. Let your mind be receptive to new ideas. Observe people, nature, buildings, voices, speeches, everything around you. Keep notes. Have a notebook with you always. Jot down plot ideas, bits of clever dialogue, figures of speech that come to mind, anything that you wish to retain. Form the dictionary habit. Be alert for experience. Develop the inquiring mind. Study yourself — where you may find firsthand information on why people do as they do. Develop work habits that are right for you. No two people work in the same way, at the same hours, under the same conditions. Find out what is best for you and sit down to work. Sometimes you will be surprised what you can do, if you assume the position of writing. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1955 8 Last, what about marketing your stories when they are written? If you plan to write for a specific publication, the best plan is to make yourself familiar with the magazine. Study several recent issues of the publication to see the general tone and favorite length of story used. Stories too similar to those lately published are as likely to prove unacceptable as those which are too different in general tone. Timeliness is an important element. All timely, seasonable, or occasional material should be sent in from four to six months ahead of the time it is expected to appear. A carefully selected title helps sell a story. The title should be attractive, short, specific, fresh, and provocative of interest. Manuscripts should be typed double spaced, with margins on all sides, the widest on the left. Careful preparation of the manuscript is important. A story full of blots and corrections has one count against it at the start. When entering a story in a contest, be sure to observe all the rules carefully. Keep a carbon copy of all stories sent out, and a careful record of where, when, and how you send and receive back your short stories. The following books are suggested as helpful on the subject of writing the short story: Garrison, Rocer H.: A Guide to Creative Writing, Henry Holt and Company, New York, 1951, $2.95. GunninG, Rosert: The Technique of Clear Writing, McGrawHill Book Company, Inc., New York, 1952, $3.50. Munson, GoruaM B.: The Writers Workshop Companion, Farrar, Strauss, and Young, New York, 1951, $3.00. SmitH, Rospert Mitter: Writing Fiction, The World Publishing Company, Cleveland and New York, 1952, $3.50. Wippemer, Marcarer: — Basic Principles of Fiction Writing, The Writer, Inc., Boston, 1953, $3.00. Ward Linton APRICOT BLOSSOMS Between the Bud and the Fruit Alberta H. Christensen Save space for these on your agenda, Spring, Though duties brim the lilac-scented days; One quiet moment of remembering The frozen twig, the bleak retreating snow; Then one recess from duty to appraise The orchard branches, brought to sudden bloom— White and ethereal as a wedding veil. This interlude between the bud and fruit Holds a white beauty to the snow denied. How brief the interval to mean so much! Clusters of promise; velvet to the touch! Page 295 Forever Orchid Frances C. Yost AY reigned as queen, with M dandelions spreading a carpet everywhere. 'The air, fresh and invigorating, was heavily scented with lilacs while late blooming tulips and early blooming peonies mingled their brilliance with the blossoming snowballs. 'The month of May reigned in all her glory, and tomorrow would be Mother's Day. Ora Mathews was busy cleaning her big house. It must shine from basement to attic for the children were coming home... All except Julie. Ora thought of her family of grown children. She was proud of all of them. They were good citizens. 'They were all making a place for themselves in their Church and community. They were all practical and thrifty... Except Julie. Ora's brow knit in a little frown, thinking of Julie's extravagance. 'The other children said she had spoiled Julie, being the baby of the family. Well, Ora thought, maybe she had. At least somewhere along the line she certainly had failed to plant the seed of thrift. ""Easy come, easy go,' is the motto Julie lives by," Ora said. "Why it costs more for Julie to go to college one month than the others spent in two." "Julie needs to learn a lesson in thrift. 'That's why I wrote that letter," she continued, above the whir of the vacuum cleaner. Ora Mathews was alone, she could give vent to her feelings. "I thought the letter Page 296 might teach her to be a little more careful with her money." Ora recalled the exact wording of the letter she had written two weeks before: Darling daughter Julie: With college expenses like they are, perhaps it would be best if you did not spend bus fare to come home for Mother's Day. School will be out in less than a month, and you will be home for the summer, then every day will be mother's day for me. Remember Julie, make your money count. You must learn to be practical and thrifty. ~ Your older brothers and sisters will be here to stay overnight. So we will have a houseful the eve of Mother's Day, but they will all be leaving before dinner as they have promised to have dinner at the homes of their mothers-in-law. So... Daddy and I will be sitting down to dinner alone on Mother's Day, but we will be thinking of you. Lovingly, Mother Ora wished now she hadn't written saying not to come home. Steve had said to send money for Julie to come, but Steve was like Julie, he lacked a sense of thrift. "I'd be. Tempted to wire her money to come home today, but she must learn a lesson in thrift, even if it hurts me more than it does her." Ora turned off the vacuum and went to the cleaning closet to get the duster. In the kitchen she noticed the bread rising over the pan. She washed her hands thoroughly and began kneading the bread down. "Ding, ding," the doorbell chimed. FOREVER ORCHID "Either the door or the phone rings every time I get my hands in the dough," Ora grumbled. She rinsed her hands, grabbed the hand towel, and hurried toward the door. "Ding, ding," the doorbell called again. "T'm coming!" Ora answered it, wiping her hands as she opened the door. "Special delivery for Mrs. Steve Mathews," said the service boy. Then, with a twinkle of his brown eyes, he added. "It's flowers," and held out a white carton tied and bowed with lavender ribbon. "But I didn't order any flowers!" Ora Mathews stammered. "They're for you!" The boy's smile grew larger. He seemed to be enjoying the surprise. ""T'omorrow's Mother's Day." With trembling fingers Ora Mathews signed the delivery slip, and stood at the door watching the boy drive away. OR closed the door, dropped into the hall chair, wiped her perspiring hands on her apron, and took the ribbon from the box. Inside, enclosed in green oiled paper, and resting on a bed of soft fern, was a fresh, lovely orchid corsage. "Queen of all flowers, and the most expensive," Ora murmured. She knew Steve had not sent the flowers. Steve had never given her flowers. He had wanted to once, and she insisted on something practical. Ora closed her eyes, and instantly the image of Steve on their wedding day was projected on her mind.... "But Ora, darling, I want to buy a dozen roses for you. I want to 297 show you how very much I love you." Steve's voice was pleading. "Silly, a dozen roses will just wilt. You're not made of money. Buy me a cookerpot that I can use for a long time," practical Ora insisted. Steve bought the cookerpot. Since then he had lavished her with presents, all of them practical. Ora had planted the same practical seed of thrift in all of her children... All except Julie. She picked up the tiny scented envelope and withdrew the card. She recognized the familiar scribbly penmanship. Each little curlycue of Julie's handwriting seemed like her own little smile. Ora read the card aloud: "To Mom, with love from Julie." For a moment Ora's heart was touched. She wiped a moistened eye with the corner of her apron. But when she was able to speak it was the practical part of herself that reigned. "That girl! Here her father and I are skimping along, trying to make ends meet to keep her in college, and she lets money run through her fingers like water through a sieve. "Well, I'd better get back to my breadmaking, or I won't have the rolls done when the children arrive. They do love Mom's fresh homemade bread." Ora covered the orchid with the green oiled paper and found room for the box in the refrigerator. She went back to her bread mixing, but she couldn't forget Julie's extravagance in sending a fresh orchid to her. "If I had that girl here now, I'd give her a paddling." Ora gave the bread a full-handed spank, spread some shortening over the top, and covered it with a clean tea towel. 298 It was hard now for Ora to resume her housecleaning as she had done before the orchid came. She kept stopping in the middle of a task to peek into the refrigerator for a glance at the orchid. '"The petals are soft, like velvet to the touch, and the gold heart of it...." She stopped her sentence, for a lump came up in her throat. Ora put fresh linen on all the beds in the upstairs bedrooms. As she worked, she wished she hadn't written that letter to Julie. 'Practical and thrifty, and preachy, that's what I am," Ora chided herself, "and I'd much rather have my Julie home than have an orchid." It was the practical, thrifty Ora,. That met Steve Mathews at the door at six P. M. "Steve, come see what that rascal Julie sent me." Ora carefully opened the box and displayed the fragile orchid in its green, lacy bed. "An orchid for Ora," Steve's voice was jubilant. "Good for Julie. Pretty thing, isn't it?" Ora studied Steve's face while he bent over the orchid. There was a smile playing on his mouth. He was definitely pleased with Julie's present. Ora remembered again the dozen roses he had wanted to give her on their wedding day. They had never mentioned the rose incident in all of their married lives, and she wouldn't bring it up now. It was the practical Ora who finally broke the silence. "Steve, what are we going to do with that girl, spending your hardearned money for... For flowers? Why, the idea just burns me up!" Ora expostulated. "But we didn't send her extra money for the orchid, Mother." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1955 Steve's voice registered understanding. "She bought it out of her own allowance. Why, she probably made some very dear sacrifices to buy it," Steve reasoned. "But, Steve, such an expensive flower! Of course I can't wear it. What would people think at such extravagance?" Ora remonstrated. "They would think you have a lovely, generous daughter, and you have," Steve replied. "But, Steve, you know as well as I do, that only people like Mrs. Montrose can afford orchids. I just won't wear it to the Mother's Day program." Ora's voice reached crescendo heights. "You'll wear it, Ora. You'll wear it tomorrow to the Mother's Day program," Steve said, quietly, but firmly. HE eve of Mother's Day arrived, and with it Steve's and Ora's children and their many grandchildren, each with a gift for Ora. Early on Mother's Day there were nylons, and service-weight hose, aprons, a cooking thermometer, yardage for a house dress, tablecloth and napkins, even a clothes hamper. Ora looked around at her children. They were good children, they saw the things she needed, they were practical and thrifty, as she had reared them. Their array of presents proved their thriftiness. The morning found Ora_ busy with so many extra for breakfast, then, all too soon, they were gathering their children in their cars and waving goodbye. Ora hurried to her room to dress for Sunday School. She started slipping into her dusty brown dress, which had been her FOREVER ORCHID standby most of the winter, when Steve came into the bedroom. "Wear that pretty gray dress, Mother, the one you bought for Martha's wedding," Steve suggested. He watched Ora go to the wardtobe, then he left the room. Ora unzippered her garment bag, and there was the lovely Bemberg sheer. Funny, she had forgotten she had it. 'The dress gave inspiration for a new hair do. Ora combed her soft waves up from her neck. The slight wings of gray about her face, seemed to lend a softness to her skin. "Mrs. Montrose wears her hair sort of like this," Ora murmured to her reflection in the mirTOT. When she was ready, Steve entered the room, this time carrying the box with the orchid. "Since Julie isn't here to do the honors herself, I'll pin the orchid on for her," Steve spoke in his gentle, kindly way. Ora knew there was no slipping away without it. QR felt conspicuous as she entered the chapel. She was too much the practical type to be wearing a corsage. If she could just have tucked herself into her gray shorty, and hid the orchid under the coat, but that would have crushed it. So she had chosen to come coatless, and now the orchid protruded so. It seemed that everyone was watching her. The Aaronic Priesthood boys were acting as ushers today. One lad, his face a cleaned, scrubbed tan, escorted Ora to her seat. Mrs. Montrose sat on her left. Ora smiled at her and murmured good morning, but Mrs. Montrose saw only the orchid. Ora wished now 299 that Steve had pinned the orchid on the other shoulder, away from Mrs. Montrose's steady gaze. Ora noticed that Mrs. Montrose wasn't wearing a corsage, but as she looked about her she saw several mothers with gay corsages. Myrtle Smith had a dainty little violet cluster. Susan Moore had a corsage of rosebuds. Several mothers were wearing gardenias, but she could see no orchids except hers. She felt the eyes of everyone upon her. How she wished the orchid were tucked safely away on its bed of fern in her refrigerator! The program advanced from congregational singing of "Oh, I Had Such a Pretty Dream, Mamma," to a vocal duet of "You Are a Wonderful Mother," and a solo, '""Mother Mine." Ora heard the kindergarten class reciting: "M... Is for the million things she gave me. O... Is only that she's growing old. T... Is for the tears she shed to save me." Ora didn't hear any more. Her mind wandered back to Mothers Day. When Julie was tiny and she was reciting verses on Mother's Day. Ora returned from her daydreaming with a start. What was the superintendent saying? "Sister Mathews' Sunday School class will sing, "You are a Lovely Lady.'" Startled, Ora remembered that she was to accompany them on the piano. She excused herself as she passed in front of Mrs. Montrose. At the piano, Ora felt all the eyes of the congregation on the orchid she was wearing. She was glad she knew the notes well, for tears were blinding her vision. Remembering the big smile Julie 300 always wore, she managed to smile and touch the right keys, as the children's voices blended in melody: You are a lovely lady, your life has proved this true. You have known joy and sorrow, you have come proudly through. Please tell us now your secret, do you greet the day with a song? Thank you for sharing this hour, we shall remember it long. The song was finished, a sigh spread over the congregation. Ora knew the children had never sung the song so well. She saw her empty seat through misty eyes, and excused herself as she passed in front of Mrs. Montrose. As she bent over, the orchid brushed within inches of Mrs. Montrose's face. Ora heard herself murmur, "Pardon me." She settled in her seat for the remainder of the program, after which tiny books of poetry were given to each mother present, and the meeting was dismissed. No sooner was the benediction pronounced than Mrs. Montrose turned to Ora. "I've wanted to tell you all through the meeting, how beautiful you look. Why, you're the envy of all the mothers today, Ora Mathews. I'd give anything if my family would give me flowers on Mother's Day. Even roses in a vase, or violets in a saucer, but they don't. They give me gloves, and I have a drawer full of gloves. They give me nylons, and I have enough to tie around the earth. They give me everything that is practical and usable, but nothing to feed my soul with beauty. I wish my family would give me flowers occasionally. I'd love to have an orchid like yours, just once." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1955 RA murmured "Thank you," though she felt Mrs. Montrose was being more tactful than honest. Then she found herself surrounded by her Sunday School class. She was glad of their attention, for she wanted no more mothers hovering around making flattering remarks about the orchid she was wearing. It was hard to control her tears today as she pondered over all the events of the past two days. The throng had thinned out. Ora decided to wait at the chapel for Steve's Priesthood meeting to let out. They would go home together. Other mothers would have their children about them as they left the chapel. Ora thought of her big, empty house, and she and Steve alone in it. If only she had sent money for Julie to come home, as Steve had suggested, instead of writing that practical letter. Well, she might as well wait outside in the sunshine for Steve. Ora felt faint and unsteady as she made her way down the steps from the chapel. She was quite alone. She stepped out into the bright May sunshine. She felt smothered in her own despair, until she saw Julie tripping lightly down the sidewalk. Seeing her mother on the steps of the chapel, Julie called: "Mother! Mother! I'm home!" Julie had arrived joyously, the way she lived, full of silver mercury about everything. Joy and sunshine were so much a part of Julie. "Julie, Julie, my darling, you came!" Ora's voice changed key in the middle of the sentence. "I'm so glad." "T couldn't stay away on Mother's Day, Mommie." Julie looked at her FOREVER ORCHID mother and smiled, and Ora knew this one was the nicest smile she had shown. "Mommie, I disregarded the first paragraph in your letter about being practical right after I read the second paragraph about all the others going to see their mothers-in-law, and leaving you and daddy alone all day," Julie explained. Ora felt a rich emotional content coursing through her veins. She held Julie at arm's length. "But you look so thin, darling." Julie was slender, her large, soft childish mouth curved up at the corners when she laughed, and she always laughed. Her light brown eyes had flecks of black in them, and her dark soft hair, like a halo of short curls, glistened in the sunshine. Ora took inventory of her daughter, her slender arms, the smooth graceful contour of her hips and legs. "But you look so thin, Julie," Ora repeated. "Tll fill out, with some of your good cooking. I'm awfully hungry, Mom. I... 1 haven't had any lunches for three weeks. You see...." Julie stopped short, and tears filled her eyes. She hadn't meant to blurt out about the cost of the orchid. "I had to buy some things, and I was saving to come home to see you today." RA remembered how Steve had tried to tell her that living and college expenses were higher than when the other children had gone to school. Perhaps she had been too frugal. "You went without your lunches, Julie, honey, to buy this orchid for me?" Ora spoke tenderly. Love 301 opened like a water lily in her heart. Suddenly Ora realized that it was she, not Julie who had her values mixed. It was she who was practical and thrifty about the wrong things. Julie, with her orchid, and Steve, with the roses on their wedding day, were the ones who had true values: "T should have sent money for you to come home," Ora tried to explain. "Daddy, told me to, but I... I thought...." "But I had to do it, Mommie," Julie interrupted, "I had to sacrifice for you. You've sacrificed for me for nineteen whole years." Ora knew then that Julie had invested in the most worthwhile qualities of the heart, the mind, and spirit. She looked down at the lovely orchid. She saw the beauty of love and sacrifice in its petals, which Steve had seen all the time. She knew now what Mrs. Montrose meant—and that she had the right sense of values. The soft lavender petals of that orchid spoke of love. Why shouldn't she be the proudest mother in town to have a lovely daughter beside her, who loved her, and had sacrificed to prove it? The orchid would still be fresh and pretty for evening services. Ora knew that she would wear it, as she should have worn it this morning... Like a queen. Why, if she kept it wrapped in the oiled paper, in the refrigerator, it would even be fresh for Relief Society on 'Tuesday, and she could look at it and enjoy it for many days. And then, she would press it, in the family Bible... And later frame it. It would always be fresh and lovely in her memory. Why, this. Orchid would last forever! Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, May 1, and May 15, 1895 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE Women OF Att NatTIons" TYPES OF WOMEN: The women of the Republic are the direct heritors of the women of the Revolution. All talk of a new woman is a mere fable. 'There is no new woman.... The woman who sang the pacons of the Exodus; the woman who spins among her maidens while Ulysses roams the seas; the woman who proves to her Roman neighbors the redeeming power of Christianity.... The woman who launched the bark of Columbus; the woman kneeling on the bleak shores of Plymouth; the woman who made the homespun suit for the inaugural of her husband as first President of the Republic.... Blessed womanhood of the world.... Behold the women of the Revolution! They roll the logs beside their husbands to build the rude cabins; they sow, they reap, they card and spin and make the garments of the household; they rear rosy sons and daughters; they teach them the Sermon on the Mount—reverence for holy things, respect for authority; courage, reliance, self-control.... —Kate Brownlee Sherwood A WORD FROM CASTLE DALE (UTAH): My thoughts go back to the time when I first came to this valley, how desolate and barren it looked. I stood on the bank of the creek, and looking around saw nothing but the naked hills and the ground all covered with sage brush and prickly pears, not a tree, except a few cottonwoods along the creek and a hut or a dugout here and there to shelter the few people that had come here to make their home; we heard no birds sing, except the song from the owl and you know that is not a very pleasing one, but through the blessings of the Lord and much hard labor in which many of the sisters have had a goodly share, the land has produced in its strength for our need.... —Caroline A. Larsen MY GARDEN... And everything seemed to say, "Come out, Leave your window Easter lilies, Come out in the hills and see what waits Where each crystal, nppling rill is, Come take us cowslips out of the damp And the ferns from out the shadows, Wee violets and sweet buttercups From out the spreading meadows.... —Augusta Joyce Crocheron RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE AT BRIGHAM CITY (UTAH): President Olivia Widebourg said: My heart is so full of gratitude to our Heavenly Father for his kindness to all of us, and for that portion of the Spirit we enjoy today. If you want to be the guardian angel of your homes, even if you are wronged, do your duty; our work is to relieve sorrow, suffering, and the needy, and it is a work of peace... —Emilia D. Madsen, Cor. Sec. HYGIENE AND PHYSIOLOGY: Sister Hannah Sorensen has just started one of her classes here in the city.... The special subjects treated upon are Hygiene, Physiology of Women, and Obstetrics.... The object of these classes is to assist woman in learning her true mission in life and to be more willing to fill it.... —Selected Page 302 ANE DELANO, who was honored during the March Red Cross drive, is sometimes called the Florence Nightingale of the Red Cross. She headed the first Red Cross Nurses organization and built up a large reserve group, carefully checking each woman's qualifications. The Government gratefully used these nurses during World War I, when Miss Delano herself went overseas, working, organizing, and strengthening the organization. She also organized the Red Cross Public Health Nursing Program, later taken over and still operated by the Government. ENATOR MARGARET CHASE SMITH and Representative Frances Bolton have introduced resolutions in Congress asking that the rose be made America's national flower. D*. LILLIE ROSE MINOKAHILL (1876-1952) was honored last Memorial Day by the dedication of a granite monument near her former home in Oneida, Wisconsin. Both Indians and whites, including Catholics, Episcopalians, and Methodists all participated, representative of those for whom she had cared. A Mohawk orphan, reared by Quakers, she became a physician. When she was widowed and left to support five children, she returned to medical practice. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon Her charity cases far exceeded her paid practice. At seventy-two she was especially honored at Atlantic City by the American Medical Association. In 1947 she was voted "Indian of the Year" by the intertribal council.; MARIA PIA, twenty, daughter of exiled King Umberto of Italy, was recently married in Portugal to Prince Alexander, thirty, son of Jugoslavia's former Prince Regent Paul. N Texas, a Constitutional Amendment, in November, gave women for the first time the right and responsibility to serve on juries, so that they are no longer "half-citizens." An attractive, intelligentlooking, all-woman jury was immediately chosen. BIRTHDAY congratulations are extended to Mrs. Dessie Newman Middleton, ninety-seven, Los Angeles, California; Mrs. Ursula Bandley Gee, Provo, Utah, ninetyseven; Mrs. Janet Wade, Glendale, California, ninety-six; Mrs. Josephine Hansen, Logan, Utah, and Mrs. Amy Kuester, Grand Island, Nebraska, ninety-three; Mrs. Margaret King Walpole, Salt Lake City, Utah, ninety-one; Mrs. Elizabeth Ann Moffat Froerer, Ogden, Utah, ninety-one; and Mrs. Anna Jargena Chnistina Madsen Heder, ninetyone, Mesa, Arizona. Page 303 CQ EDITORIAL 9 VOL. 42 MAY 1955 A Word of Appreciation WO small brothers were given books. One raised a cheery face and called, "Thank you," the other one took the book silently and moved away. Perhaps the second child was appreciative, but the donor was left unaware of his feelings. These children had received the same home training, but the natural, individual dispositions of children in a family require different emphasis in the training. It seems natural and easy for some people to express their appreciation while others remain silent, whether because of shyness, diffidence, or ungratefulness is not evident. Some may have the impulse to express thanks but before the expression becomes a reality, other immediate duties push it aside stillborn. Yet an expression of appreciation is welcomed by everyone. No matter what one's worldly wealth, opportunities, and advantages, he will always welcome a sincere word of appreciation. Everyone needs to be built up and encouraged, for each person has moments of self-doubt and despondency, whose frequency depends upon changing factors. One may deliver a speech, or give a demonstration, after many hours of preparation. How disheartening if none commends the effort. Some in the audience may feel that the speaker has been in the public eye so long and been recognized for so many years, that he would not wish to be congratulated. Nothing could be Page 304 farther from the truth, for great people are simple people and subject to the same feelings as the rest of humanity. If it seems out of place to go forward and express appreciation, or if there is no opportunity then, there is always the tomorrow when one may phone or write. There is recalled a friendship between two men which began many years ago. It started by one writing to commend the other on a stand which he had taken on a public issue, unpopular at the time. For some years their only contacts were by further letters, as the one followed with admiration the activities of the second, from afar. The appreciative comments were encouraging to the public servant, and the contacts ripened into a_ personal friendship over the years. A mother in the home needs encouragement. Her heavy duties, albeit a joy to her, become monotonous. It is told how one mother, yearning for a word of appreciation in return for three well-cooked meals a day, finally served her family salad bowls filled with fresh grass clippings. In response to their consternation, she replied that she had decided they didn't know what they were eating, as they never said a word, but just ate and left. 'Thereafter that mother was showed appreciation in words. One husband who was told of this incident, since then comments "good grass" at the end of a particularly good meal. EDITORIAL While some men seem embarrassed to express appreciation in words, a wife is grateful for appreciation however it may be expressed. Recently a father was uplifted by being told that his daughter had said he was wonderful and very special. That remark was precious to him, for so often children do not express appreciation, although they may feel it deeply. A word of love and appreciation from a child to a mother will cause her heart to sing. Likewise, a mother should express love and appreciation to her children and not confine herself to words of correction, as is too often the case. In times of discouragement, children recall words of praise and are given a desire to do better. Latter-day Saint women receive a great training in unselfishness and independence just being the wives of husbands who obey the call to service in the Church. Likewise, a husband manifests unselfish devo- 305 tion to his family when he encourages his wife to accept a call to Church service which may take her away from him and their children at times. The appreciation of one for the other is a requisite. One should never fail to express appreciation to the great General Authorities, the physicians of souls. They have poured out to them daily the sorrows and unrighteous conduct of others to heal and to bind up, for Church members look upon their leaders as belonging to them —as their own. The appreciation of all Church members to them should be repeatedly expressed, and actions should support their words of appreciation. If Christ himself had to ask, "Where are the nine?" certainly each person would do well to remind himself constantly of the need to express appreciation to his fellow men and to his God. —M. C. S. Legacy (Proverbs 6:6-10) Elsie McKinnon Strachan This proverb I would leave to you my son: "Go to the ant... Consider her ways, and be wise." No overseer, guide, or ruling one Dictates her quitting time, her hour to rise. No master sends her forth up dawn's chill path Where shadows linger still and sleep prevails; Nor is it fear of dictatorial wrath That speeds her questing feet down alien trails. "... A little folding of the hands...." is good For contemplation—when the crops are in, When hearth fires feed from mountain-stacks of wood, When lofts are full and wheat spills from the bin— But be not too content to slumber now, Life's harvest follows first the early plow! a hie PLATE A—"THE FLOWER GARDEN" Designing Original Applique and Block Quilts Velma MacKay Paul ESIGNING one's own quilts D gives the greatest joy of all. My first attempt (Plate A), called the "Flower Garden," was made about twenty years ago, when I saw for the first time an early Pennsylvania Bride's Quilt with no two patches alike. I resolved to make one. With no patterns to guide me, and no quilt to copy Page 306 from, I made circles with plates, smaller ones around saucers, drew grapes, flowers, etc., until I arrived at something I liked. I cut geomettric designs by folding papers in fourths and eighths and cutting crescents, squares, or scallops. When unfolded, some of them were lovely. I cut out various flowers and leaves, and when I had a few patterns I liked, I proceeded to cut them out of materials. New ideas popped up as I progressed, and, when twentyfive were completed, I arranged and rearranged until the quilt shown was decided upon. In addition to the quilting of the background, each leaf, flower, and stem is outlined to make it stand out. Quilting should never cover any part of an applique motif. With twenty-five original patterns, I realized I had the possibility of twenty-five quilts and began experimenting. Taking first the grape pattern (second from the left on the top row of the bride's quilt), I made some patterns on paper and laid them block to block. This resulted in the quilt shown in Plate B. Plate C, called "My Favorite Quilt," is a combination of several patterns. I knew I would never in this world have time to work them all into real quilts, so I arrived at an easier solution. I drew fifty different designs on a paper marked off in squares of one and one-half inches, putting a different pattern in each square. I then cut a stencil and had fifty copies mimeographed. The squares were then cut apart and each pattern placed with those of its kind in a separate box. 'The idea was to combine different patterns or to try all of one kind together as I had with the grape design. When I found one I liked, I pasted the PLATE B—GRAPE DESIGN Illustration shows three-fifths of quilt. DESIGNING ORIGINAL APPLIQUE AND BLOCK QUILTS 307 308 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1955 PLATE C—"MY FAVORITE QUILT" (Three-fifths of quilt shown) PLATE D—BIRD AND WREATH BRIDE'S QUILT (Three-fifths of quilt shown) The center block shows the double-headed dove, the dove for peace, the heart, the goodness of mankind. The joined doves symbolize their union with peace and love in their hearts. The conventionalized birds, always looking backwards, in the row above, speak in this region's lore of the resurrection and eternal life. In this same block, the three tulips coming from one stem represent the Holy Trinity. 'The border blocks are alternately a conventionalized pomegranate, denoting fertility, promising a home with children, and the Dutch rose symbolizing health; and the oak leaf, denoting strength. copies on a sheet of paper; so—on paper—I made up about twenty-five quilts in one afternoon. Later on, with water colors, I filled in greens, blues, yellows, etc. It is a fascinating thing to do, even if a real quilt does not result. The Bird and Wreath Quilt (Plate D) I designed and made for a lovely bride and put into the designs my wishes for the young couple, based on the lore of the Pennsylvania Dutch country in which we live. It is entirely appliqued. Plate E shows the Tulip and Rose Quilt made for another daughter-inlaw. Since it is now three thousand miles from here, I can show only the detail of it, which I used for a bolster. Only two patterns were used, alternately, on the quilt. There are twenty-five eighteen-inch squares. It has a dust ruffle one yard deep with a continuous appliqued border of leaves and vine running around the entire bottom. Its fullness gives it a graceful swaying appearance. With all applique quilts, I make bolsters or pillowcases to match, and twice I have made matching tops for dressing tables. These, too, are quilted and fitted under a glass plate. HE same patterns can be used in different positions, thus creating an entirely different quilt, for instance, the Dresden Plate design (I) made with twenty-four strips and a round center. By using one-quarter of the plate, and set-in corners, it becomes the Fan Pattern (II). The Star Pattern is one of the oldest known and is the basis for countless others. Beginning with a square, lines are drawn from corner to corner. 'T'wo more divide the block through the center, crosswise, and up and down. From that point on, anything can be done. _IIlustration (III) shows the star in its simpler form. The "Rising Sun" in Plate IV is an elaborate variation. Illustration V shows a "Sunflower" block with three pieced stars and a plain square of white muslin. The centers of the stars are appliqued over the piecing, and the stems and leaves appliqued on the white patch. Both are based on the star pattern. Illustration VI shows pieced tulips, using part of the star pattern with leaves and stems appliqued. PLATE E—TULIPS AND ROSE QUILT DESIGNING ORIGINAL APPLIQUE AND BLOCK QUILTS 309 310 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1955 (See The Relief Society Magazine, If there is a quilt in your future, March 1954, page 179, and FebI hope you will enjoy making it Tuary 1955, page 105). From beginning to end. Mowe aL VI re a ewrsoe Highly Organized Dorothy Boys Kilian pocket of his coat with happy anticipation as he strode up the front walk. By golly, he and Sally deserved this unexpected treat; the budget hadn't allowed many frills lately. Before he could get his key in the lock, young Mrs. Windon opened the door. Just looking at her, even after six months of marriage, Jim's heart melted like ice cubes in hot water. "Hi, lovely," he said tenderly, pulling her to him. As he bent to kiss her, though, he was stopped cold by that all-too-familiar look in her otherwise beautiful blue eyes. "Couldn't you possibly manage to get home sooner?" Sally was asking reproachfully. "You know I always plan for six o'clock, and now the souffle's all sunk in the middle!" Jim groaned inwardly and then squared his jaw. "Let it sink," he said, with determined gaiety. "We can pick up a bite somewhere on the way to the theater." "Theater?" Sally echoed. "Honey, you may not realize it, but we're about to have ourselves an evening." Jim drew two tickets out of his coat pocket and waved them triumphantly in front of her. He felt his enthusiasm mounting again. "The boss had two complimentaries to the Playhouse for tonight, and when I stayed late to finish a report for him he slid them across the desk to me." J> Windon patted the inside "Oh, Jim, that would have been fun, but..." Sally hesitated. "But what?" Jim braced himself. "Well, I'd planned for us to go down to the stores...." Jim stared at her. "You mean to say," he spluttered, "that you'd pass up an evening on the town just to go shopping?" "That's what we've often done on Friday nights," Sally said defensively. "When we have the car to carty things home in, and all." "But it doesn't have to become an ironclad rule, does it," Jim retorted, "when something like this comes up?" "Tt is a shame," Sally agreed. "But to top it all, I've arranged with that appliance man on Green Street to give us a demonstration of his automatic washer. You know, that model we're interested in. I told him we'd be sure to stop in tonight." "He won't mind when you call and explain," Jim remonstrated. "He'll have plenty of other customers, and besides, we can see him any old time." "That's just it, we can't... Not together," Sally insisted. "Friday's the only night they're open." Jim was silent for a moment. Then he said coldly, "So we're not going to use the tickets?" "Jim," Sally wailed, "you're not trying to understand." "There are some things I'll never understand," Jim said desperately. He had noticed right from the beginning that Sally was a_ highly, Page 31] 312 organized little housekeeper. And now he was remembering the first time they'd had a real scene over it. THEY had been married only a few weeks when he had found himself with an extra halfholiday. He had burst into the house Friday noon and found Sally washing windows in the living room. "Surprise, surprise!" he had shouted, grabbing the sponge from her hand and whirling her around the room. "The boss said to take the afternoon off. Let's pack a lunch and take a hike up the canyon." "Jim, how wonderful!" Sally trilled, gently retrieving the sponge which was dripping water all over the rug. Then she looked at the window and frowned. "Oh, but we can't," she said sadly. "Just look at this mess. The curtains down and only one window clean so far." "Who cares?" Jim laughed. "It's just perfect out for a walk—crisp and sunny. We might even find some leaves turned color up on the ridge." Sally's eyes glowed briefly, but then she said, "No, it's impossible. That rain yesterday left the windows all streaked. Think how queer it would look from the outside—one clear pane and all the rest a sight." "For Pete's sake," Jim burst out. "Tsn't an afternoon of fun together more important than the view of our place from the street?" Sally shook her head. "Besides," she went on, "I wouldn't really enjoy the walk. Id be thinking of how Id planned to do that job today, and then ran out on it, before it was hardly started." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1955 "Ease up a little, can't you, Sally?" Jim pleaded. "Time enough to get organized to the teeth when we have twins to feed and you have to get to some meeting on time." "Darling," Sally protested, "I just can't seem to help it. I don't see how one can run a home all helterskelter. I'm only trying to do my job right." Her chin began to tremble. Jim suddenly felt like a churlish bear. He put his arms around her. "Trouble is," he said lightly," casual living comes hard for you perhaps because you weren't born in the West." "Maybe that's it," Sally managed a smile. "What a trial it must be for you native sons to put up with us 'furriners.' " "Oh, well, Illinois had it's Lincoln," Jim said generously. But as he stood by the window and stared out through it into the golden autumn sunshine, he felt trapped.... "MAYBE we'd better eat," Sally was saying uncertainly. "Yes, of course." Jim's voice was frigid. "Let us sit down immediately to our well-planned meal. But first...." He stalked over to the desk, tore the theater tickets in two with a loud rip, and dropped the pieces into the wastebasket. "Oh, Jim, now you're angry again," Sally sighed. "Let's cut out the dramatics. You said 'eat'; all right let's eat." Jim strode out to the dining alcove. In frosty silence he sat down at the table; in abused silence Sally brought in the food, in miserable silence they pretended to eat. As Sally came in with the apricot pudding, however, she had apparent- HIGHLY ORGANIZED ly decided on an attempt to defrost the atmosphere. "We had a letter from your mother today," she said casually. "That so? What'd she have to say?" Jim asked with cool politeness. "Oh, this and that.... Your father's sister, Julia, must be a remarkable woman." "What's she up to now?" Jim smiled a little in spite of himself. "She's going up to San Francisco tomorrow to attend some women's club convention. She's the official delegate from her district." "She will probably be coming through here, then," Jim said. "Yes, she's quite a woman, head of practically every organization in her town.... Say!" His eyes suddenly came alive. "What?" Sally asked, startled. Jim pushed back his chair. "I'm going to phone her to see if she can't stop off here a few hours between trains," he said eagerly. "Why on earth? I mean, of course, if you want to. But I never heard you speak of being so fond of her...." Sally floundered. "Pm not, I mean, she really is wonderful. I definitely want you to meet her," Jim called back enthusiastically from the telephone where he was already dialing long distance. ND so, at six o'clock the next evening, Jim was conducting Aunt Julia up the walk and into the house where Sally, in nervous eagerness, awaited them. "How do you do, my dear?" Aunt Julia, her ample form perfectly turned out in a gray suit with fur neckpiece, gave Sally a smart peck on the cheek. "Oh, no, Jim," she 313 said over her shoulder. "Don't set that bag down flat—it'll curdle my lotions." "It was so nice of you to stop off," Sally ventured politely. "It did throw me several hours off schedule," Aunt Julia admitted. "T wouldn't have considered it at — all except that Jim here was so flatteringly insistent." She smirked fondly at her nephew. "We'll eat right away so you won't feel rushed about making the eight o'clock train," Sally explained, as she saw the guest glance nervously at her watch and then a the dining table. "Fine!" Aunt Julia boomed. "By the way, I wonder if I might have a cup of consomme. I always have some in the late afternoon, seems to help me digest my dinner." "How's Uncle Rob?" Jim was asking as Sally came back into the room with the cup of consomme. "Rob? Oh, he's all right," Aunt Julia answered vaguely. 'He's transferred himself into the sales division of the company—isn't home much these days." "T think we're ready to begin," Sally broke in awhile later, as she finished the dinner preparations. "We can eat our salad while the gravy's heating." As she sat down at the table, Aunt Julia pushed her salad plate to one side. "I'll save mine until the main course, if you don't mind, my dear. I'm just used to eating it that way. The busy life I lead, it seems more practical to get everything on the table at once." Conversation lagged. Aunt Julia very obviously concentrating on the job of fortifying her generous frame 314 in the shortest time decently possible. "Jim says you just about run your town," Sally smiled determinedly as she served dessert. "How on earth do you find time for all your activities?" "It's just a matter of having a definite time for everything, and no nonsense about it," Aunt Julia answered briskly. "And that reminds me, Jim." She turned to her nephew. "I'll want a cab for seven-fifteen; will you call one now?" "Great guns, we'll take you to the statiqn," Jim protested. "No, a cab, if you please," Aunt Julia said firmly. "You don't want to run off leaving a table full of dirty dishes. Besides," she added, half under her breath, "in a taxi, Pll be sure of getting there in plenty of time." AS the cab drove off a little while later, Jim shut the front door and said solemnly, "A very successful, highly organized woman." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1955 "No doubt of it," Sally agreed grimly, sinking down on the davenport. Jim cleared his throat. "Well, let's do up the dishes," he said briskly. "Very inefficient to leave them sitting there on the table." "Jimmy... Come here." Jim's heart missed a beat as Sally reached up and pulled him down beside her. He heard her sudden laughter, muffled in his coat. She lifted up her head and smiled at him, the kind of smile which always made him feel a stab of pity for every other man in the world. "The way I feel now, I never want to do another organized thing the rest of my life," she said fervently. "I won't spoil your surprise, ever again. Other things can wait. You've certainly won this round, honey." "Oh, I wouldn't say you'd lost entirely," Jim said kindly, as he tucked Sally's head back under his coat. "After all, you taught me how to organize... For defense." My Mlagazine Mabel M. Tanner Each month I get a magazine, My Relief Society Magazine; It excels most publications twice its price, With its poems—soul inspiring, "Special Features'"—never tiring, And its pages full of sound and sage advice, There are helps to make home beautiful, And aids to keep wife dutiful, And stories, sweet and clean, that warm the heart; Recipes for healthful living, At the same time ever giving Beauty to that culinary art. Let's be loyal to our Magazine, Our Relief Society Magazine; It gives us wealth from out its bounteous store, With its plans for every meeting. How I thrill with joyous greeting When I see it in the mailbox at my door! Hurrah for Pete! Mabel Law Atkinson 66 OY, oh, boy! Look at that, Marola!" The silence of the sixthgrade room was pierced by Pete's outburst as he thrust his report card before the astonished eyes of Marola West who sat in front of him. To the surprise of the pupils, their teacher, Miss Burke, did not reprove him for this interruption while she was passing out the report cards for the six weeks just ended, for when she saw the look of eager triumph in his eyes, instead of the veiled despair, and the flush of happiness on his face rather than the usual stoic chagrin at such times, she could not. Her eyes filled with quick tears, while her heart was singing. At last she had touched the soul of this gangling boy she had despaired of for the six months she had been his teacher. Her thoughts raced back to the morning of her first day of teaching in the Lakeside School when the principal had hurriedly entered her room just before time for the bell and had said, "Just one more thing, Miss Burke, you will get the school's problem lad this year, Pete Garfield. No one has been able to reach him thus far. He's a dull, apathetic student, but quick enough in mischief. 'Take a firm stand from the start and remember I am back of you in anything you do." She had resented the principal's words, and had decided to give the boy every encouragement. She had been instinctively drawn to him that first day when she had called on him to take his turn in reading aloud, and had seen the mute pleading in his eyes, which turned to agony as Rodney Hebdon, one of the most forward students, had said, "Pete can't read. Didn't you know?" He had stumbled through a short paragraph, missing most of the words and had heaved an audible sigh and wiped the perspiration from his forehead when he took his seat. From that very day she had given him special help outside of school hours and found, to her surprise, that he soon mastered the big words when she taught them to him as she would to a first grader through story, pictures, and dramatization, but the little words bothered him. She had gone to his home two nights a week, and now, after long months, he was able to go rather haltingly through about one-sixth of the regular class assignments. A month ago had come the inspiration to tell him that, if he did the small assignments she gave him from then on, he would receive the same grade as if he had completed all the work. How he had toiled! Apathy had disappeared, and he had begun going to her boarding house for additional help on Saturdays. She was recalled to the present by Marola's voice, "Miss Burke, I can't understand! Pete's marks are as high as mine, and surely you know...." She stopped embarrassed, not knowing how to go on, and Miss Page 315 316 Burke answered quickly, "Yes, I know. I am sure we are all proud of his achievement." 'Then she added quietly to Marola, "Will you help me pass out the art materials at recess, please?" And her eyes smiled a challenge for silence. AROLA, her brightest student, understood and was her usual sweet self as she answered, "I shall be glad to, Miss Burke." At recess she quickly put the paper and paints on the desks, then came and stood by her teacher's desk and said, "Miss Burke, I'm sorry if I was unkind, but I was so startled to see Pete had all A's the same as I, when he is dreadfully slow and never gets all his work, and doesn't even know all the words yet, that I called out before I thought." "IT know, dear." Miss Burke's voice was tender. "I know. God has been very good to you, Marola. He has blessed you with a high degree of intelligence—with an alert mind. It is easy for you to get your work. Pete has worked much, much harder than you have, and he has learned the three spelling words I've assigned him each day this last month, and the two problems in arithmetic and the half page of reading, so don't you feel he should know the joy of succeeding when he has done his best? Remember, dear, to be grateful for what God has given you, but never feel superior to one who has not been so highly blessed." Marola's eyes were filled with a new light, as she said, "I'm glad you gave Pete all A's. Truly I am. Thank you for making me see. From now on J shall be his champion, too." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1955 The next morning she was waiting at Miss Burke's gate to walk to school with her. "How nice to have someone to walk with this beautiful spring morning!" Miss Burke put Marola at ease at once, for she sensed there was a reason for her going out of her way to accompany her to school. After a few seconds of silence, Marola spoke. "I told Dad and Mother all about Pete's report card and what you said to me, and they wish there were more teachers like you. Dad told me that Pete is the smartest boy in town in some things, that not another boy his age or even older can handle a team like he can; that he knows how to harness a team and plow as well as a man. Mother said that even though I might have a quicker brain to get school lessons, she guessed things were pretty well evened up when God was giving out the talents. I wanted to tell you this to make up for my rudeness yesterday." With an arm about the young gitl's shoulders, Miss Burke said very gently, "You just didn't think, dear. But from now on, perhaps you can do more than you realize to get your classmates to accept Pete as one of them, as their equal, I mean. That would do him more good than anything else. A person needs the security of friends. Pete isn't dumb, for I've proved he can learn. I think, perhaps, teachers have just figured he was, and have put forth no special effort to help him." "That is true, Miss Burke. You're the first teacher who has really made him see that he can learn. I know I've been sort of a snob, but I HURRAH FOR PETE! Haven't really meant to be, and now I'm going to try and help Pete. Just you watch me! I'll have the rest of the class seeing the good in him, too—all but Rodney. He acts so superior, I'm sort of afraid of him." "Don't be. He's a brilliant boy and has a heart of gold if he can only be made to see. Well, here we are at the schoolhouse." AROLA joined her group, and Miss Burke went inside. All day in the back of her mind was the germ of an idea to help two boys develop into splendid men, and a plan began to evolve in which Pete could demonstrate his superiority in some things. While he never reached the same depths of despair again, Pete's ascent to popularity, to being accepted, was slow. He continued to study, and within a short time was doing three problems and five words and reading an entire page. In spite of Marola's efforts, Rodney would not recognize Pete as an equal, and when he saw how she favored him with her smiles and often drew him into conversation, he became almost insufferably rude in his attitude toward Pete. Always in class, innocently enough it appeared on the surface, he was showing up Pete's inability to do the work required of normal students, and on the playground he was even more insulting. One afternoon recess when Rodney and Bill White were choosing up sides for a game of ball, and only Pete was left and it was Rodney's turn to choose, he said, with forced carelessness, to Bill, "It's my turn, but you can have him. He's no good, 317 only to be the teacher's pet and get pitied by Marola."__ There was no Pete at school the next day nor the next, so Miss Burke went to his home to inquire the reason. From his mother she learned he was working for a farmer, Mr. Dalton, doing his spring plowing. She confided that he had tried to get Pete to help him before but he had refused by saying, "No, I wouldn't think of missing a day of school now, for I can really see I am learning." Continuing, his mother said, "But two nights ago he came home late and told me he wouldn't be going back to school for a while, for he would be plowing for John Dalton. I tried to talk him out of it, but couldn't." As Miss Burke was leaving, Pete came in. When he saw her he flushed a deep crimson. She quickly put him at his ease by saying, "Your mother tells me you are plowing for Mr. Dalton. I've heard you are an expert at handling a team. In fact, one man told me you are the smartest boy in town when it came to hitching up and driving a team. Do you come home for your noon meal?" "No, I eat dinner with the Daltons. I drive the team to their place at noon, where I water them and they eat while I do, then I drive them back to work. Ill be plowing on his acres a half mile the other side of the schoolhouse for awhile now, so I'll be passing by the school at noon or about twelve-thirty. If you want to see pretty horses, just be looking out the window tomorrow. I curry them every day, and they're real beauties, King and Sally are their names." 318 UDITH Burke had received the inspiration she needed to develop her idea into a workable plan. That night she decided that Rodney and the rest of her class should happen to be all together in front of the schoolhouse when Pete passed next day at noon driving his shining team. To her surprise, Marola was again at her gate the next morning, and could hardly wait to begin speaking. "Miss Burke, I almost hate Rodney. I used to like him, but not now. Do you know why Pete is out of school?" "Yes, dear, he is plowing for Mr. Dalton." "But that isn't the real reason. The day before he stayed out, Rodney wouldn't choose him on his side and said all he was good for was to be your pet and get my pity. Honestly, Pete looked just awful, like he was sick." "Oh, no! Not that!" Miss Burke spoke more to herself than to Marola. 'Then her mind began on a definite scheme to rebuild Pete's self-esteem and, at the same time, bring out the inherent goodness she felt sure was in Rodney. In the opening exercises that morning when the row leaders were reporting absences and Clair Cole said, "Pete is absent again, but I don't know why," she explained by calmly saying, "Pete is out for a few days helping Mr. Dalton with his spring plowing. I've found out he's doing a good job, and I shall give him credit in agriculture for this work. You know there are other ways to learn and advance besides studying in the schoolroom, important as such study is. I've been informed that no other boy in town RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1955 can harness and unharness a team as quickly and efficiently as can Pete." Rodney shrugged his arrogant shoulders and spoke aloud, "Pooh! It doesn't take any brains to do that. Anybody can hitch up a team." When school was dismissed at noon, Miss Burke surprised her students by saying cheerily, "All of you have your lunches eaten and be in front of the schoolhouse by twelve thirty. I brought my kodak today, and I'm going to take your picture as a group. I shall give each one of you a print before school is out for our summer vacation." Promptly at twelve-thirty the entire class lined up in three rows on the front lawn and were looking their pleasantest when Miss Burke came out. She took a quick look up the road. There, sure enough, not far away was Pete, walking behind the team he had curry-combed till they fairly shone. After Miss Burke had taken two snaps of the class, Marola, seeing Pete, cried out, "Oh, look, Miss Burke, there's Pete now. Let's take his picture driving the horses!" "Yes, let's!" chorused the group, all but Rodney. "All right. Pete, will you stop while I get a picture of you and those beautiful horses you are driving?" she called cheerfully. "Whoa, King! Whoa, Sally! Whoa, there!"' Pete called, suddenly feeling very important. "Now face this way," Miss Burke requested. After his picture was taken, Miss Burke said, "We _ talked about the work you are doing on the farm this morning, and we agreed you were very good at doing HURRAH FOR PETE! Important work like plowing and handling a team. I think you will make a good farmer, and farmers must feed the world, you know." This was too much for Rodney, who liked to be the center of attraction. He kicked at a pebble on the side of the road and said, "Anybody can farm and take care of a team." ISS Burke hadn't expected things to take quite this turn, but she quickly saw her opportunity to help both boys and she spoke up clearly and with conviction. "'All tight! Boys and girls, you've heard what Rodney just said, but I don't believe it. It takes a smart boy to do what Pete is doing. Rodney, I challenge you to prove you can unharness and then harness this team as quickly and as well as can Pete here." Before she could say more, the class cheered and clapped their approval and called "Hurrah for Pete! Come on, Rodney!" Miss Burke continued, "You needn't worry, Pete. Ill make things right with Mr. Dalton. Boys, get out your watches and when I say 'Go!' start timing as Pete first unharnesses the team then puts the harness back on them again. Then you can time Rodney while he does the same. Ready, Pete?" "Ready," he answered quickly. "All right, go!" she called, and without the appearance of haste, Pete began taking off the harness. He placed it by the side of the road, then took it up and harnessed the team again, all in an incredibly short time. "Now, it's your turn, Rodney," spoke up Marola, with a smile that 319 contained a hint of malice. "Let's see you beat Pete's record." Miss Burke knew Rodney was afraid and experiencing chagrin for pethaps the first time in his life. She could see it in his face, but she had to admire the way he stepped forward gallantly. Of course, there was nothing else he could do, for his honor was at stake. He began undoing the wrong strap buckle, so Pete said, "Not that, Rod. Here's where you begin. Now you do this. Now this," and so on till the harness was by the side of the road, with Pete saying an occasional "Whoa, King," or "Whoa, Sally," to the horses who wondered what it was all about. When Rodney started to reharness the team, he frankly asked Pete to tell him what to do and fol lowed directions readily. Then, in a friendly, sporting way, he held Pete's hand high and called, "All done," to the timekeepers, who, being quick to respond to good sportsmanship, called back encouragingly, "You only took five times as long as Fete." Rodney then showed the substance of which he was made by holding out his hand to Pete, who had the lines and was ready to give the "giddap" signal. As _ Pete grasped it quickly and firmly, Rodney said, "Congratulations, Pete. You're great! See you in school tomorrow?" "Sure thing!" answered Pete, with a feeling of pride and of belonging in his voice and in his heart. Then he went whistling joyously on his way, while his classmates looked at him as if really seeing him for the first time. Mary W Platt Has Enough Hobbies to Mlake Fer Happy M**®* W. Platt, Kanarra, Utah, crochets, makes many varieties of rugs, pillowcases, handkerchiefs, scarves, and apparel for infants. Her principal hobby, however, is quiltmaking, a skill in which she excels. She has quilted thirteen double wedding ring quilts, two flower garden quilts, and has made many other quilts of exquisite design and workmanship. Also, she has made two crocheted bedspreads. Now eighty years old, Mrs. Platt is never idle. Her hobbies and her family, as well as her Church work, keep her busy and happy. Of her twelve children, nine were reared to maturity, and all of these are married and have families. Mrs. Platt has fortyfour grandchildren and eight great-grandchildren. In addition to her family and her many friends, she has entertained in her home and at her table many Church officials. She has been a Relief Society visiting teacher for many years, and serves her community well by many acts of unselfish kindness. Of May Ins W. Schow May was the petal unbrowned by the sun; The child who could not stay; The smile of trust, now etched on memory Was May. May is the ground where faith and knowledge meet; The star discerned by day Our dream at length cloaked in reality Is May. Green Willows CHAPTER 4 Deone R. Sutherland Synopsis: Lillian and her friend Patricia are very much interested in the affairs of Pat's three unmarried aunts: Agnes, Margaret, and Karen. The two older sisters are schoolteachers, and Karen is preparing to follow the same profession. However, Margaret and Dr. Turner, a widower, who lives across the street, have renewed an earlier friendship, and it appears that John Alder, the new director of the summer theater in Green Willows, is trying to persuade Karen that there are already enough schoolteachers in her family. HE next three weeks passed T all too slowly. We found out the name of the play that would be out at the summer theater the week end we would be spending at Margaret Diffendorf's. It was Charley's Aunt. "How innocuous," I said, but our parents were overjoyed that that was to be the play we were to see. I had hoped for something just off Broadway. "We'll love it; you'll see," Pat said. "Oh, I'm excited about it all," I said. We saw Dr. Turner take Pat's Aunt Agnes and Aunt Margaret home from our first summer Mutual patty. He sat by them in Church on Sunday, too. We went over to talk to Phil after Sunday School. We asked him what he thought about getting up a weiner roast maybe that Friday night. "T can't," he said. "Margaret's going to let Daddy and me go fishing up by their cabin. She's going to come up for a day." "T didn't know Aunt Margaret ever went fishing," said Pat. When we mentioned it to Pat's mother, she said it was very kind of Agnes and Margaret to let them use the cabin. Why, everybody in the ward was being good to Phil because, after all, he was a motherless boy and needed someone besides his invalid grandmother and Essie Arks to look after him, though it was nice they were able to get Essie to come and help. She was a fine cook and a good scrubber. "We'd like to be kind to Phil, too," Pat said mournfully, "but we never get the chance." "Never mind," said Pat's mother, "another year or two and he'll be the one coaxing you girls to notice him." The second week end before we were to go to stay at Margaret's contained a really wonderful event. Our ward outing up Slipper Canyon was held on Saturday. On Friday Pat called me up to see what I was going to wear. "For silly," Beany said. "You both know you'll be wearing your denim skirts." "Mother won't let me wear my cashmere sweater," Pat said, "but I am going to wear my brown leather collar. I guess it'll have to be an old sweater and my red jacket." "Mother has to use the phone," I told Pat. "I'll call you back." It was a wonderful day for the outing. It was hot in the valley, Page 321 322 but crisp and cool when we got up in the mountains. Pat rode up with us because her mother and father were going to take the Diffendorf sisters, but both John Alder and Dr. Turner offered to take them also. Finally Pat's mother and father just came alone in their car. At the last minute, Dr. Turner had a call and so they all rode with John Alder— Aunt Agnes, Margaret, Phil, and Karen. "My dad will be along later," we heard Phil tell everyone who asked him. Agnes spread their picnic lunch on the table next to Pat's food, and, of course, we were next to Pat's folks on the other side because they're our best friends. Agnes said, "Margaret, you've miscounted. You have an extra plate here." "Oh," said Margaret, tugging a little at the soft scarf she had tied around her throat. "I thought I'd set a place for Phil's father in case he gets here in time." OHN Alder came back from gathering wood for the fire. "I seem to be constantly accepting your hospitality lately," he said to Agnes. "I wish you had let me buy the lunch today and bring it." "Nonsense," said Agnes. "Besides, I can't stand the Central Hotel's cooking. Rather do it myself, certainly would." "How are they going to tell you from the students next year, Karen?" John Alder sat down by Karen on the bench at the table. "That's easy," Karen said. "T'll be taller than most, and I'll look stern." I looked at Karen. She certainly hadn't been looking stern lately. She RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1955 always looked bright and laughing. She's like a flower, I thought. And so is Margaret, sometimes. _ Only not now. Margaret kept looking through the woods toward the parking and listening. She had finished setting the table. She twined the ends of her scarf, smiling only a little when the others laughed at something. I hoped I'd look like that when I grew up, I thought. It was better to be thin like that and with grace. "I think everyone's getting ready to sit down and eat," Agnes said. "Not yet," said Margaret; "'it's still so early." "Girls, run and find Phil and tell him we're nearly ready to eat," said Pat's mother. We ran off, looking for Phil. The men and boys had been playing basketball. They were coming back towards the tables now. "We're going to eat now," we yelled at Phil. He pretended not to hear us, but he came to our table. He sat down by Margaret and began telling her about who had won and why. We couldn't understand how Margaret could pretend to be so interested in such stuff. But then she was always nice to kids. Look at us. Only one week away, and we were going to a play with her and then come home and stay all night. I felt a pang of jealousy that Phil should have all her attention like that. I wished we had been sitting closer to her. Just then Phil shouted, "Here comes Daddy!" We all turned to look. "Did I make it? I was afraid I'd miss the food," Dr. 'Turner greeted us. GREEN WILLOWS We all tried to answer him while Margaret moved over and made room for him. In that moment she was looking as radiant as Karen. Phil had to begin all over telling about the ball game. Our table grew very quiet so our bishop could ask the blessing. "Not only are we thankful for this food, but this joyous group of neighbors and friends whom we love...." We were thankful for this joyous group. Suddenly I knew these were the moments I must remember, "this joyous group." All the words in blessings were beautiful words, I thought. ARGARET cleared up the dishes, and Dr. Turner helped and so did Phil for a few minutes. Then he ran to join the games, and Dr. Turner and Margaret and Aunt Agnes walked over to watch and cheer for Phil. Pat and I watched, too. "He gets more content and seems happier all the time," Dr. Turner said to Margaret. "I know I am happier," said Margaret in a low voice. Dr. Turner took her hand and held it in his. "Come on," I said to Pat, find the kids in our group." It was fun to run until it hurt to breathe. People began building the bonfire high. In a little while it would be dark, and then we'd all be sitting around the fire singing and having a program. 'Then, last of all, they'd get out the marshmallows for the red hot coals. Beany and I sang a duet on the program. We had been practicing for it all week. When I sang a solo part in it, Beany held his ears, and "let's 323 everybody laughed. Not long ago I would have died if Beany had done that, but it didn't bother me too much tonight, though I did feel like giving him a hard kick in the shins. Pat and I went to get our marshmallows. After we'd eaten the last possible marshmallow we could hold, the outing came to a close. After the closing prayer, we helped load the things into the cars. I was beginning to feel very tired, and I'd eaten too much. "Margaret's riding down with Phil and me," Dr. Turner said. Phil was scrambling sleepily into Dr. Turner's car, where he stretched out on the back seat. "Then John's car won't be so crowded,' Margaret added. "Well, I doubt if it'll be very crowded," Agnes said. "The girls loaded all our picnic things into Pat's car, so I'm going to have to ride down with them so I can sort out our stuff when we get home. I guess Karen will be the only one riding back with John." "Pat had better come with us, too," said Pat's father. So I said goodbye to her. John said goodnight to everybody. "Tl see that Karen gets home safely," he said to Agnes. "T know it," Agnes said. "Goodbye, Pat," I yelled and then jumped into our car. As soon as it started moving, I promptly fell asleep and didn't wake up until we were home, where I discovered Beany's head on my shoulder. I ought to bop him now for that duet, I thought, but I was too sleepy. Monday afternoon we rode our bikes up to see Margaret to 324 make sure she had not forgotten that this was the Friday we were going to the play with her. We took our Kold-ayde along and made a few stops on the way to see if we could sell a few packages. We really didn't sell enough to make the effort worthwhile. We decided we wouldn't offer any to the Diffendorfs. We didn't want to take advantage of them. "Margaret's not here," said Agnes, "but I'm sure she's not forgotten that you're coming. She was at the summer theater all morning, and then this afternoon she and Phil went shopping for some summer clothes for him. Dr. Turner drove them." ""W here's asked. "Well, she rode down with Margaret this morning. She was going to help paint sets or something. Margaret came back without her. Said John was going to drop her off when he came. Seems kind of out of his way, though," she added drily. I tucked my chin on my knee. "Miss Diffendorf, do you think they'll go to Europe this summer?" "Europe?" She looked at me in astonishment. "Good gracious me, whatever gave you that idea? Oh, yes, I remember. Margaret talked about it a month or so ago. No, the plans for the summer theater going through changed all that. Besides, Margaret's not running away from anything this summer, I guess." "Could we have a drink of water before we start back, Aunt Agnes?" Pat asked. "Of course, girls, anything you like." We went back through the long, cool house and drank delicious sips Aunt Karen?" Pat RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1955 of cold well water. Pat opened the icebox, but there was no fudge. The picnic dishes were still waiting on the table unwashed. Usually Agnes was a fanatic about not letting a dish sit dirty a minute. We tiptoed back through the house. "I'm sorry there are no treats today, girls. I've felt a little tired lately. Vl probably be perking up and getting busy cooking before you're due for your visit, so don't worry." 'K protested that we didn't expect her to go to any trouble for us. In a few minutes we picked up our bikes and rode home. Beany was playing on top of father's garage with Andy, a neighbor boy. Someone ought to tell Mother on him, I thought, but I sat down in the shade and rested by Pat instead. "Jens Olesen isn't married," said Pat. He was the postmaster. "T guess he's about the only one in town who is anywhere near the right age. How old do you think he is?" I chewed on a piece of grass. "Tve got to go," Pat said. "It's almost time for Daddy to get home." At dinner I asked Father, '""How much older is Jens Olesen than Agnes Diffendorf?" "T don't know. 'Ten or fifteen years at least." Father went on talking to Mother. That was quite a bit older. I started to think about exactly the things I'd need to take with me Friday night. Mother had already promised me the loan of her overnight bag. On Friday, Margaret had promised to pick us up at our homes on GREEN WILLOWS her way to her house from the theater before dinner and the evening performance. Pat got so excited waiting that she brought her things over to wait with me. My place was the closest, so it would be likely that Margaret would stop here first. When she finally came, Dr. 'Turner was driving. "T was on my way home from the office when it occurred to me that I should save John Alder a trip -home with Margaret, so I picked her up myself. Of course, John was none too pleased over that." "He didn't mind in the least," laughed Margaret, "except that it prevented him from seeing. " She turned around and smiled at us. "T see you're both wearing your best bib 'n tucker for the play tonight." "Oh, yes," Pat said. "Mother said we ought to dress up, but we had planned to, anyway. We turned up the hill. Phil came running across the yard when he heard his father's car. "Did you go swimming today, Phil?" Margaret called. "Yes, we did; it was swell. Water was wonderful." We got out at the gate, and Phil slid in the car beside his father. "Around a quarter to eight?" Dr. Turner asked Margaret. "It's a good half-hour drive." "Fine," she said. 'We'll all be waiting." "Is Phil going, too?" asked Pat. "Yes," said Margaret. "I thought he'd enjoy it with us. Dr. Turner says the play's an old favorite of his and he offered to drive us. I thought it would be fun to go together." 325 Aunt Agnes waited for us on the front porch. "You can take your things up to the guest room and wash your hands, girls. Don't waste any time, but come down as soon as you're ready because dinner's almost on the table." "I wish you'd come with us, Agnes," Margaret stood in the doorway. "Oh, I can't see them all," said Agnes. "Since I've tickets for almost all the rest of them, I think I'd better plan on missing this one. You've got a carful anyway." "We won't be a minute," we promised as we started up the stairs. "T think [ll skip dinner." Margaret started for the stairs where we waited. "I need awhile to get ready." "Nonsense," said Agnes firmly. "You're too thin now. You need dinner as well as the girls. I'll help after you eat a bit if you need me." Margaret came down the stairs and put her arms around Agnes and kissed her on the forehead and on the cheek. They stood looking at each other for a moment, while Pat and I steadily examined Grandfather Diffendorf's picture on the stairway wall. "It's all right, Margaret," Agnes said softly. "Don't you worry about a single thing. Everything's going to be all right." Margaret turned and ran up the stairs. "Hurry up, girls," Agnes turned toward the kitchen, but not before we saw the tears standing bright in her eyes. (To be continued) & Magazine Subscriptions for 1954 Counselor Marianne C. Sharp thanks and deep appreciation to all who by their support, participation and conscientious work made possible the substantial increase in the number of subscriptions to The Relief Society Magazine in 1954. 'This increase of 8,865 subscriptions reflects great credit on stake and ward, mission and branch Magazine representatives who placed on the honor roll, as well as on the presidencies of Relief Society under whose direction the work of placing the Magazine in Latter-day Saint homes was so ably accomplished. The general board endeavors to publish a Magazine of value for Latter-day Saint women, and the acceptance which it receives is gratifying. Of primary concern is the resolution that everything in The Relief Society Magazine shall be in harmony with Latter-day Saint standards. At the nominal subscription price of the Magazine and at no extra cost, subscribers are supplied the lesson work for Relief Society, as approved by the Church Publications Committee, and all other lesson helps published by the general board. In addition to the lesson material, The Relief Society Magazine also offers material of general reading interest—inspirational, entertaining, and practical for homemaking—with specific instructions and reports of Relief Society members, activities, and aspirations. It contains the general history of Relief Society and, as such, copies should be preserved in all Relief SoPage 326 Ts general board extends its ciety organizations. The Magazine binds together in one bond of sisterhood, members throughout the world in ever-expanding numbers and localities. Of frequent occurrence are letters which come to the general board expressing appreciation for the Magazine from Latterday Saint women who live far from their homes amid alien customs and religions to whom The Relief Society Magazine affords a tie to home and Church. Noticeable gains in the number of subscriptions were evidenced in the placement of 129,878 Magazines in the homes, as of December 31, 1954, over the previous total of 121,014 in 1953. In 1954 there were 200 stakes on the honor roll as compared to 184 in 1953; and ward and branch organizations in the stakes on the honor roll in 1954 were 1,637 as compared with 1,467 in 1953. For the eighth year the South Los Angeles Stake had the highest percentage of any stake in the Church. It is interesting to note that the top seven stakes in 1954 were the same as those in 1953, although the relative positions of some of them varied. 'There were thirteen missions and 550 branches in missions on the honor roll in 1954. 'Twenty-four stakes had 100 per cent or over in every one of their wards as compared with sixteen in 1953. 'These indeed are excellent records. Relief Society Magazine representatives have an important calling and an exacting one. It is their love for Relief Society which prompts them to accept this calling and fill MAGAZINE SUBSCRIPTIONS FOR 1954 it so faithfully. By believing in the Magazine and explaining its value to new subscribers as well as continuing their interest in present subscribers, Magazine representatives help keep the teachings of Relief Society in the homes of Latter-day 327 plishments are very much appreciated, as are the great interest and concern of those who preside over them —the Relief Society presidencies of the stakes and wards, missions and branches. 'Through close, co-operSaints. Their efforts and accumative effort success is assured. Dlonors for Highest Ratings Stake South Los Angeles (California) 246% Magazine Representative—Nancy M. Rupp Ward South Gate Ward, South Los Angeles Stake (California) 336% Magazine Representative—Amelia Dellenbach Branch Mountain Home Branch, Boise Stake (Idaho) 353% Magazine Representative—Barbara M. Jones Mission California—104% Mission Relief Society President—LaPriel S. Bunker Mission District South Texas District, 'Texas-Louisiana Mission 130% District Magazine Representative—Ruby Reaugh Mission Branch Franklin Branch—300%, West Virginia North District, East Central States Mission Magazine Representative—Maycel W. Sponaugle Ten Highest Percentages in Stakes South Los Angeles ~......2.222.0.2.22.. Eseceeeseeeeeeeeee246.......-Lucile M. Goates..--Reta J. Watkins Nyssa San Joaquin Glendale 22.0.2... Eeee cece eee eee cece cee eee eee eee 144.... Nancy Rupp Elsie Weber Oquitth oon. Eee eee cee cece eee teneeeeeeeeceees137.... Enid O. Heise Minidoka............222-.2-2...-2000ceeeeeceeceeceeceeeeeeeeeeees 135.... Myrtle C. Lloyd TRPOVO™ _..................-.---------sieReSRS NaN AaSe-----128.... Flora Buggert J (ae128.... Martha J. Erickson Teong Boagly -20e 2c... Seen 124.... Ethel Spongberg BBM SY ao accesses acces eneeeeneeeenenle124.... Leona Budge Missions Achieving Ten Highest Percentages Califormia...............--2eeceeceeceeeeeceeeeeeeeececeeeeeee104.... LaPriel S. Bunker Central States Western States............0..0..2..---eseeeeeeeceeeeeeeeeeeeeeee100... Texas-Louisiana Northern California..................2022..02---0--00-------- go... Ae a go... North Central States.....000200000000000-222222222--------- 86... Great Lakes -.. W. O.... Eeeeeeeeecseeceeeeeeseneeseeeesoee OR. -.... Elizabeth H. Zimmerman... Nettie P. Smoot Northwestern States...-May E. J. Dyer -Mildred P. Elggren...-Phyllis D. Smith -Amelia P. Gardner Mavil A. McMurrin Dora E.. England Florence H. Richards 328 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1955 Ten Stakes With Highest Number of Subscriptions No. No. Subscriptions Subscriptions South Los Angeles 2567 North Jordan 871 San Fernando 1152 Ensign 864 Glendale 1076 Sevier 864 Mesa 984 Burley 859 Pasadena 943 Long Beach 848 Ten Missions With Highest Number of Subscriptions No. No. Subscriptions Subscriptions Central States 1177 California 838 Southern States la oe Great Lakes 811 West Central States 1055 Eastern States 680 Western States 978 Northwestern States 677 Central Atlantic States 845 Northern States 594 Stakes in Which All the Wards Achieved 100% or Above Bear Rivet............---. Rennis A. Larkin North Idaho Falls.... Janet L. Landon Bonneville................ Ruth Peterson Nyasa)...2eteies.. CeeeccteLucile M. Goates Burley.............2.:000Leona Budge Oquitth ~............----Enid O. Heise East Long Beach...... Margaret Bryan Pocatello............---.--Margaret 'Thomas East Los Angeles...... Zelma Beck Rexburg..........-...----+-Martha J. Erickson East Mill Creek...... Mary T. Maxfield San Fernando.......... Helen Yaple East Sharon.............. Edna M. Hansen San Joaquin.............. Retta J. Watkins Glendale.................-Elsie Weber Sevier.......-.----e-ceeceeeeeGlenyce D. Poulson Granite -....2.22..-Clara M. Love Bie lly 2s:...2ame__...2amMerle Young Grant oo... Caroline R. Bennett South Idaho Falls.... Renee J. Nielsen Idaho Falls.............. Johanna Scoresby South Los Angeles.... Nancy M. Rupp Long Beach.............. Ethel Spongberg West Pocatello........ Ione G. Slayden Mission Percentages on Honor Roll California 104 Northern California go Northern States 85 Central States 100 Northwestern States go West Central States 84 Western States 100 North Central States 86 Southern States 78 Texas-Louisiana 93 Great Lakes 85 New England 76 Western Canadian 85 Stakes by Percentages South Los Angeles 2.46 East Long Beach 120 East Los Angeles 110 Nyssa 166 San Juan 119 Highland 109 San Joaquin 147 Humboldt 117 Sevier 109 Glendale 144 Bakersfield 116 Bear River 109 Oquirrh 137 Columbia River 115 Granite 108 Minidoka 135 West Pocatello 115 Grant 108 Provo 128 South Idaho Falls = 114 Ogden 108 Rexburg 128 New York 113 Tacoma 108 Long Beach 124 Orange County 112 South Salt Lake 108 Burley 124 Los Angeles 12 North Idaho Falls 108 San Fernando 123 Wilford 111 Gndley 108 Idaho Falls 122 Union 111 Oakland 107 Shelley 120 Denver 110 San Diego 107 MAGAZINE SUBSCRIPTIONS FOR 1954 Inglewood Pocatello Bonneville Boise Sugar House Las Vegas Rigby Pasadena San Jose San Bernardino North Box Elder San Francisco Portneuf East Mill Creek Bountiful North Pocatello St. Joseph Sacramento Cassia Emigration Twin Falls North Jordan South Box Elder Liberty Blackfoot East Sharon Bannock East Phoenix Uvada Ensign Nampa Young Mount Jordan West Utah Mill Creek Mount Rubidoux Taylor Tooele South Bear River Santa Monica East Riverside Malad Phoenix Park North Rexburg Monument Park Salmon River Weiser Cottonwood Weber St. George Wells Yellowstone North Davis Big Horn Portland Riverdale East Rigby Emery 107 107 106 106 106 105 105 105 105 105 105 105 104 104 104 104 104 104 103 103 103 103 103 102 102 102 102 102 101 101 101 101 101 101 100 100 Uintah Maricopa Mesa Salt Lake Lorin Farr Layton Wasatch Timpanogos Moapa American Falls East Provo University Cannon South Blackfoot Murray Grand Coulee Sharon Butte Spokane Gooding North Tooele Mount Graham Carbon Teton Woodruff Grantsville Berkeley Star Valley Deseret Palo Alto Parowan Calgary Roosevelt Franklin North Sevier South Ogden Southern Arizona Dallas Washington Lehi Kolob East Ogden Houston Wayne South Davis Bear Lake East Jordan Pioneer Alpine Ben Lomond Kanab Smithfield Benson Zion Park Temple View Santaquin-Tintic Santa Barbara Oneida Cache Chicago Logan Montpelier Raft River Utah West Jordan Nevada Panguitch North Carbon Reno Palmyra Orem Alberta Cedar Riverside Farr West E] Paso Idaho Blaine Millard Duchesne East Cache Davis North Weber Snowflake Lethbridge Fresno Beaver Lake View Richland Mount Ogden Seattle Garfield Nebo Hyrum South Sevier Detroit Juab Hillside St. Johns Mount Logan Lost River South Summit Juarez Florida Klamath San Luis North Sanpete South Sanpete Santa Rosa Gunnison Moon Lake Willamette South Carolina Lyman Summit Moroni Morgan Oahu Relief Society Alberta Alpine American Falls Bakersfield Bannock Bear Lake Bear River Beaver Ben Lomond Benson Berkeley Big Horn Blackfoot Blaine Boise Bonneville Bountiful Burley Butte Cache Calgary Cannon Carbon Cassia Cedar EnrollSubscriptions ment No. 628 862 343 338 355 519 484 504 397 608 617 864 520 284 781 725 642 693 330 618 344 359 661 209 651 513 750 319 391 361 454 526 398 344 523 553 821 532 228 826 768 667% 859 302 524 306 331 595 216 530 STAKES ON HONOR ROLL-—1954 Pet. 82 87 93 116 102 87 109 79 87 86 90 95 102 80 106 106° 104 124 92 85 89 92 90 103 81 Magazine Representative Afton L. Remington Sadie Meredith Harriet Peterson Virginia C. Hodson Ida J. Sorenson Millie Sprouse Rennis A. Larkin Sylvia Davis Helen W. Jensen Ruth J. White Bertha Anderson Elma S. Johnson Vera Fullmer Rosina N. Sparks Della Palmer Means Ruth Peterson Myrtle B. Hatch Leona Budge Harriet Millecam Alice D. Griffin Leonore W. Heninger Jessie Johnson Gertrude W. Edwards Jane R. Hale Venice W. Prince Relief Society Gooding Grand Coulee Granite Grant Grantsville Gridley Highland Hillside Houston Humboldt Hyrum Idaho Idaho Falls Inglewood Juab Kanab Kolob Lake View Las Vegas Layton Lehi Lethbridge Liberty Logan EnrollSubscriptions ment No. Pct. 503 301 642 667 354 430 754 871 436 183 743 417 493 767 536 439 872 585 658 419 581 655 791 540 455 1 276 8692 694% 108 721 108 318 90 463 108 824 109 664 176 382 88 214 117 570 «77 335 80 599 122 821 107 410 76 380 87 766 88 549 78 694 105 393 94 512 88 619 («79 810 102 452 84 Magazine Representative Mary Roy Maxine Winder Clara M. Love Caroline R. Bennett Ruth Rydalch Alice I. Ferrin Lucy Harman Sara S. Nicholson Edna F. Barrett Charlotte S. Ferguson Zelda J. Howells Jennie S. Gilbert Johanna Scoresby Magdalen Lake Alligee L. Anderson Nellie Heaton Ivy C. Anderson Allie K. Freestone Florence A. Johnson Dorsey Hodgson Hazel May Bone Emily Anderson Emily Platt Smith Ruby W. Amussen 330 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1955 Chicago Columbia River Cottonwood Dallas Davis Denver Deseret Detroit Duchesne East Cache East Jordan East Long Beach East Los Angeles East Mill Creek East Ogden East Phoenix East Provo East Rigby East Riverside East Sharon El Paso Emery Emigration Ensign Farr West Franklin Fresno Garfield Glendale 441 451 808 438 707 634 776 345 254 658 777 490 744 737 622 462 416 582 452 292 326 697 420 855 551 771 378 333 372 520 775 387 563 697 695 264 203 529 678 586 815 769 546 469 386 551 445 299 264 660 433k 864 447 685 299 257 745 1076 84 115 96 88 80 110 90 ah 80 80 87 120 110 104 88 102 93 95 98 102 81 95 103 101 81 81 79 77 144 Florence G. Andrew Della V. Davis Roma Lee Sundberg Opal Burch Effie A. B. Miller Bernice H. Brown Alpha Nielson Nora J. Souter Ora N. Holgate Inez B. Bergeson LoVenna S. Cook Margaret Bryan Zelma Beck Mary T. Maxfield Karene N. Straw Claradell S. DeWitt Sarah H. Passey Dale Burtenshaw Lora Y. Brown Edna M. Hansen Ethel C. Farnsworth Fern M. Chappell Emily C. Pollei Emma P. Imlay Bertha R. England Phyllis Kingsford Claris Matheson Golda C. Haws Elsie Weber Long Beach Lorin Farr Los Angeles Lost River Malad Maricopa Mesa Millard Mill Creek Minidoka Moapa Montpelier Monument Park Mt. Graham Mt. Jordan Mt. Logan Mt. Ogden Mt. Rubidoux Murray Nampa Nebo Nevada New York North Box Elder North Carbon North Davis N. Idaho Falls North Jordan 686 449 593 256 578 859 1044 632 452 513 305 675 673 606 640 625 651 483 796 604 728 380 248 586 471 651 754 845 848 422 664 194 567% 810 984 506 454 691 284 565 647 549 644 A475 508 485 730 610 560 315 280 614 389 620% 813% 871 124 94 112 76 98 94 94 80 100 135 93 84 96 91 101 76 78 100 92 101 7 83 113 105 83 95 108 103 Ethel Spongberg Maude P. Close Velma Shurleg Evelyn Pearson Helen R. Thomas Opal John Lola White Ethel P. Baker LaVon T. Salisbury Myrtle C. Lloyd Lillian C. Lewis Hilda Parker Hazel Swain Lucy Barney Bertha S. Powell Mary M. Larson Luella King Hilda Peel Clara M. Duffin Mollie Terry Vida Moore Susan A. Mulliner HONOR ROLL Glenette Jones Christina N. Bott Lydia Bendall Helen S. Willy Janet L. Landon Elthura Mackay 331 Representative Tura Hadley Arvilla Parkinson Representative EnrollSubscriptions ment No. Pet. 570 649 114 1043 2567 246 EnrollSubscriptions ment No. Pct. South Idaho Falls South Los Angeles Renee J. Nielsen Nancy M. Rupp 332 North Sevier North Tooele North Weber Nyssa Oakland Ogden Oneida Oquirrh Orange County Orem Palmyra Palo Alto Panguitch Park Parowan Pasadena Phoenix Pioneer Pocatello Portland Portneuf Provo Raft River Reno Rexburg Richland 397 485 593 391 680 605 675 A472 312 596 1016 521 401 fee 356 896 540 536 490 484 A445 481 190 599 597 538 352 440 471 649 730 654 574 645 350 488 834% 466 332 Wa 317 943 528 467 522 460 465 618 159 493 764 421 89 91 79 166 107 108 85 137 112 82 82 89 83 97 89 105 98 87 107 95 104 128 84 82 128 78 Rhea Mickelsen Mary M. McKellar Esther H. Butler Lucile M. Goates Agnes M. Nelson Chloe F. Summerill Lillian G. Willis Enid O. Heise Fay L. Peterson Alice Harris Juanita J. Howard Dona B. Peters Hazel Sevey Pearl E. Rohde Bertha W. Mitchell Helen G. Baxter Rose Openshaw Emma O. Frenette Margaret Thomas Mildred S. Phillips Ada L. Parris Flora Buggert Alice O. Neddo Gladys E. Greive Martha J. Erickson Edna Reynolds South Ogden South Salt Lake South Sevier South Summit Southern Arizona Spokane Star Valley Sugar House Tacoma 7 Taylor Temple View Teton Timpanogos Tooele Twin Falls Uintah Union University Utah Uvada Wasatch Washington Wayne Weber Weiser 544 740 527 416 572 452 729 772 436 663 746 457 587 488 730 765 ATA 545 512 266 672 564 323 790 450 482 799 404 315 506 412 653% 816 471 666 639 A411 548 490 754 721% 526 507% 425 269 629 498 283 757 432 89 108 all 76 88 91 90 106 108 100 86 90 93 100 103 94 111 93 83 101 94 88 88 96 96 Laura Shearer Hedy T. Davies Leola Anderson Susie D. Andrys Edna B. Allred Dorothy Marx Vera H. Roberts Katie B. Fairbanks Afton B. Dickson Helen Dahl Arva M. Burningham Ruby F. Christiansen Ethel Fenton Jewel Halgren Ruth Lanning Elsie M. Palmer Luana E. Peck Marian M. Tolton Bertha Memmott Betty E. Young Rena M. Casper Mary E. Stimpson Emma B. Forsyth Florence W. Wright Mary A. Larsen RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1955 Relief Society Relief Society North Pocatello North Rexburg Magazine Magazine 408 423 104 637 619% 97 Rigby Riverdale Riverside Roosevelt Sacramento St. George St. Johns St. Joseph Salmon River Salt Lake San Bernardino San Diego San Fernando San Francisco San Joaquin San Jose San Juan Santa Barbara Santa Monica Santaquin-Tintic Seattle Sevier Sharon Shelley Smithfield Snowflake South Bear River South Blackfoot South Box Elder South Davis 105 95 81 89 104 96 76 104 96 94 105 107 123 105 147 105 119 85 104 85 78 109 92 120 86 79 100 92 103 88 Grace Tucker Ruby B. Erickson Winnie B. Stevenson Eva Holmes Martha Gattiker Agnes S. Pickett Kathlyn A. Brown Nira P. Lee Eunice E. Hartvigson Frances L. Kooyman Evelyn W. Heath Fawn Hetzel Helen Yaple Josephine T. Danford Retta J. Watkins Irene D. Parkins Vivian W. Redd Edith G. Swonger Charlene W. Bell Ilene J. Penrod Chelta D. Brown Glenyece D. Poulson Dessie Lamb Merle Young Phyllis N. Allsop Irene Bates Leah R. Deakin Ruth S. Dance Edith E. Baddley Elsie M. Logsdon Wells West Jordan West Pocatello West Utah Wilford Woodruff Yellowstone Young Zion Park 820 901 685 548 655 548 729 423 411 783 TA7 786 551 728 493 696 426 353 95 83 115 101 111 90 95 101 86 MISSIONS 810 1181 959 458 430 300 698 753 1476 545 1261 469 California Central States Great Lakes New England North Central States Northern California Northern States Northwestern States Southern States Texas-Louisiana West Central States Western Canadian 833 1177 811 346 369 271 594 677 1153 507 1055 398 978 104 100 85 76 86 90 85 90 78 93 84 85 100 Edith H. Koelliker Elma Johnson Ione G. Slayden Cleo L. Thatcher Dorothy R. Larson Naomi B. Harris Edna Heward Elsie Tanner Lillian E, Roundy HONOR ROLL LaPriel S. Bunker May E. J. Dyer Florence H. Richards Hattie B. Maughan Dora E. England Amelia P. Gardner Nettie P. Smoot Mavil A. MeMurrin Emily E. Ricks Phyllis D. Smith Marteal W. Hendricks Elizabeth H. Zimmerman Mildred P. Elggren 333 Western States 979 FROM THE FIELD |? Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1950, page 278, and in the Handbook of Instructions, page 123. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Rachael L. Lee FRENCH MISSION, BRUSSELS BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY SINGING MOTHERS Front row, standing left to right: Rosa Denoyelle, President, Brussels Branch Relief Society; Diane Mattieu, Secretary; Victoria Alini; Augusta Martin; Esther Migy; Colette Gregoire, accompanist. Back row, standing, left to right: Louise Hochstein, Second Counselor; Maria Benoit; Nicole Mertzenich; Gabrielle Williams; Ninie De Leenheer; Christiane de Leenheer; Virginia Gott, chorister; Monique Martin. Rachel L. Lee, President, French Mission Relief Society, reports on the Relief Society activities in her mission as follows: "I have been distributing the Magazine among members who read English, and no doubt all of our branches will see this picture. It will help them to realize that they are a part of a great organization where women all over the world are conducting the same activities and studying the same gospel lessons. We have been stressing this point this year, as it encourages the sisters in their tiny branches." Sister Lee also submits an informative letter from Sister Virginia Gott, chorister of the Brussels Branch Singing Mothers, an excerpt from which follows: "Unlike many Page 334 } NOTES FROM THE FIELD 335 servicemen's wives, who are living in strange lands faced with the problem of strange customs and strange languages, I do not suffer the pangs of loneliness as they do, because I know that as soon as I establish contact with the local branch of the Church, I will be mingling with my own people. I will have a place where I will be at home, among real friends, irrespective of nation or language." Photograph submitted by Edna H. Bennion SPOKANE STAKE (WASHINGTON), FOURTH WARD SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT "AN EVENING OF SONG," December 10, 1954 Group of carolers standing in the center, left to right: Marianne Bardsley, stake organist; Dorothea Gessel; Loa Jaten; Alberta O'Brien; Weldon Bastian. Group of singers to left of carolers, front row, left to nght: Zelda Conrad, stake Work Director Counselor; Fern Fuller; Nedra Quinton; Mary Johnson; Dorothy Lindgren, ward chorister. Group of singers, second row, left to right: Leila Russon; Marlene Bastian; Melba Bastian, stake chorister. Group of singers, third row, left to right: Berniece Conrad, Spokane Fourth Ward Relief Society President; Joyce Barlow; Eva Orme. Group standing to the right of the carolers, front row, left to right: Naomi Rudd; Elna Whittle; Lois Barlow; Orla Pritchett. Second row: Laura Wagstaff, Secretary, Spokane Stake Relief Society; Nina Lowder; Virginia Erickson. Third row: Ruth McMullin; Ruth Collier, Work Director Counselor, Fourth Ward Relief Society; Aileen Hansen. Appropriate stage settings for this "Evening of Song" were designed and constructed by Sharlene Howell. The picture shows the Christmas Carol Medley, one of the num- -bers of the "Winter Wonderland" group of songs. Brother Weldon Bastian provided a violin obligato to this number. This group of Singing Mothers also furnished music for one session of the Spokane Stake Quarterly Conference, January 16th, 1955. Edna H. Bennion is former president of Spokane Stake Relief Society. The recently appointed president is Zelda S. Conrad. 336 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1955 Photograph submitted by Anna O. Smith MOUNT LOGAN STAKE (UTAH), ELEVENTH WARD RELIEF SOCIETY SINGING MOTHERS Front row, left to right, beginning fourth from the left: Victoria Hansen, organist; Fern Smith, pianist; Clistie B. Johnson, chorister; Emily Larsen President, Eleventh Ward Relief Society. 'The men standing at the back are members of the ward bishopric, left to mght: Lowell Jenkins, First Counselor; Reed Bullen, Bishop; Preston Olson, Second Counselor. Anna O. Smith, President, Mount Logan Stake Relief Society, reports the activities of this enthusiastic group: "The chorus was organized in 1946 and has held tehearsals regularly and is invited to sing on many occasions. 'They sing in the ward fast meeting each month and receive a great deal of joy from such service. The chorus is a great asset to the ward and very much appreciated by the bishopric and ward members," Photograph submitted by Marie J. Monson BUTTE STAKE (MONTANA), DILLON WARD RELIEF SOCIETY SINGING MOTHERS Front row, left to right: Ada Dieterle; Verla McCandles; Nora Lee Hilton; Dorothy Bergeson; Marie Taylor; Delma Ruegsegger; Etta Prather; Clara Payne; Lucille Swartz; Verla Boetticher, chorister. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 337 Back row, left to right: Kay Wolf, accompanist; Lillerth Jones; Bertha Ruegsegger; Arzula Peterson; Minnie Stocker; Anna Lu Smith; Lavina Smith; Winnie Johnson; Anna Taylor; Lola Koefoed. __ Marie J. Monson, President, Butte Stake Relief Society, reports that this group sings once a month for sacrament meeting, and for all special Relief Society programs. In the fall of 1954 they presented an entire skit for the bazaar. Ruth W. Packer is president of Dillon Ward Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Elizabeth H. Zimmerman WESTERN CANADIAN MISSION, UNIVERSITY OF ALBERTA BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY Front row, seated, left to right: Carma Paxman, Counselor; Maureen Jensen, Secretary; Verla Smith, Counselor. Y Standing at the back: Ruth Rice, President. Elizabeth H. Zimmerman, President, Western Canadian Mission Relief Society, reports the activities of this unusual organization: "The Relief Society at the Institute of Alberta was organized October 3, 1954, with a complete program. It is comprised of thirty-five members. Each month they have had a special activity to build up interest, members, and also to raise funds for their organization. In October a Thanksgiving breakfast was served to the Priesthood members participating in a clean-up day at the Institute. In November the Relief Society conference was held with the Singing Mothers furnishing the music. Durimg the month of December they held a bazaar, and a Christmas dinner. Besides these activities, they also take care of the sacrament cloths and write to the institute missionaries once a month. 'These young ladies are quite enthused over their work and the progress which they have made. All are proud to be members of such a fine organization." 338 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1955 Photograph submitted by Mary E. Cutler GLENDALE STAKE (CALIFORNIA), GLENDALE EAST WARD "QUEENS FOR THE DAY" PROJECT Front row, left to right: Grace Spangenberg; Elizabeth Brower; Blanch Bell; Maud Callison; Margaret Farnsworth; Ethel Kearl; Mary E. Cutler, President, Glendale Stake Relief Society; Rozilla Grant; Edna Beal, President Glendale East Ward Relief Society. Second row, left to nght: Bessie Hanson; LaPriel Haws; Etta Boggs; Clara Gough; Martha Hartley; Alice French; Shirley Jamison; Mary Tonkin; Elva Mowery; Cora Downs; Ruth Gough; Ethel Schroeder; Naomi Nielson; Lillian Canady. Sister Beal reports that two sisters were absent when this picture was taken: Clair Wing and Rose Kelly. "Sister Kelly is work counselor and is in charge of this activity of honoring a sister each work day. Through this, and other work meeting day projects, our attendance has doubled at our work meetings." Photograph submitted by Claire B. Jones CEDAR STAKE (UTAH), CEDAR SECOND WARD RELIEF SOCIETY VISITING 'TEACHERS HONORED Front row, seated, left to right: Margaret Uric; Mary Clark, a faithful visiting NOTES FROM THE FIELD 339 teacher, who has been on the quilting committee for thirty years; Mettie Matheson, who has served fifty years as a visiting teacher; Ursalia Stanworth; Rose Lunt, a_ visiting teacher for fifty years; Winifred Urie; Lucy Esplin. Back row, standing, left to right: Carolyn Bullock; Ada Leigh; Lula Corry; Agnes Wood; Mary Mackleprang. All of the sisters in the photograph have served twenty-five years or more as visiting teachers. Claire B. Jones is president of Cedar Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Bernice Dyer WEST GERMAN MISSION, FRANKFURT (AMERICAN) BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY Seated on the floor, left to nght: Renee Nelson; Johanna De St. Jour, Harriet Hart; Lyle Petersen. Second row, seated, left to right: Francis Pershing; Peggy Anderson, Second Counselor; Betty Jenks; Shirley Xanthus; Helen Wright, First Counselor; Alta Brossard, President. Third row, standing, left to right: Janet Berryessa, a visitor from Iran; Gayla Green, a visitor from Munich; Bernice Dyer, President, West German Mission Relief Society. As the groups (wives of servicemen) were organized last spring and summer (1954), they began the lessons at the beginning of the outlines. Sister Dyer reports that "By the first of October, nearly all were ready to begin the current lessons. Most of them hold meetings the year around, since they feel a definite need for that association. At the present time we have twelve such organizations in the West German Mission among the families of servicemen. In spite of the transient membership, they function efficiently and they are doing much good for the Latter-day Saint members who are here and also for many friends who have become interested." 340, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1955 Photograph submitted by Phyllis D. Smith TEXAS-LOUISIANA MISSION, NORTH TEXAS DISTRICT, PLAINVIEW BRANCH BAZAAR, December 1954 Left to right: Lois Starks; Wanda Kalana, Second Counselor; Louise Montgomery, President; Nellie Miller, missionary; Nickolette Bell, Magazine representative; Randall Bell, child. Phyllis D. Smith, President, Texas-Louisiana Mission Relief Society, reports that this branch Relief Society was organized in September 1953. 'There are ten sisters enrolled. "We are very proud of the accomplishments of this small Relief Society." <> On Washdays June B. Wunderlich I empty out each crumpled little pocket, Gather playworn treasures to a heap For growing hands to sort, before noon sleep Subdues activity. A tarnished locket Without catch or chain, a fragile paper rocket Battered by missions to the moon; down deep A broken, withered wishbone, serving to keep Expectant eyes aglow—so runs the docket. Once more I pray my wish—oh, help me fill The secret pockets hidden in the seams Of childhood, with shining, all-enduring dreams, With memories to launch an earthdrawn will To the stars—as wealth in trust for hands full grown To coin, when searching back in need, alone. Flerbs for Mlodern Cookery Chives Elizabeth Williamson HIVES (Allium schoenoprasum) are native to Northern Europe and North America, a perennial belonging to the onion family. This attractive plant, with lavender blooms and dark green leaves, grows to the height of eight or ten inches. It is easy to grow and seems to like most any soil. 'The bulb-like clusters at the root can be separated in the spring or fall. Each bulb will make a plant, but it is better to divide each clump into three or four parts for assuring a healthier plant. Potted chives can be grown all winter indoors, and they make a pretty addition to the kitchen window. The mild onion flavor is popular with many people who find that onions cause digestive disturbances. Chopped chives may be added to: stuffed eggs, cottage cheese, cream cheese, salads, mashed potatoes, tomato juice, and omelettes. Sead Whasic ZB, Die P art edited Conese.. Blow, Bugle. Blow—NeidlingerMadsen............2...2: c:--eceeceeeeseeeeeeeneeeeeee 18 — God Shall Wipe Away All Tears— ROME ooo. Ceccee ce eeeeeceeeceeeeeeeeetesneceeeeess 16 = Hold Thou My Hand—Briggs.............20 _ If Christ Came Back—O'Hara...........20 a. 1 Walked Today Where Jesus Walked—O'Hara...............2.2sccceeeceeeneee 22 — Let the Mountains Shout For Joy— Stephens -..0.........20-22seceeeeeeeeeecnene ences 15 — Lord's Prayer—Gates.......-..0.22...........20 = My Soul Is Athirst For God—Stickles.20 oe Out of the Depths—Todd...................20 — Praise Ye the Father—Gounod...........10 — Music Sent on Approval — Use this advertisement as your order blank DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 45-47 South Main Salt Lake City 1, Utah Please send the music indicated above. CL] On Approval [] Charge [] Money Enclosed 45-47 SOUTH MAIN 145 NORTH UNIVERSITY, PROVO o 2860 WASHINGTON Page 34] Cement Chimney Blocks as Planting Boxes Willard Luce NTERESTING planting boxes can be made from cement chimney blocks. These blocks are 18 by 18 inches, 7% inches high, and have a hole through them 9 inches square. You can place them in the dirt of the planting area surrounding the terrace, allowing them to stick up about an inch and a half above the terrace. Or they can be placed directly on the terrace and filled with soil. When the latter method is used, the plants in them must be watered often, as the blocks become quite hot and pull the water from the soil. The blocks can be used with their natural cement color, or they can be painted bright colors which will contrast with the surrounding garden and terrace. About twenty-five per cent of the cost of the blocks can be saved by buying seconds. These are not suitable for chimneys, but will usually work perfectly as planting boxes. Page 342 ' Suddenly Butterf tes Lael W. Hill Suddenly white butterflies blossom over the half-blind garden, And frost will not be thought of again till October—or September; It is the green time... Already summer forever As the white butterflies and the wakening bees remember. It is summer already, whose young leaves will span every tomorrow; Wind is sun-warm... There was never a winter to think of.... Together With gold bees finding their always opening flowers, The sudden white butterflies blossom to honeying weather. —_ | Sather s Garden Bernice T. Clayton A precious bit of paradise Was father's garden. In his eyes It was a place for children's play, Where flowers bloomed to give away; The place where he could best express His love of home, his happiness. A quiet man, he spoke in deeds And flowers grown from precious seeds; His choicest blossoms for the wife He loved and cherished all through life. Just one extravagance he had— That lovely garden of my Dad. One day he went to buy some clothes He long had needed, but he chose To order Holland bulbs, and then He wore his shabby suit again. How could we know that every spring The suit he didn't buy would bring A wealth of memories instead Of just a gorgeous tulip bed? THE WORLD'S FINEST PIANOS Mason & Hamlin The Stradivari of Pianos EVERETT Finest Toned Spinet Piano Built Cable | Nelson Finest Low Priced Piano Built ~~ All Obtainable At Beesley Music Co. Pioneer Piano People 70 S. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH It's awaiting You... E ¥Es there is still a tremendous amount of outstanding instruction and use awaiting you in this and other copies of the Relief Society Magazine. Your editions may be handsomely bound at the West's finest bindery and printing plant for $2.50 cloth bound and $3.50 leather bound per volume plus postage for mail orders. Follow these postage rates if you send your order by mail: Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles -.......... Cccseeeececeeeeeese35 150 to 300 miles.........02....0..-2-e 39 300 to 600 miles.........2....2......0:0005.45 600 to 1000 miles 5 1000 to 1400 miles 1400 to 1800 mites Over 1800 miles ats Leave them at. Our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press 31 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah Phone 4-258] -%@) Page 343 iP" GET YOUR AMAZING POPE ZoR\ SELF-SPACING Wee RUG NEEDLE | r pooKtE 4510 So. 23rd East [hemes SALT LAKE CITY 87-2742 What do You Need in Music? We Carry A Complete Stock of All SACRED PIANO and ORGAN BOOKS, plus ALL CHORAL NUMBERS for SINGING MOTHERS, CHOIR and MUTUAL CHORUSES. Immediate attention given to Mail Orders! GLEN-BROS. MUSIC CO. 74 So. Main Ogden Salt Lake City Provo ELECTRIC COOKING costs the average family & only about -— 9¢aday Gr a; ~ Be Modern Live Electrically UTAH POWER & LIGHT-CO. WOULD YOU LIKE A TOUR TO EUROPE That would include the dedication of The Temple At Berne, Switzerland? For complete details write or phone— VIDA FOX CLAWSON 966 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah Telephone 4-2017 The Historic Train Will leave Salt Lake City August 5th and will include The Pageant At The Hill Cumorah We give the most for the least! Good & ficsclorniie (\\cOOK BOOK b the. Ww, BETTY FU RNESS Westing house ~. COOK GOK dui © Julia "Rts prqwnd onde te Sess: Kiene | _ Ideal as Shower or Wedding Gifts 1. BETTY CROCKER'S GOOD AND EASY COOK BOOK Prepare delightful meals easily and quickly with this compact and handy cook book by Betty Crocker. It contains 1000 timesaving recipes that are really delicious. This book is wonderfully arranged, offers so many helpful hints, and is unbelievably priced at only $1.00 2. GOOD HOUSEKEEPING COOK BOOK This excellent cook book contains: over 3000 recipes, including 1000 new ones; enlarged chapters on pressure cookery, home freezing, quantity cookery, leftovers, quick-and-easy dishes to prepare, foreign dishes, barbecues, treats for children, chafingdishes; popular step-by-step ''Susan'' recipes; and directions all the way from intelligent buying to attractive serving. $3.95 3. BETTER HOMES AND GARDENS NEW COOK BOOK You'll find a rich storehouse of information on cooking in this outstanding cook book that's durably bound in loose-leaf form and indexed to perfection. It contains thousands of delicious recipes, calorie charts on all foods, oven charts, modern ideas on table settings and entertainments, and countless aids never included before in any cook book. $3.95 4. THE BETTY FURNESS WESTINGHOUSE COOK BOOK This new kind of basic cook book gives crystal-clear directions, defines cooking terms, explains cooking measurements, and offers many other hints that develop confidence in the kitchen. Besides thousands of unusual recipes, this book includes a special feature, ''Tricks and Treats," which shows how to transform old favorites into new delights, and gives helpful short-cuts. $3.50 DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah Gentlemen: Enclosed you will find ( ) check ( ) money order ( ) charge to my account for the encircled (numbered) books: 1 2 3 4 Amount enclosed $...........22..2::02-:: cccee ccseeeeeeeneeeeret NGIMe ooia es encecenecceecececcceeecenecesseceeeesceceseeceensansesesnerenseesecnqnacanasacssaaacaqnersesenes Address...--.--c-cecesssevceseocensecerseeececceseesceseeeeeececcaecaeeasasessneeeecoesneseaeecoeesses Ci} eee Zone........ State... Residents of Utah include 2% sales tax ollesee Add 12c postage for the first book, 8c for each additional book. REX=AR~125-39796 JUL Fifty Beneficial Years — Back in 1905, the year Beneficial was founded, a young dental surgeon discovered novocaine. It is one of several local anaesthetics that make today's visit to the dentist a much more tolerable experience than it was fifty years ago... Just one of many dental profession advances. Sy, 1905 - 1955 f Uke cit. Of The past half century has brought many advances in insurance benefits, too. Beneficial's new "Planned Futures" program is an excellent example. Ask your Beneficial agent about the benefits of this program for your family. No obligation, of course. POM UIUE ssurance (om "a Salt Lake City, Utah JUNE 1955 Lesson Previews 'oO fe) Zz N ~~ S > &yes of Spring Dorothy ]. Roberts Eyes of spring are my father's eyes, The bright, clean blue of country skies. Within their depths no shadow lies, No dark or dappled terror shies, But sight beyond my puzzled cries, Of treasures, hid, and faith's far prize. From murky limbos of surmise I reach a highway through his eyes. His clarity of glance defies The cynic's taunt and scorns reprise. Fond of hills, the farthest rise Tints his sight with fathom-dyes. He glimpses past the clouded whys With vision clear and distance-wise. When winter looms and autumn dies, Let me look through my father's eyes. The Cover: "Aristocrat Roses," Photograph by Ward Linton Frontispiece Photograph: 'The Grand Teton and Jenny Lake, Wyoming" Photograph by Don Knight Cover Design by Evan Jensen Srom lear and Sar I read Lael W. Hill's remarks in the "From Near and Far" department in the April Magazine, then reread her mother's lovely poem in the February issue ('Poet's Mother"). Lael has always been an inspiration to me ever since we wrote for the Tribune Junior as children. I have often wondered if we weren't married on the same day, as our marriage licenses were published in the paper on the same day. I hope some day she will publish a book of her wonderful poetry. I would be one of the first to buy a copy. —Nell B. Brenchley Preston, Idaho We in the Cedar Second Ward read our Relief Society Magazine and realize what a wonderful privilege it is for us to study these lessons, to enjoy each interesting story and poem. In the special short story issue for April (1955), the bird photographs are most unusual, also the floral pictures. The table decoration is teally eye-catching. The moment the Magazine arrives I sit right down with it, regardless of what I might be doing. Recently a number of young married girls who are not attending Relief Society meetings regularly are reading the Magazine with great interest, and vote it their choice. —Genevieve MacFarlane Cedar City, Utah I have always enjoyed The Relief Society Magazine. In fact, it was the Magazine which my mother and grandmother read before anything else. "I love this little Magazine," Said my mother long ago. "There is so much here to be seen, So many things to know." Today I spent a quiet hour With a copy of my own And marveled at its healing power When I could be alone. —Gertrude T. Kovan Provo, Utah Page 346 My aunt, Mrs. E. Jones of Spanish Fork, Utah, subscribes to The Relief Society Magazine for me, and I do want to let you know how much I enjoy every issue. I belong to the Presbyterian Church, and am a member of the Missionary Society. When I take my turn conducting the deliberations, I am delighted to say I have used some verses from your splendid Magazine. We are all following in His steps. —NMiss Catherine Harvey Montreal, Canada I received the Magazine as a gift from my mother and have appreciated it so much these past two years while I have lived in Turkey. There are no other members of the Church around here, and I have found the stories and messages from the Relief Society general board and the Church Authorities so uplifting. My husband reads and enjoys the Magazine, too. —Mrs. Betsy Long Golcuk, Turkey It is a great inspiration to read the messages of wise counsel from our great leaders whom I have learned to love, even though I have never met them personally. I am reading with some interest. Every article about the new Relief Society Building, and I hope some day to visit Salt Lake City. —Mabel A. O. Lindblad Willmar, Minnesota We wish to extend our sincere thinks for The Relief Society Magazine. It is wonderful to see and examine the contents thereof. In Haarlem we have a lovely Relief Society organization. There are few members that can read fluent English, but we all enjoy the illustrations indeed. -Sister S. M. Van Gelder Vester Haarlem, Holland Our good Magazine is one of the closest touches of home and good old Utah. I really enjoy it. —Helen McGee Roseville, Michigan THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - - - - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - First Counselor Velma N. Simonsen - - - - - Second Counselor Margaret C. Pickering - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Mary G. Judd Evon W. Peterson Alberta H. Christensen Winniefred 8. Anna B. Hart Leone O. Jacobs Mildred B. Eyring Manwaring Edith S. Elliott Louise W. Madsen Helen W. Anderson Elna P. Haymond Florence J. Madsen Aleine M. Young Gladys S. Boyer Annie M. Ellsworth Leone G. Layton Josie B. Ba Charlotte A. Larsen Mary R. Young Blanche B. Stoddard Christine H. Robinson Edith P. Backman RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - = = = - 5 = 5 - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Edito - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Vol. 42 JUNE 1955 No. 6 Contents SPECIAL FEATURES My Daughter Prepares for Marriage 20...-.-..0.---.2seseeeeee Harold B. Lee 348 Two New Members Appointed to the Relief Society General Board Annie Merrill Ellsworth Zina H. Poole 352 Mary Ross Young..............2.-- Poetry—A Rich Heritage.... Blossoms in LV o. I. Eeeeeees-cecceececeeeeeneeeeeeeerecenes ''How Can It Please the Human Pride?'' Selling the Relief Society Magazine The Morning-Glory Horn A Good Day A Good ite er oo cncceeoreeavotbenase Vera Mayhew 360 First in My Heart _........... Ec. Cecesscscccenescocceecssscesesessccscececseneeareceeeesses =... Maryhale Woolsey 380 Green Willows — Chapter 5 ee EE 5 onan.. Deone R. Sutherland 393 GENERAL FEATURES From Near and Far 346 Sixty Years Ago. TT a ee 366 Woman's Sphere; =.. Ramona W. Cannon 367 Editorial: The 125th Annual Church Conference 2... Marianne C. Sharp 368 "From Sea to Shining Sea' oi. EeeecccesesssssecseececeeeceeccteeeeeceeeeeeeseeeeeseenceeeesVesta P. Crawford 370 Notes to the Field: Summer Work Meetings 22.0.......:::.-sscecceseceeseceeseeeeeeeSS, sceTOITTT Eee TT 372 Brigham Young University Leadership Week 00000022... 372 Hymn of the Month A ES... 372 New Serial ''Hermanas"' to Begin in July ooo. Ieee ecccccccsecseceseesse eceeeeeseeeeeseeceeees 373 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities 220..220.220ccceeeeMargaret C. Pickering 398 FEATURES FOR THE HOME Elizabeth Lee Butler Finds Hobbies Indoors and Outdoors 379 Let rae Day Be a Pleasant Day for You oo... EceceeeeceececeeeeceeeeeseeeeeeeeeeceeeeeesRhea H. Gardner 388 Washing Blankets 22... ------n-c-ccc-ceseceecesesnecesesecesesececncaneceecscnenecececceseesesceesececeescesanseesecesacesesRhea H. Gardner 391 Herbs for Modern Cookery—Basil a _, (esElizabeth Williamson 416 LESSON DEPARTMENT—TEACHING AIDS AND PREVIEWS FOR 1955-56 Teaching and Teaching Aids for the 1955-56 Lessons; Mildred B. Eyring 403 Theology—Characters and Teachings of The Book of Mormon.................------++Leland H. Monson 405 Visiting Teacher Messages—Book of Mormon Gems of Truth Edith S. Elliott 407 Work Meeting—Food Preparation and Service Rhea H. Gardner 408 Literature—Literature of Englard ooo..... Cccieeeceee eee..-Bri Social Science—The Constitution of the United States... POETRY Eyes of Spring—Frontispiece Dorothy J. Roberts 345 It ls a Tragic Thing, by Mabel Law Atkinson, 351; The Covered Bridge, by Elsie McKinnon Strachan, 354; While Summer Sings, by Lael W. Hill, 365; Symphony for America, by Leslie Savage Clark, 375; Hills, by Francelia Goddard, 378; The Meadow, by Thelma Ireland, 378; Blue River. By Ethel Jacobson, 378; Monday Poge by Faye Gardner, 379; Weeds, by Ida Isaacson, 387; Return, by Catherine E. Berry, 387; Enchanted Moment, by Elizabeth Pew, 390; Familiar Note, by Eva Willes Wangsgaard, 392; It Doesn't Matter, by Josephine H. Beck, 414; Reward, by Ruth M. Jones, 414; Nature Song, by Jeanne Wilson, 414; Courageous Weaver, by Gene Romolo, 415; Lamp of Faith, by Erma Barney Braack, 415; Night in the Mountains, by Maude O. Cook, 415. My Daughter Prepares for Marriage Elder Harold B. Lee Of the Council of the Twelve to my hands a copy of a letter written by William James, the renowned psychologist, to his daughter, Peg, who was struggling with the inner conflicts so common to youth. He addressed her as "Darling Peg." In his letter he seeks to give her fatherly counsel to quiet her fears, and concludes with this comment: Com time ago there came inI have no doubt you are doing as well as you know how, darling little Peg; but we have to learn everything, and I have no doubt that you'll manage it better and better if you ever have any more of it, and soon it will fade away, simply leaving you with more experience. If he and you and I have the confidence in "Our Darling Peg" that she is doing "as well as she knows how," have we made sure that in the development of that little soul entrusted to our care, that we never left her without the benefit of our maturity of years to teach her the "how" of all we know? Did we, in her growing-up years, lay the foundation and framework for a strong, successful, and happy life, or did we leave it all to the hit and miss of trial and error, and hoped somehow that Providence would protect our darling while she gained experience? Perhaps a true-to-life incident will impress the thought I am trying to introduce. A newspaper clipping of Page 348 a few years ago carried the story of a young pilot in a solo flight high above the airport in a training routine who suddenly shouted over the radio communicating system to the officer in the control tower: "I can't see! I have gone blind." Should panic have prevailed in the control tower as well, disaster to the young pilot and to the valuable plane would have been certain; but, fortunately, he was a seasoned officer who, from experience, knew that under certain circumstances temporary blindness could come to a young novice under great tension. Calmly the officer talked to the youth up there, directing him in the process of circling to lose altitude slowly while at the same time ordering emergency equipment to be brought, at once, should there beacrash. After breath-taking minutes which seemed interminable to all who watched, the blinded pilot touched the wheels of his plane to the runway and rolled to a stop on the landing field. The ambulance attendants hastily rushed the boy to the base hospital for treatment. What would have happened if the officer in the control tower had become excited or had been shirking his duty, or hadn't known how to deal with this kind of an emergency? 'The answer is that the same thing would have happened which could happen to "Our darling Peg," MY DAUGHTER PREPARES FOR MARRIAGE were she bereft of the wise counselor of experience when she is faced with a shocking crisis with which she is unaccustomed. In both instances, a life would be maimed, if not destroyed, and the opportunity for highest attainment blighted. ANY times we have seen elderly parents come to the temple with the last of a large family to be married and say, as if in benediction to a successful parenthood, "This is our last child. All have been married in the temple." I heard a youth bear a boy's tribute to his father who from his "control towex" had guided this son to a sacred marriage in holy wedlock. The boy's simple tribute was: "Well, Dad, I made it!" While all the problems of life are not solved by a temple marriage, yet, certainly, for all who enter worthily, it becomes a haven of safety and an anchor to that soul when the storms of life beat fiercely. Speaking about this matter, President Stephen L Richards has said this: "One of the greatest deterrents of wrongdoing has been the fear of losing a place in the eternal family circle." Hearts must be pure to come within these walls Where spreads a feast unknown to festive halls. Freely partake, for freely God hath given, And taste the holy joys that tell of heaven. Here learn of Him who triumphed o'er the grave, And unto men the Keys, the Kingdom gave: Joined here by powers that past and present bind, The living and the dead perfection find. —Orson F. Whitney (Inscription at the entrance to the Cardston, Alberta, Temple) 349 I wish all mothers could have heard the heart-cries and the questions of a dear, sweet girl who, when it seemed that her girlhood dream of a temple marriage was almost within her grasp, had broken the law of chastity and now, for three weeks had lived in the torture chamber of an accusing conscience. Her questions were: "How was I to know that I was in danger? Why didn't I have the strength to resist?" Like the blinded pilot, she had been flying Llind, but, unfortunately for her, there was no control tower attendant to guide her to a safe landing in her crisis. Oh, that she could have talked out her problem with a wise mother! Had mother been too busy with Chuzch work or her housework or with socials or clubs to have cultivated the comradeship which would have invited from her daughter the most intimate confidences on such sacred matters? Perhaps here was a mother who was content to have her daughter instructed in academic courses on these delicate subjects which, all too often, but encourage the students to the experiment. Maybe she didn't realize that into her very living room, daily, by radio, magazines, and television were coming the distorted, and yet cleverly disguised ideas of love and life, and marriage that, all too often, are mistaken by youth as the path to happiness. Could it have been that an all-wise Heavenly Father, foreseeing these modern threats to successful homes and marriages, thought it important to give parents, early in this dispensation, vital instructions, which, if followed, would safe- 350 guard against these dangers? To the mothers of the Church, the Lord taught clearly their responsibility to their children in a revelation which he said was a law unto "parents in Zion." These commandments to parents he grouped into two categories: 'The first, apparently, were primarily teachings to be given before a child was to be baptized— "to understand the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ the Son of the living God, and of baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of the hands." After baptism, the Lord stressed the following as the essentials of his law that parents "shall also teach their children to pray, and to walk uprightly before the Lord.... Ob serve the Sabbath day to keep it holy"... To "remember their labors" and not to be idle or greedy. These teachings must be taught just as effectively in the home as are the opposite worldly ideas and notions with which children and youth are constantly confronted. Frequent "home" nights have been suggested as an appropriate time and place for such instruction. Just how vital the teachings of the gospel are in protecting youth as they prepare for marriage is suggested by an analogy of an effective teacher. Said he, "Beautiful roses do not grow unless the roots of the parent bush are firmly planted in rich, fertile soil. They have to be cultivated and digged about constantly." Just so, the beautiful flowers of virtue, sobriety, honesty, and integrity do not grow in the human soul, unless the feet are firmly planted on a strong, firm testiRELIEF SOCEITY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1955 mony of the life and mission of the Lord Jesus Christ. I know of a little mother who was never too busy to sit down with her little girl when she wanted to ask questions about the mysterious things of life. Mother's answers were gauged to each stage of her little girl's mental capacity. She caught her daughter at the crossroads of her youthful glee or disappointments, as the case might be, following a party or a date. When proposals of marriage came, mother was silently praying and, thereafter, was alone with her daughter to counsel as her "darling" might desire. On the eve of her marriage, it was to mother that the daughter turned for counsel as to what a new bride's place must be in these most sacred relationships of marriage. It was mother's triumph when, at last, she saw her daughter adjusting beautifully in a happy home. MINE has been the rich experience, for nearly twenty years, of being entertained each week end in some of the most successful homes of the Church, and, by contrast, almost weekly I am permitted a glimpse into some of the unhappy homes. From these experiences I have reached in my own mind some definite conclusions: First, our happiest homes are those where parents have been married in the temple. Second, a temple marriage is most successful if husband and wife entered into the sacred ordinances of the temple clean and pure in body, mind, and heart. 'Third, a temple marriage is most sacred when each in the partnership has been wisely schooled in the purpose MY DAUGHTER PREPARES FOR MARRIAGE of the holy endowment and the obligations thereafter of husband and wife in compliance with instructions received in the temple. Fourth, parents who themselves have lightly regarded their temple covenants, can expect little better from their children because of their bad example.: In this day, the fashions, the sham, the pretenses, and the glamour of the world have badly distorted the holy concepts of home and marriage, and, even the marriage ceremony itself. Blessed is the wise mother who paints a living picture 351 to her daughter of a sacred scene in an exquisite, heavenly sealing room where, shut out from all that is worldly, and in the presence of parents and intimate family friends, a beautiful youthful bride and groom clasp hands across a holy altar. Thank God for that mother who shows her daughter that here, nearest to heaven on earth, heart communes with heart, in a mutuality of love that begins a oneness which defies the ravages of hardship, heartaches, or disappointments to destroy, and supplies the greatest stimulus for life's highest attainments! UIs a Sragic Shing Mabel Law Atkinson Man is drunken, Yet thirsting still for stronger potions, The wines of milder vintage Mellowed by love and beauty Cannot intoxicate the mind that has tasted The liquor of its own inverted power. Mind is master, Yet eyes dimmed by cataracts of greed Can see no signposts of the Master Mind, No torches of the avatars That flame disaster; Ears turned only to earthly kingdoms Hear not the guiding carillons of angels. Ceaselessly, triumphantly, With merciless, sword-thin laughter, Man builds his slaves— Robots with the strength of Atlas, Purring annihilation, Forgetting that he, himself, May be food for his own mind's gorging. It is a tragic thing When man lights the fuse Of the bomb that will level his own house, Would he but look up, He might walk with gods and travel by star To the kingdoms of forever. Two New Members Appointed to the Relief Society General Board Anne Merrill Ellsworth Zina H. Poole Secretary, Denver Stake Relief Society ANNIE M. ELLSWORTH HE appointment of Annie Merrill Ellsworth to the general board of the Relief Society, on April 13, 1955, will meet with unanimous approval from all who have had the privilege of knowing and loving her. Sister Ellsworth was born in Richmond, Utah, to Alma Merrill and Almira Esmerilda Hendricks Meirill, the fifth of ten children. MemPage 352 ories of her childhood are extremely happy ones, and her home was the center of rich spiritual gatherings which strengthened her love for the gospel. Her father was in the stake presidency for twentythree years, serving as president the last twelve years. Sister Ellsworth attended Brigham Young College in Logan for one year, and it was there that she met her future husband, John Orval Ellsworth. They were married October 21, 1914, in the Logan Temple. The Ellsworths went into the mission field as students at Cornell University in Ithaca, New York. From there, they went to Oklahoma where Brother Ellsworth was a professor at Oklahoma A. & M. College. After they left Oklahoma, they lived for eighteen years at Lubbock, Texas, where he was a college professor and later a dean. Since the Ellsworths have never been blessed with children, they have tried to make their home the center of reunion for the Church's young people. During World War II, many Latter-day Saint boys stationed at Lubbock Field for pilot training came each Saturday night to an open house at the Ellsworth home. RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Annie M. Ellsworth finished college after her marriage, receiving a B. S. Degree in foods and nutrition. She also is a talented interior decorator. Sister Ellsworth has served the Relief Society in various capacities including stake secretary in the Boise Stake, president of the Lubbock Branch, supervisor of the West Texas District, first counselor and president of the Denver First Ward, President of the Central States Mis- 353 sion Relief Society, and is serving at present as a social science leader in the Provo Eighth ward. She is genealogist for the large Marriner Wood Merrill family. Sister Ellsworth now resides in Provo, where her husband is a Professor of religion at Brigham Young University. Through her service she has stimulated and strengthened the testimony of many. Mary Ross Young Elna P. Haymond Member, General Board of Relief Society MARY R. YOUNG AANNOUNCEMENT of the appointment, April 13, 1955, of Mary Ross Young to the general board of Relief Society brought congratulations and approval from her host of friends. Sister Young was born in Salt Lake City, Utah, to George J. Ross and Mary Romney. Her father passed away when she was nine years of age and her mother reared their five children in a home where religious training, devotion to service, and love of the gospel were constantly taught and practiced. When but sixteen years of age, Sister Young served as secretary of the Twentieth Ward Sunday School. During the following years she taught in the Religion Class, Primary, and M. I. A. Organizations. She attended the Latter-day Saints High School and the Latter-day Saints Business College. Sister Young continued her training through the reading of good books. She has long been an ardent student of the scriptures. The knowledge thus gained has developed a strong, unswerving testimony of the gospel. This knowl- 354 edge and testimony will be carried by her into her work on the general board. It will enable her to carry, with conviction and humility, the gospel message to the many hundreds of sisters whom she will visit throughout the stakes of the Church. On December 29, 1921, she married Gaylen Snow Young in the Salt Lake Temple. Their children are Gaylen S. Young, Jr. An attorney; Mrs. Joseph (Betsy) Newton; Mrs. Graham (Mary Lou) Doxey, and Edwin. Sister Young has nine grandchildren... She loves them dearly and acts as "second" mother to them for days and weeks at times when conditions require such attention. After her marriage, Sister Young with her husband, lived in Washington D. C. While Brother Young completed his study of law. While RELIEF SOCEITY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1955 there she was active in the branch. Upon her return to Salt Lake she served on the Primary stake board and later in the presidency. Her next assignment was as a_ board member of the Bonneville Stake Relief Society. After serving on the stake board she was made president of the Bonneville Ward Relief Society, then counselor in the Bonneville Stake. At the time of her appointment to the general board she was president of the Bonneville Stake Relief Society. Spirituality, humility, love for her fellow men, and a desire to serve have radiated to members of her family and to all those whom she calls neighbors. The warmth of her personality, with her love for people, coupled with her charity and understanding of others' problems, will endear her to many and make her services invaluable as a member of the general board. She Covered Bridge Elsie McKinnon Strachan We found it where no speeding cars intrude, Where time has grown a shaw] of ivy lace. The country noonday weaves a slumbrous mood Around the woodsy quiet of the place. And slivered sun falls through the leaning roof To lie in splintered light upon the planks Where phantom echoes rise of wheel and hoof, Of hurrying rigs and splashing water tanks. Within the sheltered hush of this old bridge, Our thoughts meandered to those days gone by; While mentally we crossed half-century-ridge, Stepped back to rutted trail, uncharted sky. But then we heard a plane, swift-winged and brief— And knew a world had changed beyond belief. Poetry—A Rich Heritage Christie Lund Coles OETRY is a soul-food so rich, Pp so satisfying, so nourishing that he who has never known the joy of it has been hungry indeed. And I believe that those who have been given the gift of expression are indeed blessed. The poet has found his medium of expression. What he expresses, and how well he does it depend upon his own ability, and his own willingness to develop his talent. The subject matter of poetry is limitless. Many modernists declare that nothing is beyond the province of the writer, if he is able to capture and present it well. Robert Burns proved this true, in his day, by his poignant and wise words in "To a Field Mouse," and in the poem written while watching a louse upon a lady's hat. Yet, it is more or less accepted that beauty and wisdom and aspiration to nobility are better handled in poetry than subjects of ugliness and sordidness. There are so many good and worthwhile subjects about which one can speak, there is so much wisdom to be presented, that I think, particularly for our Church publications, we should adhere to these things. Beauty is still "its own excuse for being." Poetry is different from prose in that what it says must be said succinctly, carefully, briefly. It must catch in a sentence what prose can take a page to present. 'This sentence cannot be merely a declarative thing, either; it must be said in words that are rich in meaning, in beauty, with phrases full of imagery and metaphors not necessarily found in prose. Elinor Wylie in her poem "Velvet Shoes," says, "We shall walk in velvet shoes." It comes upon us so forcibly that we can feel velvet beneath our feet when walking on the snow. Poets are content too often to use hackneyed, trite expressions that were beautiful when first used, but are not beautiful now because they have been said too many times. Imagery is the rich embroidery of a poem, and if it is fresh, it is a true delight. If a phrase like "downy flakes" comes to us, we should examine it closely before using it. If it comes too easily to mind it may be that we have read it many times before, and have stored it in our subconscious minds. We should seek hard for new words, new combinations, and try to say something as it has never been said before. Forms of poetry are varied, and one wishing to write should make a study of the standard, accepted forms so that she will have a better background for what she writes. In the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contests, for instance, it is interesting to note that sonnets have been singularly successful as winning poems. For those not familiar with the sonnet form I might say briefly that a sonPage 355 356 net consists of fourteen lines with alternate lines rhyming—abab-cdedefef—gg (each letter standing for a thyme sound—two a's_ rhyming, etc.). The lines are iambic pentameter, which means there are usually five heavy beats and five light ones, with the second syllable in the lines getting the accent, such as "The curfew tolls the knell of parting day." An occasional extra light beat is permissible, but only one famuiliar with the form should try this. The sonnet is a stately form for a fine subject. There are other types of sonnets, but this is the most popular in America today. The couplet at the end should sum up the subject with strength and meaning. If the poem has a theme, it can very well be presented or reiterated in these lines. LYRICS — poems which sing themselves — are always popular, if beautifully done. A wellwritten ballad (a poem which tells a story) can be effective, as can free verse (a strong thought or picture which is told without definite pattern in the form). As in a sonnet, every poem should build to a climax. Many poets find that their last lines, which are usually the best, the crux of the whole idea, come to them first. They should build unity of thought around this idea, and weave a poem worthy of this climax. It is a good idea to write the theme of your poem, or the central thought, down before you start the poem itself. It has been said that if you cannot write your theme for either a poem or a story in one sentence, it is not clear in your own mind. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1955 Robert Frost maintains that every poem should have a surface meaning. That is, one that can be gleaned with one or two brief readings, but might, and _ preferably should have other levels of depth and meaning. The modern objection to cliches and words not used in ordinary speech, such as "morn," "alas," etc., is well founded. 'These words were considered good in the Victorian age, but are not acceptable now. One should write as one should speak in simple address, not necessarily ending a line with a period or ending the thought at the end of the line, merely because the form seems to call for it. Punctuate as you would punctuate any good piece of writing. Strength is often gained by letting the thought run from one line into the next, and the difficulty of rhyme is lessened. Fresh rhymes are something to be striven for always. The poet who would write well, who would win contests, or sell in the face of terrific competition, should do as much studying as possible. Reading poetry from the masters, aS well as from contemporary poets, should be a must. Read... Read... Read. Then, forget what you have read and write.. Write. 'To those who wish to know what is happening on the writing scene — contests, requirements, trends — a good writer's magazine is most helpful. University courses or extension work, attending writers' groups where poems can be read aloud and criticized, writers' conferences or meetings, where outstanding, suc- POETRY—A RICH HERITAGE cessful poets speak, are most valuable, particularly if one can still stay true to her best self and write honestly, rather than trying to write what might please some passing phase or trend. "TEXTBOOKS and reference books used for accuracy and study are almost a necessity, for even a slight error may be picked up by an astute reader and may count against your effort. Latter-day Saint women have an opportunity for expression and success in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest and should take advantage of it. We have a great field of pioneer history and scenic beauty upon which to draw. Yet these subjects must be handled with special care. It is easy to be trite and sentimental on a theme close to us, but if handled wisely, such a subject can be most strong and moving. In summing up, I would say: Choose a subject that is as universal as possible, yet near to you, one upon which you feel deeply; let it le in the deep well of your subconscious mind while you are doing other things; then, bring it forth and try to clothe it in the form most suited to your thought (often, the thought will actually dictate the form). Write it in the great flush of joy and fulfillment that comes from creating, but, do not let it end there. Later, in the calm light of reason and criticism, go over it, over every line, every word, polishing, shining, making it yours indeed, in expression and content. Try to make your poem alive with concrete Son images, rather than with telling it. Do not try too hard to preach, but let the theme come through your veiled expression. Before submitting, be sure that the mechanical dressing of your brain child is as nearly perfect as possible. Have it neatly and accurately typed on good paper. A first impression may unwittingly influence a judge in its favor; the opposite is possible, also. Submit your poem according to the rules, and if you win, well and good. But if you lose, remember that it does not necessarily mean you do not have a good poem. Judges differ as much as poems do, and the poem which may not win this year may have a chance next year, or in another contest, or to an editor. And the chances are, it can still be improved, worked on, seasoned. Writing something worthwhile is worth all the effort involved, for poetry is a rich heritage of which we should strive to be worthy, and to perpetuate for our posterity. HeEtpFuL REFERENCES FOR THE WRITER OF POETRY Brooks AND Warren: Understanding Poetry, Henry Holt and Company, New York, $4.50. Hami. Ton, ANNE: How to Revise Your Own Poems, Writer's Digest, 22 East 12th Street, Cincinnati 10, Ohio, $1.50. Hamitton, ANNE: Seven Principles of Poetry, Writer's Digest, 22 East 12th Street, Cincinnati 10, Ohio, $2.50. ZILLMAN, LAWRENCE: Writing Your Poem, Writer's Digest, 22 East 12th Street, Cincinnati 10, Ohio, $2.75. Willard Luce SMALL BUCKWHEAT IN CRATERS OF THE MOON NATIONAL MONUMENT Blossoms in Lava Willard Luce Craters of the Moon National Monument and the adjoining cinder cone desert are full of surprises. 'The surprises will be even greater if you have read Washington Irving's description of the area. Irving, in The Adventures of Captain Bonneville, writes: An area of about sixty miles in diameter, where nothing meets the eye but desolate and awful waste, where no grass grows nor water runs, and where nothing is to be seen but lava. This forbidding wilderness, once a valley of fire, is located in south central Idaho, north of the Snake River, south of Arco, and west of Blackfoot. 'The main highway to Page 358 [) cates June and July, the Sun Valley passes along the western border of the lava country, and the road to Salmon River intersects its northeastern areas. Idaho Highway 23, which branches off at Shoshone north of Twin Falls, passes directly through the National Monument, which constitutes only a small part of the lava landscape. Actually the amount of vegetation, and, especially, the amount of blossoming flowers in the Monument is startling. Possibly the most eye-catching of all is the tiny, purple monkey flower which literally carpets large areas of the cinder fields. The monkey flowers seem to grow best in the low, depressed areas; BLOSSOMS IN LAVA even old wheel tracks become filled with them. Individually, the blossoms are tiny and somehow tesemble the face of a monkey. Another profuse blossomer of the Craters is the dwarf buckwheat. The foliage of the buckwheat is gray and the blossoms a yellowish-gray, almost ball-shaped. In the late sunshine these plants make. Startling contrasts against the red, black, and brown of the cinder cones. At such times the hills seem to become huge mounds of flowered obsidian. For individual blossoms, possibly the delicate, starlike bitterroot takes the prize ribbon. Clusters of mock Willard Luce 359 orange, white with yellow centers, and the intense green of the dainty ferns also have decorative qualities all their own. Besides the flowers and the blossoming shrubs, there are three varieties of trees found in the Monument: western juniper, Juniperus occidentalis; limber pine, Pinus flexilis; and quaking aspen, Populus tremuloides. All of which fails to make the Craters of the Moon National Monument into a city park; but, at the same time, keeps it from being quite the barren waste described by Washington Irving. TWISTED PINE TREE IN LAVA BEDS CRATERS OF THE MOON NATIONAL MONUMENT, IDAHO A Good Life Vera Mayhew OAN stood near the window of J the small, old house and watched the gray dust whirls on the unpaved road that passed her door. This is the very worst place I've ever been, she said to herself, and thought longingly of the army housing she had formerly thought was the worst in the world. At least in army housing you have neighbors, she thought, young neighbors with the same problems and heartaches and the same capacity for fun. Here her nearest neighbor was more than half a block away, a little, old mousey person, sixty years old or more. Joan had seen her several times out working in her garden, but they had not spoken in the two months that Joan had lived in the little house. It wasn't Bill's fault she was here. He had certainly pointed that out to her last night. Long ago he had warned her that it would be hard to find a place to live, that the nearest town to the job was a very small one, and she would have little to do and would get terribly bored and homesick. But with Bill just home from Korea and the memory of that awful fifteen months of his absence fresh in her mind, how could she think of anything but the joy of being with him again? Now she was willing to admit that Bill knew more about small California desert towns than she did. He had worked near them before, and knew what it was like to Page 360 be so far from movement and life. After all, he had been a construction engineer before he went into the army. She had met him while he was stationed at a post near her home in San Francisco. She smiled with love at the memory of that meeting at a friend's home, forgetting, for a moment, her present misery. It had been on a clear and sparkly night that Alice had called Joan to ask her please to be a fourth for a tour of San Francisco's fun spots. Alice's friend had brought another boy along, and they needed someone to make the party even. Joan had gone reluctantly, and it had turned into the evening of her life with the knowledge growing more sure inside her every minute that this Bill Brent was going to mean something more to her than just a few hours of fun. How right she had been. How wonderful it was to marry him after a short courtship and go with him to make a home at other army camps. She didn't love him any less now, and we haven't grown apart, really, she assured herself. It's just that I can't stand being stuck away in this awful, ugly little house all day and then never going any place in the evening. That's what had been wrong last night. She had walked downtown in the afternoon and noticed that a picture they had missed was playing that night at the town's one picture place. She had dinner on the table A GOOD LIFE when Bill got home, and she was dressed and ready to go. 'There would be only one showing and they would have to hurry to make it, BILL had been a little late, and then he had taken forever with _ his shower and dressing and when, at last, he had come out to dinner he was in pajamas and a robe. "Oh, Bill, I forgot to tell you before you went to dress," she said, throwing her arms around his neck and giving him a quick, hard squeeze. "But guess what? Startime is on at the movies tonight. Isn't that wonderful luck? Do hurry into something and let's fly through dinner and be on our way." She gave him a hurried kiss on the cheek and danced into the kitchen whirling round and round. They were going some place, they actually were! But when she came back with the food, there sat Bill in the one comfortable chair, sprawled out as if he would never have even enough energy to come to the table. "Bill, you haven't even started," she said reproachfully. "That's just half of it. Going to," he answered. Joan almost opened her mouth in astonishment. She had _ thought Bill would be as thrilled as she was to have something to do. He got up and came around the table, and put his arm around her waist. "Cheer up, kid," he said. "Tomorrow is another day. Maybe I won't be so all in. Today was really tough." "But, Bill,' she answered, determinedly cheerful, "remember this is the Isis. Pictures Monday, WedI'm not 361 nesday, and Saturday. Mostly blood and thunder. You see it tonight or you never see it." "Too bad. I guess we'll never see it," he said with a smile and a shrug. She couldn't let it go at that. Her hopes had been so high that she didn't even see how really tired he was, and they had quarreled, bitterly, while the dinner cooled on the table, and both had finally gone to bed without eating anything. 'There she had poured out her loneliness and boredom, and he had reminded her that he had told her not to come, to stay in San Francisco with her parents and let him get down to see her as often as he could. She had accused him of not wanting her with him, of not caring whether she was happy or not, and he had called her a child, and what was more, a spoiled child. Even this morning their quarrel had not been resolved. She had prepared his breakfast in silence and in silence they had eaten. He had gone off without even saying goodbye. Her breath came hard and fast as she thought of the situation she was in. She got out the dress she was knitting, sat down, and did a few stitches and then put it back in the drawer. What she needed was action. If she had a piano she would pound the life out of it. All her life she had been able to work off her tensions playing the piano. But there was no piano here. Maybe that was most of the trouble. She had never before tried to get along without a piano. She looked about the small room, trying to find something to do. 362 It was boringly neat, as her mother always said when there was nothing on top of anything to show that people were around. She had scrubbed and painted and made curtains and slip covers and a bedspread, everything she could think of to take time and make the place seem more like a home. Now there just wasn't another thing she could do. Well, maybe she could dig in the garden, but she hated digging in gardens. She detested the feel of dirt on her hands. She wanted to enjoy her flowers after someone else had done all the work. Arranging them, making them beautiful in a house, that she loved, but she couldn't make them grow. Besides, she wouldn't know where to start in this weed-grown patch. She'd just have to keep on waiting for Bill to have time. R'll go down to the store, she thought, and try to dream up something for dinner that will take all day to cook. If all we're going to do while we're here is eat, it may as well be good. Joan went out the door and down the street. Her neighbor was working again in her garden. Now here was someone who knew how to make a garden grow. The iris and roses blooming together in profusion were one of the most beautiful pictures Joan had ever seen. She stopped to give herself more time to look. As she stood entranced, the woman working; looked up and smiled. "How beautiful your garden is," Joan said almost involuntarily. "Let me cut you some blooms," the woman answered. RELIEF SOCEITY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1955 Joan flushed. She was about to answer, curtly, "I wasn't asking for flowers," when she caught the look of friendliness in the woman's eyes. Why she's lonely, too, Joan thought, and shy. Instead of the thoughtless words she had intended, Joan said, "That would be wonderful. But I'm just going to town. Let me stop and get them as I come back. If you've gone into the house, I'll knock on your door." "Tl have them ready," the woman answered. OAN started to walk on, then stopped and came back to the gate. "I was wondering," she said, 'af I could do anything for you while I'm down town." "Why, that's right kind of you. I was needing some black embroidery cotton and not feeling like walking after it. Wait just a minute I'll get you the money." "Oh, don't go in the house just for that. Go on with your gardening. You can pay me when I stop by for the flowers." Joan waved gaily and walked down the street. "Tl need about ten skeins," the woman called after her. Ten skeins! Joan thought. Whatever can she be doing with so much black? But she just waggled two fingers to let the woman know she understood and walked on. Joan was feeling much_ better when she got back to her own place, her arms full of packages and the huge bunch of flowers. Her neighbor's name, she had discovered, was Nancy Graham, and _besides being a gardener, she did the most divine smocking on aprons and A GOOD LIFE children's dresses. 'That's what the thread was for. What she did with them Joan hadn't yet found out, but she expected to. She even thought she might learn to smock and do a few herself. Mrs. Graham had not spoken of herself, but she seemed so happy to have someone to visit with a few minutes that Joan surmised she was a widow living alone. Joan had noticed two or three group pictures on the mantel, probably children and their families. As she thought about this new acquaintance, Joan's hands had been busy arranging the flowers. Now she stood back to view her work. There, 'that does more than anything I've done to make this place look lived in, she said to herself, as, humming softly, she began to prepare the dinner that would be a peace offering to Bill. Poor Bill, he did work hard, and he had seen enough movies overseas to last him a lifetime. She'd just have to give him time to get used to thinking about her needs. Several days later when Joan noticed Mrs. Graham again tending her flowers, she put on a pot of coffee and walked down the street. "Won't you come over and have a cup of coffee with me and talk awhile?" she said. "Tll be glad to come and _ talk and watch you drink the coffee. Just let me wash my hands," Mrs. Graham said. In a moment she was out of the house again and the two women walked back to Joan's together. As they went in the front door, Mrs. Graham exclaimed, "Oh, what wonderful things you do with flowers! I grow them, but I just stick 363 them in a vase. I have absolutely no talent for arranging." "To each his own ability," Joan smiled. "I can't grow them. You're sure you won't have a cup of coffieer"' "Since we're neighbors and may be seeing each other quite a bit, I may as well tell you right now that I'm a Mormon, and I don't drink coffee or tea or smoke or take cocktails." A Mormon! It about took Joan's breath. She had never met a Mormon before. Of course, she had heard about them. There had been so much in the magazines and newspapers about Secretary Benson since he had been in Washington, that anyone that could read could not help knowing that there were Mormons. But she had _ never thought about meeting one. She hardly knew what to say. Should she just ignore it, murmur something or other or ask a question? Finally, after a too long pause, she inquired, "Tell me. Why do you do without those particular things?" Mrs. Graham explained about the "word of wisdom." Joan asked questions and put in ideas of her own, and both women were surprised when the noon whistle blew. T was several days later that Nancy Graham came calling on Joan quite early in the morning. "T came to ask a favor," she said. "Sure. Anything I can do," Joan answered, and hoped it would be something she really could do. "T was wondering if you would go with me to Relief Society today and arrange the flowers. I always take 364 some, but my arrangements are so uninspired. A beautiful piece like you do would put a ring around the day." "T guess I can, but tell me, what's Relief Society?" Joan asked. "It's hard to explain in a few words. Something like the Ladies Aid or the Missionary Society in other churches, only more. Call past my house about one o'clock, and I'll tell you what I can and let you see some more." They climbed a steep flight of tickety stairs, Nancy Graham carrying a flower container and some chicken wire that Joan had asked for, and several of her finished aprons, with Joan coming behind her, her arms full of flowers. The room they entered was appalling, peeling plaster, cracks in the floor boards, uncurtained windows. "You get busy with the flowers and I'll straighten this place around a little,' Mrs. Graham said. She unlocked a door into a closet and brought out a small lace tablecloth that covered the deep gouges and ink stains on the table-top. Then she got a dozen new folding chairs out of the same closet and put three on one side of the table and one at the end. The rest she arranged facing the table at a little distance. "We are only a very small group," she explained as she worked, "so we have to meet any place we can get. Sometimes I think we would do better to have Relief Society in our homes, but we are so scattered and this town is more central than any place else. Then, too, when we always meet here we always know where to go." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1955 "You mean that there are some women who come to your meeting who don't live in town?" Joan asked. "Oh, my, yes. There are several who live on farms and some from other small towns around. Two of the women you will likely see today will have driven twenty-five miles." Joan's hand stilled on the flowers as she thought about that. "T should think Relief Society would have to be good to make it worth a trip like that," she decided, resuming work. "It's worth the trip," Mrs. Graham said, with quiet conviction. "Oh, those flowers are so beautiful. We can look at them and never notice how awful the room is. Now, [ll just get another chair for these aprons. Some of the rest will be bringing things in. Our bazaar will be in about three more weeks." FTER dinner that night as Bill dried dishes for Joan she told him about her day. "Such an incredibly awful place, Bill, but such a gallant group. They are so close and friendly, call each other sister, and that's just what it seemed like. A group of sisters. Do you know two of them had driven twenty-five miles to that meeting?" she recalled, her hands still in the sudsy water. "Twenty-five miles?" Bill questioned. "You sure you heard right? What would they get out of a meeting to be worth a trip like that?" "That's what I thought when Mrs. Graham told me they were coming. But when the women began to come and they were so glad to see each other, I began to under- A GOOD LIFE stand a little. Then after the meeting, they all lingered as if they couldn't bear to break those companionable bonds, and I understood more. You know, I'll bet that they went back to all those different places where they live feeling as if they'd had a visit home." "But the meeting?" Bill asked. "How was the meeting?" "Surprisingly enough, it was interesting. 'This was what they call their literature lesson, and they were talking about Emily Bronte and Wuthering Heights! You know, I think I'm going to read it again." Bill chuckled, "Not enough new things coming out?" he asked with a raised eyebrow. Joan smiled. "Not that exactly. But if you go back to the old and tried once in a while, you sort of get your values straightened out." Neither spoke for a minute, thinking about those values, then Joan said, "I almost forgot to tell you the most important thing. There was a gitl there about my age, a graduate of Juilliard School of Music. She played the piano and, bad as the instrument was, she made it sound fine. I talked to her afterward, and we are going to practice <-> 365 some duets. Mrs. Graham says I can use her piano. It's a good one, too. One of her married daughters graduated with a music major from College of the Pacific. Mrs. Graham says it will be good to hear some music around the house again. She seemed real glad that I can play the piano." "Looks like you had yourself a profitable afternoon," Bill decided, kissing her upcurved lips and touching his finger to her glowing cheeks. "Your music means a lot to you, doesn't it? I guess I haven't quite realized what you have been missing. I'll try to remember. I really do love you." Joan just smiled as she went into his arms. Maybe she had found something more than music. Or something to make her music and her love and everything mean even more. She'd have to see. Move carefully, she told herself. Be sure. But deep in her heart was the memory of that beautiful closeness she had known this afternoon. She knew, somehow that it could extend even to her and Bill. It could encompass everything. That thought, together with Bill's strong arms, made her catch her breath. WVhile Summer Sings Lael W. Hill All the tiny jeweled eyes Watch where summer lightly lies, All the softly powdered wings Quiver while the season sings. Honey-sweet and dusty gold, Summer reaches to enfold Cricket chorale in the meadow, Moths that drift as still as shadow. Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, June 1, and June 15, 1895 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomeEN oF Att NATIONS" Poetry: There is poetry in beautiful thoughts, kind deeds and loving words: there is poetry in the chirp of the meadowlark and the croak of the frog; there is poetry in the rising and in the setting sun, in the stars and the moon, in a beautiful sky; there is poetry in the hills and the dales, and the delicate tinted flowers that grow there; there is poetry in the mountains and in the laughing streams that rush down their sides. There is poetry in music, painting, and in everything that is beautiful, grand, sublime, noble —Olea Shipp Eternal Law: When a man by mutual consent of both parties has made of woman a wife and mother, and a child has been born, a living soul created; that has been done which never can be undone. Eternal results and consequences must inevitably follow, and this is sufficient reason why it should be done by virtue of an everlasting covenant, a covenant made to endure in time and through all eternity. —S. W. R. MARRIAGE In a green and shady bower, Where the creeping ivy's twine Flowers and mossy velvet carpet Is a picture grand, sublime. "Neath the bower a form is seated, Manly, noble-browed and just And beside a lovely maiden Greets his smile with fervent trust. They are gazing on the future Loving hearts they both enfold, Plighted vows they cast together In affection's sacred mold.... —Lizzie Brown Women in Journalism: Since the days when Miriam wrote and sang in the classic land of the Nile, there have been women with hearts full of song, and with souls delicately attuned — silent poets, perhaps, but oftimes silent only because the stern tyrant necessity bade them toil, not sing.... Literature is one avocation that has never closed its doors to women.... There are women engaged in journalism in all parts of the civilized world.... The field is overcrowded and one should not attempt to enter unless she feels that inherent call which almost amounts to inspiration. —Lizzie Stevenson Wilcox GOLDEN WEDDING: The Golden Wedding of Elder Ezra T. Clark and his wife Mary S. Clark was celebrated on Saturday evening, May 18th, 1895, in the Opera House, at Farmington, Davis County, Utah... Sister Clark spoke of her joy and her happiness under all circumstances, because of the Gospel; of coming here among the sagebrush, living in a log cabin.... Sister Rhoda Cooper, eighty-five years old, sang the hymn, "Who is this fair one from the wilderness traveling?"... —Selected Page 366 and true.; Mss MARY E. SWITZER, National Director of Vocational Rehabilitation in the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, says America must "carry to the world the philosophy that there is dignity in all people, even the handicapped. We must help in evaluating and developing the capabilities of the handicapped, instead of exploiting their limitations,' she notes. N Greece it is still mandatory that a bride's father pay a generous marriage settlement to the groom. This custom has become so burdensome to struggling peasants—especially those with many daughters— that the village fathers of seventeen villages in south-central Greece have written on open letter to Queen Frederika, asking her to help abolish the dowry system. M*. JOSEPHINE G. SHAEFER, left a widow with one child in 1926, took a position with an important real estate firm in New York. Now a vice-president and director, as well as a broker of the company, and a member of its executive committee, she has, over the last three years, grossed more business than any of her associates. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon RS. ARTHUR CROM, General Federation of Women's Clubs Narcotics Chairman, is appealing for forceful legislation, including uniform laws in all states, to crush the narcotic situation in our country. 'T'wo Federal hospitals for drug addicts showed an increase of 2,000 per cent in admissions from 1947 to 1950. Today 50,000 young people under twenty-one years of age are caught in the toils of the drug habit. Cures are extremely difficult to effect, ranging from one per cent to a rare eighteen per cent. People may be cured more easily when treated in the early stages of the habit, than confirmed addicts. OLIVE WOOLLEY BURT, wellknown contributor to The Relief Society Magazine, and author of nineteen books, has a new biography recently off the press—John Charles Fremont, which recounts the frontier adventures of the courageous trailmaker whose travels and maps gave priceless information to westerm pioneers. BIRTHDAY congratulations are extended to: Mrs. Elizabeth Mohr Felix, Logan, Utah, and Mrs. Elizabeth Raymond Openshaw, Salt Lake City, both ninety. Page 367 VOL. 42 JUNE 1955 C—> EDITORIAL ~9 She 125th Annual Church Conference ORDS of counsel, of encouragement, and warning were sent forth to the inhabitants of the earth at the 125th Annual General Conference of the Church held April 3d, 4th, and 6th, 1955, in the Tabernacle at Salt Lake City. President David O. McKay presided and conducted all the seven sessions beginning with the Priesthood meeting held on April 2d. This was the largest Priesthood meeting ever held in the Church as the proceedings were disseminated over closed circuits to approximately 25,000 Priesthood members in nearly seventy meetings in the nine Western States. The proceedings of the first general session, held Sunday morning, were televised through KSL-TV over eighteen television stations in seven states, and the six general sessions were all broadcast through KSL radio over fourteen radio stations. Elder Harold B. Lee spoke over the CBS Church of the Air and Elder Hugh B. Brown was heard over the NBC Faith in Action series. All of the General Authorities of the Church were present as the conference opened. President McKay, in his opening address declared: Lift up an ensign of peace, and make a proclamation for peace unto the ends of the earth (D. & C. 105:39).... We love peace, but not peace at any price. There is a peace more destructive of the manhood of living man than war is dePage 368 structive of the body.... The peace that will be permanent must be founded upon the principles of righteousness as taught and exemplified by the Prince of Peace, our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. In the development of his theme "What are we doing as a Church and as members thereof to proclaim this peace?" President McKay made observations on four effective factors operative in the spreading of the gospel. He named them as the work being done by missionaries; a better understanding of the purposes of missionary work by officials of governments and municipalities; the need to put forth every effort to place every educational and spiritual privilege that the Church has to offer within reach of Church members in distant missions; and the influence of the power of example, especially in the homes of Church members. "It is inconsistent to go abroad to proclaim peace if we have not peace in our own lives and homes.... Example in the home is entirely essential to the proclamation of peace abroad," he warned the saints at home. President Stephen L Richards discussed some phases of Christianity. In speaking of a definition given of Christianity over the radio recently as the "Society of the Friends of Jesus," President Richards quoted John 15:13-16 and asserted, "The essence of the friendship here set EDITORIAL forth lies in belief and acceptance of the divinity of the Master.... I heard nothing in his {radio speaker's] sermon to indicate that was his concept." President Richards then pointed out some of the attributes of a Christian, "to enable each man to determine for himself the state of his worthiness of this honorable designation." After enumerating them, he declared: We would like all to know that additional evidences for the divinity of the Christ, and for the support of the Christian concept have providentially come to the world in these latter days... -that knowledge of it, the adoption of the Restored Gospel as a way of life, will immeasurably enhance the prospect of the triumph of the forces of freedom over their opponents. President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Spoke of being greatly impressed with President McKay's message, particularly "that part of it which dealt with the home and with what I might call discipline in the home. Discipline is not a rod. It is love, kindness, consideration, and understanding." After quoting Psalms 8:4-5 and Genesis 1:27, President Clark declared: In those statements, in that declaration, pregnant with meaning, is bound up 369 the whole plan of life and salvation, our existence before we came, our existence here, and our existence hereafter.... He [the Lord] gave the gospel from the very beginning that men might know what they had to do in order that they might fulfill their measure of creation and reach that high destiny he had provided.... It has been an easy transition, I say, to affirm that since the physical has become outmoded, so is "outmoded" the moral and the spiritual of the past.... We have not changed. We are as God made us originally... The spiritual in man, the spirit of man is in no sense whatever "outmoded." He stands today as he stood when he came from the Garden. God is still God, Jesus is the Christ. At the conclusion of the final session, President McKay expressed the prayer in the hearts of all the faithful who had been privileged to be present in the Tabernacle or who had heard or seen the proceedings over the air, when he expressed appreciation for the Spirit of the Lord which had been present. In spite of an unseasonal, heavy snowfall, the saints crowded in all available spaces to hear the word of the Lord to Latter-day Saints, a people blessed above all people—no matter where they may live or be found upon the earth today — for possessing that peace of which President McKay spoke, promised by the Savior to his sons and daughters. —M. C. S... - And he remembered for them his covenant.... And gathered them out of the lands, from the east, and from the west, from the north, and from the south.... And he led them forth by the right way, that they might go to a city of habitation.... For he satisfieth the longing soul, and filleth the hungry soul with goodness (Psalms 106:45 and 107:3, 7, 9). 'rom Sea to Shining Sea. (For Flag Day, June 14, 1955, in memory of that day in 1777 on which the American f/f Congress formally adopted the Stars and Stripes as the National Flag) Tis is a day for special remembrance. When we sce the Stars and Stripes flung out in glory above the dome of the Nation's Capitol, above a State House, or waving aloft on the liberty pole of some small village, we see not only the patterned stars and alternating stripes, but we see America, the Nation. We see its past, its present, and our hopes for future ages. We see the land and the people. We see action and ideals, sacrifice and service. President Wilson once said that our flag has no other meaning than that which we, as citizens, give to it. We create the luster of the stripes, and we maintain the purity of the stars in the field of blue. The flag bears in imagery the pageant of our Nation's history, the landscape, the color, the surging panorama of national growth. There is a memory of the sound of waters moved by the paddle of oars as questing boats traverse the long rivers of America, as explorers follow the waterways to find the sources of the streams. There is the sound of the moccasin tread of the frontiersman as he threads his way deeply into primeval forests westward to the sea. And there is the sound that can never die. 'The slow and patient rumble of the covered wagons in the migration westward. 'The rumble and rattle, the rhythmic plodding, the sound of the tide of empire going forward under a pillar of dust. Page 370 There is the sound of an axe chopping the forest trees, clearing the land. There is the jingle of a harness as a plow is guided along the rows of dark soil. The flag stands for that spaciousness of land, that spacious freedom of the heart which come from a realization of the possibilities of the individual and his forward destiny. A thoughtful mind, contemplating the Nation's Flag, sees not the Flag alone, but the Nation—its land, its people, its ideals. Know America. Stand at dusk on the heights above the Golden Gate and watch the sea mist disappearing into an infinity of ocean. 'Then turn your face eastward and think of America. Stand at dawn on some high peak of the Rockies or the towering Sierras. See the rose-tinted light of morning crowding out the shadows from deep canyons, shedding brightness on the far peaks, painting with splendor the looping of serried ranges that seem to have no end. See from the eastern harbor the Statue of Liberty— symbol of our land. Say to yourself '""This is America." Or walk in the silence of the desert, noting the shadow of rocks in a thirsty land, the stalwart courage of the Joshua tree, the white bloom of the yucca drawn from the dark earth. Walk further and see the lone rim of iron that long ago fell from the wheel of a traveler's wagon. See the forgotten ashes of a campfire. This, too, is America. "FROM SEA TO SHINING SEA" Our National standard is emblematic of that particular plan of life which has been slowly evolved from the hearts and hands of people of many races who have brought from their fatherlands the best thoughts of the Old World and mingled with them the ideals of the New World. If we are to fulfill our destiny and build a promised land, each one of us, individually a flag-maker, must see that we add only light and splendor to the banner of our country. We should give evidence of this by the integrity of our own lives, our kindnesses, our willingness to serve, by living in harmony 371 with law and order. We can speak of our country with dignity and devotion; we can do our part in securing for our land the. Political leadership which it needs and which it must have to maintain its free institutions. We can gain a knowledge of the purpose of the Constitution and its wise provisions for human happiness and progress — and we can be defenders of the Constitution. We can look upon the Flag as an emblem of the past, the banner of our present hope, and the protector of our children in years to come. —V. P. C. "How Can Lt Please the Human Pride?" Caroline Eyring Miner io sacrament meeting last evening we sang the hymn, "Nay, Speak No III," and the line, "How can it please the human pride to prove humanity but base?' has been running through my mind. We are all part of the same big family, and surely we cannot be pleased, but instead must be most sorrowful, to find one of our family in error or sin. How can it please anyone to slander or libel his own brother or sister? And yet so often we are guilty of making unkind, harmful, even malicious statements about each other. How can it please the human pride to make life more difficult for another traveler on the highway of life? That we sometimes do this, may be because we have looked upon each other as competitive strangers rather than as brothers. The poet Edwin Markham has reminded us of our destiny as brothers, for no man walks the path of life alone. All of us are confronted with problems and all of us stand in need of sympathy and understanding. It is the golden rule that "whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them..." (Matthew 7:12). The others in the world are all our brothers. It cannot please the human pride to prove humanity but base. Votes TO THE FIELD Summer Work Meetings ig is the desire of the general board that a work meeting be held each month, as heretofore, during the summer period, June through September. Brigham Young University Leadership Week June 20 - 24th, 1955 RIGHAM Young University Leadership Week will be held this year during the week of June 20th to June 24th. Lecture periods dealing with courses of study in Relief Society will be offered during certain periods each day. A fee of $1 will be required as the registration expense for all leadership activities, which will include over sixty courses which have been organized for the education and inspiration of patrons. Mimeographed copies of selected lectures will be supplied at cost and will be available either during leadership week or shortly thereafter. Detailed information and registration blanks may be obtained by writing: Professor Lynn M. Hilton, Extension Division, Brigham Young University, Provo, Utah. Hymn of the Month The Church-wide congregational hymn singing project, inaugurated by the Church Music Committee, will be continued during the coming year, and all auxiliary organizations have been invited to participate. The purpose of this project is to increase the hymn repertoire of the Church members and to place emphasis on the message of the hymns. Stake choristers and organists are requested to give assistance at union meetings to ward choristers and organists in carrying out this project. An analysis and story of the hymn will be printed each month in the Church Section of the Deseret News. P - a INSTITUTE OF RELIGION 4602 SOUTH REDWOOD ROAD SALT LAKE CiTY, UTAH 84107 NOTES TO THE FIELD 373 Following is a list of hymns approved for the twelve months June 1955 to June 1956. Month Hymn Number 1955 June I Have Work Enough to Do—Pollard-Kirkpatrick 71 July A Mighty Fortress—Martin Luther 3 August Dear to the Heart of the Shepherd Wingate-Kirkpatrick 26 September Praise the Lord With Heart and Voice—Cannon 149 October Come Unto Jesus—Huish 22 November Now Thank We All Our God—Rinkart-Cruger 120 December Hark! The Herald Angels Sing Wesley-Mendelssohn 60 1956 January The Glorious Gospel Light Has Shone— —Johnson-Robertson 45 February "Tis Sweet to Sing the Matchless Love Manwaring-Asper 187 March Christ the Lord Is Risen Today—Wesley-Carey 10 April Jesus, My Saviour 'True—Huish 85 May Lead Me Into Life Eternal—Widtsoe-Schreiner 141 June Come, Ye Children of the Lord—Wallis Spanish Melody 23 >_> New Serial ' ermanas - to Begin in July new serial "Hermanas" (Sisters), by Fay Tarlock, will begin in the July issue of The Relief Society Magazine. With beautiful Mexico City as a background, the serial presents Graciela, her mother Lolita, and Jim Flores, a medical student, as well as other appealing people whose lives are complicated by traditions of the past threatening to disrupt the future happiness of Graciela and Jim. Mrs. 'Tarlock is an author already well known to readers of the Magazine who have enjoyed her articles, short stories, and serials. Her serial "A Time to Forget' was featured in the Magazine in 1952 and 1953. Mrs. Tarlock, a graduate of Brigham Young University, later received her Master's Degree in journalism at Columbia University. She now lives on a ranch near Danville, California. Selling the Reliof Society Mlagazine Edith G. Baum Here are some requirements that help to make a good saleswoman: 1. Initiative 6. Ability to take criticism 2. Imagination 7. Neatness 3. Helpfulness 8. Good manners 4. A selling attitude g. Faith and prayer 5. Capacity to learn Initiative is the mainspring from which all sales' blessings flow—the person who has the most initiative or "drive" makes the most sales. Initiative can be acquired by setting goals for oneself. Set goals that you intend to reach. Imagination can help put you in your customers' shoes—it will make her problems your problems—and because they are your problems, will force you into more energetic, helpful ways of solving them and making a sale. Helpfulness—A real sales personality is a helpful personality. A saleswoman likes other people, likes to be around them, likes to help do things for them. She is sincere in her interests, and people with whom she comes in contact feel it at once, and usually respond. She is tactful and knows how to say something that will bring pleasure to others. A selling attitude is the optimistic attitude—a self-confidence and belief in one's own capacities. Our thoughts can determine our attitudes. Capacity to learn is important. The saleswoman learns as much from the prospect, in many cases, as the prospect learns from her. One can learn as much from the sale that didn't happen as from the one which was successful. Get in the habit of reviewing the sales you did not make, as well as the ones that were secured. You can learn much from both—why you succeeded, or why you failed. Ability to take criticism is difficult to learn. It is easy to carry on when you've just closed an order, but what about the canceled orders? Do you let them wreck your whole day or week, and say, "What's the use?" A professional will always say, after a bad day, ""I'omorrow is another selling day, and tomorrow I'll be a better saleswoman than I was today." Neatness is an admirable quality. What do you do when you are expecting company in your home? You see that your house is clean, everything is in its place, food prepared. You make it a point to be neatly dressed, and as your guests arrive, you greet them warmly and put them at ease. With the same diligence, you will want to put your best foot forward when you meet prospective customers, and you should consider your appearance, manners, and attitude. Good personal appearance isn't so much a matter of an attractive face and figure as it is the achievement of good taste and neatness. Good manners is another worthwhile quality. Don't argue or interrupt. Pleasant smiles, courtesy, holding one's temper, taking suggestions willingly, enthusiasm—these are all important factors for good selling. 'To advise customers wisely, to give them confidence in your knowledge and judgment, you must know your merchandise. Be helpful in pointing out the many excellent features of the Magazine. Give your prospective customer the chance to handle it and examine it. Don't hurry her. Pay full attention to all the comments and inquiries that may be suggested. And last, but not least, are faith and prayer. One must have faith in the work she is doing. And, as our leaders have told us, there must be an earnest desire for guidance, and an unquestioning confidence that prayer will be answered, for prayer is the key which will unlock the door to inspiration. Page 374 Don Knight BEAR LAKE, ROCKY MOUNTAIN NATIONAL PARK, COLORADO Symphony for America Leslie Savage Clark Not words, but mighty symphonies, Alone, can tell Her crashing seas, Niagara's roar, The rippling spell of Mississippi, Rio Grande, Ontario. The harp must catch the forest songs Sierras know; And violins, bee-like, repeat Her orchards' hum; For trails where settlers died there beats A muffled drum. Such splendor, such vast majesty Cries out for all The cymbals, horns, the sweep of strings— The trumpets' call! Page 375 The Morning-Glory Horn Nell Murbarger IVEN even a few minutes G time, I could have listed a hundred more fascinating ways to have spent yesterday afternoon. But it wasn't for me to choose. I was Aunt Susan's guest; and because I wouldn't hurt Aunt Sue for all the world, we had sat for an hour working our way painfully through her old family photograph album—past faded tintypes and dog-eared portraits of grimvisaged great uncles and aunts, remembered but dimly, and distant cousins remembered not at all. We were about two-thirds through the album, when the turning of yet another brittle page brought a sudden glad cry to my lips, and an odd tightening pressed into my throat! The half-forgotten picture that claimed my attention had not been a very good photo, even when it was made; and now, in addition to being slightly tipped and a trifle out of focus, it was also faded and yellowed. Tired old pictures, however, should never be judged with the coldly critical eye of the photography expert, but, instead, with the warm cockles of the heart. And because that was how I was judging this old picture, everything I was seeing there was good! Looking on its scarred, dim face, I was living again in the front yard of the homestead shanty where I had been born and had grown to young womanhood. Freshly starched and ruffled and hair-ribboned, I was Page 376 seeing myself under a summer "bowery" covered with wild cucumber vines and sweet peas; and beside me stood my baby cousin, Dick, in embroidered rompers and a Buster Brown hair bob. We _ both looked unbelievably young and incredibly happy... And each of us had an ear pressed closely to the mouth of a great fluted horn. It was the sight of that morningglory horn that sent my thoughts whirling down memory's trail. ETTLERS were few and far between in our section of the Great Plains, and no one living anywhere near to us was musically talented. Thus it was that the only music I had known as a small child had been the song of meadowlarks and buntings, the ceaseless whispering of the wind as it ran its fingers through the prairie grass, and the mellow old church tunes mother hummed as she hurried about her work, I wouldn't say I had known an actual hungering for music, but I often had wondered about the instruments of which I read in my books. How did a bugle sound? A pipe organ? What was there about the strains of a violin that could make one cry, as mother said? I didn't know... For I had never heard one played. All this was changed the autumn I was eight years old. Father had taken a shipment of cattle to Omaha, and on his return THE MORNING-GLORY HORN had brought with him a strange, varnished box, outfitted with wondrously gleaming machinery and a bright red-and-gold fluted horn.. A horn shaped like a giant morning glory. Neither mother nor I, nor any of our homesteading neighbors had ever before seen a "graphophone," as father said this new instrument was known. Along with the player, he had brought home a dozen short, cylindrical records, moulded of black wax, and so fragile each must be stored in its individual, cotton-lined box—a box, incidentally, that bore on its side the photo of a kindly looking man and the signature, "Thos. A. Edison." What a matchless thrill we knew the first time we played through our repertoire of records! Some of the little black cylinders carried love songs mother and father had known in those misty other days, when they had lived in an eastern city, and there wasn't any homestead, and I wasn't even born. Whenever one of these songs began playing, mother would look at father and smile. A happy light would spring into her eyes and, sometimes, I would see her reach for father's hand.... - As there was no other graphophone anywhere in that part of the country, ours became a great curiosity. Other homesteaders and their families drove miles across the prairie to hear it; cowboys, riding their saddle horses to or from town, would detour down our lane for a look at the "music box." On such occasions, the little graphophone would be _ brought 377 forth from the bedroom. Its handcrocheted scarf would be removed and folded and put aside; its lid— which fastened with a small brass key—would be unlocked and_ laid back. With great ceremony, the red-and-gold_ = morning-glory horn would be fastened in place, and the crank turned slowly and carefully, lest the allimportant mainspring be broken. After all these dramatic preliminaries by the grownups, an excited little pig-tailed hostess would be permitted to select and play a few cherished records for the edification and amazement of our visitors. Friends who had "been around," might tell of having heard such music at the World's Fair in St. Louis, or at Toronto, or New York. But there, they generally would add, the only manner in which the music might be heard was by fitting plugs into the ears. "This machine of yours is ever so much nicer," they would say. All of which confirmed my belief that ours, indeed, was the most marvelous of all marvelous instruments! "THROUGH the long winter evenings, with the prairie wind wailing across the coulees and tugging at the windows, and coyotes howling in the dark coldness beyond, we would play our little twelve-record concert—over and over again—until I had committed to memory every lyric, every note, every song. There were other evenings, in spring and summer and early autumn, when mother and father and I would gather in the vine-covered bowery, in the front yard of our 378 homestead shanty; and there, in the soft dusk, with the fragrance of gumbo lilies and wild cucumber blossoms hanging heavily in the air, we would listen to the strains of '""Humoresque" or "The Bells of St. Malo." Mingled with our beloved music would be the soft stirring of cows and horses in the barnyard, the comfortable sound of chickens settling themselves to roost, the last sleepy calls of killdeers and curlews from around the stock dam in the draw, and the first lonely notes of frogs and crickets and night-flying swifts and billy owls. For the close of our concert under RELIEF SOCEITY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1955 prairie stars, we always reserved that loveliest of lovely songs, The End of a Perfect Day. All this came flooding back to me as I gazed at the photo in Aunt Sue's old album — the fading snapshot of a wild cucumber bowery, and Dick and me, and the morningglory horn. I have often wondered if Thomas Edison ever realized what joy and pleasure his little invention brought to a pre-radio, pre-motion picture, pre-television era... Particularly to those of us who lived in earth's forgotten corners, far removed from concert hall and stage. Hills Francelia Goddard I need hills to yield me comfort, Hills to offer resting-place. — I need hills to keep me vibrant, Hills to change my mood and pace. Only let my eyes behold them; With my feet I need not climb. If the land sweeps up toward heaven, Then my soul will rise sublime. She Meadow Thelma Ireland I look out on the meadow, A strip of verdant green Framed by a fringe of mountains With little streams between. Scattered through the meadow Are willows here and there Bending over brooklets With tender, gentle care. Yonder is the desert, A drab and barren scene, But I can't see the desert For looking at the green. Blue River Ethel Jacobson Through what slow and patient centuries It carved its winding bed Between ancient cliffs of limestone Where these tumbling waters led. Here the bighorn drinks at evening, And the swifts dart and are gone In the tamarisk's blue shadows Where the bluer stream flows on. And the stream flows ever bluer Beyond gorge and bird and tree, Speeding in sunlit ripples To the wide and waiting sea— To find what it was secking, This blue immensity. ELIZABETH LEE BUTLER Elizabeth Lee Butler Finds Hobbies Yndoors and Outdoors | oeelieaaal Lee Butler, eighty years old, of Carmichael, California, "doesn't let any grass grow under her feet." 'To her, the world is wide and wonderful, and she finds hobbies both outdoors and indoors. In the photograph, she is shown after climbing to Glacier Lookout Point in Yosemite National Park. An ardent lover of nature and the beautiful land of America, she has recently traveled across the country by plane to "'see more of the sights." Mrs. Butler recently composed an excellent brief history of her home town, Panaca, Nevada, in honor of the ninetieth birthday of the community, which was settled by Francis Lee and his wife, Jane Vail Johnson Lee, and their large family of sons and daughters. In addition to this historical sketch, which was published in a local paper, Mrs. Butler has given valuable aid to the compilers of a history of Nevada, and has completed other valuable historical studies.: Familiarly known as "Sister Lizzie," Mrs. Butler has been a member of Relief Society for sixty-two vears, having joined at the age of eighteen. She has served as Relief Society president in Panaca, Carson City, and Reno, Nevada. She now makes her home with her eldest daughter in Carmichael, California. Mrs. Butler is the mother of six children, four of whom are still living; she is grandmother to fourteen and great-grandmother to ten. I Mlonday Song Fave Gardner The bright, warm sun, The singing breeze, And clean clothes on the line, Fresh, brown bread, And hearts at ease— This kingdom all is mine. Page 379 First in My Heart Maryhale Woolsey new taffeta formal on a ribbon-covered hanger and hung it on the closet door. Her "magic" dress, Loree called it, this lush purply-pink color that made her skin glow and her gray eyes look violet-toned, this wide, swishy skirt that whispered secrets around dancing feet!... But the "magic" she needed, was a different kind, she guessed; no dress was likely to help solve the problem weighting Vivian Mayson's mind and heart! If anything, the dress had intensified the problem. For tonight, both Rick and Ted had been urgent, almost insistent, that she make a decision. And Vivian hadn't decided even in her own mind or heart. "You are glad you bought it — now aren't you, Runtie?" Loree's affectionately teasing words made Vivian realize that she'd been standing there staring at the dress for minutes. She turned, to see her three-years - younger, three - inchestaller sister doing solo dance steps in front of the vanity mirror, her arms holding up, butterfly fashion, the incredibly full, pleated red net skirt of her party dress. She pirouetted, admired herself happily in the mirror, and looked again at Vivian. "Come on, Runt! Let yourself go and say it!" "Okay, Beanpole," Vivian retorted laughingly. What a darling child Loree was, for all her tallness and her serious, high-minded dreams Page 380 (Ger tacts Vivian put her and plans! "Of course I'm glad to have it." Loree stopped dancing and gave Vivian a full-faced, stern look. "It was time you splurged on yourself, for once. You do without things too much, because of me." "T do not!" Vivian said, from back in the closet. Emerging, she tossed a yellow-flowered nightgown onto the bed. "There's your nightie. Better shed that crimson costume of yours in favor of a little shut-eye, Hon. Not that I blame you—you look gorgeous." "Ted said I looked like a queen tonight," Loree sighed rapturously, "That's something to remember— especially since he really had no eyes for anyone but you. Vivie, what are you going to do about Ted and Rick? I'm lucky having a sister to lend me a wonderful boyfriend like Ted Banks.... You haven't answered my _ question, Vivie." "Can't," Vivian said. "Don't know the answer myself. Any suggestions?" "Sure." Loree, sitting on the edge of the bed, began rolling down a wispy nylon. "Tonight, I say take Ted. I'm not sure what I'll advise, tomorrow." They both laughed at that, and Vivian said, "You see how it is! Not," she continued thoughtfully, "that it's any laughing matter. I certainly don't want to keep them dangling—how I hate the mental picture that word conjures up!" she FIRST IN MY HEART interpolated with a wry face, "but I simply can't seem to make up my mind." "Nor softly. "Nor my heart," Vivian answered. "I only wish I could." She stared frowningly at the floor, half aware that Loree seemed about to say more but didn't, and was silently slipping into her gown. Your—heart?" Loree asked AFTER they were in bed, lights out, and windows opened to a mild, lilac-scented night, Loree spoke suddenly in a small, hesitant voice: "Vivie — are you sure it's what you said — that you can't decide whether you care most for Ted or for Rick?" "Why, Honey! Is that still bothering you?" Vivian asked. "Of course that's it. Wouldn't I tell you, and them — otherwise?" "Tm not sure you — would. If it's on account of me—" Loree bounced up, sitting forward and agitatedly clasping her arms around bent-up knees. "Vivie, don't let it be on account of me, please!" "Loree, you little—worrier!" Vivian pulled Loree back down and gently pulled the covers around her. "Lie still, Honey," she ordered cheerfully, "and get yourself to sleep." "Sorry!" Loree murmured conmately. "Toc.." "Tt's not because of you, darling," Vivian went on earnestly. She put her arm around Loree's slim shoulder. "Sometimes, I think it must be neither Ted nor Rick, for me— since I can't bear the thought of hurting either of them." "So," Loree suggested with fine logic, "you may decide to hurt both 381 of them equally. That's a nice thought, of course." "It is not a nice thought!" Vivian retorted. "Go to sleep now, and let's forget — Ted and Rick. | For tonight, anyway." ' "Okay. Just so you remember, you're not to let me be a reason you don't get married if you want to. Be honest with yourself, Vivie. That's so awfully important!" Vivian could feel Loree trembling in her urgency. "I will be," she promised. "I won't forget, Honey." Long after Loree was quietly sleeping, Vivian lay awake, trying to sort out her tangled thoughts, review what seemed her unnatural emotions. It didn't seem quite normal, being unable to choose between two young men as fine as ever were rivals for a girl's love. It didn't seem right, either for their sakes or for her own, to continue in this uncertainty, drift in such indefinite directions.... Could it be possible, she asked herself, that it was — Loree? In her determination to help Loree accomplish her objective, could she, Vivian, have set her mind so firmly on one goal that she was unable to feel other desires herself, to accept normal and natural — and desirable — developments? A one-track mind, she thought, might lead one into a lot of regrets. They had become so close, she and Loree, in these three years since an accident had brought death to Mother and Daddy. The two gitls had been left to face a world stripped of accustomed security and comfort; with pitifully small means, they'd had to rearrange their lives as best they could. 382 Fortunately, Vivian was at that time nearly through business college and could look forward to a wellpaid position within a few months; she felt confident of making a good living. But Loree, then fifteen, was desolate. She wanted _ sincerely, even passionately to be a teacher. "All the years it will take—why, it's impossible, Vivie!" she'd said, her eyes swollen and red from weeping, her lips unsteady. "T''ll take a business course like you did...." "But that's impossible, darling," Vivie had pointed out. "Business college, business work, were what I wanted. With you, they'd be second choice and a mighty poor second, probably. You couldn't feel the same as I do about my kind of work. We'll get you through, Loree. You keep on thinking college, and let's not have any more silly talk about changing your plans. You'll be a wonderful teacher... It would be a crime to deprive our schools of your ability and ambition! See?" It had been satisfying, heartwarming, to see the brightness come back into Loree's soft brown eyes, to hear the hope and enthusiasm return to her voice. Through nights of weeping out their grief and loss into their pillows and in each other's arms, they had come slowly but surely on to a serenity and confidence for which Vivian was profoundly grateful. Prayer had helped, and friends' kindness, and they had come through. Now Vivian was a private secretary to the manager of a big transportation concern, earning a salary that kept her and Loree in reasonable comfort. Loree had RELIEF SOCEITY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1955 worked summers and Saturdays, and even after she enrolled at the university they still managed to accumulate a small savings account, which added a sense of security. But their plans hadn't allowed for a time when Vivian might fall in love and want to be married! Could that fact, Vivian asked herself over and over, have anything to do with her indecision, her uncertainty as to whether she was in love at all? ICK Edwards and Ted Banks came into Vivian's life during Loree's final year in high school. Rick was the young cousin of Vivian's employer. "Be nice to the boss's relatives!" he suggested now and then, in fun. Rick was intelligent, clean, energetic, and he had brillant prospects with his father's thriving advertising business. He was tall, dark, and lean, had clear blue eyes that darkened smokily when he was worried or troubled; he was thoughtful and affectionate —and he'd make a wonderful husband. He dated Vivian far ahead for important events. Which left Ted Banks trailing along as a sort of runner-up, but nonetheless, persistent, loyal. Vivian had known Ted slightly, for years; but they had never dated until after they discovered they'd been talking to each other on their business phones occasionally, without knowing that "Banks" was Ted and "Miss Mayson" the Vivian he'd "'admired from afar" — as he said it — for a long time. "When you said 'Miss Mayson' I spelled you in my mind like a bricklayer!'" he confessed. ""Darned if I don't owe you FIRST IN MY HEART a treat, for that. How about letting me take you to lunch?" ED was fun, in some ways more fun than Rick, to be with. He was an industrial chemist in a new modern laboratory, loved his work, "Though I don't expect to be spectacular nor to get rich!" he told Vivian, "so I'm continuing to be happy inexpensively. My folks are pretty good at it, so I know it can be done." His high spirits and enthusiasm were contagious, making Vivian find her world, too, brighter and more exciting.. 'Ted was ashblond and hazel-eyed, neither as tall nor as good looking as Rick—who often said, with mock indignation, that he was not flattered by having Ted Banks for a rival! They had known each other fairly well, having shared classes at the "U" and taken their degrees the same year. Being rivals for Vivian's affections hadn't made them enemies; often the three of them would go picnicking together, or attend a movie, or spend an evening at the Mayson girls' apartment, listening to new records Rick and Ted would bring, or playing games, with Loree making a fourth player. And the four of them frequently went to church together. They always had good times, though there was no underestimating 'Ted's and Rick's serious intentions concerning Vivian, knowing that one of them, sooner or later, must be a loser. Somehow, it appeared that the loser would be Ted. Rick had a sureness about him, a self-confidence —the thing men call aggressiveness and value highly — which Ted seemed to lack. 383 "Rick's the go-getter,'" Loree had noted sagely. "He'll always get what he wants — including you, Vivie." Sometimes Vivian thought that, too. Rick's self-assurance and protectiveness were so __heart-easing, made her feel so safe and serene and contented, she'd want it to be that way always. Then she'd have a date with 'Ted, and find life so glorified and brightened that she'd want it to last forever! It was, she told herself, most confusing — and frustrating. Only, of course, there wasn't any need for hurry. She'd wait, let things drift, until sometime there would be a sign to guide her... Something that would help her know her heart, when the time came. But tonight, the time had suddenly seemed at hand. Rick had practically given her an ultimatum. And Ted had surprised her by taking Loree to the Treasure Club's Maytime Ball. Rick had, as usual, dated Vivian for the Maytime Ball, weeks in advance. 'T'ed, at that time, had expected to be away. Loree had been amazed when Ted had asked her to go. She'd accepted, of course — thrilled. "But knowing, of course," she told Vivian later, "that I'm strictly a substitute for you. Ted knows I won't be hurt or jealous if his eyes follow you all over the place. Who but Ted would bother to take me?" "This calls for a new dress," Vivian had said. "I've almost decided on a blue lace at The Mode. We'll find one for you, too." But when they went shopping, 384 Loree had discovered the purplypink taffeta which transformed Vivian into a dream-girl. It cost twice as much as the blue lace, but Loree had insisted on Vivian's buying it. Vivian had given in, finally, somewhat shocked to discover how her little sister was growing up, beginning to show a mind of her own. There was something symbolic about Loree's determination that Vivian should have this "magic di@ss.... IVIAN had discovered something else, this evening: A Rick she had not previously known. An impatient, all at once insistent Rick who had come to a place in his life where getting married was something he wanted right away. He had told her that, as they sat in his car before saying good night. "Why can't you give me an answer, Vivie? Look—we've been going together nearly two years; we know each other pretty well. So I'm not trying to rush you." "Of course you're not, Rick." "Well—don't you love me?" "T don't know, Rick. I like you —oh, tremendously! But — love — truly, I don't know," she had said pleadingly, asking herself, what is it I expect of love? Why can't I tell if it's love I have for him? "Do you love — Ted, then?" Rick demanded. And again Vivian could only say, helplessly, "I don't know. Something must be wrong with me, I guess. I ought to be able to make up my mind." "T sure wish you would, darling. Look — if it's because of Loree needing you, well, that's no obstacle. RELIEF SOCEITY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1955 I'm making plenty of what it takes; I'd take care of Loree all right." At that moment Vivian could almost have said, "Yes, Rick" — and felt secure and glad. Then she'd thought of 'Ted, what it would mean to him, and how he'd not be around any more... And she said to Rick, shakily, "Oh, I just don't know what to say!" "I can't make you out, Viv." He got out and came around to open the car door for her. As they went up the walk he suddenly stopped and grasped her two arms in his hands, firmly. "Look—maybe what you need is a deadline, a time for a decision. Maybe if I say I must have an answer in a week, maybe then you'd have it. How about it? Say, a week from tonight? I won't see you until then. No phone calls, either. Just get that answer all shaped up," and he turned and left her. Vivian, standing at the elevator, remembering the smoky blue eyes and the firm lips, tried to imagine what it would be like, looking at Rick over the breakfast table for years and years of mornings.... In the apartment, Loree and Ted were waiting for her. "Your Old Faithful," Loree said, "wants to tell you goodnight, Runt. So I let him stay. I'll do a vanishing-act. 'hanks Ted, again, for a wonderful, wonderful evening!" Bright, slim, lovely, she dancestepped away into the little hall, bedroomward. "She's a cute kid!" Ted _ said. "Sharp. And she's got my number, all right—'Old Faithful' for sure! I suppose — our Wednesday date goes, Vivie?" FIRST IN MY HEART "Of course," she assured him. Her eyes searched his; she thought his arms moved a little as if they'd meant to take her but hesitated. Suddenly — "Vivie, you have to be my girl!" he exclaimed. "I wish— darling, I need to know! I can't..." he broke off, as if he'd been about to say something he couldn't bear to think about. GAIN, Vivian had to say, "I don't know, myself, Ted. I don't know why, but that's how it is." Her voice trembled; she felt near tears. It was just too much, she guessed, that both of them should speak this way to her, tonight. "Well — see you Wednesday!" Ted's smile seemed to cause a little crinkly, ruffling edge around her heart. She tried to remember if Rick's smile had ever done that to her. Ted... Rick... Loree. No matter what I decide, she thought, I have to hurt two of them! I wish— Iwish.... What did she wish, really? Beside her, Loree stirred and sighed in her sleep. Vivian's heart swelled, loving her, and remembering the sweet, young-old wisdom with which she'd said, "Be honest with yourself, Vivie!" She had promised.... And now, suddenly, the words seemed to hold her, suggesting a special meaning. Vivian let her thoughts grope — what do I most truly want to do? And presently the answer came: I want to be with Loree, for now. I want us to be a family, until she's on her own. She wouldn't be happy, having a brother-in-law provide for her; she'd feel 385 an imposed outsider, not really belonging. I want her to feel she does belong, Vivian told herself. That means us—Loree and me, belonging together, for awhile yet. It's truly the most important thing to me.... Why, that's it! She almost cried the words aloud. Loree is first in my heart. 'That being so, neither Ted nor Rick can be chosen. I hope I can make them understand, she thought, that it's what I really want —not something I feel a duty or obligation I'd prefer to be withGut. "2 wok oe ok oe ED seemed to understand, she thought relievedly, when she told him Wednesday evening, finishing with, "I'm just not going to consider marriage for at least two years more. That's too long a time to ask you to wait, Ted." "Yes, it is,' Ted said slowly, his eyes meeting hers squarely, although the disappointment in them was plain and deep. "But it's what I'll be doing, I guess. There's only one thing will make me quit waiting around for you, Vivie—that you'd not be around to wait for... Available, as we'd say." He pounded a sofa cushion, dejectedly. Vivian's eyes were suddenly warm, brimming. "Ted," she said unsteadily, "that's a — lovely thing to say! IT...." "Is it? I didn't mean to make you cry! Here, have a shoulder. At your service, if you'll make use of it," he said whimsically, yet tenderly. It seemed she would "make use of it," for a few minutes. It seemed something had broken loose inside 386 her and started a torrent of tears.. Crazy! She thought... And at the same time, how sweet Ted is, holding me this way, comforting me! Her sobs ceased abruptly when he said, "Maybe this is the way it has to be for awhile, Vivie darling. Pll be a shoulder for you to lean on, when you need it, however you need it." And when she sat suddenly upright so she could look into his face, he went on with, "Oh, I'll be sticking around, all right. Be dropping in most any time, if it's okay with you." He paused, and sighed. ""T'wo years is a long time to wait, but it's better than forever, without you!" Softly Vivian said, "Ted, you're— wonderful. I'm glad you feel that way—and—dropping in, any time, will be okay with me." Telling Rick, was harder. In his hurt and disappointment, he interrupted her impatiently: "You've got a martyr complex, Viv. I've told you, I'll take care of Loree...." "Tt is not a martyr complex," Vivian told him. "It's what I most want to do." She repeated slowly, almost the same words she had used to tell Ted. "It isn't fair to ask you to wait that long." Rick drew a long deep breath. His eyes were the darkest smokeblack she had ever seen them. "No," he said at last, "it isn't—fair. I'm twenty-six, and I want my own life, my own home, my—wife. I've wanted you, and I've tried hard to get you to see things my way and want to come along with me. But if you can put me off so definitely for two years or so—well, it seems pretty evident you don't love me, RELIEF SOCEITY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1955 and the chances are you never will. Maybe I should do some looking around, elsewhere." "Maybe you — should, Rick." The heaviness in Vivian's heart grew heavier, and cold. "I'm sory=." He interrupted again. "Never mind being sorry. There's one thing I want to ask you, though. Are you giving Banks this same kind of runaround?" A little spark of anger stirred in Vivian's heart. "I don't like that word, Rick. But I've already told Ted exactly the same thing I've told you." "IT apologize for the bad word, Vivie. Excuse it, please, on grounds of — shall we say — extreme pain and mental anguish?" Rick managed a grin. "I'll try to be a more cheerful loser." "Excellent!" Vivian smiled. "Can't keep a good man down, you know. Oh, Rick — whatever you do, I'll always be wishing you the best of — everything. You've been wonderful — we've had such good times together, and it's wonderful that you should have wanted me...." Strange words, she thought, to be saying to Rick! Already they seemed to suggest finality: "'... That you should have wanted me...." Not that you want me.... He was holding out his hand to her, like a stranger already! Oh, how could things change so? UT when he had gone, she felt more relief than regret. He was hurt, yes; but not too badly. With Rick, it was having a home that was important, having — a wife. He'd FIRST IN MY HEART find someone, soon, probably, who would fill his need very well. But with Ted, it was Vivian who was most important. Why.... Hey there! Vivian said to herself, you with the — fog in your eyes — and heart, isn't that the sign you needed to look for? You have it — after honestly looking into your heart, you could see the first step clear... And then, someone else could take one, and show you the one after that.... All at once, everything was startlingly clear. Being honest with yourself, even if someone gets hurt has to be the first thing in your heart. 'Then, other things — and people — can fit in where they belong. Rick, taking my decision as he did, made his own next step, and now Ted.... 387 Blessed, darling Ted! She should have known it was Ted anyway, all the time. She had dreaded hurting Rick... But she had dreaded losing Ted! And Ted — wouldn't get lost. Glorious, glad certainty filled Vivie's heart. Ted's and Rick's different reactions had been the key she needed, had shown her how each felt about her. Oh, she was glad of the way things were turning out! In the living room she stood by the telephone, wanting to call Ted and tell him. But she decided against it. She had a funny little wish to keep her discovery all to herself, just for a little while. Ted would be dropping in, most any time... And she'd like to see his face when she would be telling him. Weeds Ida Isaacson Weeds have a beauty all their own, Though we leave them quite alone. Along the ditchbank or against the fence, Weeds are arrayed with diffidence. Wind-tossed, shaking, mud-mixed and bent— Still, yes—still they are heaven sent. Return Catherine E. Berry The house has been quiet too long, My heart has been too still, I could hear the wind in the willows, The rain running over the hill. Your voice had left every corner Of each room, big and small, I could feel the loneliness walking, The sorrow that lurked in the hall. But now you are home, beloved, The house no longer grieves, And the rain is a distant murmur, Like the wind in the willow leaves. Let Groning Day Be a Pleasant Day for You Rhea H. Gardner Extension Service Home Management and Furnishings Specialist Utah State Agricultural College OOD ironing can give that finished, new look to clothes we all love to see. How our clothes are ironed has its effect on our attitude toward and feelings about ourselves. A spotlessly clean and smoothly ironed article of clothing causes self-respect to rise. A dress with a scorched collar, puckered seams and hemline, wrinkled sleeves, Or crooked pleats is devastating to one's morale. Ease in ironing really starts when you buy your clothes and other articles. Give serious consideration to the amount of care needed to keep them looking new before buying. The complete removal of soil during the washing process and a thorough rinsing are essential to beautifully ironed articles. You will save ironing time if you are careful in handling your clothes during the washing and wringing process. Shake out the wrinkles as much as possible and smooth the collars, cuffs and plackets when you hang dresses and shirts on the line. Hang clothes and household articles straight and pin them on the clothes line at the strongest part to prevent their being stretched out of shape while drying. If similar items are hung together, time can be saved when sorting, folding, and ironing. When removing clothes from the line, fold them lightly before placing them in the basket to prevent extra wrinkling. Warm water for dampening lesPage 388 sens the time required for the clothes to stand before ironing. Use a bottle with a sprinkler top or a brush and pan of water for sprinkling. From two to three hours are generally needed for the moisture to become uniformly distributed and clothes ready to be ironed. The best amount of dampness for ironing must be determined by the person who is to do the ironing. Too much dampness lengthens the ironing period and makes seams, collars and plackets more difficult to iron. With too little dampness, it is difficult to iron out the wrinkles. Sprinkle clothes uniformly, then fold, don't roll them. Ironing is easier and takes less time if all the equipment needed is assembled and conveniently arranged before you start to iron. A square of asbestos placed at the wide end of the board to set the hot iron on when it is not in use is convenient and prevents much lifting of the iron. Place dampened clothes at convenient height, either by putting the clothes basket on a chair or by putting clothes in a_ basket on wheels. Have a clothes rack or table within arm's reach for the ironed clothes. A sponge or cloth in a pan of water and placed nearby will save steps when extra moisture is needed while ironing. An ironing board that is at a comfortable working height helps to prevent the development of fatigue. There is no one right height for IRONING EQUIPMENT ARRANGED FOR COMFORT AND EFFICIENCY ironing boards. Women of the same body height may vary in other body proportions, thus making one all. If you have not already done so, learn to iron in both a sitting and a standing position. A change from standing to sitting will relax your muscles. For comfort, select an ironing board and chair that will permit you to sit with knees beneath the board, feet flat on the floor, and back straight and adequately supported. An ironing chair fitted with casters that permits easy movement will further add to the ease and comfort of ironing. Adjustable height ironing boards are highly recommended. A range ironing board height unsuitable for - of thirty to thirty-eight inches for standing and twenty to twentyfive inches for sitting accommodates the needs of most folks. Good posture whether sitting or standing is never more important than when ironing. It minimizes strain on your neck, arms, and back. Women who iron on a board that is too low have a tendency to apply more pressure than is necessary. It is the reaction of heat and steam that removes wrinkles, not pressure on the iron. A wide ironing board (20" by 54" long) that fits firmly over the regular board, saves time and energy and requires less handling of large pieces such as tablecloths, runners, shirts, and aprons.* *An ironing board, about elbow height, is an energy saver when a wide board is placed on top of it. Ironing large flat pieces is easily done. For instruction on how to make a wide ironing board get a copy of "Easier Ironing" from your Extension Service office. Single copies will be sent free to Utah residents by writing to Utah State Agricultural College at Logan, Utah. LET IRONING DAY BE A PLEASANT DAY FOR YOU 389 390 Arrange articles in your basket or plastic bag so that those that require lowest temperatures are on top. This will make it possible for you to start ironing seconds after the iron begins to heat. Take time to smooth each article before you begin to iron. It will save you time, make wrinkle-free ironing easier, and make it possible for you to use long, smooth strokes. Always iron with the straight of the grain of the material and you will not pull the article being ironed out of shape. When ironing skirts and dresses, begin with the hem and iron upward. Move the article away from you as you iron each part to avoid mussing it. To prevent puckers, iron each part until it is dry. This is especially true where there is a double thickness of material as in collars, cuffs, hems, and seams. Iron parts that need to be ironed on both sides, first on the wrong side, then on the right, and you will not need to retouch the right side again. If starch gets on the soleplate of your iron, you may remove it in one of the following ways, after first disconnecting the iron and giving it time to cool. RELIEF SOCEITY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1955 1. Rub with very fine steel wool or whiting (a fine scouring powder). 2. Wipe soleplate with cloth dampened with a whiting and ammonia mixture. 3. Rub the iron over waxpaper which has been sprinkled with salt. 4. Wipe soleplate with a damp, not wet, soapy cloth. Follow with a cloth - wrung out of clear, warm water. As a safety measure, connect your iron to a wall outlet. Never connect to a light socket or light-weight extension cord. They are not heavy enough safely to carry the load required. Let your iron cool in an upright position before putting it away. Make sure the cord does not touch the iron while it is hot. Make your ironing time pleasant. It will become so if you develop good washing and ironing habits; equip yourself to do the job well; and cultivate the practice of thinking pleasant thoughts as you iron. Listen to beautiful music or memorize passages of scripture, or other choice bits that will enrich your soul. Regardless of how well you may be able to iron, do not be selfish. Share the task with your sons and daughters. They will thank you for it in their later years. Enchanted Mloment Elizabeth Pew Peace reigns in the nursery; His Majesty's at rest, A fat pink thumb suppressing Declarations of protest. Outside, my other rulers, Momentarily tranquil, Need neither judge nor comforter. Temporarily it's still. I hug the moment to me, Storing peace and quiet To wear around me as a shield Against the usual riot. Washing Blankets Rhea H. Gardner EAUTIFUL, soft, fluffy wool blankets are the pride and joy of all who own them. They are their loveliest when they are perfectly clean. Homemakers who protect them from heavy soil act wisely. Don't postpone washing your blankets for fear you might ruin them. Safe home laundering of blankets is possible, in almost any kind of a washer that permits you to observe the following precautions when washing them: 1. Remove deep stains if there are any. 2. Fill your washer with lukewarm water (100°F.). 3. If water is hard and soap is used, add a mild water softener until water feels slightly slippery to the touch. Run washer until softener is dissolved. 4. Add enough soap or syndet to make a standing suds two inches high. 5. Put the blanket into the suds, pushing all parts under the surface of the water. Let soak 15 to 20 minutes, turning it once or twice by hand. Do not turn your washer on. Studies have proved that agitation while woolen articles are in the wash water is the main cause of wool felting and shrinking. 6 Remove soapy water from blanket by spinning or putting the blanket through a loose wringer. 7. Fill. Washer with lukewarm (100°F) water. Add about half as much water softener to the rinse water as you did the wash water. Soak blanket five minutes, turning the blanket once or twice. Drain off water. Repeat the rinsing process. 8. Spin or hand squeeze the water from the blanket. Never twist blanket as a means of forcing the water out. G. If you have been working alone to this point, you will now need a helper to stretch the blanket. With each of you working on an opposite end or side, pull vigorously by moving the hands in unison across each end and down the sides. 10. Place blanket over two clotheslines that are a foot or more apart. Let about 12 inches hang over the outside edges of the two lines, with the bulk of the blanket hanging between them. A little breeze speeds the drying and fluffs the blanket. Rearrange blanket on clothesline two or three times as it dries so as to avoid deep markings of the lines. 11. Remove blanket from line when dried and brush with a metal toothed or a stiff nylon brush. 12. Press bindings with a warm iron. Woolens may now be moth-proofed during the washing process. The liquid known as "EQ-53" may be added to either the wash water or the rinse. Follow directions on the container for amount to use and when to add it to the wash water. Blankets, when dried, are odorless and remain mothproof until rewashed. Page 391 A Good Day Margaret Hardy I am proud of myself today. I could have heard some gossip about a neighbor, but I didn't. I am proud of my friend, too. She was in possession of this spicy bit, but didn't tell me about it. It was hard on both of us, her knowing, and my wanting to | know. We were talking, this friend and I, and our neighbor's name was mentioned. My friend looked at me a bit quizzically and asked me if I liked her. I said that I did, very much. "Oh," she said, "I used to, but I don't know, now. I saw something the other day...." I waited for her to go on, but she didn't. She was waiting for me to ask, but I didn't ask. So we both just stood there, and didn't say anything at all. I was curious about what she had seen, and could scarcely keep from asking. I weighed in my mind whether anything she could tell me would discolor my feelings for this neighbor. I decided that I would like her just as much no matter what my friend said. But I knew that what I heard now would come into my mind when I saw her again. I don't know what went on in my friend's mind, but she must have struggled hard, for she loved to talk. And so we took our leave of each other. Later that day I met my good neighbor, for whom I still felt the same affection because I hadn't listened to some gossip about her. I was happy that there was nothing unfavorable to her to pop into my mind. Yes, I am proud of myself, and of my friend, too. _ Familiar Tote Eva Willes Wangsgaard I have been stirred by music loosed in voice: One high, discordant, one that drawls and drones, One vibrant and so deep the ear rejoices In organ richness of the undertones. One lifts and lilts with overtones of gladness, The laughter-throated resonance of love; Another throbs with depths of hidden sadness, Haunting and lonely as the grieving dove. When we are parted you will leave behind you Your unforgettable, familiar note. Alone among your poems I shall find you Voicing the words caught tight within my throat. Page 392 Green Willows CHAPTER 5 Deone R. Sutherland Synopsis: Lillian and her friend Patricia are very much interested in the affairs of Pat's three unmarried aunts: Agnes, Margaret, and Karen. The two older sisters are schoolteachers, and Karen was making preparations to follow the same _profession—before John Alder came to Green Willows to direct the summer theater. Margaret had once been in love with her neighbor, Dr. Turner, before he married someone else. He is now a widower, with a young son, Philip, and he and Margaret become friends again. Fie play was delightful beyond our expectations. It was like magic with the people acting right on the stage in front of you _ making another world for us to laugh in and enjoy. It was better than all the movies we'd ever seen, we decided. I think Margaret and Dr. Turner enjoyed it, too, because they looked so happy all the time. After the play was over, we went back stage to see Karen and John Alder. "Karen could ride home with us," Pat suggested. "Well, I think maybe John will want to take her home," Dr. Tanner said. "Tt's Karen's birthday tomorrow," Margaret said. "We're having a small family dinner for her, so you must not let anything happen to anyone in Green Willows from seven until nine tomorrow evening, Mark." | "Tll do my best." Dr. 'Turner smiled at Margaret. Pat and I had bought handkerchiefs for Karen earlier in the week. Now we wished we had selected something more glamorous. Just then John Alder broke away from a number of people who were congratulating him and the stars of the play and made his way over to us. "Karen's downstairs helping some of the actors check in the costumes, since this is the last night for this play. She's turning into something very indispensable around here." Margaret laughed. "She's doing my work, I suppose. I feel terrible about flunking out so many evenings." "That's all right," John said. "We know how it is. You'll just have to share your checks with Karen." He smiled as he shook Dr. Turner's hand. We didn't wait for Karen because John insisted he'd bring her home. It was very exciting to go backstage and see the actors after the play, but we finally had to go. We were getting sleepy, but not too sleepy to enjoy the malted milks Dr. 'Turner bought us on the way home. Dr. Turner walked us to our front door leaving Phil curled up on the seat. "Tl have to hurry or he'll be asleep before I get back," Dr. Turner said. He unlocked the front door of the Diffendorf house, and Pat and I stepped inside. 'There was a light burning in the hall. "T must go right in," we heard Margaret say. "TI know," Dr. Turner said, and he slipped the screen door open for Page 393 394 Margaret. But after she was in, they stood looking at each other for a moment. "Goodnight," Margaret whispered. Pat and I went up the stairs, and, in a second, Margaret followed. When we were in our pajamas and in bed, Margaret came in to say goodnight. We_ whispered about the play for a few minutes, laughing over the many funny situations. We hated Margaret to go. She looked like a real princess in her long robe, standing so slim in the moonlight from our windows. "I really must go to bed," Margaret said, "or I won't be a bit of help tomorrow. We want to make Karen's birthday a very nice one." A car sounded on the gravel in front of the gate below us. ""There's Karen now," Margaret said. We were still whispering and laughing about the play when Karen came up the stairs. "Margaret," Karen called softly outside our door. "Margaret?" Margaret went to the door. "We're in here, Karen, giggling over the play. The girls are just going to sleep." Pat sat up in bed. "But I'm not a bit sleepy. Karen, what are you going to get for your birthday?" "Lots of surprises, I expect," said Margaret. KAREN took Margaret's hand. "Margaret, would you be surprised if I told you I know.... I've had a preview of one present I'm going to accept tomorrow...." "No," said Margaret. "It's no surprise, and Agnes will be as pleased as everyone." She kissed Karen on both cheeks. "Oh, I'm so relieved to have it RELIEF SOCEITY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1955 out at last," Karen said. "I was so afraid everyone would think I was unappreciative of all the family has done for me, especially Agnes. Of course, I'm going to teach this next year in order to pay back Agnes. I've already signed the contract, but - in the spring...." She lifted her head and looked at Margaret. "Oh, Margaret, if it could only happen to you." "What?" "What?" Agnes called from down the hall. "What is going on in the middle of the night? Go to sleep everyone at once." Margaret and Karen scurried out of our room and disappeared down the hall. Pat looked at me, and I looked back. The feather tick was wonderfully soft to sleep on. We promptly rolled toward the middle, sank almost out of sight, and fell asleep. We woke in the morning to sunlight in our faces. For a minute we hardly knew where we were, and then we rolled to the sides of our bed and sat up. "T don't hear a sound," said Pat. "Do you think everyone's gone away?" I slipped on my house slippers and robe. I couldn't hear anything either. We went down to the bathroom and washed our faces. Karen's door was closed, but Margaret's was open. Her bed had been neatly made and the room was empty. We dressed, made our bed, and went downstairs to breakfast. Agnes and Margaret, wearing big white aprons, were in the kitchen. "Shshsh," said Margaret. "It's the birthday cake. All finished now exPat was saying, GREEN WILLOWS cept the final layer and the rest of the frosting and decorating." Agnes handed us a pan, and we scraped out the remains of the yellow filling. It was delicious. "Your breakfast is all on the table. If the toast is too cold for you, you can make fresh. We had to get this cake taken care of before Karen came down. It wouldn't do to have her working on her own birthday cake." Agnes smoothed the frosting quickly with a silver knife. Pat and I sat down to breakfast. We ate cold cereal, but the eggs were warm under cover, and the bacon still crisp. It was fun eating at the table, watching Agnes and Margaret make rosebuds around the top of Karen's cake. Finally, the cake was called completed. Margaret climbed to the top of the stool where Agnes handed her the cake. She slid it up into the top of one of the big ivorypainted cupboards. "It really looks lovely, Agnes," Margaret remarked. "You did as much on it as I," Agnes said brusquely. "Anything else for you, girls?" \7E said, "No thank you," and asked what we could do to help. Agnes got us each a dusting cloth, and we went to work on the three large front rooms downstairs. It was much more fun dusting this house, because the things were new to us. It's no fun to dust at our homes where every stroke is so familiar that we could do it with our eyes shut. I followed the little carved arms of the green satin love seat. We argued about who was going to dust the upside-down glass 395 that held imitation red roses and the ship in the library. Finally, we had to admit that we were through. Agnes came in to look things over and said that we had done a remarkable job. 'Then she insisted we go out to play. Outside, the sun was hot for the middle of the morning. We stood by the front gate and looked toward Turner's yard. Dr. 'Vurner's car was gone, and we could see no sign of Philip. We sat for awhile together in the swing under the big tree. We pushed ourselves slowly back and forth. When it was nearly noon, Karen came out and said that she was going downtown. "I'll not be gone more than an hour. Is there anything I can bring you girls?" "No thank you," we said. We watched her back the car slowly out of the long Diffendorf driveway and go down the hill. Margaret leaned out of an upstairs window. She had a dustcap on her head. "Are you getting hungry, girls? I'll start lunch in fifteen minutes if you're not too starved." "We're fine," we said. Margaret pulled her head back in, and the lace curtain fell into place. A car stopped in front of the house. Pat and I stopped swinging. Jens Olesen, short of breath from struggling to get out of his car, opened the gate and came up the path. "Hello," we said to the postmaster. He stopped short and looked at us disapprovingly. "T've got a telegram here," he said. "Come all the way myself. Ed's looking after the postoffice alone." 396 "Who's the telegram for?" Pat asked. "Karen," said Jens walking up the path toward the house. "She's not home," Pat called. "Well, Pll just leave it with Agnes then," and he disappeared around the house. He was going around to the back door we decided. He reappeared in a few minutes. "T left it with Agnes," he said. He got back in his car and turned the motor over several times before it started. We watched him turn around very slowly and go back down the hill. We went in to lunch. "Did Mr. Olesen bring a telegram?" we asked Pat's Aunt Agnes. "Has anything happened?" "Of course not," Agnes said. "Just congratulations on her birthday from some of her friends. I looked at it to make sure it wasn't something I should try to locate her about downtown." ARGARET was cutting sandwiches, and we went over to help. We all sat down together for lunch. Cold lemonade, salad, and sandwiches seemed delicious. We had cookies and jello for dessert. "Who is coming for dinner?" Pat asked her Aunt Margaret. "Well, it started out to be just us at home, but we decided to call your mother and father, Pat...." "Oh, will they make us go back with them tonight?" Pat moaned. "No," Margaret laughed. "You can stay until tomorrow, though it must be dull for you here." "No, it isn't, not a bit," we assured Margaret. "And John Alder is coming and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1955 Dr. Turner and the leading actor and actress from the play that's current at the summer theater—Aleta Nicholes and 'Tony Gilbert." "Really?" we breathed. "Oh, they won't be able to stay very long. 'Their schedule is very ~ rigorous, you know. 'They have to go into a play with just a few days' rehearsal, and then they have other commitments." Margaret began clearing the plates. "In a little while you can come in and begin setting the table," Agnes said. "The roast is already in, and we've just got the vegetables and salad to do this afternoon. You have to do the dressing for the salad, Margaret, since you're the expert there." Margaret nodded. "I guess I'd better leave some of these things on the table for Karen. She'll probably be starved when she gets back. I wonder what's keeping her?" "She was going to get her hair done," Agnes said, "and pick up nuts for me and one or two other things. She'll be along. You girls can put the presents on the table after you get it set. The candles are on the sideboard." We could hardly contain our excitement. The afternoon passed all too slowly and then speeded up all too quickly. Karen came back and raced through her bath. Margaret seemed to take forever dressing, because we were waiting for her to help us place the presents. Margaret's hair was soft and light-colored. She wore a yellow linen dress and sandals. Karen's hair was darker, and she wore a blue cotton dress with a full skirt that swirled GREEN WILLOWS when she walked. Her arms looked very brown. No actresses could look any prettier than Margaret and Karen did, we thought. Agnes came down in a brown seersucker suit and the same shoes she wore winter or summer. "This is an unusual summer, girls," Agnes said. She smiled at us. "You did a fine job with the table and the presents." "T like this house," I said. The lightest of breezes stirred the curtains. "T'm glad you do," Agnes said. "It is a house to appreciate. From its windows you can see most all of Green Willows stretching out to the mountains, and there's Highway Six threading away to Orchard City. There's the white porches of our church just beyond Center Street and Patterson's garage beyond that. Green Willows to me is a positive approach to life...." She stopped abruptly. Absent-mindedly she tested for dust on the top of a huge seashell on the whatnot shelf. "You gitls have a good attitude," she said turning on her heel and going after the dust cloth. "We must always keep cheerful," she flung over her shoulder. THE birthday dinner for Karen was wonderful. Meeting a real actress from Broadway was wonderful also. Aleta Nichols wore her black hair perfectly straight. "How quaint," she said about everything or, "I love that, I really do!" But Pat and I hung on every syllable, and thought Tony Gilbert wonderful, too, though he was older than we had thought. Karen set her 397 presents on the sideboard to open later. After Miss Nicholes and Mr. Gilbert had rushed away to a rehearsal, she opened them one by one, thanking us with hugs and smiles. "I'd better open yours," she said to John. "You don't want to miss too much of the rehearsal." "They understand about my delay tonight." John smiled. "This really isn't a surprise for Karen. | gave her a preview last night, but it may be a little surprise to some of you." Karen opened the satin and velvet lined box that held the diamond engagement ring. John slipped it on her finger and kissed her very lightly on the nose. Agnes stood up and came very slowly to Karen and kissed her gently on both cheeks, and so did Margaret. We hugged her, and Dr. Turner kissed her on the forehead. 'Then John had to go. Karen went hand in hand with him to the front door. Pat sat down on the sofa in the parlor. "I feel terrible,' she said to me. "You do?" I asked in astonishment. "Physically, I mean. It hurts to swallow. My neck hurts." "Does it hurt there?" I touched just below her ears on both sides of her head. "Ow," she yelped. We looked at each other. Pat began to groan. Her mother and father helped me pack our things. We went home without even waiting to help with the dishes. (To be concluded) FROM THE FIELD | = Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for ""Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1950, page 278, and in the Handbook of Instructions, page 123. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES wa co. 3.: oo. Ae Photographs submitted by Ruth Mae Witt WASATCH STAKE (UTAH), MIDWAY FIRST WARD VISITING TEACHERS MAKE A ONE-HUNDRED PER CENT RECORD FOR FORTY-ONE YEARS, AND HEBER THIRD WARD RELIEF SOCIETY VISITING TEACHERS MAKE A ONE-HUNDRED PER CENT RECORD FOR THIRTY-FOUR YEARS Upper Photograph—Midway First Ward Front row, left to right: Jennie Johnson (former president); Glenna Ivers; Ada Bonner; Emily Coleman (former president); Melvina Wootton; Jean Alder; Bertha Wilson; Nancy Haueter; Cordelia Luke; Lorna Van Wagoner, present President. Second row left to right: Olive Kinsey; Fawn Johnson; Viola Kuhni; Francis Sizemore; Ruth Pyper; Idella Hair; Mildred Larsen. Third row, left to right: Charlotte Van Wagoner; Orpha Casper; Alice Bronson; Lois Bonner; Lelia Epperson; Lily Wardell; Dora Draper. Page 398 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 399 Fourth row: Nola Boren; Ruby Boss; Ann Eliza Carlile; Belva Luke; Agnes Luke; Nellie North; Shirley Chatwin; Stella Kohler; Lavaun Bowden; Elsie Kohler; Veta Reed; Mary Probst; Phyllis Kohler. Fifth row: Zelma Beuhler; Yoma Michie; Martha Joost; Fay Giles; Alta Meeks; Iva. Don Remund; Elfreda Remund. Violet Simmons, Dorothy Kohler, and Martha Burgi were not present when the photograph was taken. Jennie Johnson, former president, Midway First Ward Relief Society, reports that the above picture is a representative group of visiting teachers of that ward who have helped to establish and maintain a remarkable record. "When Sister Emily Coleman was sustained as president, the sisters set as their goal a one-hundred per cent record for the year. For seven years, in the face of untold reverses, they worked for this achievement. 'The ward is a rural community, and the families somewhat scattered, some being almost isolated. At certain seasons of the year the roads are practically impassable, and the sisters at times had to depend only on horse or foot power to reach their destinations. Finally, in 1913, they were able to establish their hoped-for record. They never again relaxed their standard, and those who followed them in leadership accepted this standard as a sacred trust. Thus, under the guidance of Presidents Mary A. Johnson (deceased), Celeste Van Wagoner, Jennie P. Johnson, and the present President Lorna Van Wagoner, and their faithful co-workers, this record of faithful service has been maintained. They not only established the record for the books, but have faithfully performed the service of carrying the gospel message to the homes and bringing many to activity in the Church. Many of the sisters who helped to establish and maintain this record are now deceased, but the daughters, granddaughters, and, in some cases, the great-granddaughters of these noble women faithfully carry on the work." Lower Photograph—Heber Third Ward Front row, seated, left to right: Elma Tadd, President; Josie Bronson, First Counselor; Vera Anderson, Second Counselor; Mae Calderwood, Secretary-Treasurer; Sarah Kendall, visiting teacher message leader; Margaret Callister, former Magazine representative. Second row, seated, left to right: Ida Watkins; Violet Rasband; Sarah Carroll; Ethel Johnson; Ethelwin Spencer; Fern Prescott; Bessie Hicken; Amanda Edler. Back row, standing, left to right: Verna Walker; Sadie Clegg; Margaret Pierce; Alice Thacker; Venola Cowley; Cleo Rasband; Leona Murdock; Ruby Hicken; Catherine Rasband; Gladys Lawton; Alice Adair; Lola Berg; Agnes Wallace; Amy Nunley; Priscilla Mendenhall; Thelma Wootton; Fern Wright; Luella Fitzgerald; Lola Jones. Ruth Mae Witt, President, Wasatch Stake Relief Society, reports the way in which this outstanding record was initiated: "'It all began when Sophia Elizabeth Hicken was president of the ward Relief Society. Anxious to raise the percentage, she asked her Counselor Elizabeth Wootton to make an effort in that direction. Sister Wootton encouraged the women until they reached the one-hundred per cent level for two years. Then, becoming President of the organization, Sister Wootton was able to encourage the sisters to maintain that perfect record through all of the many years of her service. Following Sister Wootton, each successive president, including Josephine Jones, Martha Blackley, Annie Smith, and Elma Tadd, has maimtained this high goal, thus making a perfect record for the Heber Third Ward for thirty-four consecutive years. In the accompanying picture are the officers of the organization today and some of the visiting teachers who have helped to achieve this unique record." 400 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1955 Photograph submitted by Mildred P. Elggren WESTERN STATES MISSION, GRAND JUNCTION NORTH BRANCH (COLORADO) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC AT CHAPEL DEDICATION Front row, seated, left to right: Clara May Willden; Ratchel Palmer; Leona Daniels, Secretary; Josephine Prinster, Second Counselor; Hazel Luster, President; Cleo Lamm, First Counselor; Wanda Haycock, chorister; Freida Bunnell, organist; Mary Cunningham. Back row, standing, left to right: Dorthy Ormsby; Winnifred Thompson; Emily Pollard; Eunice Puckett; Betty Nourse; Beverly Phelan; Arva Allgood; Donna Lee; Laprele Larson; Lois Jex. Estelle Orchard, Lanore Rowe, and Evelyn Brooks were absent when this photograph was taken. The picture shows a part of the Relief Society room in the new chapel. Mildred P. Elggren is president of Western States Mission Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Cleona W. Hedenstrom OGDEN STAKE (UTAH), OGDEN THIRTEENTH WARD VISITING TEACHERS ACHIEVE A ONE HUNDRED PER CENT RECORD FOR ONE YEAR Front row, left to right: Carrie Potts, First Counselor; Ireta Evans, President; Rhea Edvalson, Second Counselor; Myrtle 'Taggart, Secretary-T'reasurer. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 401 Second row, left to right: Ora Livingston; Leota Burton; Edith Wilson; Maurine Rogers; Esther Mouby; Marguerite Cornford; Mabel Pettit; Greta Wheelwright; Rhoda Crawford; Emma Miller. Third row: Anne Dunn; Dagmar Hipwell; Elda Nord; Nell Woodland; Leah Moffett; Lizzie Jensen; Ida Berlin; Bertha Foulger; Pearl McFarland; Clara Hinton. Fourth row: Grace Hussey; Beatrice Moshier; Maxine Galbraith; Nellie Tolton; Rose Phillips; Rae Foulger, visiting teacher class leader; Kate Greaves; Hazel Stark; Myrtle Haven; Maude Hesse; Effie Fowler; Mina Oyler. Seven visiting teachers were not present when this photograph was taken. Cleona W. Hedenstrom, President, Ogden Stake Relief Society, reports that these visiting teachers are dependable, faithful, and conscientious. "They always leave a note for the sisters who are not home, giving them the objective and message of the lesson and inviting them to attend Relief Society meetings." Photograph submitted by Josephine C. Crook SANTAQUIN-TINTIC STAKE (UTAH) VISITING TEACHERS WHO HAVE SERVED FOR MANY YEARS Front row, seated, left to right: Alice Ewell; Alice Jamison; Martha Butler; Jemima Kay; Bertha Dickenson; Elizabeth Sorensen; Lucille Johnson; Julia Palmer; Rebecca Jasperson; Harriet E. Barney. Second row, standing, left to right: Lucy Clark; Eva Cook; Fern Johnson; Celestia Thompson; Mary Houghton; Cloe Greenhalgh; Wilma LeBaron; Gladys York; Letitia Davis; Jennie Peterson; Clora Holman; Margaret Carter; Vera Whitney; Anna Heelis. Back row, seated, left to right: Harriet Hudson; Trilma Jarvis; Alta Talbot; Emma Wall; Ida Greenhalgh; Emma Fowler; Mildred Branagan; Sylvia Steck; Fern Horton; Eva Steele; Lola Nelson; Ella Sandstrom. This picture was taken at a convention honoring the visiting teachers of the stake. Many of the sisters have served as visiting teachers over a long period of time, between twenty and fifty years. Leone G. Layton, member, general board of Relief Society, was guest speaker at this convention. Josephine C. Ciook is president of Santaquin-Tintic Stake Relief Society. 402 RELIEF SOCEITY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1955 ee Photograph submitted by Nellie P. Smoot NORTHERN STATES MISSION, TRI-CITIES BRANCH, ROCK ISLAND, ILLINOIS, RELIEF SOCIETY BAZAAR, November 20, 1954 Left to right: Cleone Peterson, First Counselor; Grace Pierce, work meeting leader; Sallie Bartlett, Second Counselor. Ira May C. Palmer is president of Tri-Cities Branch Relief Society, and Nettie P. Smoot is president of the Northern States Mission Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Mabel H. Pond BENSON STAKE (UTAH), LEWISTON FIRST WARD RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS Front row, seated, left to right: Rachel Blair Harrison (1922-28); Eliza Rawlins Kemp (1931-37); Verna Porter Hyer (1937-42). Pie Vet left to right: Noarietta Pond Bergeson (1942-46); Leda Ashcroft Pond (1946-1949); Maud Peterson Hyer (1949-52); Seneth Hyer Thomson (1952-.....-.- ) present President. Margaret McKnight Rogers, deceased, served as president from 1928 to 1931. Mabel H. Pond is president of Benson Stake Relief Society. nae SE IN DEPARTMENT Teaching and Teaching Aids for the 1955-56 Lessons Mildred B. Eyring Member, General Board of Relief Society "The Value and Use of AudioVisual Aids in Relief Society"— Leone G. Layton, Relief Society Magazine, January 1953, page 27. "Suggestions on Teaching Aids for 1953-54 Lessons" — Leone G. Layton, Relief Society Magazine, June 1953, page 418. "Teaching Aids for 1954-55 Lessons' —Edith S. Elliott, Relief Society Magazine, June 1954, page 400. LEASANTVILLE a 5 MILES WHAT IS YOUR SCORE? Give yourself 5 per cent for each correct answer. (The answers will be found in the articles listed above.) ~~. What is teaching? What is learning? Which of the five senses is most effective in learning? What is a teaching aid? Name ten values of audio-visual aids. Give five requirements of a good teaching aid. When should a teaching aid be used? What is a growing chart? Cer aywpws What is a hectograph? Page 403 404 10. What is an opaque projector? RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1955 11, Where can you get information about making the hectograph and projector? 12. What is meant by the term "tear sheet''? 13. Name ten items and equipment that can be used as audio-visual aids, 14. How can the objective of the lesson become a visual aid? 15. Why are geographical maps not recommended for Book of Mormon study? 16. Name three teaching aids which are recommended for the theology lessons in The Book of Mormon. 17. Name three teaching aids which are recommended for the social science lessons on the Constitution of the United States. 18. What audio-visual aids might be used in the lessons on the literature of England? 19. What audio-visual aids might be used in the work meeting lessons? 20. What audio-visual aids might be used by visiting teachers? ACH year there are many new class leaders in Relief Society. It is important that they become acquainted with the entire program of the society as quickly as possible. To help them, and as a review by all the other workers also, this review of teaching aids is offered in question form. It would be profitable for all ward officers and class leaders to spend a portion of a preparation meeting making this review. Members of presidencies, secretaries, Magazine representatives, and music directors will discover that they, as well as class leaders, can make effective use of many of the suggestions in their various assignments. Since teaching is helping other individuals understand and remember the material presented, and since learning depends upon the use of the five senses, it is natural that the most effective class leader will make use of as many of those senses as possible. We all know from experience that when a word is seen and heard at the same time it is learned more quickly and retained more permanently. The use of socalled teaching aids is a logical application of that principle. They are really an integral part of good teaching. If lessons are to be understood and remembered, they must be made understandable and memorable. Good teaching aids can help make them so. Teaching aids, however, must be fitted to the particular teaching situation as carefully as glasses are fitted to the eyes, or hearing aids fitted to the ears. What is right for one situation may be quite wrong in a different one. The first requirement is a careful examination of the teaching situation: the class, the class leader, the subject, the building, and the facilities. With these factors clearly in mind, and knowing her objective, the class leader can proceed to make her lesson plans, including those teaching aids which will help her to accomplish her purpose. The Sunday School uses visual aids extensively, and articles appear in almost every issue of the Instructor. Many helpful ideas will be LESSON DEPARTMENT found there which can be adapted to Relief Society needs. Also many wards conduct teacher training classes. Untrained Relief Society class leaders could very profitably join those classes where they are available. There are no new courses of study this year and no new textbooks. Occasionally, suggestions for teaching aids are given in the lessons. However, class leaders are expected to use suggestions given in previous years and plan aids to fit their particular situations in keeping with the standards of Relief Society. The Deseret Book Company lists in their advertisement in this issue 405 of the Magazine the Relief Society textbooks, and in the past has listed some visual aids. Bound volumes of the Magazine are available in wards, branches, and stakes, for use by those workers who do not have the issues of past years. The proverb says: "... With all thy getting get understanding" (Proverbs 4:7). There is no place where this admonition is more fitting than in teaching. The successful class leader understands the needs, desires, and feelings of the members of her class, as well as the subject, and by her thoughtful planning she satisfies her group and herself. Sheology—Characters and Teachings of The Book of Mormon Preview of Lessons for 1955-56 Elder Leland H. Monson "THE first lesson of this year's course of study gives a review of the Jaredite record and of the Nephite record to the Book of Helaman, and the remaining seven lessons continue the history of the Nephites to the time of Christ's personal ministry among them (Book of Helaman through 3 Nephi, chapter 14). During the half century immediately preceding the appearance of Christ among the Nephites, there was a period of political and religious disintegration, a time in which the Nephite and Lamanite prophets called the people to repentance. Among these prophets were Helaman, Nephi, and Lehi, sons of Helaman, and Samuel the Lamanite. This last prophet, a Lamanite, gave to the people the signs which would precede the birth and the signs at the time of the crucifixion of the Savior on the Eastern Hemisphere. After the remarkable signs were given, Christ did appear to the Nephites. He was introduced to them, as they were gathered around the temple in the land Bountiful, by the Eternal Father who said: Behold my Beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased, in whom I have glorified my name—hear ye him (3 Nephi 11:7). (Jesus)... Stretched forth his hand and spake unto the people, saying: Behold, 406 I am Jesus Christ, whom the prophets testified shall come into the world (3 Nephi 11:9-10). So as to make assurance of his divinity doubly sure, Jesus invited the group to thrust their hands into his side and to feel the print of the nails in his hands and feet. This the multitude did, after which they said with one accord, "Hosanna! Blessed be the name of the Most High God! And they did fall down at the feet of Jesus, and did worship him" (3 Nephi 11:17). After calling his Twelve Disciples, Jesus instructed them concerning the ordinance of baptism. Then turning to the multitude, he gave them the Sermon on the Mount, which outlines the pattern of life to be followed by anyone who professes a belief in Christianity. It gives to us a means whereby we can bring peace and joy into our lives. This account of the personal ministry of Christ among the Nephites is indeed "a new witness" that Jesus is the Savior of the world. The titles and objectives for the lessons to be studied this year are: Lesson 33. Review—The Book of Mormon (Book of Ether and 1 Nephi through the Book of Alma) Objective: To renew our understanding of the lives and teachings of The Book of Mormon prophets. Lesson 34. Political and Religious Disintegration (Helaman, chapters 1-5:5) Objective: To show how unrighteous desires and acts bring political and religious disintegration, but the Lord is merciful and prospers those who repent. Lesson 35. Nephi, Son of Helaman RELIEF SOCEITY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1955 (Helaman, chapter 12) chapter 5:5 through Objective: To show that when we sacrifice and exercise faith in the Lord, he gives us power to accomplish great things. Lesson 36. Predictions Concerning. The Coming of the Messiah (Texts as cited in The Bible; Pearl of Great Price; The Book of Mormon) Objective: To show that the Israelites of the Western Hemisphere as well as those of the Eastern Hemisphere looked forward to the coming of Christ. Lesson 37. Samuel the Lamanite (Helaman, chapters 13-16) Objective: To point out that signs of the Saviors birth and crucifixion were given to warn the people of impending destruction and call them to repentance. Lesson 38. Conditions Among the Nephites in the Days of Nephi the Disciple (3 Nephi, chapters 1-5:8; chapters 6 and 7) Objective: To experience with Nephi the signs of the Savior's birth; to witness the partial fulfillment of early prophecy; and to have our faith in the power of the Priesthood increased. Lesson 39. Signs of the Crucifixion; the Voice of Jesus Christ Is Heard (3 Nephi, chapters 8-10) Objective: To learn of the prophecies concerning the crucifixion and their fulfillment. Lesson 40. Christ Among the Nephites (3 Nephi, chapters 11-14) Objective: To testify to the appearance to the Nephites of the resur- - rected Christ; and to comprehend Christ's teachings on baptism; the calling of the Twelve Disciples; and the Sermon on the Mount. Uisiting Seacher ITlessages Book of Mormon Gems of Truth Preview of Lessons for 1955-56 Edith S. Elliott HE messages for Relief Society visiting teaching for the 1955-56 period will again be "Book of Mormon 'Gems of Truth." The "gems" have been selected from the same section of The Book of Mormon covered by this year's theology lessons, which comprises the Book of Helaman and 3 Nephi, chapters 1 to 14 inclusive. This division of scripture begins with the fortieth year of the reign of the judges over the people of Nephi, and continues to Christ's appearance and part of his ministry in the Western Hemisphere. In these selected pages are recorded the advice, prophesies, commendations, admonishings, and warnings of such noble characters as Helaman, Samuel the Lamanite, and Nephi, the son of Helaman, to name but three. The crowning joy of this study section is the opportunity to become more familiar with the beginning of Christ's teaching of the gospel which is the only pattern for salvation. His sojourn with the people of the Americas proves his love for his brethren and _ his hope to lead all of them back into his Father's presence. It is hoped by the general board that the short scriptural messages will find a welcome in the homes, and that the visiting teachers can present them in such a way that the members in their districts will use them to enrich their lives. A good way to feel at ease with scriptural quotations is the memorization of them. 'Then, they can be recalled as needed during the discussion of the message. If no one is at home when the call is made, it is suggested that the message objective and the scriptural reference for the month be written on the back of the "Notice of Visit" slip. This is a friendly way to let a sister know that you wish to share with her a gem of truth. The messages and the objectives for the eight months follow: Lesson 33. "For, If Ye Forgive Men Their Trespasses Your Heavenly Father Will Also Forgive You" (3 Nephi 13:14). Objective: To show that to obtain forgiveness from God entails our forgiving our fellow men. Lesson 34. "But Thou, When Thou Prayest, Enter Into Thy Closet, and When Thou Hast Shut Thy Door, Pray to Thy Father Who Is in Secret; and Thy Father, Who Seeth in Secret, Shall Reward Thee Openly" (3 Nephi 13:6). Objective: To point out that we are admonished to pray in secret and we shall be rewarded openly. Lesson 35. "But When Thou Doest Alms Let Not Thy Left Hand Know What Thy Right Hand Doeth; That Thine Alms May Be in Secret; Page 407 408 and Thy Father Who Seeth in Secret, Himself Shall Reward Thee Openly (3 Nephi 13:3-4). Objective: To point out that alms should be given in secret and the Lord shall reward openly. Lesson 36. "Therefore, Blessed Are They Who Will Repent and Hearken Unto the Voice of the Lord Their God; For These Are They That Shall Be Saved" (Helaman 12:23). Objective: To point out that repentance and hearkening to the voice of the Lord bring salvation. Lesson 37. "Yea, We Can See That the Lord in His Great Infinite Goodness Doth Bless and Prosper Those Who Put Their Trust in Him" (Helaman 12:1). Objective: To show that trust in the Lord brings blessings. Lesson 38. "Therefore, Whoso Heareth These Sayings of Mine and Doeth Them, I Will Liken Him RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1955 Unto a Wise Man, Who Built His House Upon a Rock—And the Rain Descended, and the Floods Came, and the Winds Blew, and Beat Upon That House; and It Fell Not, For It Was Founded Upon a Rock" (3 Nephi 14:24-25). Objective: To show the necessity of not only hearing the word of the Lord but in doing it also. Lesson 39. "But Behold, the Resurrection of Christ Redeemeth Mankind, Yea, Even All Mankind, and Bringeth Them Back Into the Presence of the Lord' (Helaman 14:17). Objective: To show that Christ broke the bonds of death and all men will be resurrected. Lesson 40. "For Behold, Ye Are Free; Ye Are Permitted to Act For Yourselves; For Behold, God Hath Given Unto You a Knowledge and He Hath Made You Free' (Helaman 14:30). Objective: To show that free agency is an eternal gift. - Work ITheeting—Food Preparation and Service (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Preview of Lessons for 1955-56 Rhea H. Gardner HE person who plans the meals, cooks the food, directs food service, and presides at the table, has a lot to do with the health and happiness of family members. Her influence is effective not only while her children surround the family dinner table, but long after they go into homes of their own. Her habits and values become theirs "for better or for worse." The main objective of this twoyear course of study, therefore, is to make mealtime a time for pleasure; a time for the strengthening of family ties through the sharing of experiences; and a time for the formation of habits, associated with LESSON DEPARTMENT food selection, service, and table etiquette, that will give to each family member peace of mind and health of body. Because of the rush and hurryscurry of many activities these days, each of us has need for periods of relaxation and quiet. Mealtime, well planned and directed, might well satisfy this need. Although young folks are said to be unacquainted with many of the important social graces which marked the well-bred dinner guest of just a generation or so ago, certainly the need for gracious manners is no less great today than it was formerly. Along with the selection of the right kind of food for the intended purpose and use, principles of cookery will be emphasized in each of the lessons on food preparation. If these principles can be understood and put into practice, success in the use of recipes will be more frequent. Regardless of what recipe is being used, one can seldom go contrary to basic recommendations for the cooking-of a particular food without paying the penalty in some way. A few recipes are included with some of the lessons. You may wish to use others when you present the lessons. Be cautious in your selection. Foods served must be those the family can afford to buy, the cook has the time and energy to prepare, and those that will contribute toward the development of good eating habits. An attractive meal is as easy to prepare and costs no more than an unattractive one. 'The preparation of such meals, however, requires some foresight. So simple a meal 409 as stew with dumplings, a fruit salad, and a glass of milk may have plenty of appetite appeal, provided there are a few carrots and green peas or finely chopped parsley to lend color to the stew, and plenty of green lettuce and colorful fruit for the salad. This course of study deals primarily with food preparation. Class leaders are advised against discussing the principles of nutrition except when necessary to teach a principle of cookery. This group of lessons is particularly suited to the demonstration type of teaching. Make use of it. The effectiveness of teaching is multiplied many times when the telling of facts is accompanied by demonstration or "showing how." Titles for the 1955-56 course of lessons are as follows: 1. Family Meal Service Meal Planning. Poultry Selection and Preparation Soups Meat Selection and Preparation Vegetable Cookery Vegetable Cookery (Continued Salads wos Go WD usp When this two-year course of study is completed, it is hoped that each homemaker will see in her task of planning, preparing, and serving meals for her family countless new opportunities for making mealtime a happy time for all members of her family and herself. a el ia lic of England Preview of Lessons for 1955-56 Elder Briant S. Jacobs UR current study course in the Literature of England began SIX years ago in 1949-1950. At the conclusion of the lessons outlined for 1955-1956, this program will come to an end. Our final lesson this year will be a summary of our seven years' work, an undertaking admittedly difficult, since so much must be covered in such a tiny span, but a gesture that has at least symbolic value for us all. Since "The World is seen in terms of the seer," this year's subjects from one viewpoint should be more exciting than anything previously presented. All of us, in studying a group photograph, are first of all concerned to see how we look. In studying a strange photograph, it is reassuring to find therein people dressed as we dress, with similar hair styles, leaning on models of. Trade-name automobiles we are now driving, or can easily recall. Likewise, it is inevitable that, by the very fact we were "alive together," several of our authors will seem nearer us than an earlier generation can be. 'Thomas Hardy, for example, died in 1928, a date which most of us can give a place in our own memories and lives, while Kipling and Housman died in 1936, which for many of us is "only yesterday" until we realize that Kipling has been dead these long twenty years. From another deeper, larger viewpoint, this current series of authors Page 410 might also prove to be so near us. And the all-too-familiar problems of our own complex world, that we know them and their frames of mind too well, and they us. Because their world is almost our world, these great writers must treat more of the problems which still lie unsolved at the present moment. Yes, in any age "great literature is great experience," and that which is great is never bound by limits of time or space. But a study of our own age poses so many difficult problems that we are not even attempting to study contemporary English literature. In a somewhat milder form, these problems will be found in our authors studied this year. Perhaps the greatest reward or goal of studying literature is, that by pursuing such a study, we are enabled to stand outside our own subjective minds and evaluate ourselves individually and collectively as we can in no other way. But in our more modern writers, this objective distance between the reader and the familiar subject is lessened; hence self-evaluation is more difficult and, if done successfully, often more self-revealing. Once realizing and identifying this "different" relation to our more recent writers, we should finally remind ourselves that the rebirth which is ours when we achieve new insight into life through literature, is just as rewarding now as it ever LESSON DEPARTMENT was. It is just as true now as it was seven years ago that, "... Literature lives through creating and sharing a few intense experiences. Once you have caught some of the power, the beauty, the individuality of an author because you have been successful in enabling him to speak for himself with a part of his original force and freshness, you have accomplished something singularly worthwhile..." for you have recreated yourself, as well as those whom you influence, into a higher, larger person. Surely this is the very essence of the divine truth that "man is saved no faster than he gains knowledge." Titles and objectives for our current year will appear as follows: Lesson 49. Robert Louis Stevenson, Personality and Poet (1850-1894) (Text, pp. 874-881) Objective: To. Understand Stevenson's life and mind, that we might more accurately relate his poetic writings to his personality. Lesson 50. Stevenson's Prose (Treasure Island) (Text, pp. 934-951) Objective: To gain a clearer understanding of the familiar term "strength of character" by studying some of Stevenson's prose and relating it to his life situation. Lesson 51. John Millington Synge (Riders to the Sea) and the Irish Theater (1871-1909) (Text, pp. 1002-1009 ) Objective: To understand _ better Synge's relation to Irish National- 411 ism, and to appreciate more fully his dramatic powers. Lesson 52. Kipling, the Poet of Empire (1865-1936) (Text, pp. 896- 909) Objective: To taste the full flavor of Kipling's pungent diction by reading some of his poems and learning of his experiences which made them possible. Lesson 53. Rudyard Kipling, the Man Who Was (Jungle Books) (Text, pp. 951-959) Objective: To relate Kipling's prose to his life pattern. Lesson 54. A. E. Housman (1859- 1936); | William Ernest Henley (1849-1903); and John Masefield (1874- ); (Text, pp. 909-918); (Text, pp. 863-869); (Text, pp. 927- 933) Objective: To weigh and consider the personalities and poetry of three poets (Housman, Henley, Masefield) that we might better appreciate and understand ourselves and our world. Lesson 55. Thomas Hardy (The Return of the Native) (1840-1928) (Text, pp. 918-826) Objective: To achieve greater insight into the world of Thomas Hardy by studying briefly his life, some of his poems, and one of his great novels (Return of the Native). Lesson 56. Summary (Texts, Volumes I and II, Woods, Watt, Anderson ) Objective: To remind and surprise ourselves at how much we have forgotten and. Remembered. Seem! Sacicc me Constitution of the United States Preview of Lessons for 1955-56 Elder Albert R. Bowen OR the third and concluding year the Constitution of the United States will be the prescribed course of study in the social science department of the Relief Society. Support for the decision which has been made regarding this as an appropriate social science study for one more year, may be found in the tremendous importance which this wonderful Charter of Freedom has played in our lives and the part which it will undoubtedly continue to exert in the lives of our children. Politically speaking, the Constitution is without question the greatest document that was ever written. Its influence and scope go far beyond the shores of our great and wonderful Nation. Indeed, it may be said that the hope and future of all mankind will be determined by what happens to the United States and her free institutions. 'The United States is the bastion of the free world. This is not only true in a military sense, it is true also in an economic sense. It should and must be true in a moral and spiritual sense as well, if freedom in this world is to survive. What happens to the United States and her free institutions will determine the fate of men everywhere. Under such circumstances is it not of the greatest urgency that we should be well informed concerning the meaning of the Constitution Page 412 and what has been accomplished by this Nation under its protection? Also in view of the fact that constitutional principles are under such relentless attack by those who would destroy the Constitution and us as well, should we not sponsor a deeper and wider understanding and appreciation of the blessings of constitutional liberty? With these thoughts in mind and for the purpose of completing the course of study which began two years ago, the lessons for this coming year are offered in the earnest hope that they will not only be of interest but also productive of worthwhile benefits and results. Consideration has already been given to the background out of which the Constitution emerged and the basic and fundamental concepts which found such wonderful and inspiring expression within its provisions. We have also dealt with the Constitution as a document, familiarizing ourselves with its content and arrangement. We have also studied how its various articles and amendments operate to safeguard and protect individual liberty and freedom and guarantee justice to all of our citizens. During the coming year we shall concern ourselves primarily with the Constitution in actual practice and endeavor to review the results of constitutional liberty. We shall al- LESSON DEPARTMENT so touch upon the responsibilities and obligations of citizenship. In the final analysis it is the fruit which is the product of an institution which determines whether that institution has justified its existence and the efforts which are expended in its creation and to make it function. In the case of the Constitution those efforts and sacrifices were great indeed. 'The hopes, prayers, efforts, and sacrifices of its founders have been gloriously vindicated. 'To us now belongs the responsibility for its continued and unimpaired success and existence. A word of caution might be appropriate at this point. Remember that the Constitution belongs to all citizens of the United States. It knows no political party and is not concerned with partisan politics. It is earnestly recommended that partisan discussions be avoided at all times during the presentation of these lessons. No party or group has any monopoly on patriotism. In our loyalty, patriotism, devotion, and love for our country we are one. May God continue to bless our country. May she and her people be devoted to righteousness and to the defense of human liberty and justice for all mankind. The following is a list of the lessons and objectives for Part III of this study, The Constitution of the United States: Lesson 15. The Constitution Established Objective: To emphasize the great importance of Washington's administration and how that administration laid the foundations upon which a successful constitutional Government was established. 413 Lesson 16. The Living Constitution Objective: To study the reasons and concepts contained within the Constitution which made a strong and stable National Government possible. Lesson 17. The Constitution and the Courts Objective: To show how the courts of the United States under the great leadership of John Marshall established the principles of the Constitution. Lesson 18. The Organization and Powers of the Government of the United States Objective: To show how the three departments of the Federal Government, though distinct in organization and power, are nevertheless integrated and function together to provide a workable Government under the Constitution. Lesson 19. Citizenship and Suffrage Under the Constitution Objective: To point out the obligations of citizenship under the Constitution. Lesson 20. The Constitution and World Affairs Objective: To show how the United States evolved and developed from weakness to strength under a policy inaugurated by Washington and to consider our country in relation to world affairs since World War I. Lesson 21. The Fruits of Freedom Objective: To show that the growth and development of the United States were made possible and are the direct result of the institutions of freedom established by the Constitution. Sed Whisic Yo Goroe P. Art shed 6 —— Te 18 a God Shall Wipe Away All Tears— cond SS. Ss 16 ae Hold Thou My Hand—Briggs.............20 = If Christ Came Back—O'Hara...........20 «if | Walked Today Where Jesus a Let the Mountains Shout For Joy— Stephens _....-.-...2-.-ceeceeceeececceeeeeecseees 15 ee Lord's Prayer—Gates...........................20 -s My Soul Is Athirst For God—Stickles.20 a, Out of the Depths—Todd...................20 err Praise Ye the Father—Gounod...........10 — Music Sent on Approval — Use this advertisement as your order blank DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 45-47 South Main Salt Lake City 1, Utah Please send the music indicated above. LI On Approval Lj Charge Cl Money Enclosed Name Address............ City 8 Sterte nonce eeeecceeeceeececeeeeereeeneeeeeeeees ---— es -! Daynes Mace _| 145 NORTH UNIVERSITY, PROVO @! 2260 WASHINGTON BUD. Page 414 ACh; Doosnt Matter Josephine H. Beck I always dreamed Of a little girl, With eyes of brown To walk beside me, When crunchy leaves Came drifting down, Your little fingers Touch my cheek, You look at me with eyes, Blue as April skies. Your father's eyes are blue, Little one, I love you. Reward Ruth M. Jones Each day will some sweet memory bring; No day has ever failed me yet. I find always some lovely thing That I would not forget. It may be just a patch of sky, Or just a bright-winged bird. Maybe the pressure of a hand Or deep in someone's eyes, A glow that really understands As twilight slowly dies. No day has ever failed me quite. I treasure some new thing each night. Nature Song Jeanne Wilson Nature's gown is emerald green With tree and shrub and lawn, But when the autumn heralds cold She puts a brown one on. Nature's eyes are rarest blue Near filled with tears at times, For they are bits of heavenly sky Reflecting many climes. Nature wears a golden crown The sun of fiery gold; The buttercups along the streams Are yellow, bright, and bold. Walked—O'Hara..............:00---.22 Courageous Vsaivor Gene Romolo On outstretched palms She holds a brilliant skein, To weave a lovely pattern On life's loom, And though it be some year May snarl her strands She will not be deferred By doubt or fear. With an unwavering surety, She will ply Her shining shuttled thread As time wings by, Till, for all eyes to see, Will be unveiled, In full perfection... Her life's tapestry. Lamp of Faith Erma Barney Braack I took my little lamp of faith, Flameless from doubt and care— I took my little lamp and knelt Before the altar of prayer. I bowed my head and closed my eyes And then I was aware God's torch of love had lighted it While I was kneeling there. Night in the [Tlountains Maude O. Cook The twilight folds dark mantles About the mountain glade, And cadenced flow of waters Is rippling from the shade. A star is blinking blithely Atop a giant tree, As moonbeams steal in softly, With magic witchery; And soon their wands have wafted Remembered things away; They leave behind a dreamland, That was not here by day. WESTERN FARM LIFE A Magazine With Over Fifty Years of Service to the Homemakers of the Entire Mountain West 3 Years $2 5 Years only $3 WESTERN FARM LIFE Box 299 Denver 1, Colo. It's awaiting You... © YES there is still a tremendous amount of outstanding instruction and use awaiting you in this and other copies of the Relief Society Magazine. Your editions may be handsomely bound at the West's finest bindery and printing plant for $2.50 cloth bound and $3.50 leather bound per volume plus postage for mail orders. Follow these postage rates if you send your order by mail: Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles...........20.......2.0.-st35 150 to 300 miles..................-----.--- ay) @ 600 to 1000 miles....... 54 1400 to 1800 miles....... = Over 1800 miles W000 BF Leave them at our conveniently focated uptown office. Deseret News Press 31 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah Phone 4-2581 fo%@) Page 415 300 to 600 miles....... 1000 to 1400 miles....... Eevee. 45 eesceree 264 LEADERSHIP WEEK AT Brigham Young University PROVO, UTAH June 20th - 24th, 1955 SIXTY educational and recreational courses $1 registration fee Special courses in theology, social science, literature, and work meeting for RELIEF SOCIETY Teachers and Officers. For a detailed class schedule, write... Lynn M. Hilton B. Y. U. Extension Division Provo, Utah LES ee THE HISTORIC TRAIN Will leave Salt Lake City August 5th and will include The Pageant At The Hill Cumorah We give the most for the least! If you are interested in the European Tour, telephone or write regarding late registration made possible by cancellations. VIDA FOX CLAWSON 966 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah Telephone 4-2017 Page 416 Herbs for Modern Cookery—Basil Elizabeth Williamson Bt (Ocimum basilicum) is a very tender annual plant, but well worth the care it requires. If it is started from seed in flats, it must not be transplanted until all danger of frost is past. It grows to two feet in height, and has dark green leaves and fragrant white flowers. There are several varieties of basil, curly-leaf basil, purple basil, and the whiteflowered basil type. After harvesting, do not allow the basil to dry in the sun, but place it in a muslin sack and hang it in the shade until it is thoroughly dry. Basil thrives in warm climates. It probably originated in the Far East. The word basil is from the Greek basilicum meaning royal or king. The Italians call basil the herb of love. The Romans took basil with them in their conquests and planted it wherever they went. It was considered a holy herb in India. You will find it has a true oriental fragrance. Basil has an affinity with tomatoes. Cut up finely, sprinkled on sliced tomatoes, tomato juice, tomato aspic, or tomato soup, it is delicious. It also improves the flavor of salads, cottage cheese, fish, and omelettes. And don't forget to add basil; to your herb vinegars, Books for Relief Society Courses 1955-56 1- The Book of Mormon Library Edition, Cloth Binding Regularly $2.00, Now $.98 2: Your Rugged Constitution BRUCE ALLYN FINDLAY and ESTHER BLAIR FINDLAY You'll find great satisfaction and enjoyment as you read our Constitution. Interesting illustrations and clear explanations help you to reach a thorough understanding on the subject matter. This compact book, with its wealth of information, is only $1.50 3° The Literature of England WOODS, WATT and ANDERSON Volume I covers extensively the beginning of England's rich literature, which includes Chaucer, Pepys, the Elizabethan era, and down to the Romantic Poets. Volume II begins with such Romantic poets as William Blake, Robert Burns, Coleridge and Wordsworth, and continues on to contemporary authors. Volumes I and II—$5.50 each (plus 25c postage) 4- Treasure Island ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON This classic, read or reread, brings with it the warmth of youth, and the color of high sea adventures, as young Jim Hawkins and Long John Silver seek buried riches on Treasure Island. Cloth Edition—$1.50 Paper Pocket Edition—$.25 5: The Return of the Native THOMAS HARDY This compelling novel relates the loves and trials of colorful people who lived in the rustic Wessex countryside in the nineteenth century. Descriptions of England's bleak heath are probably the greatest ever written. Paper Bound Edition—$.75 Paper Pocket Edition—$.35. A4 Fast South Temple Fs 'Salt t take city Utah ity DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah Gentlemen: Enclosed you will find ( ) check ( ) money order ( ) charge to my account the following amount $..............-.- for the books listed below: Name of book Price Name oon... Cece cece cence cece cece c cece ceeee cee anecaaeeseaeeeeeceeeceeeeececeeeceeeeeeeeeceeersene Address 22... Ccc cic cccecce cece cece ce ceec cece ceeeeceeeeneeeeeseseneeceseeeeeesceeeeceeepeceeee City... Eeeceeeceecceeecceeeeceeeeceeeeneeee Zone........ State-... Rewibients of Utah include 2% sales tax. Add 12c postage for the first book; 8 cents for each additional book. POC-P 21-112 43°54 AUG 55 FOLLOW THE SIMPLE DIRECTIONS AND YOU'LL TURN OUT perfect U and I RAWBERRY JAM You can't help being successful in your strawberry jam sessions if you use ripe but sound fruit, pure U and I Sugar, the correct amount of pectin, and follow the steps. The RESULTS, rewarding dividends in personal satisfaction, economical savings, and in the pleasure of good eating. Gs 4; wofeos as Ss cattle ed te ey od rete A a ic or a time, using a kitchen masher to assure an even textured Set over high heat; stir until mixture comes to a hard L For all your canning, be sure to use PURE U AND! SUGAR, often referred to as "crystallized sunshine and water Ladle quickly into prepared glasses. As — RN: 74 Cover at once with Ye inch hot poraffin. Yield: about ose INSITUTE OF RELIGION 4602 SOUTH REDWOOD ROAD SALT LAKE CiTY, UTA #4107 Wash, hull, and crush 2 qts. Ripe strawb jam. Measure 4 cups crushed fruit into kettle. Measure 7 cups U & I FINE GRANULATED SUGAR into bowl and set aside. & Add 1 package powdered pectin to strawberries; mix 2 Add U &! Sugar and boil hard § minute. Remove from heat. Stir and skim by turns for 5 minutes to prevent floating fruit. Fe JULY 1955 Yee ee) fe) few oO. Sabor Ww c fe w wn ® wud Shey Came With Song Mabel Jones Gabbott Along this trail, blazed with tears, I hear the song of the pioneers; Uprooted from homes that were pillaged and burned, They yet could sing. Their crude wheels turned Out of the mud or trampled dust A song, triumphant, of love and trust. Listen, the long grass whispers low, "This was the place in slush and snow Where wagons creaked and children's feet Sank in the ruts."" Now thigh-deep wheat Rustles the melody over ground, Over the little unlettered mound, (Longer remembered because unknown); Listen, the wind swells the camp's full tone, "Come, Come, Ye Saints'; the words are real; They sang their songs with tempered zeal; Out from the circled flame they sent Courage and strength; bodies spent, Their voices rang in paeans of praise, And heaven heard. Come morning's rays, Over the ashes, scattered now, Over this field, long used to plow, The father's boot marked the oxen's plod, Spurred by a choraled faith in God. They sang their songs, rejoiced to sing, Of Joseph as Prophet, Jesus as King, Knowing that Brigham and the brethren ahead, Undaunted leaders, were vision-led. Listen, I hear the prairie rain On somber nights tell the refrain, "All is well! All is well!" Thirsting and dust-choked, yet tongue could tell Thanks to God, and brave hearts sing, For round the bend was a little spring; The prayer was answered; grateful eyes Lifted mute hymns to high blue skies; And the little new mother with shining face Eased her child as they swung in place; Remember her song while they jolted and swayed Down mountainsides in the tall peak's shade, Until the sun sank in the west And the eastern hills were amethyst; The pioneers sang as they dropped to their knees. Beautiful Zion, city of peace.... Here in the Valley, safe and strong, We will remember: they came with song. The Cover: 'Cathedral Gorge, Nevada," Photograph by Willard Luce Frontispiece ""Mantilija Poppies," Photograph by Ward Linton Cover Design by Evan Jensen Srom Near and Sar Last evening when I sat down to read my May Relief Society Magazine, my eyes filled with tears when I read the article "Mother," written so nobly by Sister Elna P. Haymond about my dear mother and grandmother. How proud _ they would be to know that one of their posterity could express herself so beautifully as lovely Sister Haymond has done. —Aletha Handy Franklin, Idaho It was through an aunt of mine, with a beautiful mind and a heart of gold, that I came to know of The Relief Society Magazine. It is being sent to me every month as a Christmas gift from her. In the March issue, page 146, two little verses are printed that were sent in by Mrs. Irene O. Clawson of Hyrum, Utah. Those verses describe just what I feel, too, about our Magazine, —Gwenneth Elizabeth Curtis Skegness, Lincolnshire, England We of the Zeist Branch in Holland are very thankful for the opportunity that we have had in receiving and enjoying The Relief Society Magazine, which we have been regularly receiving since the first of this year. We enjoy reading it very much, and even though many of the thoughts are lost through our weakness in the English language, we still gain many inspiring thoughts and maybe we can improve our knowledge of that language by making a study of it through the Magazine. —Zeist Branch Relief Society A. E. Van Zoeren-Spies, President J. E. Apeldoorn-Jonker, Secretary Zeist, Holland I have used much of the material from the Magazine for various occasions and enjoy so much my calling as theology teacher and the inspiring lessons which are prepared for us to present. —Ruth Johnson Devereaux Inglewood, California Page 418 I was thrilled to find my Frances' poem "Let Me Hear Laughter'. In the April Magazine and one of mine ("Reflective Artistry") in the same issue. Frances is my youngest child — nineteen years old. The May Magazine cover is exquisite. So is the inside cover picture (""Lilacs'' ) facing Alice Morrey Bailey's lovely poem "Where Lilacs Grew." —Mabel Law Atkinson Dayton, Idaho I always enjoy the stories in The Relief Society Magazine, but I thought the one in the April issue, "Steak for 'Thursday," by Rosa Lee Lloyd was especially good and timely. It put over a wonderful message that all young married women should keep in mind and have brought before them. —Mrs. K. T. Anderson Moroni, Utah I so thoroughly enjoyed "Steak for Thursday" by Rosa Lee Lloyd in the April issue of The Relief Society Magazine that I want to write and tell you. Also, many of my friends have remarked how very nice the story was. I have read other works of Mrs. Lloyd and always thoroughly enjoyed them. —Mrs. Ray Stewart Los Angeles, California I have been sent The Relief Society Magazine by my frends Mr. And Mrs. Ted Van Buren, Provo, Utah. Ted was one of the elders sent to our city, and we will never forget our association with him. I want you to know how much I enjoy the Magazine, and I wish you the best of success. —Mrs. C. L. Black Beatrice, Nebraska This is my first year of taking The Relief Society Magazine, and I have really enjoyed it very much. I hope not to miss an issue for the rest of my days. —Rosetta Reynolds Blanding, Utah THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - S = = - Marianne C. Sharp - - - o s Velma N. Simonsen - - Oo 5 fH Margaret C. Pickering - o 5 - President First Counselor Second Counselor - Secretary-Treasurer Mary G. Judd Evon W. Peterson Alberta H. Christensen Winniefred 8. Anna B. Hart Leone O. Jacobs Mildred B. Eyring Manwaring Edith S. Elliott Louise W. Madsen Helen W. Anderson Elna P. Haymond Florence J. Madsen Aleine M. Young Gladys 8. Boyer Annie M. Ellsworth Leone G. Layton Josie B. Bay Blanche B. Stoddard Christine He Robinson Edith P. Backman RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - = c - 7 - - Associate Fditor - - c = = - - General Manager - - - - = - | Charlotte A. Larsen Mary R. Young Marianne C. Sharp Vesta P. Crawford Belle S. Spafford Vol. 42 JULY 1955 No. 7 Contents SPECIAL FEATURES The Documents of Freedom Louis H. Callister aa Your Journal Tells Me... Grandma Melba S. Payne 430 Wealth Alma Weixelbaum 446 Bringing Home the Cows.-Nell Murbarger 447 Kneel to Your Child Christie Lund Coles 486 FICTION Hermanas—Chapter 1 Fay Tarlock 423 Strength Edith Larson 432 April's Pennies.......... Green Willows—Chapter 6 (Conclusion) 453 457 Arlene D. Cloward Deone R. Sutherland GENERAL FEATURES From Near and Far 418 Sixty Years Ago 438 Woman's Sphere 4Ramona W. Cannon 439 —_Vesta P. Crawford 440 Editorial: The Towers of Liberty ou. 442 In Memoriam—Ida Smoot Dusenberry Notes to the Field: Program for the November Fast Sunday Evening Meeting 443 46) Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities. FEATURES FOR THE HOME Quilting Margaret C. Pickering Velma N. Simonsen 444 Red Currants Are Rip i oca... Helen S. Williams 450 Cicelia Nelson Found. A neg Hobby at the Age of Eighty 452 The Jump Rug Elizabeth Williamson 487 LESSONS FOR OCTOBER Theology: Review—The Book of Mormon (Book of Ether and 1 Nephi through the Book of Alma) 465 Leland H. Monson Visiting Teacher Messages: 'For, If Ye Forgive Men Their Trespasses".........-.. Edith S. Elliott 471 Literature: Robert Louis Stevenson, Personality and Poet 0. N.... EsseeeeeeeecceeeeeeeeBriant S. Jacobs 473 POETRY July 20-23 Iris Schow 422 Our CountyNe noon s nan nnnevenscencnnenerecnavnennoneecnensoennensensseszezIda Isaacson 422 When Waited Vine Is Answer 0.... EcseccecsesccceececeeecncsneceeeseecoseseseeneneeneeseeetecenseeeeesseseesDorothy J. Roberts 441 Night Moves 22... Cece ceceeececeeecceccneecececsassseeececescennenceuteusensseaneceetesneesesstansensenesnnenececesaecoseneeeeceCherry McKay 451 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 40 North Main, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Work Meeting: Family Meal Service Social Science: The Constitution Established They Came With Song—Frontispiece Canyon Storm Boy Wanted Summer Foothills.. Today We Picked the Currant CLO cecsccesecssveeessenevssseveseneee A Tribute to the Singing Mothers Walk Beside Me Pioneer Trek Rhea H. Fo ais 472 Albert R. Bowen 480 Mabel Jones Gabbott 417 Evelyn Fjeldsted 429 Elsie McKinnon Strachan 443 Vesta N. Lukei 456 Zara Sabin 460 Ida L. Sea 464 Josephine H. Beck 485 unice J. Miles 487 The Documents of Freedom Louis H. Callister tuted in the United States _ fbi first legal holiday instiwas the Fourth of July. In reflecting upon the celebration of this historic day, it is natural to contemplate the events that brought it about. It took a revolution to break the bends with the Mother Country; not the type of revolution we hear so much about today. Historians tell us that if any pattern can be discerned in the revolutionary movements of modern times, the American war for independence does not conform to it. The American Revolution did not result from serious economic discontent. In point of fact, the depression which followed the French and Indian War had, within a few years, been succeeded by a period of considerable prosperity and even business expansion. 'T'rue, the final retaliatory measures of the British government—notably the closing of the port of Boston—caused some localized unemployment, but few people in the colonies were ever hungry in 1775. The amazing thing to learn is that the American Revolution did not array class against class, and particularly it did not conform to what is known as a Communist or Marxist pattern. The recruits for the revolutionaries' cause, or patriot cause, came from all classes and economic groups. The landed aristocrats, the merchants engaged in transatlantic and Caribbean trade, Page 420 the local shopkeepers, the professions, the mechanics, and the laboring classes, all were engaged in this great cause for freedom. The American Revolution was definitely not a class war. 'The leadership of this great movement was drawn from the upper and middle strata of society, which explains why it stopped short of a reign of terror, and why, for example, no single royal governor lost his life in the conflict. It was entirely different from the French Revolution. The American Revolution was accomplished without the extremists seizing power, without resort to dictatorship, and without any violent reaction. The Fourth of July was the day on which the Declaration of Independence was signed, a new country came into being, "The United States of America." It was in the Declaration of Independence that this name was first and formally proclaimed to the world, and to maintain its verity the War of the Revolution was fought. The Declaration of Independence was written by Thomas Jefferson. He was selected by his fellow committeemen to write this immortal document. In a letter Thomas Jefferson wrote to James Madison in 1823, he makes the following statement: The committee of 5 met, no such thing as sub-committee was proposed, but they unanimously pressed on myself alone to undertake the draught. I consented; I drew it; but before I reported to the THE DOCUMENTS OF FREEDOM committee I communicated it separately to Dr. Franklin and Mr, Adams _ requesting their corrections... And you have seen the original paper now in my hands, with the corrections of Dr. Franklin and Mr. Adams interlined in their own handwnting. Their alterations were two or three only, and merely verbal. I then wrote a fair copy, reported it to the committee, and from them, unaltered to the Congress.. WE are told that Jefferson, without consulting a book or pamphlet, wrote in a half day's time our great national symbol, 'The Declaration of Independence. The rough draft may now be seen in the library of Congress. Jefferson was a young man, only thirty-three years of age at the time. He had already gained a reputation in the fields of science and literature. He was acclaimed by the men who knew him best as an able lawyer, scientist, and philosopher, and a writer of some repute. He was a man of wealth and social position, a real aristocratdemocrat. Historians record that he was tall, redheaded, and an excellent horseman. Fifty-six names are appended to this important document; most of the signers were well educated and in the very strength and prime of their manhood; the average age of the signers was forty-four years. Youth certainly played an important part in the formation of our great Government. We should also keep in mind on this important day, "The Constitution of the United States." How many of us have a passing knowledge of this great document, the greatest constitution ever penned by man? It guarantees to every citizen of this country those inalienable 421 rights, life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. Our book of fundamental law is the Constitution of the United States. It has stood the test of one hundred and_ sixty-six years. No government has undergone so little change as ours. The first ten Amendments, called the "Bill of Rights," were passed in 1791, the year after the last of the thirteen states had ratified the Constitution. Since that time only twelve Amendments have been adopted, making a total of twenty-two Amendments. The stability of this great document is more remarkable when we stop to consider the revolutionary changes that have taken place in the social life of man since the Constitution was written. It was framed at the very end of the pastoral-agricultural age of humanity. It is truly a marvel in statecraft and can only be explained by the fact that the Constitution was developed by men of superior intelligence and education, and who had a real genius for self-government and one of its essential elements—the spirit of selfrestraint. I am reminded of section 101 of The Doctrine and Covenants, verses 79 and 80, which read as follows:. It is not right that any man should be in bondage one to another. And for this purpose have I established the Constitution of this land, by the hands of wise men whom I raised up unto this very purpose, and redeemed the land by the shedding of blood. Another quote from the dedicatory prayer given by the Prophet Joseph Smith in the Kirtland Temple on March 27, 1836: 422 Have mercy, O Lord, upon all the nations of the earth, have mercy upon the tulers of our land, may those principles which were so honorably and nobly defended, viz., the Constitution of our land, by our fathers, be established forever (D. H. C. Vol 2, page 424). In closing let me cite an interesting and prophetic statement given by Bigham Young: RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1955 When the day comes in which the Kingdom of God will bear rule, the flag of the United States will proudly flutter unsullied on the flag staff of liberty and equal rights, without a spot to sully its fair surface; the glorious flag our fathers have bequeathed to us will then be unfurled to the breeze by those who have power to hoist it aloft and defend its sanctity. (Discourses of Brigham Young, Page 360). * _- July 20-23 Iris W. Schow I think of the people moving: Of their hands and minds whose skill had grown Grappling with the barriers of plain and mountain pass; Of their flaming sword of truth, Undulled by turning back the blows of falsehood; Of their adamant faith that could not be worn away By the harsh abrasives of the world, That soaring faith which flew ahead Into the vision of the future And came winging back to the present To hearten and beckon the wayfarers. And I think of the Valley waiting: Of its plain, patient, desert face Lifted to the harsh caresses of midsummer sun; Of its pure water flowing unused into the salty reservoir; Of the ground enriched through centuries of waiting, That thrice-fallowed land, like a great unkempt body With promises of grace, under discipline and grooming. I think of the moving people and the waiting Valley land Brought slowly together, surely, in the crucible of God. —>+ Our Country Ida Isaacson Awaken in us, O God, a fresh and responsive spirit toward our country. Make our hearts hot within us, burning with patriotism and loyalty. This is no time for an economy of feeling; we must understand the magnitude of the hour. Help us to keep our eyes open to the painful truth; Let us express in happiness all that we have acquired or enjoyed because we are free. Let us not choke our native fire, but keep it burning; Let the vibrations of past patriots resound in our memories And fill our consciousness with unmeasured gratitude to them. Hermanas CHAPTER 1 Fay Tarlock son in secular history to dream of the brotherhood of man was Alexander the Great. I am no historian, I only know of the time in my life when I shed childish prejudices and could call all men brothers. And call them that from the heart. Not so long ago I sat with my sisters (hermanas) and watched the gentle sunlight sift through the church windows and lighten their faces. I joined with them in the familiar hymns and bowed my head with them in prayer, but my thoughts were in another land and in a time some years past. In this land the sunlight, more golden and intense, fell upon women with darker faces. Yet I loved them, and each was my sister. Perhaps it was not so in the beginning. I was a stranger in their land and had first to love before I could be loved in return. Yet, each day the melodious language became more familiar, the customs piqued me less. Almost without my recognition, false presumptions slipped away, leaving eagerness and understanding. I recall an April morning in my garden. % % K KK [: has been said that the first perThe rains that year began with a March and Apmil prelude. Late in the night it had rained, leaving puffy white clouds scudding towards the south. The sky above the garden was an incredible blue. Heliotrope, pink geraniums, red and purple bougainvillae, blue plumbago, and gossamer ferns cascaded down my garden walls weighted with jewels that trembled and sparkled in the sunlight. Above the far wall the first blossoms of the jacaranda waved in lacy clusters of blue. I pulled the folds of my robe closer about me and lifted my sandalled feet high to avoid the shimmering pools of water. It was sheer joy to pluck a rose or smell a red carnation. Through the open kitchen door I could hear the laughter of my twin girls as they raced in the front corridor. Within my walled garden there was no warring world, no strife. I had only to enjoy the day. Contentedly, like one of the tiny lizards on the wall, I sat on a bench of blue and yellow tile and stretched lazily in the sun. Through half-closed eyes I saw Amporo. She came through the open door, her huaraches flapping busily on the red tile walk, her black eyes bright with the importance of her message. Let it be of no more concern than a message from the Senora's cook that she would send me a dish of pepper and cheese. I did not stir on my cool seat.: "Senora." Amporo dropped her black eyes decorously, her bent head showing the thick coils of hair on her slender brown neck. "Celestina Page 423 424 of the Senora de Vargas house would like permission to speak to you." Her small hands were folded under her favorite apron of coral. "Of course," I answered, too lazy to be impatient of all this ceremony. Celestina knew she could speak to me at any time; yet she followed the custom and sent word through an intermediary. "Tell her I am in the rear patio." (CCELESTINA was a lady. No huaraches for her. She wore the stiff, cheap shoes of the mercado and no pink apron, but a plain, dark dress that shadowed her calm beauty. She came gliding down the tiled walk, eyes meekly lowered, hands clasped in anticipation of the favor she would ask. "Senora?" Her voice was quiet music. "Will you be gracious enough to give a moment of your time to Lolita, who is presently the cook?" "You have no need to ask." Celestina had done much to improve my manners. I rose, if reluctantly, from the cool tile bench to accept her parting bow. Lolita, who was presently the cook, was a stranger to me, though these last few days my twins had been often in the de Vargas gardens with Lolita's daughter. At this moment her gay laughter was mingled with the hilarious shouts of my _ offspring playing in the corridor. It was, I knew, vacation time for Esperanza, the regular cook. Lolita, from the house of an old friend, had come for the three weeks. What she wanted of me I could not even imagine. She must have waited by the corRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1955 tidor door that separated our two houses, for Celestina had no more than bowed out than she was with me. So small she was, so beautiful and regular her features, save for her graying hair, she might have stepped down from the tile picture that guarded our entrance—the little brown Virgin of Guadalupe. She came towards me, hesitant and timid. It was no small favor she had to ask. "Senora," she said, lifting her reluctant eyes to mine, "I have long been known to the Senora de Vargas. For many years, since my daughter was an infant, I have lived in the house of her friend. This friend. The husband of the friend, has long been in diplomatic service." She said it with pardonable pride. "For several years we have resided in Buenos Aires, but early this year, Senora, the friend, who was also my friend and mistress, died." Her sad brown eyes filled with tears and I took advantage of the break to sit down again, motioning her to sit beside me. Sorrowfully she shook her head, making it plain that it was not her place to sit beside me. "The diplomat's wife died?" I asked, encouraging her. | "Yes, la Senora Urbina died." Lolita sighed, lost in her memories of her mistress. I waited. After all, I had nothing pressing to do, and the peaceful promise of the morning was already gone. Lolita wiped away the last of her tears. "At the same time, Senora, I, too, was ill from an illness of long standing." She spoke as one under HERMANAS a compulsion. "I do not want to burden you with my troubles, only to explain that it was best for me to return to Mexico... For my health, and because it was no longer agreeable for me to remain in that house." She lowered her voice. "It was, you understand, the Senora who was my friend, not the Senor." I nodded. "Since my return I have had an operation and am improved in health, so much so that I no longer need be separated from regular work." She was looking hopefully at me, and again I waited. "I have wondered, Senora, if you would care to have me and my daughter?" She ventured it bravely. "'As you have noticed, your own small ones are much attached to her. She is not, you understand, uneducated as are so many of the nursemaids of Mexico." A superior smile lighted her face. "It will sound incredible to you, but she has been educated in private schools and in different lands, even in Paris, Senora." Before I could take in all this astounding news, she hurried on, "My former mistress had no children and Graciela was treated almost as if she were her own." "THE pleading in Lolita's soft brown eyes was more than I could bear. "I am so sorry," I said, trying to cut short her plea, "I should like to have Graciela and you in my house, but it is not possible." The brown eyes still refused to believe. "T am quite content with my present arrangements," I said firmly, "in- 425 deed, I could not change. Amporo depends on us, is one of the family, and Alicia, who comes twice a week for the laundry, is also contented with us, as we are with her." I thought of the succession of maids before Amporo: the lazy one who would not dust and who left the dishes sticky; the one who did not like us; the one who took the twins on the street and fed them until they became ill. I recalled the laundress who had returned the clothes gray and musty smelling. No, I would not part with Amporo who loved us and needed our home. Neither would I dismiss Alicia whose washings were white and clean smelling, and who was a poet by nature and made her two days with us a time of delight. "T am sorry," I said again. "I cannot change." Lolita's eyes still pleaded with me. "Could you not enlarge your household, Senora?" She lowered her eyes. "I... I have heard that you often cook. I could please you with my cooking, I am sure." "I am sure you could," I said gravely polite, "but in my own country I was cook and maid and Jaundress in one. It is a great luxury for me to have Amporo, and I am afraid that, even if we could afford a cook, my husband would not be pleased. He wishes me to cook his meals." She made one last effort. "The twins, Senora. Graciela and I could care for them and assist you in many ways I could mention. We would give you absolute freedom." "T know you would be most helpful. Graciela charms my children, and they would learn much from her, but I like to be with my chil- 426 dren. One of the treasures Mexico has given me is leisure to spend with them. At home there was so much work, now I can enjoy them. And you must know," I said gently to end the interview, "that we are not wealthy people. Amporo and Alicia are all that we can afford." She was dismissed, but I sensed her business was unfinished and I tried to end it. "Even in Mexico good servants are hard to get. You will easily find another home." If I had thought to end our discussion, I was mistaken. Words poured from her in a torrent of bitterness, so unexpected after her gentle manners. "You have exposed my trouble, Senora. I cannot go into every home with my daughter. Your home is a good one. Your husband is good and kind. I have seen, with my own eyes as I have made the tortillas in the garden." She gestured towards the open fireplace in the de Vargas garden across the low hedge of ivy and geraniums. "'Also, the maids in the other household tell me of his goodness. Graciela would be safe in your house." "But you have no need to worry. Graciela is still a child." Her dark eyes flashed. "If that were only so. You have not noticed, Senora. Graciela is no longer a child. She will be eighteen her next birthday, a woman and a beautiful one.". M* eyes widened in astonishment. At that moment my twins chose to catapult themselves into the garden by way of the kitchen door, their laughter wild with excitement. Fast behind them came Graciela, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1955 her black hair streaming behind her in two long braids. She looked no more than twelve or thirteen. "Oh, Mother," Marita cried, her blue eyes dancing, "Graciela is so funny. Look at the burrito she drew for us." She held up a crayon drawing of a pathetic little donkey. Then the three of them threw themselves, laughing, on the red tiles in front of my bench. I laughed with them as they broke into an excited conversation in Spanish, deciding that the donkey should carry bano wood, not baskets. "Stand," Lolita prompted her daughter, and the girl rose swiftly to her feet, smoothing the folds of her faded blue cotton dress with its childish bodice and white collar. In a flash Lolita wound the two long braids of hair into a coronet on Graciela's small head, and I saw what I had not seen before. Graciela was a young lady and a lovely one. Petite like her mother, her features as perfectly formed and her hair blue black, she was fairer of skin. Her eyes under the beautifully arched brows were a liquid brown. I hesitated, not liking to ask the next question. "Her father, is he alive?" With a practiced hand, Lolita dismissed the trio, her eyes dwelling sadly on Graciela. "Carlos, her father," she answered, turning to me, "was a man of my village. He was killed in a fight in the village over water rights. 'Two men were killed with him and Graciela was not yet born." By now the sun was climbing high overhead and shone hot on my un- HERMANAS covered head. To avoid the steaming heat, I sat on the bench again, shaded by the pomegranate tree. This time Lolita accepted my invitation, but she remained on the far end, erect, with hands clasped in front. ' "T will not tire you with the story, Senora. It was a long time ago. All I will say is that it was necessary for me to live with his family. It was a house with milk and bread for all, but I had known my own house and could not live with another woman who considered herself superior to me and took my baby as if it had been born to her. I ran away and came to Mexico with a cousin who worked here. She found me a place in the diplomat's home." I learned that Lolita had a place to stay. It was the old Urbina house, the home of her former mistress, and was in San Angel. It had been built by the Senora Urbina's family in colonial times, and in the late Senora's will she had stipulated that as long as old Ramon, the caretaker, lived, or as long as Lolita willed to live there, it was not to be sold. Ramon had broken his arm pruning a tree. While it healed, he was having a hard time to till the garden, which gave them sustenance. If she could not live in my house, she would try to find day work so that she could live in the house and care for Ramon. "You see, Senora, I cannot take my child into any home. She is too attractive." She sat on the bench listless and sad, as only a Mexican can be sad. I stirred uneasily in the shade. For some reason unknown to me [| ho been selected to help, and I resent- 427 edit. In the still heat of the garden I could hear my husband's warning voice, "Remember, you can't change the world... You don't have to get in the middle of every injustice you hear about.... Remember what happened the last time you tried to help the people across the street... Remember... Remember...." DETERMINED to have nothing more to do with Lolita's trouble, I could not help wondering what would be the future of her child. Lolita answered my thoughts, her eyes dark with passion. "My child, Senora, she must have a better future." She spoke with vehemence, as if something long smoldering in her had burst into flame. "She has goodness, intelligence, beauty, and, as I told you, she has been educated. She speaks, Senora, three languages besides her native Spanish—English, French, and German. Proudly she rolled the words on her tongue. "She is indeed accomplished." I thought of my struggles to be proficient in one language not native to me. As I sat there, seemingly idle, my brain flashed frantic messages. The girl must be helped. She must be kept in school until she could find suitable work. Where could she work—in an embassy, in an American's office? A little warning bell sounded. "Something should be done to help her." I said it lamely. By now the flame of passion in Lolita had burned itself out. She drooped on the bench, her face older, her eyes despondent. I ignored the warning bell. "You must let me think a bit, let me talk with Graciela," 428 "Tf only you will, Senora." There was a straw of hope in her. Now, I thought, the woman will go. I must myself get about the day. I was in my robe, and it would soon be time to start dinner. "Is there something else you wanted to say?" Lolita's face resumed its calm beauty. She smiled at me in gratitude. "If you will be good enough to give me another moment. Yesterday, when your little ones were hunting a book for Graciela, she saw two books on your shelf." "Yes," I nodded encouragingly. "They were two books of religion, one a Book of Mormon, one a history of the Mormon Church." My whole face opened in astonishment. "Do you know them?" Her smile was warm as the sun. "Tn Buenos Aires, Senora, we heard of your Church. We attended some meetings and met with your missionaries." HE unknown reason why she had persisted! It was almost incredible. "Did you like what you saw and heard?" "Oh, yes, Senora, we did," she said, her shoulders straight. "How shall I say it, your religion gave me a hope I had never had before." "What was that hope?" "It is hard for an unlearned person like myself to tell you." You do very well, I thought. "It made me feel that someday I could be free—to make my own choices... And that sometime if I tried hard enough I could live in dignity. That I, too, had the divine spark." "You put it very well, Lolita. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1955 That is the promise of our religion." "It meant even more," she went on eagerly. "It made me believe my daughter would have a_ better chance. It is a simple religion, verdad, simple enough to live by each day, and yet so deep it might change my very soul." I thought of the poor of many countries who had had that same dream, way back in the nineteenth century. Among them had been my own people, and the promise was just as bright today. "Are you a member of the Church?" "It is not that easy, Senora. I have been reared in another faith, one that has been part of my people for a time so long I cannot say." Yes, you have lived your life in a blend of pagan and religious mysteries. Will you be able to grow enough to absorb this religion with its new and hard-won freedom? Are you strong enough for it? As if she read my thoughts, she said, "We have not had a chance to know ourselves in this new religion. Just as we began to learn, we came away. Here in Mexico has been a time of illness. I do not know if there is a Church here or missionaries who will help us." I told her that E] Presidente and his wife lived in Mexico City, that in a remote Colonia was a new chapel. The first Sunday morning my husband was free we would take her. I made no further promise to Lolita, but when she left, my head swirled with plans. I called to Graciela to leave the children in the front corridor. I had to know what dreams, what plans she had. (To be continued) Don Knight SYLVAN LAKE, CALIFORNIA Canyon S. Torm Evelyn Fjeldsted Where oak thickets thrive near the still water's brink, A little gray fawn came at nightfall to drink. From somewhere a wind voiced a strange melody... A wind on the lake like a great storm at sea. The rain began softly, then suddenly splashed, The lightning grazed treetops and bold thunder crashed, Resounding through mountains and down valleys green, But dawn found the deer and the canyon serene. In tree-lined old corridors, flowers reached up To hold sylvan sunlight in each perfumed cup. Benign skies bent over the cool, quiet heights, After the canyon's grand midsummer rites. Page 429 Your Journal Tells Me... Grandma Melba S. Payne wish I could sit close beside you tonight, Grandmother, and have you tell me firsthand of the things I am reading about in your journal. I read many things between the lines which I believe you would confirm for me. You were a young bride when you left your comfortable home in Nauvoo, full of love, life, and romance. Expectations and plans for the future must have filled many of your waking hours. I would not want to trade this age for yours, Grandmother, but I wish I might have known, as you did, the Prophet Joseph Smith and might have seen him as you saw him, astride the fine black horse your father gave to him. "What are you doing with that fine animal?" the Prophet had asked, as he passed your father's pasture in Nauvoo. "T am training him for you, Sir," said your father, and right then the Prophet left with the shiny black mount which became a_ favorite with him. I am sure many times you saw the Prophet pass your home on his way to and from his office, and | imagine you could never forget the voice of the runner as he came through the streets of Nauvoo bringing the sad news of the Prophet's death and that of his brother Hytum. What mixed emotions you must have had that day when you went with your mother and your sisters into the fields, trembling with fear and apprehension for what Page 430 might happen next! What did you think later, when you passed the biers of Joseph and Hyrum? After the long journey across the plains, did you glimpse a beautiful mirage in Salt Lake Valley when you came down from the mountains? Were you greatly disappointed to find only sunflowers and sage growing here, and big black crickets crawling about on the sun-baked earth? How did you feel when you moved into your first home, which was a small dugout in the big field which had been staked out by your father? When the rains leaked through the dirt roof of this abode, I can almost hear you say, "How glad I am that I brought along such a fine umbrella." I am sure that you did not complain, either, when pigweeds and thistles formed the main course of your daily diet. You represented many more who, like you, were indomitable in the face of rugged pioncering. Vicariously, I share with you the trying, hopeless days that preceded the incident which inspired the Latter-day Saints to build the only monument in the world erected to the memory of a bird. I read about the happy day when you moved into your new, large adobe home, after living in your second valley home which was a log cabin. 'This roomy place was durable and inviting. It still stands today, gaunt and lonely. Now I remember things, too, about some of my visits there. A quiet dignity YOUR JOURNAL TELLS ME... GRANDMA always seemed to hover about the house whenever I went exploring. I would imagine I could see you sitting by a cradle pressing the rocker with one foot while your hands were busy making rag carpets to cover the wide board floor of your "front room." Just behind the house stood the summer kitchen, with a cool, dirt cellar underneath. I paused there one time and imagined I could see, there on the shelves, the pans of milk, with thick yellow cream crinkling on top against the time for skimming. In a_ corner was an old, broken, wooden churn. It was this which prompted this quiet reverie. Outside, close by the summer kitchen, was an old smokehouse where all the neighbors used to bring their fresh hams and bacon to be cured for the winter. Days in this home were more unhampered and secure for you, Grandmother. No longer did you need to gather saleratus from the ground to make the leaven for your bread, and no longer did you need to drain watered ashes to get lye with which to make your homemade soap. You could buy lye in cans, and those little hard Magic Yeast cakes were surely welcome to all, although you seldom needed a new "start," because you loaned and borrowed a yeast sponge which was kept fresh by several users. In this new West you had many joyous, happy times. You did not lack for entertainment. 'here were many dances and celebrations. 'The drama was all important, too. In the theaters, your journal tells me, you were entertained by local talent and also by traveling professional troupes who presented some great 431 plays, operas, minstrels, and ballets for your enjoyment. 'Iam told how much you loved these entertainments. Were you thrilled, Grandmother, as you watched the building of the temple in Salt Lake City? Did it remind you of the building of that other temple in Nauvoo, where you had carried your father's lunch to him as he labored on its construction? I know that you saw, on that eventful day in August 1844, the mantle of the Prophet fall on Brigham Young as he, Brigham, spoke to the large congregation in Nauvoo concerning who was to lead the Church in such critical times. I wonder what this meant to you, as you sat there with your family. Your journal tells me you witnessed that miracle. I have just come from a visit to Aunt Mandy's. She is your third child and is now one hundred years of age. Her keen memory has helped me to expand this sharing of your life with you. In your day, Grandmother, the only hazard on the streets was an occasional runaway horse or team; but death rides our highways today. I still say, I would not trade my day for yours; but I would barter for some of the peace and quiet of your day that I might tread more slowly through the years. Just for tonight, however, I have felt a calm serenity in going back through your years and some of my own. I have gained new strength and a faith that will help me to carry on; all because of reviewing these things of which you have told me in your journal. Strength Edith Larson grassy top of the first foothills the third night. Hannah paused in the supper chores to watch the afterglow fade from the crests, so much closer here and so much more massive. From the other side of the valley the mountains had been friends, a rampart against the Indians and bad men that lurked in the barrens to the east. "Take a good look." It was Amos who had come up silently beside her. "Tomorrow we'll be in too close to see the top." Ashamed to have been caught idle, Hannah turned back to the fire and stirred the stew simmering in the iron kettle. Did Amos guess the fears that filled her? After her first exclamation of dismay when he had broken the news to her that they would join his father's family and answer the call for settlers for the eastern valleys, Hannah had tried to hide her treluctance and join wholeheartedly in the preparations. She had married Amos to be a helpmate to him, not a millstone around his neck. But to leave the twenty-year-old settlement where she was born and found a home in a wild canyon! 'To leave the adobe oven in the yard where a week's supply of bread for the whole family could be baked in one day, and go back to baking on an open fire! 'T'o leave the well with its windlass-raised bucket in order to carry water from a creek! Page 432 Pa four wagons reached the To leave the companionship of two hundred people and her own family circle to share all her days with Father John, Mother Mary, and their children! Her own mother had always been telling her how easy life was today compared to her own pioneering days. Could she, Hannah, measure up to the hardships and uncertainties of wilderness life? It was one thing to be a good wife to a steady young brickmaker with regular hours and a comfortable cabin to house his bride — it would be another thing entirely to meet the crises of home building and family rearing in an empty valley beyond the mountains. And most frightening of all to Hannah, was her new-found certainty that her family would have its beginning during the dead of this coming winter.. Amos had followed her to the fire, frowning a little. "It looks a long way up there from here, but we don't need to go the whole way at once. One day's journey at a time isn't so far. 'That's all we face each morning." Hannah ladled out a plate of stew and brought it to him, smiling with the touch of shyness that always overcame her when she really looked at this strapping big husband of hers. "Thank you, Amos," she said. "I'll not forget. One day's journey at a time." It was a wonderful thought. She hugged it to her and included it in STRENGTH her prayers. "Oh, Lord, give me strength to face just one day's journey at a time." Thus she began the practice of praying each morning for just the day that was dawning. T' was well that Hannah was thinking in terms of one day only, for in terms of weeks the disasters mounted alarmingly. The trail laid out by Amos' brother Joshua proved impassable for wagons. 'Three weeks were lost in fruitless effort, in backtracking, and in making a hasty survey of other canyons. The last wagon was roped down the last rock barrier and the train wound slowly into the open valley on the thirteenth of August, one month behind schedule. John ordered no rest until a permanent camp was set up. Hannah was glad that Amos was kept so busy, for it would give her time to recover from her horror at the sight of her new home. The straggly fringe of willow brush along the creek was a poor substitute for the stately cottonwoods and slender aspens back home. The sun was already down, for the mountains rose close at their backs; but the heat still shimmered on the red and gray ridges that stretched to the east as far as she could see. All was barren rock except the fan-shaped creek bottoms where rank grass spelled just one word to Hannah—her dreaded snakes. Looking back, she thought perhaps she should be grateful for the ugly rattler whose swaying head and darting tongue had held her in fascinated horror until Amos had pinned it down with a forked stick. For 433 that rescue marked the beginning of his courtship. However, this trek across the mountain had increased her fear of snakes. She was glad when the men chose a barren knoll for their campsite rather than the high grass nearer the creek. Here they turned the four wagons carefully, making a square. Boxes of goods were hoisted on top and the thickest willows laid across for rafters to support the leafy branches that topped this makeshift bowery. The shade would be welcome, but it offered little protection from storms. The structure was crowded with Mary and John's eight younger children and Joshua's two motherless little ones. In this treeless valley, nothing else was possible. Family prayers were late that night, made later yet because Amos whet a scythe and mowed a path through the rank grass to the creek. More than ever, Hannah was thankful that she had had time to hide her dismay from his searching eyes. Since God had blessed her with a good man who even cared for her weaknesses, the least she could do was not to complain. In the late family council, Amos reluctantly agreed that all three men would have to return up the mountain to cut timber for cabins instead of one man remaining with the women. Lying beside him, later yet, Hannah knew he was sleepless from worry. "We will be all right," she whispered. "Your mother is a tower of strength, and young Daniel is almost a man grown. Soon you will be hauling the logs down." 434 Amos sighed. "It is not the way we planned, but time is running out. We must have cabins before winter sets in. You will be all right, Hannah." "Yes, I will be all right." One day at a time. Not a day's journey now, but a day's work that began with the rising sun and continued through the scorching afternoons until darkness laid its damper on the heat. ROM the first, the housework and responsibility for the children fell to Hannah, for Mary helped Daniel and the two younger boys in working the one team of oxen the men left. First the rank grass had to be cut, cured, and piled in a stone corral which Hannah and the children made. Each acre was plowed and planted as fast as it was cleared, because no one knew how late a fall they could count on here. In this one thing the new settlement was blessed: the frost held off until the men were back the first of November. In spite of her homesickness, Hannah was grateful. The logs for the cabins had been cut and brought down without serious mishap. The garden truck, though meager, at least promised a better diet for the winter. The winter wheat was well stooled out. Even though the two cabins were raised during howling wind storms that threatened their temporary shelter, she was thankful, for the snows held off until both cabins were snug. She was thankful, again, that Mary insisted that Joshua and his two children share the bigger cabin with them and leave Amos and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1955 Hannah alone. Alone for the first time in six months. Really alone, for the first blizzard howled out of the east and there seemed to be no end to it. When, after three days of infernal shrieking, the wind finally died down, Hannah and Amos stepped out into a white world. The knoll on which their cabin stood was almost bare, but the creek bottom between them and the canyon lay buried in drifts many feet deep. Going ahead, Amos beat a trail to the other cabin. In places the loose snow was waist high on him, but Hannah, following in his footsteps, had easier going. They found the family at morning prayers and thankfully joined them. Then the men set out to find the stock. All day Hannah helped with the children and made talk, though, as time passed, her heart became heavier and heavier. Painfully, she steeled herself to meet Amos cheerfully should the stock be lost. The men came at last, Amos leading a heifer heavy with calf. "We found six head of oxen in a natural shelter up the canyon three miles," John said as he sank exhausted onto a bench. "If the storms aren't too severe, they'll winter there all right—better than here where they'd get the full force of the wind." Not a word of regret for the ones that were lost.; Amos was looking at Hannah. "Do you think we could share our cabin with a poor creature needing shelter?" Share a cabin with a cow? But before she could protest, she looked once more at the swollen, heaving STRENGTH sides and drooping head, and her heart went out to the poor creature in pity. "Only for a few days, while we build a corral alongside the cabin," Amos assured her. HEN the new corral was finished and the heifer in it, Hannah found that she missed her. She missed the warmth of her body and the soft moo that followed her own heavy movements about the room. She could still hear the heifer stirring in her new shelter, and she took great pleasure in caring for the creature herself. When the heifer safely gave birth to a red bull calf, Hannah was as proud as the mother. 'The family Christmas day was made happier for everyone with a taste of fresh milk. Amos took Hannah home before the day was half over. His anxious glances at the eastern sky were not lost on her. Once inside their own cabin, with the fire blazing cheerfully, he took a coil of rope down from its peg on the wall. Seeing Hannah's wonder, he told her, "I thought it might be a good idea to string a rope from here to the other cabin, as a guide in case of a bad storm." Hannah went white. "Do you think it is going to storm again like it did before?" she asked. Amos looked at her soberly. "I don't know," he said. "That's the real trouble. I don't know. No one that we know of ever wintered here before." Hannah wet her lips. "It will be a comfort to know we are connected with the other cabin," she managed to say. 435 Amos smiled down at her tenderly. "Yes," he answered, "it will be a comfort." The wind was rising steadily when he returned. Standing in the door of the corral, Hannah watched his progress along the rope. He held on with one hand and with the other sheltered his face against the wind which now carried stinging particles of sleet-like snow. The rope looked so frail! "That rope is quite an idea," he said, as he came in stamping his feet and brushing ice particles out of his beard. "T am glad you thought of it," Hannah told him and hung his wet jacket where it would dry. But when, three nights later, she woke with the knowledge that her time was upon her, she lay as still as she could instead of waking Amos. The wind was still whistling down the chimney. Out there, in the snow-laden darkness, half buried in the drifts piled up during the past three days of unceasing blizzard, a frail rope linked two cabins. If she roused him, Amos would try to follow the rope although he had avoided trying it yesterday even by daylight. HE other storm had lasted three days. Perhaps this one would subside by morning. She clenched her fists and fought back the moans that wanted to come in spite of her. Time stretched on and on and on. She lay back exhausted from the struggle to suffer silently and became aware that Amos was leaning over her with a lighted candle. "How long?" he asked anxiously. "It—doesn't matter," she gasped. 436 "Mary could never make it in this blizzard." "She'll make it if I have to carry her," he promised as he struggled into his coat. "Don't leave me," Hannah whispered. But perhaps she didn't say it loud enough. At least she knew that he was gone. She began to pray. Strength for just one day, oh, God. Strength... Strength... Just... One... Day. And then Amos's big, rough hand was holding hers. A murmur of voices underlay the screams that she could no longer hold back. She mustn't scream, for Amos's sake, but she knew she was. The pain went on and on until she sank into a stupor of exhaustion. But someone was calling her back. Above the howl of the storm she could hear someone calling. Her worn-out body resisted the call, longing to rest and gain strength in the blessed peace of absence from pain. The call was too strong. Even before she wearily opened her eyes, she recognized it. Her first-born was screaming lustily—screaming a protest she must answer. But surely Mary knew better than she what the infant needed! It took an effort to turn her head toward the sound. A larger fire than usual filled the other side of the cabin with leaping shadows. 'The flickering light played on the homemade table over which two tall figures bent. "Mary," Hannah whispered. But it was Amos and Joshua who were caring for the screaming infant. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1955. "Hannah, are you all right?" Amos asked quickly. "Where is Mary?" "Mother is down with a fever," Joshua answered. "We didn't come and tell you for fear of worrying you. And there was nothing you could do." "She gave us full instructions," Amos added, his voice heavy with unexpressed emotion. "We did the best we could." ANNAH felt the implied apology, knowing that only the presence of Joshua kept Amos from saying more. "You did well," she hastened to reassure him. "Listen to our baby!" "Tt's all right for him to cry like that, then?" Amos asked anxiously. Helplessly, Hannah wondered how she was supposed to know. Every nerve in her worn-out body begged her to rise and take the screaming child away from the clumsy ministrations of the two men. If only her mother were here! Or Mary with her wealth of practical experience. Hannah tried to remember all she had heard about the care of newborn babies. But how could she concentrate with that agonized wail filling the little cabin? Surely there was something she could do. Anxious to finish the task, the men had turned back to their job. The heart-rending cries went on, undiminished, a shrill obligato to the howling wind. She must get up and go to her baby. She must. Gathering all her strength, Hannah slowly pulled herself to a sitting position on the side of the bed. No STRENGTH one heard the sound of the rustling straw. As Hannah's feet touched the cold earth, weakness flowed over her in a sickening wave. She lowered her head until it passed, then slowly sat upright. She could never gain her feet. Never. Slowly she inched her way to the head of the bed until her groping hand found a wooden clothes peg along the wall. Clinging to it and using all the strength she could summon, she pulled her weight erect. She was on her feet! Triumphantly she took a step away from the wall. 'The fire flashed in a vivid circle as the floor rose to meet her. HEN she regained consciousness, she was back on the bed. The cabin was dimly shadowed, the only light coming from the lowburning fire. The baby was in his cradle on the hearth, still crying, but weakly, pitifully. 'The storm had ceased. In the lean-to she could hear Joshua talking to the heifer as he tried to milk her. Amos knelt by her bed, his head buried in the quilt. She reached out and touched his hair. "Hannah!" Though he raised his head from the covers, it still drooped on slumped shoulders. His big hands covering hers were cold and clammy. "Hannah, what can I say? If I could only have suffered for you! But I promise you when the mountain pass is clear, we will leave this place and go back. No future child of yours will be born where there is no one to call on for help." 437 Hannah's heart leaped for joy. "Oh, Amos!" She was too overcome to say more. "I should never have taken you away in the first place. You are too delicate for pioneering." "Amos, bring me our son." Heavily, he obeyed, placing the closely wrapped bundle on her arm. Hannah pulled back the blanket and looked at the tiny red face, screwed up in misery. 'The weakness of its cry frightened her. Back home, with Mother.... But her heart was filled with gratitude. God had given her such a wonderful husband — so good and kind and strong. So full of love for her that he would turn his face away from his destiny for her sake. Her joy went as quickly as it had come. 'l'o go back was to admit that she had failed him. Oh, Amos would never blame her openly. He would not need to. She would blame herself. The old familiar prayer of the past months came from her anguished heart, so deeply in need of strength. She felt the answer. She felt buoyed up as she said the words she knew she must say. "We can't go back, Amos. Others will join us here. We have a valley to conquer for our first-born." The heavy shoulders straightened as Amos looked down into her face. "You want to stay, after all you've been through?" he queried, his eyes searching her face for a truthful answer. "It's only one day at a time, Amos. God will give us strength for one day at a time." The truth was shining in her face. Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, July 1, and July 15, 1895 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomeEN oF ALL Nations" TRAVELS IN IDAHO: Here I am in the wonderful Snake River Valley with the famous Teton Peaks towering in the eastern sky white with their everlasting mantle of snow.... Since leaving Salt Lake City one month ago, I have visited twenty-seven towns holding three meetings in each. I have traveled two hundred and fifty miles by train and nearly five hundred by team, over hills and dales, through' canyons and mountain gorges, over sage brush plains and lava beds, along shady glens and fragrant meadows.... We have many ditches, creeks and canals to ford, sometimes the water coming into the wagon bed.... Many of the little towns are situated along the picturesque banks of the Snake River.... When the little towns and hamlets become large cities with towers and spires reaching heavenward, and the plains covered with extensive orchards, then we may expect a change in climate as we have found in our own loved Utah. —Ellis R. Shipp THE FUTURE CONQUEROR Hear the soft patter of little feet, Keeping their step in the march of time; List to the voice of childhood sweet Singing the song of our cause sublime; Steady each footfall, though light and free, Faltering not as they onward press, Cheering the strains of the melody, Telling of peace and righteousness.... —KEdited by L. A. C. Penniman RELIEF SOCIETY IN BEAR LAKE STAKE: The conference of the Bear Lake Stake Relief Society convened at Bloomington, May 29, 1895, President Julia P. Lindsay presiding.... Opening remarks were then made by Sister Lindsay, in which she expressed pleasure at being enabled to meet with us in conference.... She also said that as Sister E. Collings and herself were getting old and were not able to take their journey through their stake as they used to, it was thought wise for her to select another aid, accordingly Sister Amelia Hodge was chosen and unanimously sustained as an aid to the presidency of the Relief Society.... Counselor E. Collings then arose and said notwithstanding her great age and feeble body she still had a strong desire to perform every duty devolving upon her as far as she was able.... Sister Fretwell said she had lived in Nauvoo at the time of the martyrdom of Joseph and Hyrum Smith; said she knew Brigham Young was the legal successor of the Prophet, for the first time she heard him speak afte: the martyrdom, it was Joseph's and not Brigham's voice; said this was a great testimony to her of the divinity of the work.... —Sec., R. S. WOMAN SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS: Miss Estelle Reel, State Superintendent of Public Instruction in Wyoming.... Is reported as saying: The fact that I am a woman did not keep me from bearing my share of the burdens of the campaign, financial or otherwise. I traveled over most of the State of Wyoming... Much of the distance being covered by stagecoach or wagon. I did not make any attempt at oratory in my speeches.... Of course some of the eastern papers tried to manufacture a funny side to the campaign.... Well, to make a long story short, the battle was won. —Selected Page 438 MBs. LAVINA CHRISTENSEN FUGAL, a Latter-day Saint woman from Pleasant Grove, Utah, is the American "Mother of the Year" for 1955. She is the seventyfive-year-old mother of eight children, all college graduates of fine characters and capabilities. She helped all of them with their education by doing such hard work as gathering fruit, selling garden flowers, and raising chickens. She has contributed greatly to civic and Church activities as well. "I wish all homes held the family love and affection that have always existed in our home," says her daughter, Mrs. Vida Swenson. ADAME ADRIENNE BUCK, French language instructor at the University of Utah, received in March the medal of Knight of the Legion of Honor, by decree of the President of the Republic of France. Louis de Guiringaud, San Francisco Consul General of France, made the presentation, for Madame Buck's success in furthering closer relations between America and France. As French Consular Agent for the Intermountain Area, she has lectured extensively in America to further understanding of French people and problems. She is now an American citizen. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon ANN MORROW LIND. BERGH'S new book, Gift From the Sea, reveals a. Woman's earnest search for individual integrity and spiritual fulfillment in our complex and demanding society. RS. MARBA C. JOSEPHSON, associate managing editor of the Improvement Era, has been named chairman of editors, National League of American Penwomen, and will direct all the editorial contests sponsored by the League. UCILLE M. And her husband, Elmer C. Johnson, of Spanish Fork, Utah, received the 1955 American Association for the Advancement of Science Award of $100 for their research on bee-flies belonging to between 250 and 300 species. LIVE WOOLLEY BURT, of Salt Lake City, Utah, wellknown author and contributor to The Relief Society Magazine, recently received the Certificate of Merit awarded by Boys Clubs of America for their favorite books published in 1954. 'Thirty-seven hundred boys voted on five hundred books. Mrs. Burt's award book is Camel Express, published by John C. Winston Company. Page 439 CQ-—D EDITORIAL —_ VOL. 42 JULY 1955 She Towers of Liberty And it came to pass also, that he (Moroni) caused the title of liberty to be hoisted upon every tower which was in all the land... HE years between the initiation of Government under the Constitution in 1789, and the organization of the Church in 1830, were a time of preparation, expansion, enlargement. Men looked towards the frontiers of mountains, far rivers, and the unexplored dominions of a vast and varied land. 'The restlessness of their pioneering was mirrored in their minds and in their spirits. In that time of the establishment of many freedoms, including religious freedom—many diligent seekers were looking for a true and vital faith to sustain them in their individual yearnings and in their relationships with their fellow men. Then came the blessings of the restoration and the further enlightenment of revelation from God under the guidance of a Prophet. New towers of freedom appeared in the land, and men were instructed anew in the ancient principles of liberty and law — free agency and obedience. Of that time of expectation and fulfillment President Brigham Young has said: We believe that the Lord has been preparing that when he should bring forth his work, that, when the set time should fully come, there might be a place upon his footstool where sufficient liberty of conscience should exist, that his Saints Page 440 (Alma 46:36). Might dwell in peace under the broad panoply of constitutional law and equal rights... To bring to pass the purposes of God, in thus establishing a new government upon the principles of greater freedom, a basis of self-government allowing the free exercise of religious worship (Discourses of Brigham Young, pp. 359- 360). After the proclamation of exodus, when the "empire of wagons" moved to the West, the feelings of liberty and spiritual exaltation were increased, in harmony with the spaciousness of the beckoning land and the dreams of permanent homes in the valleys far away in the sentinel mountains. There came to the weary ones at evening in the light of campfires, the far vision of Church spires and uplifted temple walls, of work and worship in a protected place. So the caravans of the faithful came into the valleys of the mountains—not to an easy land of lush greenery and natural bounty. Rather, that vanguard of frontiersmen came to a land that yielded only to unceasing effort and unlimited hope. But those who came early to the valleys were comforted, encouraged, and exalted, because they experienced the lofty strivings of spiritual frontiers. 'Though — their feet were firmly planted in the desert earth, they looked unto the high EDITORIAL mountains, and they heard the voice of spiritual direction. Beneath their touch the stony places became green fields; the stark hillside blossomed with orchards; the rivers, once undirected, flowed into canals and then as silver ditches in the dark furrows. Those first tillers of the soil felt a great surge of liberty, and yet obedience and law tempered their individual expansion. Liberty poles were erected in the villages, and the flag of the United States of America waved in the sunclean air of the mountain valleys. The Fourth and the Twenty-fourth became not only holidays, but memorial days—a time of thanksgiving for the heritage of the past; the gift of liberty became a living, glowing banner, and even the children, attending meetings in the boweries and in the meetinghouses, knew why the flag waved and why the elders of Zion spoke of "our Nation" and of "Utah the Queen of the West." Even the children realized the symbolism portrayed by the Goddess of Liberty on the Fourth of July, and the lovely young woman who represented "Utah" on the Twenty-fourth. And who among those who rejoiced in the valleys 44) could fail to be attuned to the bands that greeted the holiday mornings with a great stirring of bugles? Who among those who had come from afar could fail to be humbled and uplifted by the prayers that arose in petition for continued liberty in the land—and a supplication asking the Heavenly Father to guide and bless the chosen ones entrusted with the government and the destiny of the people, for they "took upon them the name of freedom... For the freemen. Had covenanted to maintain their rights and the privileges of their religion by a free government...." (Alma 51:6). So it has come as an assignment to our generation that we remember and revere the eternal principles of liberty and law, that we proclaim the divine origin of these principles. The exercise of individual liberty under law is not antagonistic to group co-operation. Rather, it is the strong person, strong in law and liberty, who has something to give and to contribute to his group. The individual must first possess his own soul and know his source of strength, know his own direction, before he can turn in service to others, upholding and proclaiming law and liberty. —V. P. C. When Waited Vine Ys Answer Dorothy J. Roberts By a word you swept a wider valley's girth, By dear belief pushed mountains to the sea; Spread with manna every desert twig, And built your faith a shelter over me. Gn 1 omomemeea Smoot Dusenberry May 5, 1873—April 24, 1955 DA Smoot Dusenberry, beloved leader among women, died April 24, 1955, less than two weeks before her eighty-second birthday. Of pioneer heritage, she was the daughter of Abraham Owen Smoot and Anna Kirstine Mouritsen Smoot. In early childhood her artistic and intellectual abilities were evident. After her graduation from the Brigham Young Academy in 1897, she attended Chauncey Hall College in Boston and Columbia University in New York City. Her husband, George A. Dusenberry, died when their two children were young, and_ Sister Dusenberry supported them by becoming a schoolteacher. She was principal of the Kindergarten Normal Training School at Brigham Young University from 1910 to 1921. Later, she became professor of psychology at B. Y. U. And continued in that position until her retirement. Sister Dusenberry's service in Relief Society covered a long period of time and her accomplishments were noteworthy. In 1901, she was appointed second counselor to President Bathsheba W. Smith, thus becoming intimately associated with that noble woman. During the years of her membership in the presidency, Sister Dusenberry was Page 442 a delegate to a meeting of the National Council of Women held at Washington, D. C., and a delegate to meetings of the International Council held in Berlin, Germany; Toronto, Canada; and Christiania, Norway, as well as representing Relief Society at many other important meetings and _ conventions. She continued as a member of the general board after her release from the presidency in 1910 and served until 1921. An inspirational speaker, her addresses in Relief Society conferences and conventions will long be remembered. She helped initiate the movement for uniform courses of lessons in Relief Society, and she supported wholeheartedly all activities planned for the education of mothers. Helpful articles on the psychology of children were written by her and published in The Relief Society Magazine. In her later years she found much joy in renovating and refurnishing the family home in Provo, Utah, where many friends and relatives came to share the beauty of her flower gardens and her gracious hospitality. Always appreciative of her many gifts and abilities, she shared them freely with others throughout her long and useful life. Votes. TO THE FIELD Program for the November Fast Sunday & vening Meeting THE special program for Sunday, November 6, 1955 will be mailed to Relief Society stake presidents early in August. We urge stake presidents to distribute these programs to the wards immediately upon receipt of them. In order to allow ample time for preparation, the numbers to be sung by the Singing Mothers in the special program for November 6, 1955, are listed below and will be available by August 1, 1955. "O Lord, Most Merciful" from Concone, arranged by Ira B. Wilson, S. S. A. #6208, published by Lorenz Publishing Company, 501 East Third Street, Dayton 1, Ohio. Price 18 cents. "Peace I Leave With You," by Roberts, S. S. A. #5065, published by G. Schirmer, Inc., 3 East 43d Street, New York 17, N. Y. Price 16 cents. If your local dealer is unable to supply these numbers, they may be ordered from the following stores: Beesley Music Company, 70 South Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah Daynes Music Company, 45-47 South Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah Glen Brothers Music Company, 74 South Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah Boy Wanted Elsie McKinnon Strachan I have need for a boy in my kitchen, To approve of my culinary art, To butter my mornings with questions, To put spice in my middle-aged heart; Anticipatory, impatient, A boy eager and ready to cat; With a grin hiding under a doughnut— Unimpressed with today's cost of meat. I have need for a boy in my kitchen, With an appetite deep as a wish, With a finger to salvage loose frosting, And, especially, to clean out the dish. Page 443 Quilting Counselor Velma N. Simonsen c6 VP HERE is only one way to make a quilt and that is the way our grandmothers and their grandmothers did it" (Ruth E, Finley). Terms We Should Know The definitions of quilting terms have not changed in the history of quilt making. There are three main types of quilts: The Comforter: Top and back made of unpieced material The appliqued quilt The patchwork quilt or pieced quilt PaTcHwork QUILTS Choosing a Pattern To make a patchwork quilt the first thing to do is to choose a pattern. There are thousands of quilt patterns, ranging from the simple four or nine patch quilts to the very intricate pattern. Cutting the Patches With the aid of scrap bag and scissors, the next thing to do when making a patchwork quilt is to cut the patches. They must be cut carefully and accurately so that each piece will fit into its proper place. A help in insuring accuracy, is to make your cutting guide or pattern from No. Oo grade sandpaper. The material should be free from wrinkles before cutting. Do not press seam open but to one side of block. Piecing the Blocks Sew together to form a block the patches you have cut. The term "block" means a complete pattern composed of patches pieced together or appliqued. The block is usually more attractive if light and dark patches are sewed together alternating, or plain and print material may be alternated. Setting Together This term means sewing the finished blocks together. This may be done by simply joining the blocks, but it is more effective to combine them with strips or squares of white or plain-colored material. 'The material used, as well as the method used for setting the blocks together, is sometimes called "set." This is usually determined by the pattern being copied. The Top The "top" is the completed patchwork blocks, set, and border, if making a patchwork or appliqued quilt; or length of material sewed together, if making a quilt of plain material. The seams of the top should be pressed well to one side. The Back The "back" is made of lengths of yard goods stitched together to make a piece of material the size of the top. Press seams open. The Batt The "batt" is the filling that is placed between the top and the back. It may be all wool, part wool, or it may be cotton. Part wool is most satisfactory for warmth. A No. 2 batt is required for a regulation quilt, size 81 inches by go inches. Page 444 QUILTING 445 Marking "Marking" is tracing the quilting design on the top of the quilt. Different methods are used, such as transfer patterns, stencils, or freehand designs. Designs may be marked with chalk or pencil, or the quilting may follow the design of the block. Quilting "Quilting" is sewing a design with a running stitch through the top, the batt, and the back. Stitches must be through the entire quilt, guided underneath by the left hand. The stitches should be small and even and should be spaced close enough to hold the batt in place and keep it from wadding. Rolling "Rolling" means to turn the two side forms under, thus winding up the quilted portions so that the vnquilted parts can be reached by the quilters. Taking Out This means removing the quilted quilt from the frames. Binding This is the finishing of the raw edges of the otherwise completed quilt. This may be done in several ways, such as turning a narrow edge of the back over the top and hemming it down, or by turning in the edges of the top and back, whipping or quilting the edges together, or the edges may be bound with bias tape. NECESSARY EQUIPMENT The Quilting Frames The "frames" may be and are usually homemade. They consist of four strips of smooth wood, ordinarily one inch thick and from three to four inches wide. The two side strips are 108 inches long; the two end strips are go inches long. About one and one-half inches from the edge of each of these four wooden frames a two-inch strip of folded strong cotton (denim is good) cloth is tacked securely the entire length of each frame. To this the edges of the quilt are pinned. The Thread No. 24 sewing thread is best for quilting. However, regular quilting thread, tatting thread, and double-duty thread may also be used. The Needles Regular short quilting needles are best for quilting. Numbers 5, 6, and 7 are most satisfactory. Materials Beautiful quilts may be made from the following fabrics: chintz, percale, broadcloth, cretonne, sateen, and cotton flannel. For a more elaborate quilt, satin, or taffeta may be used. ProcepurE IN MAKING A QUILT 1. A regulation quilt, size 81" x go" requires five yards of 4o-inch to 42-inch material for each top and each back, if making a quilt of plain material; or five yards for the back only if making a patchwork quilt. If using 36-inch material, it will require six yards for each top and six yards for each back. When using 40 to 42-inch material, cut two strips 2% yards long, sew together lengthwise. This will make a regulation sized top or back. 446 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1955 When using 36-inch material, cut two strips 2% yards long, sew together lengthwise. Cut remaining yard into three strips 12 inches wide. Sew ends together making a strip go inches or 2% yards long by 12 inches wide. Sew this onto the other strips lengthwise, making the top and the back each 214 yards by 2% yards. 2. Set up frames on horses according to the measurements of the quilt. Always place side frames on top of end frames to make rolling possible. 3. Pin back of quilt to the frames, wrong side up. Place pins about four inches apart, parallel to frames, so they will not prick the hands when quilting. 4. Before unrolling the batt, pat it and fluff it as though it were a pillow. Gently stretch and fit it over the quilt back. 5. Place the top of the quilt on top of batt, right side up. Pin to the back, placing the pins as explained in No. 3. 6. Mark the quilt according to desired design. 7. Quilt by using running stitches as small and even as possible. Fineness of quilting will greatly enhance the value of the quilt. 8. Roll. When all reachable space on each of the four sides is quilted, remove pins on each end covering the area to be rolled. Do not try to reach too far. To do so is tiring and makes it difficult to make small even stitches. Roll sides of quilt under as far as desired. Repeat quilting and rolling from both sides until quilting is completed. When the quilting is completed remove the quilt from the frames, then trim and bind edges. | Wealth Alma Weixelbaum EALTH! A word with infinite meanings, more relative than time. Infinite, because it has a different significance for every individual; relative, because it can be estimated solely by its possessor. A dream of empire; a few pieces of green wrapping paper. To a painter, a glowing sunset, the snowy outline of ragged cliffs; to a farmer, it is acres of golden grain. For some, the means to visit far places or to purchase special luxuries; but even for these, it is usually the means to an end, not an end in itself. To me? I am fabulously rich, for I have a multitude of friends who have been tried in the crucible of prosperity; tested in the acid of adversity; and proved pure gold; friends with hands eagerly outstretched to help in every emergency. Within reach of my fingers are volumes that bring me the wisdom of all the ages; the epics of nations and of lovers. In them I can find the lilting ecstasy, the mellifluence and the stirring emotions of poesy; the eloquence and lofty rhetoric of prose. On my walls I can see pictures envisioned in the souls of their creators, or, looking out of the window on a vaster canvas, are masterpieces of nature, etched on illimitable space. I can turn a knob and lie with closed eyes, steeping my soul in the peace and beauty, the grandeur and throbbing passion of music. Some may have more material goods than others, but no man is poor who has eyes to sce, ears to hear, and, above and beyond all, a heart to understand. Bringing Home the Cows Nell Murbarger brilliancy until the entire western sky was blazing with color, as the cows and I trudged over the prairie hills toward home. I walked along, and, removing my pink gingham sunbonnet, twirled it by the strings describing magnificent arcs and circles and figure eights. I dextrously used its stiffly-starched brim to shear seed heads from the prairie grass. No matter how good life might be, it was infinitely better when one's head was not bound about by the constricting tent of a starched sunbonnet. [specially was this true on warm summer evenings, when you were ten years old and wanted the prairie breeze to run its cool fingers over your braided hair and tickle deliciously around your throat! Picking up a couple of pebbles, I flung them at Cherry and Pansy, the big red Guernseys, which had halted their homeward progress to snatch' a few more nibbles of grass. Jack, the shepherd pup, who was supposed to help me bring the cows, was practically everywhere except at his post of duty. After tearing off madly in pursuit of a jackrabbit— none of which he ever quite managed to catch—he would make a leisurely and circuitous return across the hills, halting to bark long and joyously at every striped ground squirrel and fat prairie dog, detouring to chase sparrow hawks, and pausing, every few yards, to sniff at some fascinating hole in the ground. Ge: sunset had mounted in Father always said Jack was the most worthless dog he had ever known; and that, man and boy, he had known a lot of dogs! "If Jack was as smart as Uncle Jim Lockwood's Penny dog, you wouldn't have to make this long walk for the cows every night," Father had said that evening. "I could just say, 'Go fetch the cows, Jack!' and Jack would go fetch the cows without any help from anyone!" That our giddy shepherd pup should ever be as smart as Uncle Jim's Penny seemed extremely doubtful. Nonetheless, it was a frightening prospect. I didn't want Jack to be smart. A little smartness wouldn't hurt I supposed; but, most definitely, I didn't want him smart enough to fetch the cows by himself! All times on the prairie were good times to a ten-year-old, but of all good times, there was none other so thoroughly good as these long evening rambles after the cows.... I was still thinking about Jack, and what a catastrophe it would be if he ever got smart, when the dog's frantic barking drew my attention to a fat little billy owl, who was sitting on a fence post, quizzically turning his head to watch us pass. Knowing how much I liked the billy owls, Uncle Jim had warned me that I should never walk all the way around one of them. "If you ever walk all the way around a billy owl," he had said, wagging a solemn finger under my Page 447 448 nose, "it'll just be too bad for your friend, Mr. Owl! He'll just keep turning his head, around and around, until, finally, he'll wring it plumb off!" WHE I knew almost for certain that Uncle Jim was only teasing me, I couldn't help wondering if any bird would actually wring its own neck. Could it possibly be so silly? I was remembering, now, something else Uncle Jim had said. "You don't have to take my word for it," he had declared. "Just you walk all the way around a billy owl, sometime, and you'll see his head drop off!" And now, here was I, and here was an owl; and one of the maxims in my copybook said there was no time like the present! Stealing a half-guilty glance toward the cows, I saw they were rambling on ahead quite as well as if I were at their heels, and Jack had bounded off several minutes before in pursuit of a killdeer. Taking one deliberate step after another, with a brief pause between each two steps, I started around the bird, meanwhile keeping my eyes glued on his slowly pivoting head. A quarter of the way around and his bright yellow eyes were still following me. A third of the way.. Another step... And another! But now, as I neared the half-way point, with the owl still watching me closely, I began to grow a little alarmed! Suppose Uncle Jim had been telling the truth and not only teasing me! Suppose the billy owl did wring his neck — how would I feel then? Just like a murderer, that's how! And if it ever became known RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1955 that the president of the Hillcrest Liberty Bell Bird Club was guilty of contributing to the death of a billy owl... Well, that was a prospect almost as frightening as the thought that Jack might someday become smart enough to fetch the cows! Turning around, I retraced the half-circle I had made, the little owl's eyes and head now following me faithfully in the opposite direction. Only when he was quite restored to normalcy, did I leave him to his own affairs, and hurry off in pursuit of the cows, now far ahead. While I still didn't believe Uncle Jim's story about the billy owl — not really and truly — I couldn't help being terribly glad that I had stopped when I did, and that I hadn't caused him to turn his head any farther.... EFORE I had quite overtaken the cows, I was startled by the sudden upspringing of a meadow lark from the ground at my feet. Only a few minutes search was enough to reveal the small, woven grass tunnel that led along the ground to the well-hidden nest and its four speckled eggs. I was still looking at the nest — being very careful not to touch it, or even breathe on it, lest the mother bird should refuse to return, when a lone curlew flapped overhead, giving voice to his long, low, wailing cry. Something about this call of the curlews always left me with a shivery feeling down inside. Uncle Jim said they spoke like that because they were mourning for the Old West, which would soon be gone. "The curlew's like me and the BRINGING HOME THE COWS buffaloes," Uncle Jim had said. "He's a has-been! He's out-of-date! He don't fit into this new homesteader world of curtains at the windows: and milch cows in the barn. He don't like this business of stringing barbed wire across God's great open range, and cutting it into little old half-mile squares, and plowing and planting it to wheat and barley and alfalfa and corn. He don't like it, because he belongs to the time when a man could ride all day in the saddle and never see a fence, or a house, or another man. Nothing but white-faced cattle and sun and sky and waving wild grass. "That's why the curlew mourns when he flies over the prairie...." When Uncle Jim talked like this it always sort of scared me and made me choke up, because I knew for certain, these times, he wasn't teasing me. It was a different sort of talk than the billy owl talk.... Topping the last hill, the cows and Jack and I paused for a moment to look down on the little grove of green Norway poplars and the tiny cluster of unpainted buildings that spelled home. Giving a happy bark, Jack went bounding away down the slope toward the barn; and each of the cows, in turn, stretched out her head and gave voice to a long, satisfied moo. _ As soon as she saw us approaching, Mother started for the stable, two bright galvanized milk pails looped over her arm, and Stripes, the tiger cat, tagging at her heels. HILE waiting for Mother to finish with the milking, I wandered through the barn. I liked its clean, sweet smell, its atmosphere 449 of security and rightness and abundance. All the stalls were piled deeply underfoot with new wheat-straw bedding, the cows' mangers were filled with alfalfa hay, and the horses' feed boxes with corn. I stopped to peer up at the gable where my friends, the barn swallows and mud daubers, were going in and out of their neat little mud nests. I loved the trim swallows, but I wasn't so fond of the noisy, chattering sparrows who maintained a shabby colony of poorly-put-together nests in the shelter of the barn eaves. But Father said even the sparrows had a right to live their own lives, and, if they wanted to live in shabby nests, that should be their privilege. With both pails filled to the brim, and the cows turned into the feed lot, Mother and I started down the path toward the lamplighted kitchen. There, the warm, frothy milk would be strained into tin pans; I would fill a brimming dish for the waiting kittens, and would ladle out a warm cupful for myself. As we sat around the kitchen table eating supper that night, I would tell Father and Mother about the billy owl and the curlew, and the meadow lark's nest, and all the other small adventures. And still later, as Mother heard my prayers, I would ask Heavenly Father's usual blessing on our home and on our aunts and uncles and cousins... And then I would add another prayer, under my breath, so that none but he and I would know. "Please, Heavenly Father," I would whisper, "don't ever let Jack be so smart he can fetch the cows in by himself, alone!" Hal Rumel TABLE ARRANGEMENT BY FLORENCE C. WILLIAMS Red Currants Are Ripe! Helen S. Williams URING those cold gray days of winter, did you ever have a nostalgic longing for the warmth and color of summer? And did you sort of daydream about giving a party when the weather was pleasant and you could do your table differently from anything you had ever done before? Well, Florence C. Williams did, and it was 'at currant ripening time. The very time of the year when she preserves dozens of glasses of currant jelly for her family and friends. She decided that this would be the right time to entertain a group of old friends who had been meeting weekly for thirty-six years. The bright red currants gave her the idea, and she decided to surprise her guests with a gay, bright, new idea of red currants as the motif for her table. For her centerpiece, she would pile the currants high in a tiered red Venetian glass epergne, letting large clusters of the currants drape over the sides. She might have to fasten the bunches together with fine wire, but that could be done easily and artistically. The red currants falling over the sides of the epergne would give grace, beauty, and color. What could be more novel? The picture above almost gives an illusion that the fruit used is cherries, and, of course, cherries, apricots, grapes, or any rather small fruit in season could be used with equal effect of charm and color scheme. Page 450 RED CURRANTS ARE RIPE 451 Florence decided that the centerpiece needed some other touch to carry out her unique idea, and to make her table a complete unit. Because there is a magic something called generosity which is inherent to her nature, Florence feels that no party at her home is a success unless each guest carries home with her a memento or little gift. These thoughtful remembrances endear her to her friends. The gift is more than a tangible favor, for it bears with it the warmth of hospitality and friendship which has given her the reputation of being a lovely hostess and sweet friend. For this particular party she would make individual glasses of currant jelly. But, first, she would paint tiny red dots on the glasses, then fill them with jelly and cover the top with paraffin wax. She would then place in the wax before it had hardened, a small frilly lace doily on which the guests' names had been written in red. She would tie a bunch of red currants to each glass with a bright red ribbon and tiny bow. The red currants in the matching glass epergne, the gay polka-dot glasses filled with perfectly prepared jelly as place cards, and bowls of currant jelly placed here and there on the dainty white organdy tablecloth, would make a seasonal and delightful table—and she had never used the idea before. She decided to serve old-fashioned popovers, fried chicken, a tossed garden-fresh salad, and a frozen dessert. Yes, summer is nearly here, and with it come fruits and flowers to be arranged differently and originally. The most beautiful tables are the ones that can be done inexpensively but with much ingenuity and thought. Choose a color scheme and watch for fruit that is in season, which will lend itself for decoration. Then prepare your jam or jelly, decorate individual glasses with the fruit, doilies, and names; arrange a centerpiece in proportion to your table, and, of course, always have your linen spotless, your silver, glassware, and dishes gleaming, and you will have a beautiful table. Your friends will warm to the different ideas, and, when they sample their glasses of jelly, they will recall, as do Florence's friends, the joy and fun of being in someone's home who cared enough to go to the extra work to make their visit so unusual and different. Currants are ripe—it is time to prepare them, to use them for decoration, time to welcome summer and friends with a diffcrent kind of party, just as Florence is going to do. _><- Night loves Cherry McKay Along the accent of day-shore Acute tides come, and wind before Crisp breaking waves in a seething pour. Day is a sharp cloud, Willows bowed, The rock hard-glinted, The voice aloud. After daytime's cold forbiddance, Sharpened sight, and brief song pittance, Night moves radiantly round. Her sky is near; her only sound A song, unbound. Cicelia Nelson Found a New Hobby at the Age of &ighty ICELIA Nelson of Smithfield, Utah, is now ninety-seven years old. Seventeen years ago she started the hobby of making quilts. She has made more than thirty beautiful quilts for members of her family. One of these received first prize at the county fair. Her quilting stitches are fine and even, and her designs and color harmonies reveal the craftsmanship of a true artist who does her part to make the world more beautiful and to make her family happy. Cicelia, who was born in Denmark, came to Utah at the age of five and has lived eighty-five years in Smithfield. She hopes to live at least three more years, so that she can reach the century mark. For many years she was a practical nurse, taking little or no pay for her devoted service. In young womanhood she became an expert seamstress and made many aprons, pillow tops, dresses, and blouses, as well as much embroidery and crochet work. She is still an excellent cook, and, although she lives with a daughter, she likes to make cakes and cookies to serve as a treat for the many friends who call to visit with her. Mrs. Nelson is the mother of five children, and she has sixty-six other descendants. She has been a widow for nineteen years, but her cheerfulness and courage have uplifted her own heart and have contributed to the happiness of generations of people in the Smithfield community. Page 452 April's Pennies Arlene D. Cloward tread of Papa's heavy boot upon the loft ladder. Her eyes swept over her three little brothers sleeping peacefully on their blankets, nestled deep in the fragrant hay. The one thing, and the only thing that was pleasant about the night Mama gave birth to a baby was the fact that they could 'sleep in the loft in the barn. Joey, Tim, and two-year-old Georgie had had great fun playing in the hay the night before; it had been she who had sat by the tiny loft window and prayed. Mama never had an easy time at best, she knew from the way Aunt Ella talked the next day. Papa's tired face and tousled black hair came up first over the edge, followed by his long arms and legs. His gray eyes were weary, but he smiled. "Mama?" she asked tensely, gripping the corner of her blanket. Papa grinned. "Mama is fine, and you now have a wonderful little baby...." April caught her breath "... Sister!" "She flew into Papa's arms and squealed delightedly, "Oh, Papa, I never dreamed it would really be a girl! Oh, I love boys, of course," she added loyally, glancing with affection at her brothers, "but a sister!"' Papa ruffled her golden red curls. "Wake up the boys and tell them. Wash them well at the pump, and then I reckon you can go on in and see your new sister... Mama, too, of course." A PRIL sat up quickly at the April did his bidding excitedly, and the small family trouped in quietly. Mama smiled at them from her high bed, her auburn hair looking brighter than usual against her pale face and the white pillow. April hugged her and kissed the smooth cheek before she turned to look at the tiny little bundle Aunt Ella was holding up for her. She peeked down at the little round face, and her heart seemed to pound against her ribs. Very, very gently she touched the soft, fuzzy cheek and the little doubled fist. She giggled happily as she saw the downy black hair. "Oh, Mama, we finally got a baby with Papa's hair." Mama smiled, too, looking at the crop of red, brown, and yellow heads surrounding her and up at the beaming, dark father. Later, April ran up the narrow stairs to her tiny room tucked beneath the eaves and took out her little glass jar that was almost full of pennies. Yes, the Fast Sunday when the new little baby would be blessed and Timmy would be confirmed a member of the Church, she would wear a pretty new dress, the first really new dress of her ten years; all her others had been madeover ones. She looked at the shiny pennies she had saved so diligently from tending Mrs. Kinley's children — at last there were enough for her new dress. What could be so wonderful as to have a sweet sister and a pretty dress? She closed her eyes and pictured the frilly yelPage 453 454 low dress with the full skirt in Tomkin's show window. 'Tomorrow, it would be hers. That evening the family sat around the table after the dishes were cleared away, and Mama looked on from the bed, smiling in deep contentment. Joey grinned, showing plainly the big gap where his two front teeth were missing. "What are we going to name little sister?" Papa's eyes crinkled at the corners. "What would you like, Joey?" "Daisy." "Daisy!" April exclaimed, "why?" OEY looked a little abashed, and Tim crowed, "'Cause that's his cow's name." He began to giggle, but Papa stopped him with a stern glance. "Daisy is Joey's choice. What do you like, April?" "T think we should name her Katy after Mama." The boys all agreed eagerly, especially Joey, and Mama kissed each of them with starry eyes. So it was decided. April gazed at the tiny round face pillowed against Mama's breast and sighed, "She'll look so sweet in the new dress we're going to get for her to be blessed in." Papa laid his book down slowly. "Tm afraid we can't get the gown after all, honey, what with the doctor bills and all." Tim looked up and his eyes were bright. "No new suit for me either, Pa?" "Ym afraid not, son," Papa said softly, covering Tim's chubby hand with his large one. Tim gulped to keep back the tears, for it wasn't every day that a RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1955 boy was confirmed a member of the Church. April thought of the suit that Tim would have to wear, the sleeves coming up above his wrists and the trousers much too short. She glanced at his face and felt tears coming close at the look of misery in his eyes, but she saw the brave smile that he flashed. "Oh, that's all right, Pa. It doesn't matter." But it did, very much, and April knew it. The following day April took her bottle of pennies and tucked it carefully in her big purse.. Today was the day that she could buy the pretty dress. Papa helped her up beside him on the wagon seat and clucked to the horses. He grinned down at her. "Well, honey, today is the day you've been planning on for so long. You'll look real nice in a new dress." April smiled, but she wasn't as happy as she had anticipated. Papa left her at 'Tomkin's store. "I'll be back in about a half hour. Just take your time and look around." April waved after his broad back and stepped up before the big window. 'There was the dress! It looked even more beautiful than ever, and her heart pounded happily. It would really be hers. She hurried inside and started toward a clerk. 'Then she turned. It was only once in a small girl's lifetime that she saved so much money, and she might as well spend a little time carrying it around before she gave it all away. She walked through the aisles and felt very wealthy as she saw the different pretty things that she could APRIL'S PENNIES buy.. There were silk scarves and bottles of perfume and_ jewelry and.... She stopped, for there, spread out before her, was a beautiful, sheer white baby dress with a wide row of lace and a satin pink bow on the lace yoke. She caught her breath as she read the price. Why she could even buy that and have money left over. But she hurried away quickly, for she didn't have money for that and her dress, too. April decided that she didn't want to look around after all, and she started back to the clerk, when her eyes caught sight of a neat blue suit. She walked closer. It was just Tim's size. She closed her eyes tightly and ran to the smiling clerk's side. "T... I want the dress—the yellow one in the window," she said breathlessly. HE clerk smiled. "It is pretty, isn't it? It's just the type for you." She chattered on, but April didn't hear her because she kept thinking of Tim's brave little face and his suit that looked like it was Joey's— and the sweet tiny baby pressed against Mama that would be wearing the slightly yellowed dress that was SO WOTT. "No, wait a minute. I've changed my mind. I'd like that pretty baby dress... And the blue suit, if I have enough money." She said it quickly, for once said, it could not be undone. The clerk sure?" April held up her head very straight, and her eyes sparkled as smiled. "Are you 455 she pictured her brother and sister in their new clothes. "Yes, very 2 sure? She had enough money, with a penny left over, and she held the big package tightly as she picked out a penny's worth of peppermints for Mama. 'Then, very slowly she took out the jar of pennies. Her heart pounded as she handed it to the clerk, and with each penny that she counted her dress was more and more impossible, until, at last the pennies were out of sight in the cash drawer. She closed her eyes tightly as she walked past the shop window and ran across to Papa quickly. "Did you get it?" he grinned as she flounced up beside him. She nodded. "Good," said Papa. "You certainly look happier than you did when we came." April was a little amazed—but she was happier! When they arrived home Mama called to April, as she ran through the room. "April, dear, may I see this lovely dress you've talked so much about?" "Can I wait until Fast Sunday, Mama?" "Of course, dear, if you'd rather." April smiled and handed her the bag of peppermints. Mama's eyes twinkled as she thanked her. April dashed up the stairs and laid the package carefully on the bed and tore open the wrappings. She had fully expected to cry, but as she touched the rippling folds of the dress and held out the suit, she smiled instead. Putting them on hangers, she placed them in the closet beside her freshly-ironed, old, 456 best dress, the dress that would go to Church once again. ARLY Fast Sunday morning, the eventful day, April awoke to the sunlight streaming in across the room and the delightful twitter of birds outside. She slipped quickly out of bed and dressed in her blue dress. 'Trembling with eagerness, she took the suit and the baby dress and ran down the stairs. Papa and Mama looked up expectantly, and astonishment flashed across their faces. "Why, darling! New dress?" April handed them the clothes, and they looked down at her with pride, love, and understanding shining in their eyes. Sitting on the bench in the chapel April looked happily at her proud parents holding Katy in her flowing white dress, with its perky bow. Her three brothers were scrubbed and shiny-faced, and Tim fairly beamed Where is your RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1955 with happiness. Her own blue dress looked nice, and she would have been surprised at the many admiring glances turned her way—the smiles of approval. Her dress may have been seen before, but most of them had never seen a face so childishly peaceful. The speaker, his face calm and earnest, gazed down at the humble congregation. His sermon was interesting and stirring, but to April his last lines were the most important. "Each day you give up something —something precious—you're coming nearer to Jesus, our Savior, nearer to his example... To him who gave the greatest sacrifice of all!" April listened as though he were talking to her alone. She had made a sacrifice—however small. It had been hard, but oh, how glad she was now! What could be a better way to be near Jesus than to make a small sacrifice? 'Tenderly she touched the blue pleats of her old dress. Summer Foothills Vesta N. Lukei The sun-fire bakes the hills to a golden crust Rich loaves of ripened grain, And sears the surface soil Brick red or rust. The long heat roasts The earth's deep ground And it becomes well-browned, Done overmuch. The hillocks toast, The wild weeds, the shallow-rooted, broil. Haycocks slowly burn To a gentle amber turn; Tree leaves cook crisp, and poison oak, Like creeping flame, Climbs the foothill slopes, And even pebbles sizzle to the touch. Green Willows Cuapter 6 (Conclusion) Deone R. Sutherland wrote Pat almost every day while | she had the mumps, but her mother said she wasn't very cheerful. I tried to tell her how surprised everybody in town was about Karen's engagement, and how really surprised everyone was when, just a few days later, Dr. Turner bought an engagement ring for Margaret. 'They might have a double reception after being martied in the temple, people said, but Dr. Turner didn't want to wait until spring to marry Pat's Aunt Margaret. He thought they should be married at Christmas time. 'That would give the school board plenty of time to find another teacher for the last half year unless Margaret really insisted on finishing the year. Then the next summer they were going to take a real honeymoon to Europe. They were going to take Phil, too. Phil was crazy about Margaret. Everybody was, including me. I wrote Pat how dumb people were to be surprised. We knew all about it long ago. Or we thought we knew some things anyway. Pat had to stay in the house over two weeks. One side went down, and then she came down, or rather swelled up on the other side. "She's missing half the summer," I complained to Mother. It was almost three weeks before we were able to get out on our bikes again and sell Kold-ayde. The July heat was really going to be terrible for us to ride in, we decided; but it was awfully good for selling our product. We encouraged parents to buy Kold-ayde in order to make their own popsicles for the children at home. We did very well for a change. One package makes a_ terrific number of popsicles everyone had to agree. It was very late in the afternoon when we approached the hill that led to the Diffendorf home. "We really don't have to go up there today," I told Pat. "We've made quite a profit already. We've only a few packages of raspberry left in the basket.". "T know," Pat said, "but it might be that they'd want some drinks. I'd like to stop in anyway." I looked at her in disbelief about their wanting any, but we got off our bikes and pushed them up the hill. "Anyway, the road's_ stopped shimmering," I said. "If we don't hurry, we're going to be late getting home to dinner." "We'll only stop a minute," Pat said. "Dr. Turner brought Aunt Margaret to see me last night, so Mama says I've seen them enough this week. We'll hurry." "Somebody's car is parked in front," I said to Pat. We climbed the hill slowly with our eyes on the car. We were almost to it before we recognized it to be Jens Oleson's, the postmastPage 457 458 er's car. We stopped to rest and looked at the car and then at each other. "Another telegram?" Pat suggested. "Maybe," I said, "but the post office must be closed by now." Margaret was digging in the garden in front of the house. "Well, Pat and Lillian, hello." She stood up, brushing the dirt from her gloves and shaking her hair back a little. She wore a dark skirt and a thin yellow blouse. "Are you selling on this hot day? How's business?" "So good," I said, "that we really don't have to sell you anything today unless you really want it." "Oh," laughed Margaret, "I think Agnes will probably need at least one package. I'll get my purse in just a moment." She sat back on her heels and looked at the garden where she'd been digging. She laid her gloves on the grass, and I saw the diamond Dr. Turner had given her sparkle in the sun. It looked very bright and light against her brown, thin hand. Pat and I lay down on the grass beside her. "Did Mr. Oleson bring a teleram?" Pat asked. "No," said Margaret. "At least I don't think so. He's around in the kitchen talking to Agnes. She's making cream puffs." We hadn't realized how hungry we were. MARGARET stood up, stretching. "She must be finished with them by now. Let's walk around, and you can have one to eat on the way home." She looked over the few remaining packages in our basRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1955 ket. "I suppose I'll have to take raspberry, but it isn't my favorite." We walked around the house. "Tl run right up and get my purse," Margaret said. "You girls go on into the kitchen for a cream puff." Jens Oleson was standing in the kitchen doorway. We hesitated in the hall. Pat's Aunt Agnes' voice was saying, "I appreciate your thoughtfulness, Jens, but I assure you with my whole heart that I'm quite content with my life the way it is and never have the slightest intention of changing it...." "Yah, I know, Agnes," Jens said. "You were determined even as a little girl. I had no business to bother you, but I thought maybe you'd mellowed with the years. I won't mention this again ever, so there'll be no strain on you." Jens backed through the kitchen doorway. "Oh, there'll be no strain," Agnes said. "My word, I have to go on using the post office the rest of my life, I imagine. Here, take a cream puff with you. You've been eyeing them hungrily ever since you came s "? M "Thanks, Agnes — Miss Diffendorf. Youre a wonderful cook and no mistake. Yes, I'll take one more for my supper. Goodbye for now." He turned to go into the hall and saw us. "Ah, the girls are here, is it? I'll just go out the back door; no sense going through the whole house." He opened the back door with his elbow, holding the cream puffs warily, We went into the kitchen. Aunt Agnes greeted us absent-mindedly. "Take two," she said, nodding at GREEN WILLOWS the cream puffs. But we could only manage one on a bike, we explained. Margaret came into the room with her purse. "Margaret," Agnes asked, "are you buying the juice powder today?" "We only need one package," Margaret said. "Business has been very good for them all day. It's the hot weather, I expect." "That's what we tell the people," Pat said. Margaret searched in her coin purse for a nickel. "Tm sorry we've nothing left but raspberry," I said. "Oh, that's all right," Agnes said. "Did Jens go?" Margaret asked. "Ts something wrong at the post office?" Agnes looked at Margaret and snorted. "You and Karen getting engaged has turned the town upside down, I guess. Or at least it gave our postmaster ideas." Margaret looked at Agnes; then she said slowly, "Well, why not? Jens is a fine man. A little old...." GNES stood up, "That's enough, Margaret. I don't intend to quit teaching, and I don't intend to take in a boarder. I expect it will be all over town, unless these girls can hold their tongues." "Yes, we can," Pat said. I nodded my head. "Jens is a good man, Margaret's right, and there's no need to hurt him. It's just the rumors going around, I expect, that made him lose his head for a minute. I'm happy the way things are. Margaret will be just across the street. Karen will be up near the university in 459 Orchard City. My cousin Harriet, who was widowed only a year ago, would be happy to move in should I ever feel the slightest tinge of loneliness. I love teaching. My life is already patterned. Some people are meant for some things, and some for others. It's a wise person who knows when he's well off." "Why, look how settled we were before...."" Margaret began. "Settled," said Agnes, "but not really happy. Karen was too busy at the university and too young to know, but you had already begun to be an unhappy person. Look at the way you dashed around to keep busy every summer before this one. Those two years following Gwennie's death bothered you terribly when you thought people might think you were thinking of Mark again. It wasn't happy for me to see, Margaret." "You're right, nes...." Agnes interrupted Margaret again, "But me, Margaret, I've always been happy the way I am. I'm not restless, and I'm not looking for anything. I'm content. I like reading papers, and looking at the children in the fall, feeling I'm about to discover them all over again for a wonderful year. My mistake was that I tried to impress that contentment onto you two girls. I wanted you to know what I'd found. But all of us are different. Some want more than others." Margaret said slowly, "But, Agnes, those years were hard ones after Mother died. She'd spent almost everything Father had left. You took over and sacrificed for all of " us oe ef @ of course, Ag- 460 "Sacrificed!" Agnes exclaimed. "I loved it. I loved teaching and being able to help my family. I never did anything with the thought that any of you should someday feel that you should sacrifice any happiness in your own lives in order to repay me in any way...." "T know that," Margaret said, "but all the same...." "T've enacted the role of kin—of a sister, and that is all," Agnes said shortly. "Let's drop it there. How could any of us be happier with what we have? Margaret, take this tray of cream puffs and put them in the icebox, will you?" Margaret held out her hand. Agnes held the tray for a moment, looking intently at the pastry. "That was funny about Jens, though, wasn't it?" she murmured. We hurried down the hill on our bikes. We went so fast that the wind tugged our hair and our feet couldn't keep up with the pedals. We held our feet straight out at our RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1955 sides. 'Tonight we were really going to be late to dinner. "We'll catch it," we yelled at each other. Green Willows whirled by on each side as we cascaded down on our bikes. Suppose all our days when we are young here, go by that fast, I thought. My heart almost stopped with fear that they might. I wanted to yell the words out to Pat, but I couldn't find the nght ones. I looked at her quickly and saw that her smooth brown face looked as young as mine must be. These days will never end, I thought. They'll go on forever, or at least such a long time that I don't have to worry about it now. Besides, all of a sudden we were only a few blocks from home, and we had to quit coasting and start pedaling. We stood up on our bikes to pedal because that was faster. We could smell dinners cooking in the houses. All of Green Willows was getting ready for dinner. I could hardly wait to get home. Joday We Picked the Currant Crop Zara Sabin Today, we picked the currant cro Two small brown hands out-cupped, held all The ruby-ripened loveliness Most carefully, lest one should drop. My mind raced back... When I was small, Grandmother, in a gingham dress, Had help from me. My unruly mop Of sun-browned curls was scarce as tall As the currant bush. That kept me there. It was not duress I was "her prop," "Her good right hand," she said, "her all." My heart beat high with happiness And childish pride. Too soon our year is Time does not stop. At the fall; Our days are few to serve and bless— Today we picked the currant crop! From The Field Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1950, page 278, and the Handbook of Instructions, page 123. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Della H. Teeter DENVER STAKE (COLORADO) PRESENTS WORD PICTURE OF THE CONSTITUTION "THIS IS FREEDOM," March 15, 1955 Front row, seated, left to right: Marlyn Hess, representing a housewife; Charlotte Clifford, an American citizen of today; Helen Henry, a citizen of tomorrow; Blanche Pusey, stake social science class leader, who gave the prologue and directed the program; Dorothy Villalobos, representing the armed forces; Elva Wright, representing the Relief Society. Standing, at the right, left to right: Josephine H. Madison, as the Constitution personified; Louine Cromar, President, Denver First Ward Relief Society, as a citizen of the past. Second row, standing, left to right: Marjorie Whitman, organist; Reta R. Beck, stake chorister, who directed the music. Third row, standing, at the right: Della H. Teeter, President, Denver Stake Relief Society. Fourth row, standing at the right, right to left: Mollie Richardson, First Counselor, Denver Stake Relief Society; Thelma Robinson, Second Counselor, Denver Stake Relief Society, who introduced the program. All the wards in Denver Stake participated in this program which was based on the word picture "This Is Freedom," by Alberta H. Christensen, a member of the general board of Relief Society. Page 46] 462 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1955 Photograph submitted by Naomi L. Brimhall RICHLAND STAKE (WASHINGTON) SINGING MOTHERS FURNISH MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, February 27, 1955 Front row, seated, left to right: Iris Smith, pianist; Helen Madsen, stake Relief Society organist; Anita McCartney, stake Relief Society chorister; Audra Ord; Naomi Brimhall, President, Richland Stake Relief Society; Lela Lott, President Walla Walla Ward Relief Society; Helen Allen, President Sunnyside Ward Relief Society; Ethel Anderson, President, Richland Third Ward Relief Society; Florence Sylvester, President, Richland Second Ward Relief Society; Florence Jensen, President, Richland First Ward Relief Society. Also in the group are several former presidents of ward Relief Societies. Sister Brimhall reports that "Richland Stake Singing Mothers were honored to furnish the music for the morning and afternoon sessions of stake quarterly conference, which was attended by Elder Walter Dansie of the General Church Welfare Committee." Photograph submitted by Martha C. Eagar JUAB STAKE (UTAH), NEPHI SECOND WARD RELIEF SOCIETY ACHIEVES A ONE HUNDRED PER CENT RECORD IN VISITING TEACHING FOR FOUR YEARS Front row, seated, left to right: Louise Vickers; Mary G. Jensen, Second Counselor, Juab Stake Relief Society; Della P. Belliston, Secretary, Nephi Second Ward Relief NOTES FROM THE FIELD 463 Society; Verna Wright, former First Counselor, Nephi Second Ward Relief Society; Delta Yates, Second Counselor, Nephi Second Ward Relief Society; Martha C. Eagar, President, Juab Stake Relief Socicty; Edna J. Cazier, theology class Icader, Juab Stake Relief Society; Leta Bryan; Ellen Greenhalgh. Second row, standing, left to right: Eva Powell; Florence H. Lunt; Arvilla Warren; Olive Broadhead; Mary Belliston; Emma Lunt; Delia Stanley; Louise Leavitt; Zelma Golden; Lizzie Black; Etta Latimer; LaRae Kendall; Hazel Bosh; Mildred Brown, First Counselor, Nephi Second. Ward Relief Society; Ida Memmott; Mildred Greenhalgh; Pearl Belliston; Thora Pace; Ethel S. Irons; Lua Stephenson; Ida Belliston. } Photograph submitted by Ethel E. Blomquist SWEDISH MISSION RELIEF SOCIETY DISTRICT CONFERENCE Stockholm, April 10, 1955 Front row, seated, left to right: Marianne Ternstrom, President, Stockholm Branch Relief Society; Edith Nilsson, Stockholm District leader; Ethel E. Blomquist, President, Swedish Mission Relief Society; Svea Kinderstam, visiting teacher; Ulla Balck, President of the newly organized Stockholm Second Branch Relief Society. Sister Blomquist reports the enjoyable occasion of this conference which was held on Easter Sunday: "Members of the Norwegian Choir and their families were honored guests during our conference, singing at our meetings and rendering a beautiful concert during their stay. A number of our Norwegian Relief Society members are in the picture. We were sorry that Sister Gunderson, Second Counselor in the Oslo Branch Relief Society, who gave such a lovely talk, somehow was out of the line of focus for the picture and so cannot be seen with the group." 464 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1955 Photograph submitted by Vera R. Cantwell SMITHFIELD STAKE (UTAH), NEWTON WARD RELIEF SOCIETY BIRTHDAY DINNER, March 15, 1955 Vera R. Cantwell, President, Smithfield Stake Relief Society, reports that all the women in the Newton Ward received an invitation to this dinner, celebrating the 113th anniversary of the organization of Relief Society in Nauvoo, Illinois, March 17, 1842. Wi Svuie oe Singing Mothers Ida L. Belnap... Yea, the song of the righteous is a prayer unto me, and it shall be answered with a blessing upon their heads" (D. & C. 25:12). Ee Oh, Singing Mothers in Zion, a part of Israel's great throng, Wondrously sweet, harmonious, and clear, your voices carry on, The deep rich melodies we love, and messages of worth, To gladden, cheer, and brighten all this saddened earth. Yours is a worthy purpose, yours is a gift that is rare, That awakens in the human heart, a feeling akin to prayer. The music sweet revives the soul, new faith to us is given While reverently and joyously, we taste the peace of heaven. Sometimes you tell of David, sweet singer of olden times, And then again your voices blend in modern mystic rhymes; You take us to the utmost heights where holy temples rise, It seems we almost feel the warmth from the Master's eyes. Oh, mothers old and mothers young, we love you for what you are, Your courage, faith, and dignity in lands both near and far. The music of your song shall live in worlds that are to be, For you not only sing for time, but for eternity. Then sing, oh, Singing Mothers, sing an echo to your song As on the vast, ethereal waves, your voices float along. LESSON ¢ UE} DEPARTMENT Sheology—Characters and Teachings of The Book of Mormon Lesson 33—Review—The Book of Mormon Book of Ether and 1 Nephi through the Book of Alma Elder Leland H. Monson For Tuesday, October 4, 1955 Objective: To renew our understanding of the lives and teachings of The Book of Mormon prophets. The Book of Ether LOOKING back upon the history of the Jaredites and Nephites (so far as we have studied their history) as it is reflected in the lives of their great leaders, we recall a few who have marked milestones of progress in the history of that civilization. The Book of Ether, "The record of the Jaredites, taken from the twenty-four plates found by the people of Limhi in the days of king Mosiah," gives an account of Jared, the brother of Jared (by name Mahonri Moriancumer, as stated by the Prophet Joseph Smith), their families, and a few friends who came from the Tower of Babel at the time of the confusion of tongues. Mahonri Moriancumer, The Brother of Jared Mahonri - Moriancumer, known only as the brother of Jared in the Book of Ether, became the first great Jaredite leader. He was "... A large and mighty man, and a man highly favored of the Lord. (Ether 1:34). The Jaredites thiouch Moriancumer were directed by the Lord to cross the sea to the "land of promise." Great faith in the Lord was shown by their leader when he asked the Lord to touch the "molten" stones that they might give forth light. (See Ether 3:1-6.) The Lord heard the prayer and "... Stretched forth his hand and touched the stones one by one with his finger..." (Ether 3:6). After the Lord had prepared the stones to give forth light, the brother of Jared placed one in the end of each barge, and they gave light to the vessels. So great was the faith of the brother of Jared, that he beheld the finger of the Lord. Struck with fear he fell to the ground. The Lord said to him:.. Because of thy faith thou hast seen that I shall take upon me flesh and blood; and never has man come before me with such exceeding faith as thou hast; for were it not so ye could not have seen my finger. Page 465 466 Sawest thou more than this? (Ether 3:9). Then it was that the brother of Jared, in great faith, asked the Lord to show himself unto him. As the Savior showed himself to Mahonri Moriancumer, great truths were established. 'The brother of Jared was shown that the Lord lived as a personage in the spirit world before his advent into mortality. It proved to him that man is created in the image of God and that he, Jesus Christ, would come in the flesh to redeem his people (Ether 3:13-16). We also learn from the study of the life of the brother of Jared that faith brings an answer to prayer. The Jaredite people became a great and prosperous nation as long as they were governed by a righteous leader and heeded the word of the Lord. But during the reign of unrighteous kings, the people became wicked. Idolatry became common. The "secret combinations" of old were introduced and many were slain by those desiring power and wealth. Ether Near the end of the Jaredite civilization, Ether, one of the greatest prophets to the Jaredites, came forth in the days of the last king Coriantumr. Ether began to prophesy and warn the people of impending destruction, if they did not repent (Ether 12:1-5). For safety, Ether "... Hid himself in the cavity of a rock by day, and by night he went forth viewing the things which should come upon the people" (Ether 13:13). The two leaders Coriantumr and Shiz fought the final battle of swords. As Ether watched from a cavity in the rock, Shiz was slain. 'Thus the prophecy RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1955 of Ether to Coriantumr, that Coriantumr would be the last of his people to live, was literally fulfilled. (Ether 13:20-21. See also Omni 20.22.) The Book of Mormon Lehi When we think of The Book of Mormon it is the more detailed history of the followers of Lehi whom we especially recall. Lehi, divinely directed, led his little colony composed of his wife Sariah and his sons and daughters, Ishmael and his family, and Zoram, from Jerusalem across the mighty waters to the promised land. 'There, as a patriarch and father, before his death he called them together and blessed and instructed them. For, behold, I have seen a vision, in which I know that Jerusalem is destroyed; and had we remained in Jerusalem we should also have perished. But, said he, notwithstanding our afflictions, we have obtained a land of promise, a land which is choice above all other lands; a land which the Lord God hath covenanted with me should be a land for the inheritance of my seed. Yea, the Lord hath covenanted this land unto me, and to my children forever, and also all those who should be led out of other countries by the hand of the Lord. Wherefore, I, Lehi, prophesy according to the workings of the Spirit which is in me, that there shall none come into this land save they shall be brought by the hand of the Lord. Wherefore, this land is consecrated unto him whom he shall bring. And if it so be that they shall serve him according to the commandments which he hath given, it shall be a land of liberty unto them; wherefore, they shall never be brought down into captivity; if so, it shall be because of iniquity; for if iniquity shall abound cursed shall be the land for their LESSON DEPARTMENT sakes, but unto the righteous it shall be blessed forever (2 Nephi 1:4-7). Disappointed and wearied over the wicked activities of Laman and Lemuel, and pleased with the willing obedience with which Nephi had responded to the good and the beautiful, Lehi passed to the great beyond. Nephi Nephi, under the immediate leadership of his patriarch father, had early learned to listen to the teachings of the still small voice. Showing obedience, faith, and courage, he had led his older brothers from the Red Sea back to Jerusalem for the Brass Plates, which he knew contained a genealogy of his forefathers. After two vain attempts, he had been successful in securing these records from Zoram, the servant of Laban. Only then was he willing to return to his father. We remember Nephi's _ inspirational statement.... I will go and do the things which the Lord hath commanded, for I know that the Lord giveth no commandments unto the children of men, save he shall prepare a way for them that they may accomplish the thing which he commandeth them (I. Nephi 3:7). Subsequently, with these same brothers, he returned to Jerusalem to induce Ishmael and his family to join them in their migration to the land of promise, in order that they might intermarry. As a_ leader among his brothers, Nephi, resourceful and energetic, helped the family to overcome great difficulties—the problem of securing food in the desert after their bows were broken, 467 and the problem of building a ship to take them to the land of promise. After the death of his father in the promised land, Nephi found it necessary to separate from his disobedient and wayward brothers. In this new location, named the land of Nephi, he built an advanced civilization at a time when his brothers became a dark and loathsome people leading a nomadic life. Nephi built a temple and provided for the spiritual welfare of his people, which, of course, contributed more to their happiness and eternal life than the great material benefits which he showed them how to obtain. Before his death he made two sets of records, the Small Plates of Nephi, to be used for the religious history of his people, and the Large Plates of Nephi, to be used for the secular history of his people. He also instructed his people to keep future records of God's dealings with them. Jacob and Joseph Nephi's two younger brothers, Jacob and Joseph, born in the wilderness as the colony journeyed to the land of promise, became priests and teachers unto the people. Jacob stressed the need of spirituality and pointed to the value of material wealth as a means to the development of men and women, and not as an end in itself. Jacob instructed: But before ye seek for riches, seek ye for the kingdom of God. And after ye have obtained a hope in Christ ye shall obtain riches, if ye seek them; and ye will seek them for the intent to do good—to clothe the naked, and to feed the hungry, and to liberate the captive, and administer relief to the sick and the afflicted (Jacob 2:18-19). 468 The immediate successors to Jacob and Joseph taught the people that sin erodes happiness and peace from life, that the happy nation is the God-fearing nation. In the meantime the Nephites in the land of Nephi, under the leadership of King Mosiah, father of King Benjamin, fled northward to escape from Lamanite domination. 'They discovered the Mulekites in the land of Zarahemla. 'These Mulekites had left Jerusalem a few years after Lehi and his colony had departed, and had come to the land of promise and settled north of the land of Nephi. They were a numerous people and had built up a civilization with Zarahemla as its central city (Book of Omni 15-23). The Nephites joined with the Mulekites in building a civilization there, which was henceforth known as a Nephite civilization. King Mosiah, father of King Benjamin, was made king over the inhabitants of Zarahemla (Omni 19). Benjamin After Mosiah's death his son Benjamin became king over the united nations. "... King Benjamin was a holy man, and he did reign over his people in righteousness... (Words of Mormon 17). During Benjamin's reign there was "... A serious war and much bloodshed between the Nephites and the Lamanites..." (Omni 24), [the Lamanites were living in the land of Nephi (Words of Mormon 13-14)]| * But behold, the Nephites did obtain much advantage over them; yea, insomuch that king Benjamin did drive them out of the land of Zarahemla" (Omni 24). During the remainder of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1955 his days he had peace. Before his death he called his people together before the temple and announced to them that his son, Mosiah, should be their king and instructed them concerning the gospel (Mosiah 2:9). Among other things, he told them that he had labored with his own hands in order to avoid burdening them with taxes, and informed them that he wanted them to understand that "... When ye are in the service of your fellow beings ye are only in the service of your God" (Mosiah 2:17). So it was that he urged them to serve one another. He also prophesied concerning the future appearance of Christ (Mosiah 3:5-12). He also taught them how to activate the gospel principles in their own lives, how to make their religion life-service rather than lip-service. And also, ye yourselves will succor those that stand in need of your succor; ye will administer of your substance unto him that standeth in need; and ye will not suffer that the beggar putteth up his petition to you in vain, and turn him out to perish. Perhaps thou shalt say: The man has brought upon himself his misery; therefore I will stay my hand, and will not give unto him of my food, nor impart unto him of my substance that he may not suffer, for his punishments are just— But I say unto you, O man, whosoever doeth this the same hath great cause to repent; and except he repenteth of that which he hath done he perisheth forever, and hath no interest in the kingdom of God (Mosiah 4:16-18). Benjamin concluded his address by admonishing the people to watch their thoughts, their words, and their actions, and to exercise faith in the future coming of Christ (Mosiah 4:30). He took the names LESSON DEPARTMENT of all people who had entered into a covenant with God to keep his commandments and take upon them the name of Christ. During his address, Benjamin named his son Mosiah to become their king. It was, perhaps, during Benjamin's reign that some of the Nephites in Zarahemla became restless and were "... Desirous to possess the land of their inheritance," the land of Nephi, then controlled by the Lamanites (Omni 21-30). After one unsuccessful attempt, Zeniff led a group southward to the land of Nephi. This little colony made peace with the Lamanites in the land of Nephi but were ultimately taken into captivity by them (Mosiah 9:1-6). Mosiah Later, King Mosiah, son of King Benjamin, sent sixteen men under the leadership of Ammon back to the land of Nephi to locate Zeniff and his colony, who previously had gone there (Mosiah 7:2-6). They found the descendants of Zeniff and his followers in captivity because of wickedness. Previously, Alma the Elder had withdrawn with some righteous followers to the waters of Mormon. Alma had become converted through the teachings of Abinadi. (See Mosiah, chapter 17.) Alma's followers and the descendants of Zeniff returned safely to Zarahemla. (See Mosiah, chapters 22 and 24.) King Mosiah gave Alma authority over the Church. Before his death, the great King Mosiah established a democratic form of government among his people when his four sons refused to be king. (See Mosiah, chapter 29.) In the Western Hemisphere, then, 469 people were granted religious liberty at a time when monarchies held sway over the eastern world. Alma the Younger Alma, the Younger, son of Alma, was the first chief judge and high priest in this democracy, however recognizing the vital importance of sound religious practices, he resigned the judgeship so that he could devote his time to the ministry, and preach repentance among the people. Alma, the Younger, in his early life had been associated with the four sons of Mosiah in trying to destroy the work of God which Alma, the Elder, and King Mosiah had so zealously endeavored to build. After a miraculous conversion, however, Alma the Younger became one of the greatest missionaries in the thousand year period of Nephite history. He became a great doctrinal preacher and reformer. He started a reform movement in Zarahemla, trying to divest his people of their envy and pride by preaching the doctrine that Christ should come and redeem mankind. He taught them that Christ should be born of a virgin who should "conceive by the power of the Holy Ghost" and that Christ should redeem mankind from their sins, provided they would repent and come unto him. 'The reform movement, started in Zarahemla, spread to Melek, and Ammonihah. Alma was assisted in part of this missionary work by Amulek, who also was able to exercise the Priesthood with much power. Later, Alma and seven men, including his sons, carried on missionary activities among the Zoramites, whom they encouraged to follow 470 the true spirit of prayer, teaching of Christ and his power to redeem mankind. Soon after his return, Alma reproved his youngest son Corianton for his wayward conduct among the Zoramites, and commended his son Shiblon for his patience in adversity and instructed him to bridle all his passions, to work industriously, to be temperate in all things, and to set his life nght so that God could answer his prayers. Helaman Alma gave to his faithful son Helaman the sacred records and other sacred objects and impressed him with the magnitude of his responsibility as custodian of these sacred things. He taught Helaman to develop in the people an everlasting hatred against sin and iniquity, and to preach repentance and faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. He instructed Helaman concerning his own welfare. He informed him that it would be wise to "... Learn wisdom in thy youth..." (Alma 37:35) and to counsel with God. It was Helaman, serving under Moroni, who led "'... His two thousand stripling soldiers..." (Alma 53:22), faithful Lamanite sons of the people of Ammon. Not one of these "sons" of Helaman perished in the battles because: Now they never had fought, yet they did not fear death; and they did think more upon the liberty of their fathers than they did upon their lives; yea, they had been taught by their mothers, that if they did not doubt, God would deliver them. And they rehearsed unto me the words of their mothers, saying: We do not doubt our mothers knew it (Alma 56:47-48). RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1955 Moroni When wars broke out between the Nephites and apostate Nephites and Lamanites, Moroni, a courageous, God-fearing, liberty-loving Nephite, was made chief captain of all the Nephite armies at the age of twenty-five. Using strategy and counseling with his Father in heaven, he defeated the Lamanites who made an oath that they would never again come against the Nephites. When civil war threatened, Moroni rent his own coat and made a banner of liberty which he carried among the Nephites to enlist them in the preservation of their democracy. There is much we can learn from a study of the lives and teachings of these outstanding Book of Mormon characters. 'The examples they set us can be a source of strength to us in meeting our present-day problems. Let us always remember that these great men, in the face of unusual obstacles and adversities, remained staunch defenders of the truth and preservers of the liberties inherent in God's great plan. Questions and Topics for Discussion 1. What did the Lord say to Moriancumer concerning his faith? 2. What promises to Lehi about this land are vital to our country today? 3. Contrast the life of Nephi with the lives of Laman and Lemuel. 4. Discuss Jacob's statement on riches. 5. Name two principles of the gospel taught by King Benjamin. 6. What form of government did King Mosiah set up? 7. Discuss Alma's missionary activities, and his instructions and blessings to his sons. 8. Why was Moroni a great general? Visiting Seacher ITlessages Book of Mormon Gems of Truth Lesson 33—"For, If Ye Forgive Men Their Trespasses Your Heavenly Father Will Also Forgive You" (3 Nephi 13:14). Edith S. Elliott For Tuesday, October 4, 1955 Objective: To show that to obtain forgiveness from God entails our forgiving our fellow men. N the Savior's sermon to the Nephites one of the subjects that he spoke of was forgiveness. He placed great importance on this code of conduct. In fact, he gave it the status of a law which rules that certain actions on the part of an individual will bring certain rewards or punishments. In 3 Nephi, we are told that if we forgive men their trespasses, our Heavenly Father will forgive us ours. The reverse is also stated which is that we can expect no forgiveness from God unless we forgive our fellow men. This law is indeed a sobering thought and one which needs to be pondered upon often. In_ taking stock of our life's deportment, I wonder if any of us is free from mistakes, misunderstandings, and, perhaps, a bit of wilful or thoughtless disobedience to the laws of God or man. In moments of weakness, we may fall prey to transgression. We read in 1 John 1:8: If we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us. We are all subject to human frailties and, certainly, not invulnerable to temptation. So if we want the divine forgiveness of our God, we must do our part by forgiving our fellows of any acts of harm or unkindness they have done to us. Indeed, the Lord says: I, the Lord, will forgive whom I will forgive, but of you it is required to forgive all men (D. & C. 64:10). Let us teach forgiveness in our homes. We can truly forgive if we have love for God and our brothers in our hearts. The holding of grudges engenders malice and bitterness which make for misery and canker the soul. This state of being can be completely wiped out by sincere forgiveness. 'The joy which comes with forgiveness assures us a buoyancy of spirit. The melting away of prejudice brings comfort and well-being. We are told to forgive "... Until seventy times seven" (Matt. 18:22), which is a lot of forgiving, but, by following this law of the Lord, happiness and contentment come into our lives. 471 Work I lecting—Food Preparation and Service (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 1—F amily Meal Service Rhea H. Gardner For Tuesday, October 11, 1955 Courtesy in the Home COURTESY and consideration of the rights of others are often regarded as synonymous. 'They are essential ingredients for complete happiness. Nowhere are they more important than at the table. (Behavior at the table, as well as at all other places, is an indication of refinement or the lack of it.) The teaching of table manners should be started as soon as a child is allowed to eat at the table and never stopped until they become a regular and natural practice. An Attractive Table Inspires Good Table Manners The homemaker can do much to set the stage for good manners at the table when she makes the table ready for a meal. Attractive table service is not dependent upon elaborateness and expensive table appointments. The simplest table cover and table service, if clean, well cared for, of harmonious colors, and arranged in an orderly manner, are attractive. Orderliness is essential. All table etiquette is based upon it. When a table is properly set and food is served according to approved practices, there is a minimum of disorder and confusion for all concerned. A low centerpiece of garden flowers, a small plant, or a bowl of fresh, colorful fruit, adds to the appearance of the table and the 472 importance of the occasion. All of these things encourage the practice of good table manners. Children often understand what good table manners are, but fail to practice them, especially when the family is alone. 'This could be the fault of the parents in emphasizing the importance of good manners when company comes, but giving little attention to them at other times. In an ideal family life, table service, table manners, and table conversation are essentially the same whether there is company or just the family group. The term casual is applied to meal service in the modern mode, but casual does not mean careless, nor does casual dining mean the omission of good taste and attractive table service. Never should meal service be so simplified as to lose the color, charm, and the satisfaction of some practices which exemplify courtesy. These may include the practice of father seating mother and brothers seating sisters, a particular manner observed by all of folding the arms before the blessing on the food is asked, or just a few words of appreciation to the one who has prepared the meal after it has been enjoyed. Value of Entire Family Being Present for at Least One Meal Wise parents will endeavor to LESSON DEPARTMENT make at least one meal cach day a time for both refreshment and fellowship; a time when the whole family can eat unhurriedly and share pleasant conversation. One doctor believes that the cause of many of our physical and emotional ills can be traced to our manner of eating. He says, "Too many of us gulp down our food with no more refinement than is observed when the gas tanks of our cars are filled." A cheerful, happy, unhurried atmosphere at the table is the best aid to good digestion; even the best of pills are poor substitutes. King Solomon declared in one of his Proverbs, "Better is a dinner of herbs where love is, than a stalled ox and hatred therewith" (Proverbs 15:17). Family mealtime should be so important that each family member gladly and without hesitation gives 473 the same consideration to his family dinner appointment as he does his appointments with non-family members. Some parents discourage the development of courteous mealtime habits by too willingly adjusting their plans and wishes to suit less important ones of their children. Make mealtime for your family one of the most important and pleasant parts of each day. Thoughts for Discussion 1. Parents are judged by the table manners of their children. 2. Importance of children helping to serve the meals. Suggested Activities for Class Leaders 1. Demonstrate the essentials of an attractive, orderly laid table service, using the kind and quality of cover and dishes ordinarily used. LT Le of England Lesson 49—Robert Louis Stevenson, Personality and Poet (1850-1894) Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: The Literature of England, II, Woods, Watt, Anderson, pp. 874-881) For Tuesday, October 18, 1955 Objective: To understand Stevenson's life and mind, that we might more accurately relate his poetic writings to his personality. Acts may be forgiven; not even God can forgive the hanger-back (Stevenson). PERHAPS some English author of the late nineteenth century has written more than Stevenson; certainly none has been read more widely or has known more constantly increasing popularity from his own time to our own decade. But whether he is known to his readers through his writings alone or as he should be, through his writings as related to his heroic life-struggle, he is often regarded not merely as a writer but as a "teacher, tender, comrade, friend." 'To millions he has given enjoyment, largely because he had it to give in such cornucopian 474 abundance. Yet few authors have had less cause to rejoice at life's banquet than he. Stevenson, Writer or Man? As Emerson reminds us, "Though we travel the world over to find the beautiful, we must carry it with us, or we find it not." Yes, for each small blessing and crumb of joy we must indeed be grateful, and Stevenson's poems have enabled countless parents to carry the tranquilities of childhood with them through the years. A Child's Garden of Verses is indeed a classic of children's literature. But to presume an acquaintance with Stevenson after having known his poetry alone is somewhat like labeling Falstaff immortal because of his ponderous size. Particularly in studying this high pinnacle of human spirit, it is Stevenson the man whom we would know; his various writings are isolated fractions of the whole and seriously less than their creator. Stevenson himself referred to his published verse as "mere pithy talk in rhythm." When read in conjunction with his prose, his poetry is rightly seen as a tool whereby he disciplined himself to the careful use of words. Rarely does his poetty arouse deep emotion. It has charm and warmth, but it is not his most natural form of expression. To find the true stature of Stevenson, we are forced to his prose writings and letters. But first we should review the events and atmosphere of his life. Stevenson's character might be summed up as that of an ardent Scotch moral Bohemian who loved writing much, but people and life more. Born in 1850, he filled his RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1955 forty-four years of fragile, intense living with the delicate charm and love of wood nymphs, the racy adventure and gallantry of Scotch border warfare and seaborn freedom, the modern psychologist's awareness of man's conflicting inner life versus outward appearance, and the purple fury of a self-exiled rebel who fought forever for his supreme values of loyalty, kindness, and fairness. The Young Rebel Louis' dark, delicately featured mother worshipped him, bequeathing to him his love of words as well as his profile. His childhood photographs show his long, narrow head and face, dark hair, fair skin, and protruding teeth that made his lips bulge. Plain, sensitive, spouting wisdom beyond his years and reared alone by "Cummy," his devoted but lonely and superstitious country-girl nurse, young Louis was "precocious, interesting, affected, and egregiously egotistic." As a youth he reacted violently against everything Victorian and proper and safe—everything his wealthy, respected parents stood for. Thomas Stevenson, his father, as his father before him, was one of Scotland's most eminent marine architects and engineers. Largeboned, imposing, with mutton-chop whiskers framing his stern mouth; broad nose, bushy brows, he knew without quibble the way his only child was to go. Young Louis was forced through engineering school, and won prizes for excellence; then he was prepared for the bar, but he had no heart for either. Partly as defiance, partly out of love for his real world, he dedicated himself LESSON DEPARTMENT while in his teens to a writing career. Father Stevenson was _ stern, strong-willed and a devout Calvinistic Presbyterian; with family fervor his son countered his father's dogmatisms. During Louis' school days in his home town of Edinburgh, son and father had violent clashes— over theology, career, Louis' way of living, and adolescent determination to marry a low-born girl—which left scar tissue carried by both combatants throughout their lives. As young Louis wrote at the age of twenty-three: What a... Curse I am to my parents! As my father said "You have rendered my whole life a failure." As my mother said '""This is the heaviest affliction that has ever befallen me.'"' O Lord, what a pleasant thing it is to have [crushed| the happiness of (probably) the only two people who care anything about you in the world (Furnas, Voyage to Windward, page 66). The Bohemian Writer Not as a fad but as a testament of his faith Louis adopted the pose and attitude of a Bohemian playboy. He now began wearing the loosefitting, gaudy-colored velvet jackets, wide-lapelled, soft-collared _ shirts, and loose-knit wide-knotted ties which were his lifelong hallmark. His long, stringy, black moustache and his straight hair falling back uncut into a gentle curl atop his jacket collar helped create the pose of the literary man young Stevenson desired to be. And his desire to write was frightening in its fierceness, but it must be thus: he had chosen his career in defiance of his parents' wish, and he had to make good. Knowing full well at what price he had made his 475 A Perry Picture ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON (1850-1894) decision, he paid for it by as intense a discipline to his craft as modern literary history records. Always he carried with him two notebooks: one for descriptive writings, the other for plots, ideas, axioms. For weeks and months on end he was the "sedulous ape," imitating first the style of one great literary artist, then another, until he mastered one of the highest, most difficult arts; self-expression and communication through the written word. How well he succeeded has been best proved by the passage of time. Yet ten years of family scorn, poor health, wandering about Europe, feverish writing, and little acceptance made Louis' success as a writer anything but certain. He had perfected his craft, but he cast desperately hither and yon for a theme 476 —his lifelong problem in his writing. Constantly his father wavered between his love for Louis as a father and his duty to his religious conscience to take action toward anyone holding liberal theological views. Should he disinherit his son or subsidize him, a self-styled literary genius with so weak a chest that each day seemed a prize stolen from fate? Not without misgivings, the father continued to support Louis, and by the time Thomas died, his son, single and married, had cost him more than $50,000, a source of real concern to Louis as well as to his wife. Louis and Fanny: Lovers It was in 1876 in Paris that Louis first saw Fanny Vandegrift Osbourne, a most handsomely dark woman in her late thirties who had left her vagabond American husband to "study art" in France, accompanied by her two adolescent children. Already she had left her soldier - miner - speculator husband twice before and was now keeping company with Bob _ Stevenson, Louis' cousin, who introduced the two; their mutual attraction was both instant and violent. For two years Louis and Fanny met constantly. She nursed Louis through one of his hemorrhage attacks and correctly diagnosed his affliction as tuberculosis three years before doctors acknowledged it as such. Reared in Indiana, she had spent her married years in western mining camps, and after her return from France, she went back to Monterey, California, to ask for a divorce. Without adequate funds or parental knowledge, Louis followed her, traveling steerage and almost starvRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1955 ing in an Oakland garret during the winter of 1879-80. Again he nearly died; again she nursed him back to life, and after their marriage the two honeymooned at Calistoga, the lavish mountain resort established eatlier by Sam Brannan. When funds ran short they spent the summer in Silverado, an abandoned California mining town. Poems of Peace Constantly Louis' ardent friends, Edmund Gosse, William Ernest Henley, Colvin, and others, badgered him to come home. When his father promised the couple 250 pounds annually and asked them to return to Edinburgh, they complied. From the beginning his parents liked Fanny immensely, and Louis knew peace and security within his family circle such as he had not known since childhood. It was in the glow of this renewed love and family approval that he wrote A Child's Garden of Verses, a book dedicated to his childhood nurse, and closed with a note to his beloved mother which stated that the book was written "for love of unforgotten times." 'Thus Stevenson the man re-created the childlike peace and the good world of his first happy years to express the new love and security which had now come to him. Louis Fights for Life During the next decade, 1880- 1890, he and Fanny and her son Lloyd tried all possible places that might give Louis relief from the dreaded hemorrhaging in his lungs. Lloyd reported later that Davos, Switzerland, where they stayed for months, was the only place he ever LESSON DEPARTMENT saw Stevenson show any indications of 'mental inertia," here where he was allowed to write only three hours daily, associating only with fellow consumptives in this bleak, wind-swept valley. 'They next lived in England, and when he was too ill to sit up in bed and write, he tinkered with the piano keys or moulded in clay. But he had long ago stated his great defiance to the world that "I was never bored in my life," and to the end he kept his vow to be vivacious and alive and cheerful until activity killed him. Which it did. They tried the British seacoast, then headed for Colorado, but instead spent the winter at Saranac Lake, New York, at the request of S. S. McClure, the magazine publisher, who appreciated Stevenson's talent and his world fame recently earned him by his Treasure Island (1883), Dr. Jekyl and Mr. Hyde (1885), and his children's poetry. But physically and mentally Louis was not well at Saranac, and Fanny went to California where she located the Casco, a lovely yacht. McClure had offered Stevenson a goodly sum for a series of travel letters, so with money left from his father's estate, supplemented by his own earnings, he bought the yacht, chartered a captain and crew, and on June 28, 1888, a tug pulled the Casco out beyond the Golden Gate. Thus their leisurely cruise of the idyllic South Pacific began, to end in Samoa and four final years of peace and health before his death in 1894. "And where is Samoa?" Stevenson was asked. He replied, "Go out of the Golden Gate and take the first turn to the left." 477 He had a severe hemorrhage at Tahiti, his first in fifteen months, and was so near death that with his usual silent courage he called the captain to him and gave directions for completing the voyage and disposing of the vessel. Such strength of character won his captain over completely; he had started the voyage with biting contempt for literary folk and all their kin. Before they had sailed, so sallow a look did he see in Stevenson's face that he had made certain that all equipment was aboard for a burial at sea. Peace in the Pacific Stevenson loved the Pacific, since it gave him health. But more he loved its people, who were imaginative, kind, spontaneous, and loyal. He learned their language and was vitally concerned in local politics, advising both England and Germany to give up their imperialistic ambitions in the Pacific and allow the natives to govern themselves. And here, as always, he made loyal friends of the consuls, administrators, and natives. Here it was that he gave away his birthday to the daughter of the United States Land Commissioner of Samoa _ because hers fell on Christmas. From Vailima, his Samoan home, Louis kept up a vast correspondence with his many friends, never complaining of isolation, always rejoicing in his right to live, always realizing that his "soul is in the journey," and that man is "'born for the struggle," tasting life only in effort and on the condition that he is opposed. For amusement he characterized Fanny: She runs the show.... Insane black eyes, boy's hands, tiny bare feet... 478 Hellish energy; relieved by fortnights of entire hibernation. Can make anything from a house to a row, all fine and large of their kind. Doctors everybody, will doctor you, cannot be doctored herself. A violent friend, a brimstone enemy. Is always either loathed or slavishly adored (Furnas, Voyage to Windward, page 410). The natives said she had eyes in the back of her head, was fifty places at once, and was to be feared and obeyed. Yet she was "good" for Louis, and she found her sense of life-accomplishment in that of her husband. Her native names were Aolele "flying cloud," and another, meaning Witch Woman of the Mountain. After Stevenson's death she moved to California, and there edited his letters. When she died in 1914, her daughter Belle fulfilled her wish by carrying her ashes to Mt. Vaea_ overlooking Vailima where she lies beneath the concrete slab which also covers Stevenson. Stevenson's Personality The natives named him Tusitala —teller of tales—but he translated it "Chief White Information." And his own self-description is delightful: Exceedingly lean, black eyes, crowsfooted... Past eccentric... Present industrious, respectable and fatuously contented. Really knows a good deal but has lived so long with aforesaid family... That you might talk a week to him and never guess it... Name in family, The 'Tame Celebrity.... Hopelessly entangled in apron-strings. Drinks plenty. Curses some. Temper unstable. Manners purple on emergency, but liable to trances. Essentially the common old copy-book gentleman of commerce; if accused of cheating at cards would feel bound to blow out brains, little as he could like the job..... Given to explaining the Universe—Scotch, air, Scotch (Furnas, Voyage to WAndward, pp. 410-411). RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1955 Regardless of other lacks or possessions, the life of stevenson and everything he said or did radiates charm. His was a magic personality, and those who were closest to him found him most charming and lovable. When he married Fanny he married the entire family. While he had no children of his own, on several occasions he almost killed himself in his exertions to please children by washing their dolls, cavorting with them, carrying them piggyback. Never was he "Father" to Lloyd Osbourne, but "Louis," a loved and trusted friend, with whom he joked and teased. Married Love Best of all was his relation to Fanny who gave him fourteen years of happiness. Upon being asked his birthday Stevenson replied in dead seriousness, "May 10, 1880," (their marriage date) and no one smiled, for all realized how much she had brought to his life. As he lay in bed, forbidden to exert himself even by whispering, he penned poems to Fanny beginning ""T'o the bare brown feet of my wife and daughter dear," feet that had run his errands for thirteen years. Another note read, "Mr. Dumbleigh presents his compliments and praises God that he is sick so he has to be cared for by two tender loving fairies. Was ever man so blest?" All of us have grown up with the smoothly-turned lines, the gentle thymes, the delight of seeing the world forever through the eyes of a child as found in "Oh, how I love to go up in the swing," "I have a little shadow that goes in and out with me," "In winter I get up at LESSON DEPARTMENT night and dress by yellow candlelight," and "Every night my prayers I say, and get my dinner every day." In view of the events and patterns of his own life, his: The world is so full of a number of things, I'm sure we should all be as happy as kings.... Has particular power. All these poems have their counterpart in his stories and essays. While sometimes they seem to paint children in his world as too good to be true, they do catch for us the emotions and perspectives of children. Stevenson speaks to us as adults also, both in prose and in poetry. The close relationship between his prose and poetry is well illustrated by his comments on marriage. At Davos, Switzerland, eighteen months after his marriage, he wrote: Marriage is one long conversation, chequered by disputes. The disputes are valueless; they but ingrain the difference; the heroic heart of woman prompting her at once to nail her colours to the mast. But in the intervals, almost unconsciously and with no desire to shine, the whole material of life is turned over and over, ideas are struck out and shared, the two persons more and more adapt their notions one to suit the other, and in process of time, without sound of trumpet, they conduct each other into new worlds of thought (Furnas, Voyage to Wéindward, pp. 258-259). ° How wise and sane and true, stated in prose that is clean and straight. Now compare this with one of the many poems he wrote his wife, enclosed as the dedication of The Weir of Hermiston, the novel left unfinished at his death, but surely to have been his greatest work: 479 Take thou the writing; thine it is. For who Burnished the sword, blew on the drowsy coal, Held still the target higher, chary of praise And prodigal of counsel—who but thou? So now, in the end, if this the least be good, If any deed be done, if any fire Burn in the imperfect page, the praise be thine. If still a doubt lingers that the love of Louis and Fanny Stevenson was one of the great of all time, then read from his soul into yours his serene, confident love for his wife as found in "My Wife' (text, page 880): Teacher, tender, comrade, wife, A fellow-farer true through life, Heart-whole and soul-free The august father Gave to me. The Highest Duty In his earlier years Louis remarked, 'Death admires me even if the publishers do not." Yet with death his never distant, constant companion, he dared to find happiness and wonder and love within his short life span. Now we can end with his own thought, in which we find deeper overtones of meaning than before, "There is no duty that men under-rate so severely as the duty of being happy." May God rest such a soul. Thoughts for Discussion 1. Why did Stevenson write A Child's Garden of Verses when he did? What relation do these poems have to his own life? 2. After examining his life in relation to his poems, discuss Stevenson as a "charming person." 3. What evidence can you present to prove the relationship of Louis and Fanny as one of the great loves of history? 480 4. Is Stevenson greater as a writer of prose or poetry? What is the strongest quality of his poems? 5. Discuss the importance in our lives RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1955 of the statement "There is no duty that men under-rate so severely as the duty of being happy." How did Stevenson's life exemplify this? Social Science =e Constitution of the United States Lesson 15—The Constitution Established Elder Albert R. Bowen For Tuesday, October 25, 1955 Objective: To emphasize the great importance of Washington's administration and how that administration laid the foundation upon which a successful constitutional Government was established. George Washington Elected First President HE fourth of March 1789 was designated as the historic date upon which the Government of the United States, under the Constitution, was to have its inception. Prior to that date presidential electors, chosen in elections held in January 1789, selected George Washington to be the President of the new Nation. Much against his will, and reluctantly leaving a retirement which he had so richly earned, Washington accepted once more the call of his country. It is not without reason that George Washington is referred to as the "father of his country." He had provided the leadership and inspiration during the long years of struggle for independence. At the conclusion of the war he had retired to his much beloved Mount Vernon hoping to spend his remaining years in managing his estates and living the life of a country gentleman of his time. He was summoned from this retirement when a crisis demanded his reputation and leadership to prevent the collapse of the infant Nation, hopelessly struggling to launch itself under the Articles of Confederation. His contribution to the Constitutional Convention was monumental. It is true that his contribution to the draftsmanship of the great document was not important, but the weight of his reputation and the universal love and respect in which he was held were decisive in holding the convention together. It is not an exaggeration to say that without the influence of Washingon, it is extremely doubtful that there would ever have been a Constitution. Now once more and,, for the last time, Washington was to lead his countrymen again. The choice of Washington was not only logical and sound, it was imperative. 'The Constitution was adopted only after a long and bitter struggle. It was not until 1790 that all of the states had ratified it. It is open to question that even a majority of the people favored its LESSON DEPARTMENT adoption. It will be remembered that it was not submitted to the direct vote of the people, but was ratified in conventions of delegates chosen by the people. In an atmosphere of distrust harbored by a very large segment of the population, the manner in which the new Government launched itself was all important. It required the leadership of the one of its citizens who would be accepted by all without question or dovbt. That man was George Washington. Events were to verify the wisdom of that choice. By the time Washington finished his second term of office, the Republic was on sound and solid footing. The struggles which followed the time of Washington's administration were never able to destroy the foundations which had been laid under his great leadership. Establishing the New Government -The new Government was to assemble at its designated seat in New York on the day appointed. It is an interesting observation of the difficulty of travel and communication of that day that the appointed day came and went and no government was_ established. The difficulties of travel were enormous, and the members of the new Government were unable to assemble on time. During the interim which followed there was literally no National Government. The old government had dissolved itseif and the new one was not able to take over. Legislative Branch Organized By April 6, 1789 there were suf- 481 ficient members of Congress in New York to organize the Legislative Branch of the Government, but Washington was not inaugurated until the 30th of April. The President's journey from Mount Vernon was a continuous ovation. It must have warmed his heart and filled him with emotion to see the love and devotion of his countrymen. Executive Branch Formed Washington formed the Executive Branch of the Government with a Cabinet of four members to head the four departments of the Government created by Congress. Since political parties were non-existent, Washington was able to choose whom he pleased to fill the Cabinet posts. He was beholden to no party for favors and consequently owed political debts to no one. What an enviable position for a political figure to occupy! No other President was ever destined to hold office under such circumstances. The Cabinet The Constitution makes no provision for the President's Cabinet as such. The framers assumed that the Senate would attempt to fill the role of advisor to the President. But the first Senate was reluctant to advise President Washington, and the effort to consult the Senate before appointments were made, or even pre-consultation on treaties, was dropped and never revived. President Washington began to call department heads into consultation meetings, called "Cabinet meetings." 'The Cabinet is today, as it began, an informal group without legal sanction, its personnel de- 482 termined by tradition and the will of the President. The Cabinet meets only at the request of the President, has only the authority he vests in it, and may be dissolved if the President wishes. In practice it plays an important part in determining policy and coordinating administrative work. (See Constitution, Article II, Section 2, Clause 1; See Y. R. C., pp. 126-129. ) Traditionally the heads of executive departments compose the Cabinet. 'These departments were established by Congress in the following order: State (originally Foreign Affairs) in 1789 Post Office (Post Master General 1789) in 1872 War, 1789 (incorporated into Department of Defense in 1947) Treasury, 1789 Justice (Attorney General, 1789) 1870 Navy, 1789 (lost Cabinet status in 1947) Interior (originally Home) 1849 Agriculture, 1862 Commerce (originally Commerce and Labor) 1903 Labor, 1913 Defense (National Defense established) 1947 Health, Education, and Welfare, 1952. For his Secretary of State Washington selected Thomas Jefferson of Virginia. For Secretary of the 'Treasury he chose the young and very brilliant Alexander Hamilton of New York. General Knox of Massachusetts was named Secretary of War, and Edmund Randolph of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1955 Virginia as Attorney General. Knox and Randolph were not to play important parts; but Hamilton and Jefferson were to become the exponents of opposite philosophies of government which have continued into our own day to exert strong and continuing influence. Jefferson was "the most conspicuous... Apostle of democracy and one of the great liberals of modern times." Hamilton feared lax government as reflected in events transpiring in Europe and stood for strong government; but Jefferson placed his trust in the individual, and became the idol of American democracy. They formed about themselves the two parties of Democrats and Federalists. In the beginning the influence of the new National Government was barely felt. It moved slowly. It was Hamilton, who, in implementing the fiscal policies of the new Government, gave it impetus and directicn. The direction in which Hamilton led collided squarely with the opposition of Jefferson and to these two great Americans must go the credit for laying the foundations of what developed into the American political system. Congress Enacts Judiciary Act Before going into more detail concerning Hamilton and his activities, it may be said, in passing, that Congress enacted a Judiciary Act, thus giving form to the Supreme Court. The part which the Judiciary was foreordained to play in our constitutional system will be reserved for a later lesson. Suffice it to say at this point, the influence of the court was soon to manifest itself LESSON DEPARTMENT under the great leadership of John Marshall, the third and our greatest Chief Justice. Bill of Rights Approved and Ratified It was during this first congressional session that Congress approved sixteen Amendments to the Constitution, ten of which were ratified by the states to form the Bill of Rights. Hamilton Establishes Credit of Government The most serious and _ pressing problem of the Government was financial. 'The country was at peace and our foreign relations were slight, but the public credit was at a low ebb. Into the problem of establishing the credit of the Government on a sound and firm basis, Hamilton threw himself with energy and enthusiasm. Hamilton was only thirty-two years of age when he became Secretary of the Treasury. He had been a close associate of Washington and had been his aide during the war. He was a lawyer and brilliant in his profession, a leader of the bar of New York. Hamilton had rendered outstanding service in the campaign to secure ratification of the Constitution. Some of the most profound and brilliant essays in the Federalist were the products of his pen. Hamilton believed in a_ strong central government. He conceived government in its ideal form to be that composed of the wealthy and educated class and was, by nature, aristocratic and suspicious of popular government. It was his philosophy that if he could establish a strong National Government, able 483 to bestow favors upon the influential citizens of the country and protect the value of property, such a government would remain strong and withstand the assaults of the groups who would, for private and selfish reasons, seek to destroy it. Plan for Supporting National Credit Hamilton's opportunity came almost immediately upon his appointment to the Cabinet, when Congress requested him to submit a plan for the support of the national credit. Within three months' time Hamilton was ready with his plan. It was a master stroke of financial genius. It was proposed by him, first of all, that the entire foreign debt of the National Government— amounting to nearly $12,000,000 including interest—should be paid in full. He next proposed to settle the domestic debt of some $42,000,000 by issuing Government bonds bearing interest. 'he money received from the sale of these bonds would be used to pay off the domestic indebtedness dollar for dollar. Finally, he recommended that the Federal Government should assume the debts of the state governments in the amount of $25,000,000. The latter two suggestions, relating to the domestic and state indebtedness, raised a storm of protest. For example, some of the states had all but paid off their indebtedness; and there was indignation in those states at the suggestion that their reward for frugality should be to be given the job of helping to pay the debts of their less thrifty neighbors. In the states where those debts were large, it may be assumed that Ham- 484 ilton's suggestion met with enthusiastic support. Hamilton's suggestion set off a wave of frantic speculation in the purchase of the badly depreciated currency and securities of the country, whose value had sunk to about one-fifth of their face value. Speculators sent agents throughout the country to buy up as much as could be purchased before the news became general that the Government was going to redeem dollar for dollar. In this way there is no denying that a few people reaped great profits from their inside knowledge of the Government's intentions. Nevertheless, Hamilton's plan was sound; and its adoption soon resulted in great benefit and strength to the new Government. The method of paying off current public indebtedness by issuing longterm bonds bearing interest had been developed and used in England by English financiers with great success. Hamilton demonstrated his ability to deal with such questions with as much wisdom and understanding as that possessed by any of the Old World financiers of his day. In fact, it may be said that Alexander Hamilton has never been surpassed in his performance of the duties of the head of the financial department of our Government. Hamilton's next proposal was to create a central Government bank patterned on the order of the Bank of England. His purpose in proposing this bank was further to strengthen the control of the Government over its securities and fhnances, and to lend solidarity and strength to the moneyed interests of the country. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1955 Over great opposition the bank was created; but not until the Supreme Court of the United States, in the celebrated case of McCullough vs. Maryland, upheld the creation of the bank as within the constitutional powers of the Government. Protection of Domestic Industry and Manufacture Hamilton next went to Congress with his Report on Manufactures by which he set forth his arguments in support of the protection of domestic industry and manufacture by a system of tariffs. This report touched off an argument which has lasted into our own day concerning the endless debate between protective tariffs as opposed to free trade. Avoidance of Foreign Alliances by Washington In its foreign relations the new Government assumed a position of strict neutrality. Washington advocated an independent course in world affairs which would involve the country in as little dispute with other nations as possible. He shunned alliances and becoming embroiled in the disputes between European nations. Often, even under great provocation, the Govern- - ment refused to become so involved. It was Washington's belief and philosophy that the new Nation needed time to establish itself and become strong, and, if sufficient time could be obtained, the day would come when America would be so strong that none would dare attack her. On the other hand, there were many who would have been glad to take sides in the European quarrels, usually on the side LESSON DEPARTMENT of France, our old friend and ally. (Washington's foreign policy will be discussed in detail in Lesson 20 for April 1956.) The great wisdom of Washington regarding foreign entanglements and the financial sagacity of Hamilton which so successfully implemented the credit and financial strength of the country, were major factors in the success of launching the United States under its new Constitution. Every American should remember with great gratitude the service to freedom which was rendered by the first administration of the Government under Washington. Questions on the Lesson 1. For what reasons could the selection of George Washington as our first President be regarded as providential? 2, What was Hamilton's great contribution to the National Government? 3. Why was Hamilton's work of such great importance? 4. Who were the founders of the American political system? > Walk Beside Me Josephine H. Beck My child, Walk out into the new day, In the shining sunlight; Watch the seagulls glide Gracefully in flight. My child, See the mountains stand in glory Against the eastern sky; Hear the lark call at dusktime, When the lane of the stars is high. My child, Walk beside me for a little time, Learn the wonders of the land, And bind faith upon your heart; I cannot always hold your hand. 485 Choral Collections For Ladies Three Part Choruses =... Library Collection No. 1—Fox...........85 ~.... Auditorium Collection No. 1—Harms...75 ae Auditorium Collection No. 2—Harms...75 —_ Auditorium Collection—Remick...........75 =...0 Auditorium Collection—Witmark........75 me Let's All Sing!—Stone........................ «85 stra Let There Be Song!—Ehret.................85 _— Showtunes—Schirmer.................--------- 1.00 sz Showtime Choral Collection No. 1— Chappell.. 75 _— Showtime Choral Collection No. 2— T. B. Harms... 75 — Music Sent on Approval — Use this advertisement as your order blank DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 45-47 South Main Salt Lake City 1, Utah Please send the music indicated above. (1 On Approval O Charge ( Money Enclosed Name Address 145 NORTH UNIVERSITY, PROVO « 2260 WASHINGTON L/D, =... Choral-Time—Marks ' City & State ALLY. 75 I 45-47 SpUTH MAIN Rneel to Your Child Christie Lund Coles a of us have seen children reaching their arms to mothers or fathers, seeking to be near them, and the parent be too occupied to notice, to take the time to bend down and give the child what he desperately needs — love and approval, a moment's safety from life, terrifying to a small one in an enormous world. On the other hand, who has not seen a parent — or loved one — kneel down with outstretched arms to the seeking child? If there is a lovelier picture, I have failed to see it.. The power of the act was brought to my attention recently. A neighbor's small daughter was going to have breakfast with me. Her brother, four, came to the door and asked if he might eat with us. The girl — who had a right to be there because she had slept with me — told him he could not until he had obtained permission from his parents. 'The mother was ill and the father had worked that previous night, so it seemed doubtful either would be awake. Yet, he came back, saying his father had said it was all night. So, the three of us ate happily together. However, the next day, the two children were on the lawn, when I came out. The girl said, accusingly, "Now, you go tell her you lied to her yesterday." The boy's eyes were wide and frightened and very near to tears, as he ran toward me, trying to smile, his arms outstretched, saying, "I lied to you yesterday. Daddy didn't say I could come for breakfast." I knelt down suddenly to receive him into my arms. I managed a smile as I told him, "That's too bad. But I'm sure you will not do it again. We'll forgive you this time." He clung to me there for a moment, then, he whispered, "I love you." I repeated the words and I think both of us, as well as the day, were a little better because of it. In our rushing I think we sometimes forget how good children innately are, how pliable, how easily molded. They learn much of their unkindness and thoughtlessness from us. When my daughter was a child, one day I foolishly said to her, "If you do that I shan't like you." She looked at me out of her complete innocence to answer, "Maybe I could do something so you wouldn't like me, but nothing you could do would make me not like you." I went down on my knees to her, then, to hold her close. It was easy. But there were other times when it was more difficult, though always I found our problem solved if I could reach down to her, look into her eyes and Jet her know how I loved her. Jesus has taught us to solve our problems by love. In my opinion this is particularly needed in problems involving children. Someone wisely said, "Children need love, especially when they don't deserve it." Occasionally, why not take time to kneel down and take your child in your arms, to look into his face, his eyes, his very soul, to let him know your heart is full of loving interest? And while you are on your knees, thank God for the goodness and the sweetness that have been entrusted to your care. Page 486 She Yump R ug Elizabeth Williamson MATERIALS Old white sheets torn into strips Discarded black skirts for the footprints and border A gunny sack tacked to a wood frame One hook rug needle. Es small hooked rug, made from old sheets, was thought up by a teenage gitl who likes to jump out of bed onto a soft rug. The carpet in her room was fine, but the pleasure derived from the touch of a softer rug appealed to her, so she went to work and made her "jump?? Tug. Pioneer Srek Eunice J. Miles On the twisting trails, Over rough-hewn roads, The creaking whitetops Protested their loads. Here she hushed her child And cooked their meals, While her thoughts rolled on With the wagon wheels. THE WORLD'S FINEST PIANOS Mason & Hamlin The = of Pianos EVERETT Finest Toned Spinet Piano Built Cable - Nelson Finest Low Priced Piano Built lo All Obtainable At Beesley Music Co. Pioneer Piano People 70 §. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH ELECTRIC COOKING costs the average family "a only about ~— 9¢ a day Cx Be Modern Live Electrically _UTAH POWER & LIGHT -CO. Page 487 THE HISTORIC TRAIN Leaves Salt Lake City August 5th FOR THE GREAT PAGEANT at the Hill Cumorah as well as Denver, INDEPENDENCE, NAUVOO, CARTHAGE, Chicago, Cleveland, KIRTLAND TEMPLE, Niagara Falls, Palmyra, SHARON, VERMONT, Boston, New York, Washington, and MOUNT VERNON, etc, For complete details write or phone— VIDA FOX CLAWSON 966 East South Temple SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Phone 4-2017 Look Ahead! At LDS The years you spend in preparation for your career are short... But what you do with them determines your future. Only L. D. S. Business College offers all of these things: ® Spiritual classes and environment. ® Girls' Dormitory for out-of-town students. ® Thorough and Professional training. Up-to-date Equipment. A variety of subjects. A skilled and enthusiastic faculty. College credit. LDS BUSINESS COLLEGE Page 488 ATTENTION! SINGING MOTHERS GROUPS Who Will Furnish Music For Relief Society Conference September 29th! "Forth in Thy Name, O Lord, I Go''.....20 S. S. A. "When Children Pray" 00.00.00. 18 Three part for female voices "Recessional'' — Three part................ 18 Women's voices "Lord, Hear Our Prayer"....................- 15 S. S. A. "How Happy All They"......................-. 15 Three part "The Silent Sea" o. Oo eeeeeeseeeenee 020 Three part women's voices "Unto Thee, | Lift Mine Eyes"............ 18 S. S. A. "Still, Still, With Thee' oot eee MAIL ORDERS PROMPTLY FILLED GLEN BROS. MUSIC CO. Salt Lake City 74 South Main It's awaiting You... E YES there is still a tremendous amount of outstanding instruction and use awaiting you in this and other copies of the Relief Society Magazine. Your editions may be handsomely bound at the West's finest bindery and printing plant for $2.50 cloth bound and $3.50 leather bound per volume plus postage for mail orders. Follow these postage rates if you send your order by mail: Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles _....-..... Eee seeeeeeeeeeeees 150 to 300 miles.. A 300 to 600 miles.. & 600 to 1000 miles.. 1000 to 1400 miles wf 1400 to 1800 miles............0.00..--.2----- 76 Over 1800 miles _.....2..-e ene.87 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press 31 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah Phone 4-258] Se) Werte TT ahh wv - Mio We one aur wens) oe - HLowso7 on Order by Mail 1. DOCUMENTARY HISTORY OF THE CHURCH Set of volumes $10.95 (.65 postage by mail) Individual volumes priced as follows: VOLUME | $3.00 VOLUME II $1.00 VOLUMES Ill, IV, V and VI $1.25 ea. VOLUME Vil $3.00 Plus 15¢ postage for each individual volume 2. BOOK OF MORMON Cloth bound — Library edition Regularly $2.00, NOW $.98 3. MILLIONS OF MEETINGS This Book Will Help You Plan and Conduct Better Meetings. Va'uable information is given on how to conduct and prepare assembly meetings, instruction meetings, council meetings, and others. $2.25 — a ee ee eee —a > oo —_ oe oe eee ee Open a Convenient 1 hour free parking in Charge Account ZCMI's Parking Terrace with your $2.00 purchase; I | | DESERET BOOK COMPANY | 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah | | Gentlemen: | Enclosed you will find ( ) check ( money order | ( ) charge to my account for the following numbered en- | circled books: 1 2 3 | If number one is encircled, state set or particular volume | I | | Na nnn ccc cee cece ce tee sceensnnsseeaeeeeecesseesseeeseees | Our fo urth and Present DAVID oO. McKA Second President Was J GRANT (1918 to 1945) 7.. 'é ee ae Our present President, David oO. Than a 490-folg Increase Over the life Msurag of that first SUCCess fy] year business volume 5 Teputation ial Yeay. Third President GEORGE ALBERT SMITH (1945 t, 1951) F mplete its Golden Anniversary Yea var F hae Y1aquieao Dj SUdsSe)] ine 4 » * She Mountain Chimber Maryhale Woolsey Blithely, sure-footed, the year climbed a mountain— _ Sun at his shoulder, and shortening shadow. Green at his heels, and sprinkle of blossoms, Followed him up from the valley and meadow. Now, at midsummer, he stands on the summit Proudly, and wrapped in monarchial splendor; Sun at his head, pouring brilliance around him; World at his feet in contented surrender. Brief is his season of tallness and triumph; He must descend soon, to valley, to meadow, Trailing bright remnants of glory behind him; Sun in his eyes, and lengthening shadow. The Cover: "Lone Cypress on Midway Point, Near Carmel, California," Photograph by Don Knight Frontispiece Photograph: "Green River Lake and Old Flat Top in the Wind River Range, Wyoming," Photograph by Don Knight Srom lear and Sar For some months I have regularly received your little book through the generosity of a dear friend in Utah. May I say how much I look forward to and enjoy it. The verses are especially good, and it is very interesting to read the recipes (so different from ours), and to have an insight into an American lady's home. I pass my book around, so many of my friends enjoy it also. I think you are doing a great deal towards helping to make the world a friendly and happier place. —Mrs. E. Brown Reading, Berkshire England Congratulations to Frances Yost for her story in the May Magazine "Forever Orchid." I think it is one of the best she has written—not because she is a good friend and neighbor, but because the story was so appropriate for Mother's Day. I enjoy the Magazine very much. —Blanche Robison Bancroft, Idaho Thank you for a wonderful Magazine. I enjoy it so much and have taken it for twenty-five years. In the May issue I especially enjoyed "Forever Orchid' by Frances Yost. It seems as if she wrote it just for me—as if it were my story. I read it one day, and the next day I received my first orchid from my son who is going to school in California. 1, too, was on the Mother's Day program at Sunday School. I hope to read more stories by Frances Yost. —Melva Law Meridian, Idaho We enjoy the Magazine very much and look forward to its arrival each month. We are trying to encourage more members to subscribe because we feel that it should be in every Latter-day Saint home. —Nora C. Duncan, President South African Mission Relief Society Mowbray, South Africa Page 490 There was so much to praise in this gay copy of the June Magazine. I felt I must convey my praise on so many items.... Elder Harold B. Lee's timely article on marriage made one hope it will be shared in all homes.... The two new general board members are certainly well chosen. I know Annie M. Ellsworth, and I was greatly impressed with the rich life Sister Young brings to the valiant group. I especially love poetry and I share all that appeals to me. Sister Cannon's '""Woman's Sphere" I seek out the very first thing, and I always wish there were two full pages. Anything that makes us appreciate our beloved land like "From Sea to Shining Sea," by Vesta Pierce Crawford; also Sister Miner's words I never miss, and Rhea H. Gardner has most helpful lessons. By the way, if anyone missed Margaret Hardy ("A Good Day"), go back and read and share it.... Sorry the space is all gone, but you all are a blessing, and I am going to grow some basil ('Herbs for Modern Cookery—Basil") as outlined on page 416. —Laura R. Merrill Logan, Utah We would like to let you know that the Magazine gives us much joy, and also we feel to be in contact with the saints in Utah. We thank you and send many greetings. —Albert Larsson Konstanz, Germany I am a member of the L. D. S. Church, of which I am very proud. There is only one thing I wish and that is that I could be closer to the Church. I live twenty miles away and don't have a car, and I don't get to go to Church very often unless_ someone should happen to think about me. I have a small hotel here at LaBarge, and when we first started our branch up here we held Church in my lobby for nine months, but now the branch has moved to Big Piney. I am sixty-eight years old. Enclosed find $1.50 for my Magazine. —KEdith Dervos LaBarge, Wyoming THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - - - - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - First Counselor Velma N. Simonsen - - - - - Second Counselor Margaret C. Pickering - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Mary G. Judd Evon W. Peterson Alberta H. Christensen Winniefred S. Anna B. Hart Leone O. Jacobs Mildred B. Eyring Manwaring Edith S. Elliott Louise W. Madsen Helen W. Anderson Elna P. Haymond Florence J. Madsen Aleine M. Young Gladys S. Boyer Annie M. Elisworth Leone G. Layton Josie B. Bay Charlotte A. Larsen Mary R. Young Blanche B. Stoddard Christine H. Robinson Edith P. Backman RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - 3° 2 - - - c - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Edito - - - = = o 3 = - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spattord Vol. 42 AUGUST 1955 No. 8 Conten ts SPECIAL FEATURES The Family Hour in Our Home LaRue S. Pettit and E. Alan Pettit 592 A Home Where Past and Present Meet 2... Cscs eccsssseesssnsesssetecssneseesceneeeessDorothy J. Roberts $10 Admission to Dedicatory Services of the Temple in Berne, Switzerland............ First Presidency Light Bulbs oo... 2... Eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee Elsie Scott 517 Chokecherries Meant Adventure oo... Nell Murbarger 522 An Invisible Means of Support _ Caroline E. Miner 585 Look to the Mountains = Blanche Johnson 560 Trouble..............-.- a... Oa Lucille R. Taylor 559 A Song of the Heart Elsie Sim Hansen 559 FICTION Special Birthday—Part I Olive W. Burt 496 Meet Mother, Jody Rosa Lee Lloyd 502 The Last Clearing 5: Florence B. Dunford 518 Hermanas—Chapter 20 ccrsscssssssssssssssecssecescececeesececncoesescescosecsneaees Fay Tarlock 526 GENERAL FEATURES Sixty Years Ago....... Se ae 512 Womnan's Sphere once ecccececsssseccsnsnceessessecscesececsececeessesenacecsesesnecceeeceeeconeeansesessesesseeeaeeesRamona W. Cannon 513 Editorial: Family Patterns Marianne C. Sharp 514 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities -....... Margaret C. Pickering 533 FEATURES FOR THE HOME Do You Serve Five-Star Meals to Your Family?.............. Rhea H. Gardner 516 Mary Elizabeth Felts Has Made Four Hundred and Eighty Quilts §25 Whole-Wheat Bread. Essie Nellis 532 The Cat Rug..... N-.---.-c-c-ceeeeeeeeeeee eee a... A Elizabeth Williamson 556 Watchers of the Fires Kate Richards 557 LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER Theology: Political and Religious Distintegration.............. Leland H. Monson 538 Visiting Teacher Messages: "But Thou, When Thou Prayest' 00... EeeEdith &. Elliott 542 Work Meeting: Meal Planning -.0.0........:.:::: seceeecececeeeeceeeeeeees Rhea H. Gardner 543 Literature: Stevenson's Prose oou....... CscsscsseccssesesesecscsneessscoaesceceaesecescecaeeaneeeeseaesceecensenseeesessBriant &. Jacobs 545 Social Science: The Living Constitution Albert R. Bowen 551 POETRY The Mountain Climber—Frontispiece aa. Maryhale Woolsey 489 The Land Is Still _ Elsie McKinnon Strachan' 501 Repentance Jean Mattinson 515 Down Summer Lanes Gertrude T. Kovan $17 The Length. Frances C. Yost 521 Would You Find Pee? IceccecccsccescsssssceeseesssseseeceeseeeeseseseecesececscecectensseseceeseseeseseneteseneneesereeeesGene Romolo 531 PAM es CLS NE Te WS TSs LeU Weeeerescmenetteee cecererrareramrenseveresseenvayreacsewoeausewseraererenceanereererenscereeerensrenseazinDora Toone Brough 532 Implicit Margery S. Stewart 557 Revenant Ethel Jacobson 557 They Pass im Review oi... EcececcecececcececesececeeeeeceseecseeeeeeteneeeeceseceesescececesseesseensaseneesseeeosecsveneseseneesEva Cordery 560 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 40 North Main, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 8, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. From Near and Far.....-. Csscesesecececcececeecceeseeevsesesseceecsseseseseenssbensoeceduseseoeensuentneseaeanensneecenneeseecseees 490 The Family Hour in Our Home LaRue S. Pettit and E. Alan Pettit, President Bakersfield Stake UR family was sitting around the supper table on a late spring day. Daddy mentioned that he would take the next day off, and asked if the family would like an outing. A family council was held. Daddy had a Church meeting after supper, so each of the children had to help. Alan, age fourteen, offered to see that cooking equipment and a large thermos of water were ready. Loneta, age thirteen, arranged to pack the lunch. Raymond, age eleven, agreed to have the extra clothes ready. Gaye, age eight, was to get her own clothes ready and help with the lunch. Mother was to follow up and see that each was ready. Plans were made to leave home about eight a. M. Each person helped plan and prepare for the outing. The outing the next day was spent on the Mojave Desert, looking for rocks for our collection, hiking over the desert hills, observing the wild flowers, cooking hot dogs over a fire built by the children, and playing games. Outings such as this, planned quickly and smoothly, with everyone having a part, are enjoyed once or twice a month. 'They are actually the outgrowth of many years of different family activities. Regardless of how busy we have been with Church affairs or business problems, we have made a point of spending an evening or two a week with the Page 492 children, and a couple of full days each month for such a trip. These family activities started when Alan was about three years old. The early Family Hour consisted of a regular weekly family meeting. 'These meetings followed a regular pattern: an opening song and prayer, discussion of family business, which included jobs around the house for Daddy and Mother, as well as for the children, assignments to the children to help with household tasks, a checkup on previous assignments, and a discussion of family plans, perhaps to prepare an outing such as the one described above. This regular business was followed carefully, and we tried to make the children a part of the family planning. After the business, we had a program which was planned and put on by the children. Each one of the family would present a number: a reading, a song, a story or poem, or quote the Articles of Faith, which we tried to have the children memorize. Alan would, at times, give a trumpet solo; Loneta would play her violin; and Raymond would play the clarinet. Gaye would often sing a song which she made up as she sang. This program was followed by a scripture story by Mother and instructions from Father on a Church teaching or on a problem pertaining to the children's conduct. The Family Hour was closed by family prayer, and afterwards, refreshments were often served by Mother. THE FAMILY HOUR IN OUR HOME 493 THE E. ALAN PETTIT FAMILY Left to right: Raymond; Sister LaRue S. Pettit; Loneta; Gaye; Brother E. Alan Pettit; Alan. This type of Family Hour has been followed for years, though the program has varied from time to time. Sometimes the ward teachers would come during this little meeting and would take part, their lesson making very appropriate instructions. Often the grandparents were present, at which times an effort was made by the children to prepare something special. 'The children would sometimes prepare a play, making up their own script, and arranging the front room to look like a stage by using quilts and blankets for curtains. URING the years many changes were made. The "Family Court" was developed in an effort to give the children a means to work out some of their personal difficulties with each other. The "Court" was held as a part of the business of the Family Hour, and records were kept in the "Family Log" in which we make a record of the Family Hour and its activities. When one of the children had trouble with another member of the family, he would prepare a written "complaint." This complaint described the problem, and gave a time and place when the difficulty happened. It had to be in writing, or we would not consider it. For the little children, this meant that they had to have the older children write down their complaint, or, at times, 494 their mother would write it. During the Family Court the complaint was opened and read, with Father acting as the judge. The person writing the complaint was asked to explain his problem; other members of the family were questioned as witnesses, and the "defendant" was given a chance to give his story. Then a decision was given: a reprimand, a small fine, or a dismissal. These complaints covered such matters as: someone making too much noise at bedtime, not putting his toys away, not picking up his clothes, failing to help with his assignments. Usually such little complaints gave occasion for much laughter and fun, and the problems seemed to lose their seriousness. At times a Family Rule was violated, and the children would be called to task. Such Family Rules were varied and made to apply to particular problems. For example: the children all had bicycles about the same time. It was noticed that they would often ride out of the driveway into the street without looking. A rule was made that each person going out of the driveway would have to stop his bike completely and look for cars before going into the street. Each violation would cost a fine of ten cents. One of the children put up a Stop sign. This worked well. A few times the children were fined. But at one Family Hour a complaint was written by Mother and all the children in which they listed ten separate occasions when Daddy had backed his car out of the driveway, perhaps slowing down, but not stopping before he entered the street. It was decided that DadRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1955 dy should follow exactly the same tule with the car as the children with their bicycles. So Daddy paid a fine of one dollar. 'The fines went into a family treasury, which once in awhile amounted to enough to take the family to a show. Most complaints were cleared up by talking them over, and by promises to do better. As the children were growing up, a practice developed to tell "Chopsticks" stories. 'These stories were told by Father to the children at many different times—sometimes as part of Family Hour, or as we were riding in the car, as the kiddies went to bed, or as we sat together on an afternoon or evening. 'These stories are pure fancy, perhaps best described as the fruits of a vivid imagination. They are sometimes devoted to putting over a point, or a moral. The original character of these stories was a little man five feet tall and five feet around (until he reduced). He managed to get in and out of many situations and, over a period of ten years, had a thousand experiences that have interested and amused and, perhaps, taught the children. His experiences included: developing a "push button Cadillac," working with a horse "Blackie" on a ranch, catching and taming a grizzly bear, exploring the Andes, fishing in the high mountain lakes, hunting Polar bears, searching for white Indians, etc. This story telling has provided many happy moments together, and, even now, the children often ask for a Chopsticks story. Other characters used were: 'Twigglebritches, the duck; Bluenose and Redear, the rabbits, and many others. THE FAMILY HOUR IN OUR HOME NOTHER family activity used by Mother and the children to fill in the hours when Daddy was busy with Church assignments has been a project of preparing a Book of Remembrance for the family and one for each of the children. These books have become very complete and interesting. The genealogical research has been directed by Mother, and each of the children has helped in copying his own records as well as in research in the libraries. This family activity has helped make many a Sunday afternoon profitable as well as pleasant. It is producing good records for each member of the family. Our Family Hours have been filled with many different activities. One project was to read The Book of Mormon together, each person taking turns in reading a verse. This was started before the children could read, and they would repeat the words as read by their parents. This activity developed into a project assigned to the children to start reading The Book of Mormon again when each one reached his twelfth birthday. As soon after that as they read it through by themselves, they received a triple combination of the standard works. Alan received his within a year, and Loneta is nearly ready for hers. Other activities include the Fam- 495 ily Council which is called to plan or consider any special project or problem. One sideline of this Family Council is Alan's cryptic comment: "Yes, our family is a democracy. Each member of the family votes on what he would like to do, and then Daddy decides what we will do!" This Family Council has been the planning stage for most Family Hours, outings, and other activities. It would be impossible to describe the many things that have been done as a part of our Family Hour. The variety has been fun. The growing children, with their changing interests and _ activities, have made necessary a fluctuating and varied program. One thing has become definite: at least once a week the family will engage in some activity together. It may not be at the same hour or on the same day each week. It may be an hour or two in an evening, a full evening, or often a full day together. But whatever it is, we find that it is an extremely important part of the week's activities. We are fully aware of the responsibilities that are ours to stay together as a family, as we are also aware of our constant need for help from the Lord in the problem of rearing our children. May the Lord help all families, including our own, to grow in his sight! Special Birthday Olive W. Burt Part I YRA Gregory was determined that Cal's birthday dinner should be a happy one. Not a frown, not a whisper should mar it. For, after all, it was a very important birthday, his sixty-fifth. And the sixty-fifth birthday nowadays meant something special. Retirement. Leisure. Myra, stirring fruit into the halfset lime jello, Cal's favorite salad, frowned slightly. In her. Mind she repeated the two words—retirement, leisure. Added together, they should equal happiness. But was the problem that simple? Myra was thinking of Cal's face during the past few days. He had worn a determined look of happiness. He had joked and laughed about today—his last day "at the old grind." But, significantly, he hadn't said a word about the days to follow. Not a word. Myra told herself, you can't be married to a man for forty years and not know what he is feeling and thinking, whether he tells you or not. And Cal, she knew, was not feeling happy about this sixtyfifth birthday. Myra slipped the salad into the refrigerator. She touched the devil's food cake and found it was cool enough to frost. Her lips quirked into a smile as she piled chocolate frosting deep on it. She was remembering Cal's first birthday after they were married.: Myra had grown up in the traPage 496 dition of a white birthday cake covered with white frosting, and sprinkled with bits of colored sugar. So on Cal's birthday she had made him a gorgeous white cake. The colored sugar had sparkled like tiny bits of jewelled confetti. She had felt so excited and happy—her first birthday cake for her wonderful husband. Now, deftly swirling the chocolate frosting, Myra remembered Cal's face when he had seen that cake. It had suddenly worn such a comical expression—a mixture of amazement and dismay and disappointment. It had lasted only a second. Then Cal had grinned. "What a beautiful cake, Myra! First one I ever had that was so pretty!" And he had swung her off her feet, kissing her. Myra had carefully watched her young husband eat that cake. He had seemed to enjoy it all right. But there was something lacking. And that night, lying in his arms, she had asked cautiously, "Cal, you said that was the first birthday cake you'd ever had that was so pretty. What kind of birthday cakes have you had? Or didn't you have any?" "Have any? I'll say I did. Mother always made me a big devil's food cake—not that blackish kind, but a tich mahogany red. And she piled it high with chocolate frosting...." Myra had interrupted, shocked. "A chocolate birthday cake? Oh, Cal, how...." She had stopped the SPECIAL BIRTHDAY word "awful" that was on the tip of her tongue and substituted lamely, "wonderful." "I never thought of a chocolate birthday cake." "T guess no one would but Mother. I know the other kids had cakes with white frosting or pink—one little girl had blue frosting on her birthday cake. I went to the party. Boy, if I didn't feel sorry for her. No chocolate cake! But Mother knew what I liked and she was great for giving us what we liked, especially on our birthdays." This, Myra now told herself, was the thirty-ninth chocolate birthday cake she had made for Cal. Never another luscious white one sparkling with colored sugar. YRA placed the big cake carefully on the milk-glass cake stand and set it in its place of honor on the sideboard. She looked around her. Things were well underway. Her practiced hand made little work of preparing a meal for the whole family. They'd all be present, of course, for Cal's birthday. Hugh, with Marge and their six youngsters; Carol and Grant and their two. It would mean fourteen at table, but Myra thought nothing of the work involved. It was sheer pleasure for her to have her family seated around the big table. | She went out into the yard to cut some roses for the house. As always, she paused at the top of the steps leading down into the garden and smiled with pleasure. It was perfect. But it ought to be—all the hours she and Cal had spent on it! They had enjoyed working there together, smelling the newly turned 497 earth, the wet grass, the young flowers, reaching a deep harmony of spirit as they labored together in the sun. She went to the Mirandy rosebush Cal had given her on Carol's birthday. 'That was Cal—on each child's birthday he brought their mother a gift of flowers. She was clipping the long-stemmed, radiantly red blooms when Carol herself came across the lawn. She was carrying Mindy, sunshiny in yellow organdy, and David was tagging at her heels. 'The little boy held a clumsily wrapped package. "Hi, Mom!" Carol called out gaily. "Here we are, always ahead of time." Myra came up the steps. "Carol, darling. You know you're never ahead of time here. Hi, David." She stooped to kiss her grandson. '"Where's Gramps?" David asked without preamble. Myra laughed. "He'll be home soon. In the meantime, won't I do?" "I got a present for Gramps. I gotta give it to him," David said firmly. Myra reached out and took Mindy from her mother's arms, handing Carol the roses as she did so. She nuzzled the baby's sweet, warm neck, murmuring, "Mindy! Mindy, love! Grandma's girl!" They went together up the path toward the house, David tagging along. Carol said, "The four of us all went in together on Dad's present. That is, Grant and Hugh and Marge and I. The children all wanted to get different things." "OF course," Myra smiled. "They 498 are all so different—and so certain of themselves. You can't expect them to agree on something as vital as Gramps' birthday present." "We got something very, extra special. Something for him to use when he's free." Free! The word echoed in Myra's heart. Free from what? The right to work, to be busy and productive? And for Cal—the big, energetic, vital Cal! Why, he'd always been free. She spoke involuntarily, "Your father's not an old man, yet, Carol." AROL laughed. "I should say ~ he isn't! I've never thought he was. Oh, I know some children always think of their parents as old. But not Hugh and I. Not with you and Dad. You're both so alive! And so—so eager to try new things—to listen to what we say. No, Dad's not old. He'll have a long time to enjoy his leisure." Myra let it rest there. There was no use bothering the children with her vague worries. As they reached the house, noise broke through the evening stillness. A car horn honked. Children were yelling and there was much laughter. Myra and Carol turned and went to the side of the house. As they appeared, the rather old car standing there seemed to explode, sending laughing, shouting youngsters every which way. "Hello, Grandma!" "Hi, Aunt Carol! Hello! Hello!" They piled around Myra, holding out grimy packages for her to see. "Look what I brought Gramps!" Calvin said proudly. "T wrapped mine all by myself," Tony bragged. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1955 "So did I!" "So did I!" From the front seat Hugh and Marge climbed out with fat little Petey between them. "Happy birthday, Mother!" Hugh said fondly, his arm about Myra. "Happy Dad's birthday! We picked up Grant so he wouldn't be too late for some of that luscious chocolate cake." From the back seat of the car Grant raised his head. Limping, rubbing his back, he descended from the car. "Bloody, but unbowed," he muttered, pretending ill-nature. "I think it might have been more considerate to let me miss the cake." Now all was noise, chattering, laughing, the way it always was when they all got together. The children soon broke away to rush for the swings and teeter and sandpile Gramps had built for them in the far corner of the yard. The others moved on into the house. Quiet little Elspeth, her straight, golden hair in long, heavy braids, deserted the children and came to walk quietly beside Myra. "Grandma," she said seriously, "do you know what?" "What, darling?" "Mamma 'splained to us that Gramps isn't going to go to work any more downtown. He can stay home all day long. All the other kids bought him things to play with at home. But—" she hesitated. "Yes, honey?" "I didn't. I got him a brand new necktie. Do you know why?" "T think maybe I do, Elspeth. But you tell me." "°'Cause even if Gramps doesn't have to go to work downtown, he'll SPECIAL BIRTHDAY still be going to Church and maybe have new work to do. So I bought him a new tie so's he can go when he wants to." Myra's throat was tight. "That's lovely, darling. He'll be so proud to know you thought about that." They had scarcely entered the house when Myra heard Cal's step. Her ears, trained by forty years of listening, could read that step as accurately as her eyes could read his face. She listened, separating the staccato step from the laughter and noise around her. Cal was coming home cheerful. Yes! He would, of course. But there was more than cheerfulness in that purposeful step. There was the determination to be cheerful and that meant that Cal was not truly happy. HE came in beaming. The children broke and ran for him. "Gramps! Gramps!" Carol and Hugh, Marge and Grant began to sing boisterously, out of tune and out of time, "Happy birthday to you!" Cal, laughing, joined in, "Happy birthday to me!" They ended uproariously, pounding Cal on the back. "Happy birthday to me!" Cal repeated, "And if you don't believe it, just look!" He held out his left arm. There on the wrist glittered an expensive gold watch. "Oh, Dad, it's lovely!" "Where did you get it?" "The Acme Company. Gave it to me, just like that!" Cal snapped his fingers. "Now, at last, they're 499 beginning to realize what they are losing." His tone was bantering, but under the soft sheath of the gay words Myra felt, rather than heard, a sharp edge of resentment. "Tl bet they're sorry," Hugh said loyally. "They'll never get another man like you, Dad." "Carol, want to help me serve?" Myra interrupted. "And Marge, will you get the men and children seated?" The dinner went off gaily. Cal blew out the sixty-six candles on his cake while the children watched, wide-eyed, their cheeks puffing out unconsciously to help. Then came the unwrapping of the gifts. The children first. "Shall we start with the ladies or the babies or the young men?" Cal asked. "Alphabet! Alphabet!'' shouted young Calvin. "That's the fairest!" "Okay; alphabet it shall be. And that puts you first, I think, eh, Calvin?" Calvin giggled and handed out his package. Cal unwrapped it and exclaimed happily. "Just what I wanted! A scrapbook!" "Well," Calvin explained to be sure his grandfather understood, "you're always saying that you never have time to take care of all those newspaper clippings you've got stacked away in shoe boxes. So I thought that now...." He hesitated, looking up at his grandfather. "Now I'll have time, eh? Well, that's right. And I'll make those clippings one of my very first projects." Elspeth, next in line, came forward shyly. She handed the small 500 package to her grandfather, saying, "So you can still dress up and always look nice at Church or when you go downtown." Cal's arms went around the little girl, "You know what your old Gramp likes to do, don't you, honey?" He held the gaudy tie up for all to admire. NE by one the gifts were opened. They were all thoughtful presents, selected carefully to help Cal fill up those looming days ahead. After the children's presents, Cal was dragged out into the yard, and there, in the trunk of Hugh's car was the special gift—an electric shopsmith, with all sorts of attachments. 'The men, Hugh and Grant, dragged it out and began to explain it excitedly. "We'll help you set it up, Dad. There's plenty of room in the basement. You can have a real workshop down there," Hugh offered. Cal walked around the machine, studying it thoughtfully. "I've never dreamed of having such wonderful equipment," he said at last. "No more makeshift work for me. Why, I can do anything with this. Thanks, all of you. You're wonderful children." Myra, at first tempted like the others to get something for Cal to use during his retirement, had finally decided it would be better to give him the same kind of present she had always given. So she had recovered the old-fashioned organ stool that he loved. The plush cushion was worn and shabby. Myra had found some velvet in the same RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1955 shade, and had made a new top, edged with gold-colored fringe. It was handsome enough to go with the old organ, its wood polished beautifully by Cal's loving hands. And it was still old-fashioned enough to be in harmony with the instrument. Myra watched her husband's face anxiously as he unwrapped the ungainly package. When his eyes lighted up in the old way, she knew she had chosen right. "Myra, darling, it's handsome! Maybe sitting on that stool I can compose." Then, as he slipped his arm about her and kissed her, he whispered, "You and Elspeth—you have a special gift of understanding." After the women had washed the dishes and straightened the rooms, the crowd played games and sang songs. Cal proudly sat on his newly covered organ stool and called his family around him. The old organ, its voice mellow with age, responded to Cal's gentle hands, and they all began to sing the old songs, united in heart and harmony. Myra, looking at her family, felt tears close to the surface. Who said modern children don't like the old things? The old tunes? The simple joys? It was late when the family all left, and Myra was alone with Cal. "It was a wonderful day," she said, looking at his tired face. "Wonderful." he agreed. "But it seems to be the end of something. What am I to do now with all my time?" (To be concluded) She Land Js Stull Elsie McKinnon Strachan In peacefulness I ride the road of night— Mile after darkened mile clip off unseen; No rain accompanies me, no moon-hung light Plays down where ranch fields lie in hidden green. The land is still: no wakeful winds confer With wayside shrubs; no mockingbird lets ring His sweet arpeggio. Naught save the whir Of tires gives voice to sound unraveling. Far, far I ride, where silence beds the earth, Where I, alone, have not succumbed to sleep; And yet, through hush, I sense the pulse of birth, Know day will bring fresh fruits for man to reap. In faith I watch dawn's color-promenade, And know anew the glory that is God. Page 50) Meet Mother, Jody Rosa Lee Lloyd ODY looked out of the kitchen J window at the big amber-shaded sky. The sun over Centerville was exactly the way Ted had told her it would be, a bright shining symbol blessing the whole town and especially beaming its glory on Number Nine, Peach Street, where his mother lived alone in the old home since her four sons had married. She lifted the bottle from the refrigerator and poured three glasses of homemade tomato juice and knew, with a little pang, that Ted would say it was the best tomato juice in the whole world because his mother had made it! If just once, she thought with a wistful sigh, she could do something as well as Ted's mother, she would think the Centerville sun had decided to include her in its blessing. Ever since their marriage a month ago in Salt Lake City, he hadn't missed an opportunity to praise his mother. She was the best cook, the best housekeeper; she could mend a snag in a pair of trousers so well you couldn't see it, and she could sing like a robin. No one in Centerville had ever sung a funeral solo better than Emma Harrington. No one ever felt he had laid away his loved one properly unless she sang at the funeral. Jody hadn't met Ted's mother until last night, for she had been ill at the time of their marriage in the temple, and she expected also to meet his brothers and their wives for the first time at luncheon today. Page 502 to smell, she thought. She couldn't blame Ted too much for loving it so. She and Ted had come to this small Wyoming town—Ted's home—to be here for Aunt Kate's funeral at two o'clock that afternoon. Aunt Kate was the oldest of all the Harringtons and they had loved her dearly. Yet it seemed strange to be meeting Ted's family for the first time on such an occasion. Jody's pretty brown eyes were moody as she put the glasses on a tray and carried them to the breakfast room where Ted sat at the table preparing a speech for Aunt Kate's funeral. She could hear Emma talking on the telephone in the hallway. She had decided to call her Emma, because she couldn't make herself say Mom. Each of Emma's daughters-in-law telephoned her every morning, Ted explained, because they loved her. Jody was reserving her opinion until she saw for herself. Ted looked up as she put the tray on the table. "Ummm!" He smacked his lips. "Mom's tomato juice!" eo pretended not to notice as she sat down opposite him. She was hungry, and she liked the odor of freshly baked bread. At any moment Emma would bring in the scones that were simmering in the big frying pan on the range. This home smells the way a home ought way. "Oh, yes, she's really a little MEET MOTHER, JODY Emma's voice came from the hallbeauty. Big dark eyes, sort of an upsy nose, a cute smile, and such a winning way. You girls will simply love her!" Ted beamed with pride. "She means you, Monkey Face," he whispered. "I should go in there and tell her you didn't even want to meet my folks!" "You wouldn't dare," Jody challenged him. Emmia's voice came again. "Yes, Teddy will say a few words. He was one of Aunt Kate's favorite nephews, the youngest." Jody wanted to laugh. Ted was six feet tall, with shoulders like a hod-carrier and he looked every day of his twenty-five years in spite of his blond curly hair that wouldn't stay crew-cut, but Emma called him Teddy and looked at him with shiny lights in her blue eyes as though he was one year old and had just spoken his first word. She bit her lip, wishing she hadn't come up here with Ted. She should have stayed in Salt Lake City where she had that singing engagement on television with the girls' quartet she had belonged to since she was in school. She wanted terribly to do something to make Ted realize he hadn't married a little nobody. She had taken singing lessons and had sung in the choruses in high school and Church, and she could sing like a robin, too, even though Ted couldn't or wouldn't recognize her ability to do anything. Jody sighed as she looked across the table at him. She wanted him to treat her the way he treated his mother, as though he'd like to put 503 a crown on her head and kiss her feet! Ted had already used a couple of scratch pads trying to write something appropriate for Aunt Kate. He was really working hard on this speech, Jody thought, as her eyes caressed him. Emma's voice came again, humble and sweet. "T would love to sing the solo, Lillian, but you know my voice isn't what it used to be." A little pause, then: "You're nice to say that, dear. 'Then we'll see you for luncheon." There was the sound of quick footsteps to the kitchen, and a minute later Emma came in with a heaping platter of scones. Ted tossed his pencil over his shoulder, rubbed his palms together, and beamed up at his mother. "Scones!" he breathed. "Thanks, Mom!" Jody felt a combination of amusement and irritation. You'd think he'd married a girl who was a failure when it came to cooking. GHE nibbled her scone silently. They were something to rave about, and the strawberry jam was heavenly, but, after all, Ted didn't need to make his mother think he'd been starving since he had married her. He was gulping his food like a hungry puppy. She looked up from her plate to meet Emma's bright blue eyes. She was a tall, rangy woman with the kind of sandy hair that doesn't show the gray. Her mouth was soft and gentle as though she was used to smiling, but her chin was square and strong. Even though she was near- 504 ly sixty, her eyes were young and twinkly — and very kind. But now a little worried frown puckered her reddish brows as she looked at Jody. "T should have asked you what you like for breakfast," she said. "T'm right ashamed of myself, Jody." Jody tried to smile. "The scones are good," she murmured. "Good!" 'Ted exclaimed. ""They're the tops, Mom. The very tops!" Emma turned to Jody. "T told the girls this morning that I would ask you to make our main luncheon dish. Alice will bring the salad, Peg the rolls, and Lillian the dessert. Make anything you'd like to, Jody. Maybe something you've fixed for your daddy?" Jody hesitated. She could make a luscious shrimp creole, but maybe Emma didn't have any shrimps, and there might not be a fish store in Centerville. But everyone raved about her shrimp creole. Her lips folded in determinedly. She'd like to show Ted Harrington she could cook something his family would like. "T make a nice shrimp creole," she offered, "if you have shrimps." "T do." Emma glowed. "In the freezer. Lucky I picked up a few packages last week." "And mushrooms — and pimentos?" Jody questioned, eagerly. "We can get them at Barton's grocery. 'Teddy can go over." "That's crazy!" Ted broke in. "Who wants a shrimp creole? I'd 'rather have Mom's bread and a piece of cheese than all that fancy Stu" "Teddy! That's enough!" Emma's voice was a whiplash. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1955 Jody's throat tightened, and for a long, breathless moment there wasn't a sound in the little room. Emma Harrington had reared four sons alone, and each one was a credit to her, but Jody realized now that it hadn't all been smooth sailing. Emma knew how to command. She glanced at Ted. His head was bent and his mouth was a sulky pout. "Okay," he said, shrugging his big shoulders. "We'll have shrimp creole." Jody felt her cheeks burn red. "No we won't!" she said, fighting the tears back as she got to her feet. "I wouldn't... Make it now... Not for a million dollars!" HE didn't look at either of them as she left the room and hurried out into the garden. She shivered in the cool morning breeze as she sank onto the stone bench in the rose arbor. It was chilly for eatly September, and even the sun had disappeared behind a big grayish cloud. But the air was flower-sweet, and her eyes drank in the clustered beauty of the old garden. It had a charm all its own as though each bush and plant had been loved and cared for by tender, capable hands. Emma's hands, no doubt, she thought begrudgingly. Her throat pinched in. What could a new wife do when she had such a capable rival? That silly little quarrel had been entirely Ted's fault; he was the one she should be angry with, and yet the resentment she felt was for Emma. It was ridiculous to feel like this when it was 'Ted who had been so mean. MEET MOTHER, JODY But he was only being honest because he really did like his mother's cooking better than hers. He couldn't help it. She shouldn't have come home with him, if she wasn't able to take it, she thought. Her hands clenched into little fists. It would be a long time before she came here again, she resolved. Ted could come alone to visit his mother after this. She heard his footsteps on the graveled walk behind her, and the next second he had tipped her head back and kissed her. "Go away!" She pushed at his shoulders. "Slap my face!" he grinned. "I'm a brute." "Don't be modest," she mocked him. "You're still a spoiled, pampered child." "Sticks and stones can break my bones," he chanted as he stood up and pulled her close to him. He nuzzled his face in her dark curls. "Can't you see I'm sorry?" he murmured. Jody sighed. She couldn't stay angry with such a lovable boy. He looked at his wrist watch. "I better hurry over to Barton's for those mushrooms." "But I won't..." Jody protested. "Oh, yes you will!' he laughed. "Mom has already put the shrimps on the drainboard to thaw out." He started toward the car in the driveway. "She's waiting for you in the back parlor," he called over his shoulder. "She wants you to practice her solo with her. I told her you were a good music critic...." "Of all the nerve!" Jody stamped her foot. "I'm a singer—not a critic. Why didn't you tell her that?" 505 "T did." He laughed. "I told her you were a second Lily Pons!" Emma turned from the piano as Jody came through the doorway. "Over here, dear," she called, patting the seat beside her. Her smile was like warm blankets tucking her in, Jody thought. She could really like Emma Harrington, if she wasn't Ted's mother, she admitted with a guilty pang. It's because he's so silly about her that I feel this awful way. "Good thing you're such a tiny mite," Emma laughed, as Jody sat down beside her, "or this seat wouldn't hold us both." She smiled down at Jody. "We can have a nice hour singing together, then I'll set the table while you make the creole. There'll be plenty of time. No rush or bother." | te wanted to say that she wouldn't make the creole, but somehow it seemed petty and childish to say that to Emma. "Now, let's see." Emma thumbed through the sheet music. "Ted says you sing contralto. I'm soprano. Why don't we harmonize? I'll sing my solo, and you can join in. The melody is easy. You'll catch on in no time." Jody listened while Emma sang the first verse and chorus in a rich, full voice that had a lovely, warm tone, then she joined in and they sang together for the next hour. "That was perfect," Emma said as she stood up rubbing her palms together in the same way Ted did when he was pleased with something. "Now we'll have to start luncheon. They'll come in like hungry hounds barking for food!" 506 An hour later Jody sat beside Ted at the big round table in the dining room and _ listened while Steve, the eldest brother, said grace in a quiet, sincere voice that made her remember her own home. She wished her father were here today so he could appreciate what a really fine family she had acquired—three brothers and three sisters all at once. Her head was bowed. Afterward, as she looked around the table, she noticed the strong family resemblance in Steve, George, Bill, and Ted; they all had long rangy bodies, wide humorous mouths, and firm unyielding chins, but George and Bill had dark eyes and hair, with heavy brows. Ted had told her his father and all the Harringtons had those heavy brows; they were a family characteristic. Her eyes went to their wives, all mothers now, for each had several children; but they seemed as young as she was, and pretty, too, and full of fun. But the amazing thing to Jody was that each daughter-in-law seemed to share something special with Emma. Ted was right, she was forced to admit, they really loved her. It was in the little glances between them, the roguish smiles, the sort of loving understanding. 'They seemed to adore her! Jody wondered as she ate her fruit cup (made of fruits from Emma's orchard), if they had ever felt jealous of her the way she did; if each had wanted to hide away where she couldn't be told how wonderful Emma could do things. "Lovely fruit cup," Lillian was saying. "Wait until you taste Lil's pie today," Steve broke in. He held RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1955 his fingers up, measuring. "Custard two inches thick like Mom used to bake for Dad on his birthday; only better, I think." Jody caught her breath. Surely Steve hadn't said that Lillian's pie was better than Emma's! And Emma sat there smiling, seeming not to care. "You just wait until you taste Jody's shrimp creole," she said. "It's her daddy's favorite dish." Jody hurried to the kitchen. Her hands trembled as she opened the oven, lifted out the yellow casserole, and put it in the silver holder. Her eyes glowed with satisfaction as she noticed the golden brown bread crumbs on top and the delicious aroma. She placed it carefully on the mat in front of Emma and sat down again beside Ted. Her fingers laced together in her lap and excitement was a tight knot inside of her. There was a chorus of exclamations. "Ummm! Serve it, Mom." "T'll take a big plate of that." "Don't be stingy when it comes to mine!" MMA gave each one a generous portion. Jody took a quick nibble. It was good. Extra good, she thought, with a thankful sigh. The best she had ever made! She glanced sideways at Ted. He was telling Bill about a golf match he had seen, and he wasn't even noticing the shrimp creole on his plate. Peg came in with the hot rolls and passed them around the table. Steve, Bill, and George took two apiece, but when she came to Ted, he winked up at her and shook his head. MEET MOTHER, JODY "Tl skip those," he said. "I've been saving a space for Mom's bread for a couple of weeks. Forgive me, Peg." Jody pretended to eat, but she could hardly swallow. 'Ted didn't intend to eat the creole. He would just let it stay there on his plate! She saw him stand up, then mutter, "Excuse me, folks," as he hurried out to the kitchen. "Up to his old tricks," Steve commented. "When is he going to grow up?" Lillian smiled at Jody. "This creole is wonderful, Honey. 'They couldn't do better at Antoine's." "They couldn't touch it," Alice agreed with a hearty smile. || a hoped she looked gay and appreciative, but she was terribly afraid she was going to cry. Ted came back with a big thick sandwich of Emma's bread and cheese. "As I was telling you, Bill," he went on in his catchy way, "that was a real game." Everyone seemed interested in what Ted was saying. They make him think he's clever, Jody thought with a little sick feeling. They know he's being rude to me, but they forgive him because he's their brother. They féel sorry for me. I wish ] could die. Then she noticed that Emma was suddenly very quiet. Her chin had squared off and her eyes were steady blue flames, and when Ted said something funny she didn't smile at all. Jody wasn't sure how she got through the rest of the meal. Ted refused Lillian's pie and made another sandwich instead. 507 Emma tasted the pie and smiled at Lillian.. "Steve is right," she said. "You have improved on mine." "But yours is good, too, Mom," Steve insisted with a kindly smile that included both his wife and his mother in its caress. How did Lillian do it? Jody wondered. How did she manage to win Steve's admiration and yet keep Emma's good will? And Alice and Peg had accomplished the same thing. But how? How? She must know even if she had to ask them. Everyone helped to clear the table and wash the dishes. Even Ted. Then Lillian suggested that Emma lie down on the couch for a rest and ushered everyone into the living room with her. "You must feel tops when you sing today," she said. "Folks here expect it of you, Mom. And especially at Aunt Kate's funeral." "Thank you, dear," Emma answered. "But I don't need to rest. You see, I don't think I'll sing the solo today." Ted swung around as though he'd been hit in the back. "Why not?" he demanded. "You always sing it, Mom." "Not today, 'Teddy. I want Jody to sing it for me today." Emma's voice was very gentle and coaxing, but her eyes had fierce little glints in them. They wouldn't take no for an answer. Jody drew a long quivering breath. No one spoke, but glances went from one to the other like tracer bullets. Emma touched her hand. "I'm counting on you, Jody," she said. 508 "Tl try," Jody managed, weakly. "But Ted—" He shrugged. "You'll have to, now Mom has asked you," he grumbled. Jody blinked her eyes, wishing he would smile about it instead of acting as though the sun had suddenly faded from the skies! UNT Kate's funeral was in Centerville's new chapel. It was filled to capacity by the time Emma and her family arrived. Seats had been reserved for them, but after Emma's whispered explanation to the usher, Jody found herself seated on the stand beside Ted and the others who would take part in the service. This must be a bad dream, she thought as she wet her lips. Her throat felt dry as ashes. This is Emma's place, she thought. Instead, she was seated on the second row between George and Ted, and everyone wondered what had happened. Emma's face was pale and her mouth very firm. The service began with a tender, heartwarming prayer that made Jody feel better. Then the speakers told of Aunt Kate Harrington's devotion to her Church and her com- ~ munity. "Aunt Kate was a loving wife and mother," Bishop Phillips concluded, "and she enjoyed every day of life here in Centerville. But she was very, very old, and only last week when I called to see her, she told me she was ready to go whenever the Lord sent for her. She died as she had lived, with a prayer in her heart. God bless the memory of such a splendid woman." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1955 And then he announced that the solo would be sung by the wife of Aunt Kate's youngest nephew, Mrs. Edward T', Harrington. Jody knew she must stand up, but she couldn't move. Ted looked at her. Honey," he urged. Everyone is looking." "Ted—I can't!" "You have to. Say? Now stand up Jody felt him push her to her feet. She swayed a little and rubbed her hand across her eyes. The organist began the prelude. Her throat tightened. And then she saw Emma lean forward, and her smile was a radiant message reaching out to her. Emma's eyes were brimming with love and encouragement, telling her she could do it. Emma was helping her. Jody began to sing, softly at first. Emma nodded approval, and Jody's voice grew strong and steady and, by the time she reached the chorus, she was singing with her heart, and her tone was clear and beautiful. She sang both verses and the chorus twice, and when she sat down Ted's arm went around her lovingly. His eyes were beaming as though he had just noticed something very special about her. "You were wonderful," he whispered. "The way Mom used to sing when she was younger." Jody's heart winged with joy. Ted had said that. She bent her head, fumbling for her handkerchief. Ted had said that! The family went back to Emma's home after the funeral. The "This is it, "Come on. What will Mom 1? MEET MOTHER, JODY neighbors had prepared sandwiches and salad and cherry punch. Jody was glowing with the praise everyone had given her. Emma held her close and told her she was very proud of her. 'Ted's brothers patted her shoulder and pinched her cheek, and Lillian, Alice, and Peg showered her with compliments. And there was a new wonder in Ted's eyes when he looked at her. But there was something in the glances the daughters gave each other that Jody couldn't understand. She was sure the three of them had some sort of secret. She went thoughtfully upstairs to the bedroom and changed into a blue house dress. When she returned to the kitchen the girls were whispering together near the window. Emma was in the living room visiting with her sons. They hadn't heard Jody come in, so she stood quietly in the kitchen doorway outside their circle. "Mom was wonderful today," Lillian was saying. "She surely was," Peg agreed. "And what she did reminds me of the day Bill snagged his new suit. He was so stubborn about it, said no one could mend it but Mom. We drove all the way up here late at night and got Mom out of bed to mend it. I can see her now, looking at Bill with those steady glints in her eyes. She told him she wouldn't mend his trousers any more now that he had a wife. So I mended them. No more fuss after that!" 509 They smiled together. Then Lil lian said: "You all heard Steve rave about my pie at luncheon. I can thank Mom for the day she asked me to make it for the first time." "And the turkey episode!'' Alice chimed in. "None of us will forget that Thangsgiving when she asked us up here early in the morning and insisted that I cook the turkey. George was real cross about it, but it turned out okay and he has liked my turkey ever since." Lillian's mouth curved gently. "But what she did for Jody today was really a sacrifice. Asking her to sing the solo at the largest funeral in Centerville!" Peg said, "I knew she meant to do something when Ted acted that way about Jody's creole." "But her solo!" Alice said wonderingly. "That is her dearest accomplishment!" "And 'Ted is her dearest baby son," Lillian reminded them. "She knew it would take something special to wake him up." A little sob caught in Jody's throat. Emma had let her sing the solo so Ted would appreciate her. The girls turned around, and Jody smiled at them. 'They reached for her hands and drew her into their circle, and their twinkly eyes told her she was now one of them. And Jody knew, with a grateful sigh, that she could call Emma "Mom" after this. She was one of her daughters! Leland Van Wagoner THE COLEMAN HOME, MIDWAY, UTAH HA Home Where Past and Present Meet Dorothy ]. Roberts p*! And present meet in this old house in Midway, Utah, to make a place of comfort and charm. Wired, plumbed, carpeted, and heated in the modern manner, the spaciousness and beauty of another century are made available here. Its sole architect, builder, and craftsman, and its first owner was the pioneer Bishop John Watkins, who, before his emigration from England, was a prosperous and well-known architect. The house, of beautiful proportion and balance, is built in the English style and set back in the lot for privacy. The grace of eighty-six years is in this beautifully preserved dwelling, and on its lovely next owner, Mrs. Coleman, widow of Bishop Henry T. Coleman, of Midway, Utah. Lethe Coleman Tatge, present owner, is the daughter of these pioneer Colemans. "We will call her, our first daughter, 'Lethe,' after the river of forgetfulness," announced her father. "In her we shall forget our sorrows, our mistakes, and our regrets, and have a new life as those were reputed to have done who entered the legendary river of long ago." Every inch of the stately red and white exterior of this home is paint-sealed against the elements—the hand-pressed bricks, the stout granite cornerstones (to preserve the contours), the lacy wood cornices, hand-carved in the manner of a Swiss chalet. The Page 510 A HOME WHERE PAST AND PRESENT MEET 511 house stands in a setting of spacious, raised and sunken green lawns, shaded by immense spruce and fir trees. All through the dwelling the old and the new blend into a rare livability — new type springs and mattresses modernize the flawless antique, burled walnut and "butterfly" iron beds. Indicating the cozy parlor, Mrs. Coleman said, "One of the charms of an old house is the private parlor. We have driven our young lovers into the streets because they have no place at home to court." Plying her needle to a crazy-patch cushion, Mrs. Coleman continued, "And you don't have to throw old things away to have a charming home. The children in our day were not destructive. 'They lived and enjoyed a place, but never wantonly destroyed." Consequently, the interior of this place is enhanced with its original, hand-carved woodwork and handmade chairs (copies of some owned by Brigham Young), with priceless, old wedding presents of colored glass—purple, cranberry, emerald, blue. Unbelievably intricate hand-sewed quilts, put to constant use, grace the beds over harmonizing dust ruffles. And tales, fascinating tales, are woven around all, shimmering tales of pathos, love, courage, conquest, and everyday living. On the threshold joining the parlor and the modernized dining room and kitchen, stands Lethe, with her heritage of the old and the new. At the wide front door, happily at home in the lovely atmosphere, two young boys ring the bell. "Is Lethe in? Tell her that her Sunday School class..." 'Their faces are alight with an unconscious trust and love. A VIEW OF THE PARLOR IN THE COLEMAN HOME Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, August 1, and August 15, 1895 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomMeN oF ALL NATIONS" THE FAMILY KINGDOM: Contemplate as one may the results of a training from childhood to old age of one who never heard with father and mother, one word of discord, who never saw the least variance or disagreement; but whose every act and word proclaimed unmistakably that love's strong bond was never weakened, but strengthened by the trials, sufferings, and adversities of life. What a lesson of example it would be for the rising generation to follow, and of whom it might justly be required that honor be given to father and mother, as unto God. —S. W. Richards RELIEF SOCIETY IN BUNKERSVILLE, NEVADA: We have a Relief Society organized here and in good running order. We have our monthly testimony meetings in which our much loved little paper is read with pleasure.... Sister Mary Bunker and myself take the Exponent together, and we feel as though we could not do without it. —Harriet M. Earl Beautiful Hands Such beautiful, beautiful hands! They're neither white nor small, And you, I know, would scarcely think That they are fair at all.... Though heart were weary and sad, Those patient hands kept toiling on That the children might be glad.... But oh! Beyond this shadowland, Where all is bright and fair, I know full well these dear old hands Will palms of victory bear!... —Selected LETTER FROM FAR OFF MEXICO: I feel more settled and contented than I have for many years. I love the creations of our God in their wild grand beauty, and this is as lovely a place for an inland town as I ever have seen. The valley is almost a perfect circle set in a frame of evergreen trees.... This certainly is one of the choice places the Lord has held in reserve for some wise purpose... It seems to me from the works of nature, and the spirit of the Almighty that I feel here... That the powers of Satan will get no stronghold.... —S. E. Russell COOKING IN AN ELECTRIC OVEN: A well-known writer on the chemistry of cookery has given it as his opinion that the perfect arrangement for an oven would be the radiation of its heat from all sides. This is now done in an electric oven which is having a large sale in London. 'The process is said to produce a cooked meat absolutely wholesome and extremely appetizing. The heat is turned on at any part merely by the movement of a switch. _ The comparative coolness of the outside of the oven is a singular feature; as the chef remarked at a recent dinner: "You could sit down on the oven while you roast inside." —Boston Traveller Page 512 ONNA TURNER SMITH, a highly trained young pianist, wife, mother, and an active Latterday Saint, was recently piano soloist with the San Francisco Symphony Orchestra. Playing Grieg's "Concerto in A Minor," she won enthusiastic reviews from leading San Francisco critics. A native of Los Angeles, Donna gave her first recital at eight years of age and has continued to win awards and scholarships. Her husband, Morris M. Smith, also an active Latter-day Saint, is a graduate of Annapolis Naval Academy. LUCILE PETRY LEONE is the only woman in the United States who holds the rank of Admiral. She is Chief of Nurses in the United States Public Health Service. Since 1949 she has been a supervisor of nursing in sixteen public health service hospitals. IRIKIT (meaning "Famed for Beauty"), twenty-three-year-old Queen of Thailand, bore, last April in Bangkok, her third child—the second daughter. Her husband, King Phumiphon ("Strength of the Earth") Adundet, was born in Massachusetts, U. S. A, Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon REBECCA FRANKLIN (Mrs. Ward Morehouse), free-lance writer, is the author of "A Mighty People in the Rocky Mountains," an article appearing in the New York Times Magazine Section, April 3, 1955, and re-printed in the Church Section of the Deseret News, April 23. It is dignified, exceptionally well written and well organized. NNA PERROTT ROSE is the author of The Gentle House, a tender, sympathetic, humorous story of the rearing of a displaced, warbuffeted Latvian boy in America. IRTHDAY congratulations are extended to: Mrs. Mary E. S. Calkins, Sheridan, Wyoming, ninety-eight; Mrs. Mary E. Hendry, Salt Lake City, ninety-eight; Mrs. Georgienne M. Walters, Big Lake, Minnesota, ninety-four; Mrs. Rozella Stringham Grant, Glendale, California, ninety-three; Mrs. Minnie P. Brown, Coalville, Utah, ninety; Mrs. Alice Jones, Salt Lake City, ninety; Mrs. Mary Ellen Bell Jensen, Salt Lake City, ninety; Mrs. Ida May Lowry Allen, Salt Lake City, ninety; Mrs. Mary Krogue Madsen, Preston, Idaho, ninety. Page 513 QD EDITORIAL 9 VOL. 42 AUGUST 1955 Si amil y Patterns HEN riding in an airplane, the earth patches of different colors, each one denoting a particular situation and condition, become merged into a composite pattern. Viewed from such a_ perspective, small, individual plots of land become a part of a picture which may be classified generally as fertile or barren, wooded or desert, thickly settled or sparsely populated. So it is with families. The individual characteristics and differences become merged to form a definite family pattern. Each couple entering into wedlock begins a family pattern of their own. Hour by hour, day by day, and year by year it is formed, made by their individual thoughts, hopes, and beliefs transmuted into family behavior, standards, and actions. Families come to be noted either favorably or unfavorably for their attitudes, convictions, and practices, and a certain response may be expected when a family pattern is known. A young girl comes to her marriage formed by her girlhood family pattern; the young man has been formed by his, and the two are now to begin one of their own. One advantage of a reasonably long period of courtship is that it affords time for the discovery of the other's traits, disposition, beliefs, and habits. There is an opportunity for Page 514 discussion and planning as to the pattern the young couple wish to develop in their own family-to-be. A family prayer may hallow the conclusion of the very first day of their marriage, as they unite in thanksgiving and humble supplication that their family pattern will fulfill the requirements for eternal joy and felicity. In the days and months ahead, continuing, daily, family prayers help clear away misunderstandings and problems as they arise, and tend to melt animosities and hurt feelings. Under such conditions the pattern which emerges probably is marked by faithfulness in the payment of tithes and offerings to the Lord, in performing temple work— a pattern designed to encourage cheerfulness, thriftiness, and consideration and love. The living power of parental example is calculated to hold the children safe within the borders of the pattern. If parents refrain from criticising and passing judgment on others, while at the same time sharply defining the proper conduct for their own children, an attitude of charitableness toward fellow man is established. As the shadows of life lengthen, one becomes increasingly aware of the great and lasting values of life. They tower in the family pattern far above unessential attributes, and, EDITORIAL as the new family grows, grandparents and great-grandparents have a "grand" part to perform in helping to strengthen the families being established by their sons and daughters. Relieved of providing for the physical and material wants of their grandchildren, they have the leisure 515 and desire to hedge around the young with painstaking teachings of spirituality. 'Thus the family patterns of two and three generations are merged into a greater and deeper one designed to fit into the everlasting celestial family pattern. —M. C. S. Admission to the Dedicatory Services of the Semple in Berne, Switzerland The limited space available at the Temple in Berne, Switzerland, and the necessity of making provision for the attendance of our missionaries and saints in the various European missions have required that admission to the dedicatory services be restricted only to those who bear non-transferable cards issued by the European Mission presidents. In order to obtain one of these cards, it will be necessary for each visitor from wards and stakes who desires to attend a dedicatory service to present a recommend from his or her bishop, endorsed by the stake president. If the visitor is from a mission outside Europe, he must present a recommend signed by the president of his branch, endorsed by the president of the mission. THE FIRST PRESIDENCY July 8, 1955 Repentance Jean Mattinson Give me thy peace by waters still Known only by thy precious will. With broken heart, and soul contrite, I pray thee, be my guiding light. Do You Serve Five-Star Meals to Your Family? Rhea H. Gardner Extension Service Home Management and Furnishings Specialist Utah State Agricultural College BYEY military man recognizes the superior status of a five-star general. The fact that he is one, eliminates all need for questioning his right to the highest regard that can be given a member of the military forces. If there is questioning of and lack of respect and appreciation for the meals you serve your family, it could be that they are not all "Five Star" in rank. Add interest to the game of meal planning by scoring the meals you serve over a period of a week or so. If very many of them score less than five stars, resolve to elevate them in rank at once. It needn't add to the cost in either time or money. It will return to you tich dividends of satisfaction in knowing that you are serving meals that are packed with appetite appeal as well as health-promoting nutrients. Five-Star meals are scored as follows: Contrast in flavor....20 points Contrast in texture.2...... Eee20 points Contrast in COOL «02... Eeeeeteeeeeeeee eee20 points Contrast in temperature...........2.2...-2..-.20 points Contrast in concentration.................-20 points ¥ To help you get started in playing this game of preparing five-star meals, so you will always be a winner, here are some of the secrets: Fresh, tart fruits, tangy sauces, herbs, flavorful meats and vegetables are pleasing flavor contrast with bland foods such as bread, cereals, rice, potatoes, and macaroni. Crisp toast, bacon, raw fruits and vegetables, and other "chewy" foods are pleasing texture contrast with soft foods. Deeply colored fruits and vegetables, garnishes and, for special occasions, an unusual flavor provide color contrast when served with less colorful foods such as potatoes and gravy, cauliflower, lima beans, etc. One hot dish, even in midsummer, adds to the appetite appeal of an otherwise cold meal. The same is true of a chilled dish along with many hot dishes in midwinter. A fruit or tossed vegetable salad is low in food concentration. Serve as an accompaniment some protein food. This may be in the form of an open-face meat, fish, or cheese sandwich, strips of cheese, slices of cold meat, or a rich protein casserole dish. Five-Star MENvus Breakfasts 1. Sliced oranges, whole-wheat toast, poached egg, and milk. Berries on ready-to-eat cereal, whole-wheat toast, eggs in the shell, and milk. Tomato juice, whole-wheat muffins, omelet, and milk. Canned plums or berries, oatmeal, cream, whole-wheat toast, and milk. Baked apple, poached egg on toast, and milk.. Stewed prunes, bacon, waffle with jelly or honey, and milk.. Page 516 Ob w DO YOU SERVE FIVE-STAR MEALS TO YOUR FAMILY? 517 Luncheons 1. Cold turkey or chicken sandwiches, molded cranberry salad, celery, baked apple, and milk. 2. Creamed chopped beef, baked potato, vegetable strips, canned fruit, cookie, and milk.; 3. Vegetable beef soup, bread sticks, cabbage slaw, and cookie, milk. 4. Split pea soup, carrot and raisin salad, bread and butter, apple sauce cake, and milk. 5. Toasted cheese sandwich, celery and carrot sticks, apple dumpling and cream, milk. 6. Vegetable soup, crackers, cottage cheese-pear salad, gingerbread, and milk. Dinners 1. Stuffed peppers (meats, rice, tomato), baked squash, raw vegetable salad with French dressing, hot roll, apple Betty, and milk. 2. Swiss steak, mashed potatoes, beets, green salad, whole-wheat bread, ice cream. 3. Stuffed pork chops, baked potatoes, parsley-buttered carrots, cabbage-pineapple salad, sponge cake, lemon sauce. Tuna noodle casserole, frozen peas, tomato aspic salad, bread, milk, apricot upside-down cake. Liver and onions, creamed potatoes, pickled beets and celery sticks, bread, milk, canned fruit, and cookie.. Wot > Down Summer Lanes Gertrude T. Kovan In memory my feet retrace, Old paths forgotten on the way Where heavy-laden trees embrace The fertile land—this summer day. I hearken to a rustling breeze. Between tall stalks of ripened wheat, Finding new happiness in these, Which make my summer days complete. Down summer lanes my feet restore Spring's promises from winter rain, Knowing this shall remain no more When autumn has returned again. > Light B ulbs Elsie Scott I pressed the electric light switch, but no light came. On investigation, I found one minute wire in the light bulb was broken. Until the wire had broken, the bulb had given forth bright light—lighting a whole room, and even people outside could see the light and, perhaps, be guided by it. Are not our lives like that? If we are obedient to all the principles of the gospel, our light shines in our homes, in our Church communities, and even the people outside see our light and may be led to inquire into the source of it. But just one of the commandments, one small wire broken, and the light that should be within us, fails to shine, and those whom we could guide are lost. Let us then handle our "light bulbs" with care, that they may be kept intact, and our light so shine that those who watch us (and others do watch whether we are aware or not) may have the desire to walk with us after the pattern of the Savior. The Last Clearing Florence B. Dunford remember the time we were | eee by the big fire. Uncle Stanley, the father of 'Theodore, and Homer, had come over from their ranch a couple of miles away, to help Father build the extra room. Mother, who was expecting a baby, had been worrying for fear the baby would lisp like Jinny, who was seven, and Father was afraid it might have red hair like Jinny's, which he didn't care about. So, to take both their minds off their worries, Father had decided to build this extra room. Uncle Stanley and Theodore were helping Father cut the trees to make the logs to make the extra room to make Mother happy. And, as usual, Uncle Stanley also had brought Homer along. It was about three-thirty on a Wednesday afternoon in mid-July. Everything was hot and dry. Father, who always had several schemes going at once, had the idea of clearing out some of the old brush and burning it, as they hewed the trees. It was Uncle Stanley who had the notion to start at the farthest distance from the house and then work toward it. They called the spots where they worked, "the first clearing," and "the second clearing," etc. The one they were currently working on was always "the last clearing." By now we could see "the last clearing". From the house. It was just. Down the slope. Once in awhile we would catch sight of Theodore as he sawed or chopped with the axe. Page 518 Jinny and I were keeping watch over Homer—I was ten that summer—when, suddenly, 'Theodore appeared. "We need Nig," he said. Nig was his spotted pony. To my knowledge no one ever rode Nig but Theodore, except once. That was the time when Homer had fallen from the stump and sprained his ankle. We had been caught there beside the river and night had been falling. Finally Jinny had tricked the pony into thinking it was Theodore on his back. And in that way we had brought Homer and ourselves home. "Please let us go back with you," we begged now. Just to walk beside Theodore was Jinny's and my idea of heaven. Theodore eyed us. Theodore was about fourteen. He had thick fair hair, very straight, and blue eyes. He wore high top boots and strode. "What about him?" He meant his brother, Homer, of course. When Uncle Stanley came to help Father, he had to bring Homer. The moment he arrived he handed Homer over to Father. Father gave him to Mother. Mother passed him on to me. The truth was, of course, that no one wanted to watch Homer. And that was because, while he was six years old, he was always falling and bawling. Theodore now eyed Homer sternly. "Wipe your nose," he ordered. Although every morning Aunt Mae, Homer's mother, gave Homer a clean, white handkerchief, he didn't use it. THE LAST CLEARING "With your handkerchief." "It's too clean," Homer said. "He's always bawling," 'Theodore told me. I couldn't go without Homer. He was my job. "T never baw! Unless I'm hoort," Homer protested. "That's right," I said. "Homer never does baw] unless he's hurt." "And then everybody comes running,' Theodore said, his eyes smiling a little. "Because they know he's hurt. He's not like the shepherd boy who called 'Wolf so often no one believed him. Homer never cries unless he's hurt." "And then how he yowls," 'Theodore said in his dry way. "THE three of us, Jinny and Theodore and I, eyed Homer. He was wearing faded bib overalls. His stomach stuck out, and one of his suspenders had come undone. As usual, both of his shoestrings were untied. I bent down hurriedly and _ began to tie them. It was true what Theodore said about Homer's bawling. He had a most peculiar cry. The only way I can explain it is that it started way down in his chest and sort of barreled its way up, the way a donkey must do when he brays. Homer's weeping had much the same sound as a donkey braying. Father claimed that when Homer fell and hurt himself over at their ranch, we could hear it over at ours. It was a rasping, carrying sound. And, as I said, when people heard it they ran toward it, because Homer never cried unless he was really hurt. And everyone was so careful with him he never got hurt except 519 when he hurt himself—which he did by falling. "The problem," I said now, straightening from tying his laces, "is to keep Homer from bawling." Father especially had a dread of hearing Homer bawl. Just the sight of us showing up down at the clearing with Homer would make Father very cross. And that would make Uncle Stanley cross, and then Uncle Stanley wouldn't come, and Mother wouldn't get her room. "Maybe Uncle Fred would look out for him," Theodore said. Uncle Fred was our old bachelor uncle. He was out back now working on the chicken coop. "Oh, no!" I said. Uncle Fred, I knew, wouldn't think of watching out for Homer. Just that morning I'd heard him say, "Keep that boy out of my sight. I can't bear hearing him yowl." "T'll watch out for Homer," I said now. "Homer, you promise me you won't bawl?" When he nodded solemnly, I went on, "Jinny, you take one of his hands. I'll take the other." Father and Uncle Stanley already had their piles of brush burning merrily by the time we reached the last clearing. Only, we didn't discover that this wasn't really the last clearing, and that they had already moved on, until it was too late. FoR a minute it seemed as though we were in a great round room, maybe a castle. Uncle Stanley and Father had very carefully raked the piles of brush away from the stumps, so that they made a great circle, with just a narrow strip for a doorway. 520 "Where are they?" Theodore cried. "They were just here. Take Nig's reins." And he began racing around the clearing trying to see over the flames which were growing hotter and hotter and leaping higher and higher in a kind of dancing devilishglee. Nig was trembling. "Whoa, baby," I said. "Let's get out of here!" I called to Theodore. Jimmy and I were still holding Homer's hands tight. "Let's get out of here!" Theodore was coughing from the smoke when he came back to us. And at that moment it happened. A tall, spindly dry tree that Father somehow had missed or left standing for the fun of it, toppled, right across the narrow doorway. And there we were, hemmed in. Trapped. "We'll have to jump over it!" I screamed. Because surely even though it meant being singed, it was our only way out. "We'll have trouble with Nig!" Theodore shouted. He jerked the reins from my hands, and Theodore, who was always calm, went tearing round the clearing again. Plainly he was in a panic. Our castle was getting smaller and smaller, for by now some of the stumps were catching fire. "We'll have to leave Nig here," I screamed at him. Even while I spoke I saw it was too late for that, too. The whole tree that had toppled was afire now. The dry leaves and sprigs on either side were flaming. Suddenly I thought of a way out of our desperate situation. Turning to Homer, I cried, "Homer, start bawling. Homer, start bawling!" RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1955 Homer's face was red and smudgy from the heat of the flames and the fine ash was sifting around us. "T promised," he said stubbornly. I grasped him by the shoulder, shook him a trifle. "Homer, baw]. Father and Uncle Stanley can't be far. They'll come running, and Uncle Fred. "Homer," I cried again—I was frantic myself now—"we''ll all be burned to death! I release you from your promise! Please bawl!" "Aw right. I'll try." He swallowed, and I saw he was trying. He made funny up and down sounds in his throat. But no real yowling came out. "I can't," he said. "I can't bawl unless I'm hoort." THT was true, I admitted, desperation seizing me. Homer had that peculiarity. He couldn't cry unless he was hurt. It didn't occur to me even then that I should hurt him. From long practice we had been so careful with him. I turned my attention back to Theodore. "You'd think they'd see the flames from the house!" "Your mother's taking a nap and Uncle Fred would never look up from his chicken coop!" "Where are our fathers?" I cried. The smoke was burning my throat and eyes. The flames were hot on my cheeks. All around us, the smell of burning wood, that would soon be... Soon be... "How do I know where our fathers are?" 'Theodore cried wildly. "Maybe just a few feet away. They're watching the fire." "Watching it!" I screamed. "They'll watch us burn!" THE LAST CLEARING Theodore grasped my shoulder. "Stop that. They can't see us, of course. They don't know we're here." "Well, what...." The words stopped in my throat. From behind us came an odd, almost horrifying sound. Homer was bawling. "Ye-oww, ye-owww, oww," he barreled. And with each yowl the sound came forth louder and more rasping. "Yee-ow. Ye-owwww. Ow!" Theodore and I ran over to him. Jinny was already there. For that instant we almost forgot the flames. Homer was hurt. As usual, I saw, Homer had hurt himself. But this time on purpose. Behind my back he had climbed on a high stump. And then pitched forward on his face. - We helped him to his feet. But still the loud, donkey-like braying rolled up from his chest. He was crying because he was hurt! And, like us, he had almost forgotten the fire. DOwN the slope from the house we saw Uncle Fred come running, and behind him Mother with some blankets. And then Uncle Stanley and Father were there, too, stomping on the flames, throwing dirt. And in moments there was a path out of our burning castle. And Jinny and Homer and Theodore and Nig and I were safe. "Homer saved us!" I announced a few minutes later when we were 521 all grouped together in the dooryard. "Wipe your nose, Homer," Theodore said sternly. Homer got out his clean, white handkerchief. "Homer's a dear," Mother said. "From now on he can cry as much as he pleases." And not minding her "condition," she lifted him in her arms, pressed her lips against his cheek. "I never cry unless I'm hoort," Homer reminded us stubbornly. "That's right," Father said. He and Uncle Stanley, now it was all over, looked pale and weak. "It can't be a really bad thing to howl when you're hurt." "The problem," Theodore said, "is to keep Homer from hurting himself." "No," I said. After what we'd been through, I felt I could speak as a grownup. "I think the problem "is to keep Homer from hurting With that everybody agreed. But no one—not even Homer, who had taken on a very important stature in our sight—could at the moment find the answer to that. After the room was finished, our baby turned out to be a boy. He had very black hair and mops of it. When he was nine months old he could say "Mama" very clearly. By the time he was a year old, he was saying "Cathy," which is my name, and we gave him "Homer" for a middle name. ipediewnies Meant Adventure Nell Murbarger XCEPT for half a dozen gooseberry bushes and a short row of pieplant, our homestead in the High Plains country was completely barren of fruit, either wild or domestic. Not that we hadn't planted fruit trees with dogged persistence and the hope that springs eternal; but either the jackrabbits girdled them, or the cattle and horses ate them or tramped them, or they were winter-killed. Asa result of these recurrent disasters, the only locally grown fruit I knew as a child was that provided by the thickets of wild plums, chokecherries, and buffalo berries, which grew in the sheltered "breaks" on the Indian reservation, half a day's horse-and-wagon drive to the cast. Due to the pressure of haying and other work that fell in midsummer, Father never felt we could spare time for more than one fruitharvesting jaunt each season, and, with our entire year's supply of jam and jelly contingent upon the success of that single trip, it was necessary that the time element be calculated with a neat degree of precision. Should we go too early, the chokecherries might be ripe, but the later-maturing plums would almost certainly be hard and green. If we delayed too long, on the other hand, the plums would be ripe, but the best of the chokecherries would have fallen prey to other pickers and to the great flocks of birds that came to feed on them. But, finally, a date for the trip would be selected, and daybreak of Page 522 the chosen morning would find us hurrying excitedly with last minute preparations. Breakfast would be eaten by lamplight, and, while Father harnessed Mike and Lady to the farm wagon, Mother and I would be packing a hamper with boiled eggs, potato salad, fried chicken, and all the other savory morsels necessary to picnic lunches. A "stone" casserole of beans, baked the previous afternoon, would be reheated and wrapped in many thicknesses of newspapers and cloth—a sheathing which aided admirably in keeping the container and its contents warm through all the hours until noon. By the time the sun peeked over the horizon, we would be well on our way, the horses trotting briskly in the cool air, their hoofs ringing musically and striking little spurts of dust from the hard dirt trail that wound across the prairie. Long before arriving at the chokecherry breaks, we would cross the boundary of the Indian reservation and soon would be _ traveling through a strange region quite different from our homestead where the grassy, level plains spread away almost as far as the eye could reach. Here the soil was limey-white, rather than the deep black of the prairie loam, and there was but little grass. There were short, choppy gullies and box canyons, and, rising abruptly from the sun-swept alkaline flats, were many queerly eroded buttes and knolls. CHOKECHERRIES MEANT ADVENTURE T would be nearly noon before we reached the vicinity of the cherry patch. After the horses had been unhitched, watered at a small milk-colored seep, and tethered in the sparse coolness of a thin cottonwood tree that grew beside the spring; we would spread a blanket in the narrow strip of shade cast by the wagon, and there would feast on the bountiful picnic lunch packed at daybreak and keenly anticipated through all the hours and miles traveled that morning. With the lunch remnants at last returned to the wagon box and each of us armed with several clean flour sacks to hold our berries, it remained only to hike back into the rough limestone breaks to the tangled thickets of small, crooked trees. Once we had reconnoitered the area to locate the "best" picking, work got under way. Not all chokecherries gathered, of course, found their way into the sacks, a goodly number being "processed" on the spot. The first berries eaten seemed a trifle bitter and puckerish, but this factor became less obvious as we continued to munch on them. Eventually, any suggestion of unpleasantness was lost altogether, and our taste buds registered only their spicy, rich flavor. As we worked, our hands and lips became darkened with stain, and the sides and bottoms of our cloth sacks were soon dyed with royal purple juice. As we collected the long, thin clusters of fruit, we were conscious of a throbbing life all around us—a thicket world quite different from the grass-and-sun-and-sky-world of our homestead, only thirty miles 523 distant. Thousands of unseen _locusts, or cicadas, as we called them, were busy scraping their little legfiddles—their notes, at times, sounding alarmingly like the rattling of rattlesnakes. Every now and then a robin would fly out of the brush, the plaintive calls of bob-whites and mourning doves issued from the thin line of cottonwoods fringing White River. FTER we had picked possibly two hundred pounds of chokecherries, we would load them in the wagon, 'cushioning the sacks on a bed of soft prairie hay, and drive on up the ridge a mile farther to a hidden box canyon which I liked to pretend was known to us alone. Here the attraction was an acresized copse of wild plum _ trees. There were two varieties, one bearing tart red fruits the size of hickory nuts, and the other, yellow plums large as a pullet's egg and syrupy sweet. The small trees were crooked and angular, their every twig terminating in a sharp, spine-like projection, which clutched savagely at our sunbonnets and dresses, and made passage through the tangled thicket impossible to any but the smallest animals. Because of this factor, the greater portion of the fruit was destined to fall to waste; and even now, all through the grove, we could hear ripe plums thudding on the matted leaf mold below. Higher on the sides of the box canyon grew scattered buffalo berry bushes armed with dagger like thorns, bearing small gray leaves and red fruits not much larger than the head of a match and too sour to be eaten out of hand. Although 524 appetizing jelly could be made from the buffalo berries, alone, their chief value lay in providing pectin to "Sell" the chokecherries. Fortunately for the pickers, a gallon bucketful of these was usually deemed sufficient. After camping out that night— cooking our supper over a campfire and sleeping under the friendly stars, then cooking our breakfast the next morning—we would make the long, hot drive back to our homestead in the forenoon of the second day. Due to the bruising the chokecherries would have received while being carried in the flour sacks and during the: bumpy journey home, it would be necessary that they be worked immediately. 'The afternoon of our return would find us busily picking over the previous day's harvest, throwing out stems and leaves and wormy fruits. ITH the sorting operation completed, the remaining good cherries and plums were next day cooked in dishpans and kettles until tender, after which the juice was strained through a jelly bag suspended from a harness ring fastened to the kitchen ceiling. Combined with the buffalo berry pectin and proper quantity of sugar, the juice was then boiled briskly until reaching the jelly stage, whereupon Mother poured it into steaming glasses and set them aside to cool. The residue left in the jelly bag was then run through the colander to remove seeds and skins, and this pulp was combined with sugar and set on the back of the wood stove where it was permitted to simmer slowly for hours, all the while blubbering like a kettle of hot mush and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1955 perfuming the house with its tangy, sweet fragrance. As the "butter" thickened with boiling, it was necessary that it be stirred with everincreasing frequency; but, at last, the mixture would be judged thick enough to keep, and Mother would ladle it into stone crocks and pour hot paraffin over the top of each to seal it from the air. Final operation of the preserving process was to label the hundred-ormore glasses and jars and carry them down cellar, where they were neatly arranged on shelves lined with clean newpapers whose edges had been paintakingly notched and scalloped with the scissors. Last formality of the annual jam and jelly making operation, was to place one attractive glass of each variety on a special shelf in the cellar for exhibition that autumn at the harvest festival. On another homestead several miles distant, lived an old widower who helped us each summer with the hay harvest. The first day Mother baked raised bread after the jelly cooking, she would always give "Uncle Jim" a pan of hot biscuits and a jar of chokecherry butter to take home for supper. Father always declared—with a wink in my direction—that Mother didn't do this becaue of any charitable impulse, but only because she liked to hear Uncle Jim's boast that nothing short of the ambrosia could ever taste quite as good as her chokecherry butter and hot raised biscuits. "Funny part of it is," Father would say, as he buttered another crunchy biscuit and reached again for the jam dish, "I suspect old Jim's right, at that!' Mary Elizabeth Selts Has lade Sour Hundred and &ighty Quilts ARY Flizabeth Felts of Fort Tuthill, Arizona, is eighty-one years old, but she still remembers the colors and the designs of many of the estimated four hundred and eighty quilts she has completed. All of the quilts have been pieced by hand and made with great care and precision. 'To her, a beautifully pieced quilt is a symbol of home and homemakers, a handicraft that should never be forgotten among women who love their homes. 'Twenty-four of Mrs. Felts' quilts have been donated to the Church Welfare Plan, and twenty have been given to the Relief Society, four of these being contributed to the Sixth Ward in Phoenix, Arizona. Mrs. Felts has also a second hobby. She raises many varieties of beautiful flowers, doing all of the digging of the soil and irrigating the flower beds. Her favorites are tulips, poppies, snapdragons, and geraniums. Flowers, like quilts, are of exquisite design and color, and Mrs. Felts loves to see them grow under her watchful care. A member of the Church since 1919, Mrs. Felts was converted in the Texas Mission and later moved to Arizona. She is the mother of six children, grandmother to six, and has eleven great-grandchildren. A widow since 1924, she now lives with her daughter, Mrs. Leo Kappes, at Fort Tuthill, just south of Flagstaff, Arizona, in the Snowflake Stake. Page 525 Hermanas CHAPTER 2 Fay Tarlock Synopsis: The story "Hermanas'' (sisters) is narrated by an American woman living temporarily in Mexico. Lolita, a Mexican woman, visits the American Senora and asks for employment for herself and her daughter Graciela, who is almost eighteen, a beautiful girl, well educated, and deserving the opportunity of living in a good home, which Lolita, now a widow, cannot provide for her. The American Senora explains that she is well satisied with the household help she already has. However, she hesitates and wonders if, perhaps, there is not some way that she can help Graciela. She learns that the mother and daughter had known Mormon missionaries. Me. She knew three foreign languages and the history and literature of those countries almost as well as she knew her own Mexican history. 'There was a mature intelligence behind her childish front. "What are you prepared to do, or what did Senora Urbina plan for you when you finished school?" "She wanted me to be able to earn my living in a better way than my mother. I was to be one of the new women of Mexico." Her face was very grave. "How do you propose to do it?" My eyes sought hers with equal gravity. Her laughter was sweet as a silver bell. "You will think me foolish, Senora, but I will tell you. When I was sixteen I wanted to be a great star of the cinema — one who would play first in a small South American cinema, then be seen by a great Page 526 T= girl's erudition surprised American director who would summon me to Hollywood. 'There I would make so much money that I would live in a Hollywood palace and my mother would have a servant for each day in the week." Her eyes danced with laughter. "That was when I was sixteen, Senora." "Now that you are almost eighteen, what are your ideas of a profession?" "T have more practical ideas now." She folded her hands demurely in her lap. "Like what?" "There are perhaps two things I could do to earn money soon. And I must be quick, Senora, for I do not want to become a servant, and I must care for my mother as well as myself." "And the two things?" This girl, I thought, knows what she is about more than her mother realizes. "The first is easy. I could become a saleslady in a department store. My English would insure me a place and the other languages would help." "But do you want to become a salesgirl?" "No." She said it with decision, her face dark. Then with mercurial quickness, she rocked in gay mirth. "Have you seen some of them, Senora?" She stood up, raising her head with exaggerated pride. "The girls with their haughty manners, their queenly carriages?" Walking across the garden, she imitated the HERMANAS haughty mien of a would-be-lady. More than once I had trailed meekly behind such proud creatures. I laughed until the tears came. "I would have. To. Gain many pounds, and besides there is little pay to it." Quietly she sat beside me. "It is all right for the girls who do not have the great necessity, but I must earn more soon." Her eyes, dark and deep as a child's, sought mine, asking. After a long look she seemed satisfied and leaned against the pomegranate tree, her dark braids touching the cool tile of the bench. "Tf it is possible, I do the second way, the way of the typewriter. You understand?" I nodded. "Not just ordinary work with the typewriter, that would not pay enough, and I would be very bored. I must be a secretary, a confidential secretary, no?" Y sigh was one of relief. The girl was practical, she had brains, and she had charm. Now, if she had the necessary skills. "Can you type, can you take dictation? 'Typing and dictation will open the first doors." "In school for two years I have typed. I can take dictation in Spanish with a little practice, for it comes easy to me. But now," she leaned forward, her whole desire in her eyes, "it is necessary that I go for awhile to a good business school where I type and take dictation in English. It is the English dictation that will get 'me the good work. I need, too, a typewriter for the prac- 327 tice at home. I need also clothes that [ will look like a girl from families who go to work only to get independence from home." She slid from the bench and stood before me. "You see how I dress, Senora?" 'There was bitterness in her voice, in the taut lines of her slender body. "How can I make these dreams come true?" She asked the question of herself, not of me. "T am, at last, in Mexico, and there is a good business school on Insurgentes. To get it I have only to ride on the red bus for a few minutes. I could even walk from here. But to get to that school on Insurgentes I have to cross a barranca that is as deep as it is wide. I can find no path and there is a raging stream at the bottom." "In my country," I said, hating myself for my triteness, "we say there is no gulf so wide nor so deep that we cannot cross it, if there is a will." "IT know," she sighed, her body drooping. "I have read your stories. When I heard your missionaries talk at Buenos Aires, I felt I could do anything." She passed her fingers, brown and tapering, over her eyes. "But now it is dark. I think and I think; yet I have not found a way." She looked like a woebegone child. "Once, Senora, I thought I had found the way. I said I would go to the school and promise to work for the manager or the teachers until my debt was paid, though it would take a long time. But my mother says it is impossible, that if I start doing housework, as a servant, I end there. I am so limited." 528 "Does your mother have any money saved or friends she can ask?" I knew that was foolish, even as I asked it. "We have been a long time absent," she said, answering the last question first. "My mother was able to save, though you know the wages of servants, and the Senora was kind, but her death came so suddenly. 'The boat home cost money, then the operation, and the living until we came here. There is little left." "The Senora de Vargas, would she help?" "She is a widow and has many problems, and we are not of her family. I must find another way." OW, I have the rash, Irish disposition that will take on anything. Caution whispered that often as not my plans did not work, that other people did not see eye to eye with me, but I led, chin out, with, "Do you really want to do this? You are serious?" "As serious as life itself." I had enough caution left to say I must talk with John, my husband, before I made any promises. "I think, however," I added slowly, "we can work something out. The tuition, how much is it a month, and how many months will you need?" The amount she named was formidable, until I translated the pesos into dollars. "TI would work day and night to finish quickly. And I am quick." She tried hard to control her eagerness. "IT think I may have a plan, but we must not be too sure. We are RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1955 in very modest circumstances, but if my husband agrees, we may find a way to pay your tuition, and you may use my typewriter, starting today, for practice." "If you can make such a plan come true, I will do anything for you, anything! It is the truth I speak." "I wouldn't ask you for everything. Neither do I believe you should accept without due returns. Perhaps, you can give me a few hours each day with the children, take them to the park, read to them in Spanish." As I spoke, I decided she must have at least one meal a day with us, to fill out her spare little body. Then some agreeable work could be found for Lolita. The Beemans, friends of ours in San Angel, had been unable to get a satisfactory nana for their small son. 'They might like Lolita to care for him part of each day. She could live at the old home and cook for Ramon. Clothes? It was wartime and my wardrobe was small. We would buy some Mexican material for skirts and blouses, and a few cottons for the warm days. Lolita should be able to sew. In my mind I parted with a light jacket. In this I was not entirely unselfish, for it was on the small side. When Graciela tried the jacket on she was ecstatic, pushing the toolong sleeves up and down, and twirling right and left before the long mirror in the closet door. "It is perfect, Senora, perfect!" After another long look of admiration in the mirror, she sighed happily. "Or it will be when my mother has ad- HERMANAS justed the sleeves." She stroked the collar with loving fingers. "I had never hoped for anything so elegant." Shyly she advanced towards me, rubbing the material with loving fingers. "The other clothes you spoke of, Sencra, would they, too, be fitting to my years?" I assured her they would be, then we came to the problem of shoes. Graciela's were worn huarachas. I thought of my American friends who had ridden the bus to San Antonio to buy American shoes, and felt they had saved money. Graciela would have to buy the stiff shoes in the market until she earned her own money. As to stockings, I closed my eyes. Only a spendthrift or a millionaire would buy the gossamer silk ones Mexico offered. I sighed. "One thing at a time. We will worry about stockings when you get the shoes. And it is foolish to talk of anything until I have el Senor's consent." N Lolita's last Sunday at the de Vargas house, we were able to make the long drive to Church. She rose with the dawn that April morning to have her dinner ready at the usual hour of two. Up and down the street the servants were aware of Lolita's plans. The maids lingered on the 'sidewalks over their brooms. Others gave the grass unneeded waterings and the chauffeurs were a long time polishing their cars. Mother and daughter radiated happiness. Lolita wore a neat, dark dress and a little black straw bonnet. Graciela was pretty in a new cotton frock with a design of blue flowers. She had her new shoes, but her 529 stockings were faded ones of cotton. They sat straight and smiling in the back seat of the car, responding like royalty to the hand waves as we progressed towards Avenida Insurgentes. I can see the meetinghouse so plainly that the walls of my own chapel fade away and I am again in the intense, golden light of the oldest city on our continent. The chapel, new then, was as unlike the domed and spired cathedrals of Mexico as is my religion from the traditional one of the centuries. It was a modest building with the usual rostrum and side aisles with no decorations save the fresh cut flowers and the cleansing sunlight that poured through the clear windows. 'There was also the smaller hall and the kitchen, in addition to the class rooms. About it was no dank smell of centuries. It was a church for today, clean and practical. On the grass in front of the chapel was an unwanted contribution, some mango seeds carelessly dropped. I saw an irate member of the Church grumble to himself as he stopped to pick up the huge seeds. When he straightened, I was met with a smile that was big as all outdoors. It was Roberto, who owned the fruit stands I patronized. It had not taken me long to discover his oranges were the sweetest, his fruits the soundest, and his prices not subject to haggling. "Un hermana, usted?" He doffed his hat and bowed low over my outstretched hand. "Why have I not seen you here before?" My astonishment equalled his. 530 There was a twinkle in his respectful eyes. "In part, it is because you do not come often. The other part is that I am not often here. It is the pressure of making a living, you understand, Senora, the hour for Church comes when my customers are the most pressing." He swept us into the chapel, leading our group into a prominent front position. The congregation? It was Mexican, of the new Mexico that calls all strains of blood, all races born under the flag, Mexican. There were the reboza-wrapped women, hatless, with their hair either in long braids or coiffed low, their infants snug in their laps. 'Then there were the quiet-facd women dressed in black, hats covering their thick coils of hair. 'There were men in the clean blue cotton clothes of the people; men in neat business suits and white collars of the business class, office workers, and people of the professions. Scattered about were the young missionaries from the North, comely girls and bright-eyed young men. There were the prosperous looking tourists who had given a Sunday morning of their scant time, and there were the North Americans, residents of the city, and law and medical students from the North. One young man I could not place. He seemed American, tall and straight, but with dark hair, olive skin, and blue eyes in an intelligent, sensitive face. He was a stranger, and, yet, too much at ease to be a tourist. It was a happy gathering. We sang the familiar music to Spanish words that gave the hymns a more RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1955 poignant meaning. Some of the speakers spoke to us in English, and had their words translated so quickly into fluent Spanish by el Presidente that they gasped in astonishment. When the services were over, we moved slowly to the front lawn and into the shade of the pepper trees, shaking hands all the way. The wife of the mission president, petite and fair-haired, made her way towards us, the mysterious young man at her elbow. "You must meet one of our members from the States," she said, taking my hand in warm welcome. "He is Dr. James Flores who is studying at the University of Mexico, and expects to practice here." HE young man flushed and extended his hand. I thought him young to be a doctor. "La Presidente elevates me too rapidly," he said, as his hand grasped mine, "for awhile yet, the title is only mine by courtesy." "You have no need for modesty here," I said smiling. "Titles are highly valued and used often." "T know," he replied, turning to me after he had greeted John. "I am in a way a native, though I have been a long time away." He told us that his mother was a Mexican girl who had married his father on one of his visits to Mexico, and that his father's people were Mexican by way of California before the Revolutionary War. He had lived in Mexico when he was a child, but his father had returned to the States during his seventh year. He was a 4¥, a minor thing, but the services would not have him, and now that his father was dead and his mother HERMANAS long gone, he had come to Mexico to finish his medical training and do some special research. "My mother gave me a great love for Mexico," he said, ending his short saga. "But why finish here?" I asked. "Would it not be better to do it in the States?" "It would be my last year there, but, here, I will take longer." He was eager to explain. "Here I can make it on my own. I'm lucky because of the research work. It got me a laboratory job at the hospital and supplies my room and_ board there. You'll have to excuse my babbling." He flushed again. "I guess it's because I haven't had a chance to talk to an American woman for so long." He glanced at the small figure of la Presidente, surrounded by members. "At the Mission Home they've been kindness itself, but I've been too busy to go there for weeks." Graciela, who had been standing quietly behind me during all this 531 flow of words, came forward, her eyes big in her lovely, eager face. I introduced them, speaking in English, and wondering if her vocabulary was good enough to have caught all we had said. "T know about you." She looked up into his face. "You are like me, of Mexico, but we have lived elsewhere." Jim Flores, who had looked at her as a man looks at an attractive child, opened his eyes and saw the woman whose words no longer left them strangers. "T think I have always been of Mexico," he said in Spanish, "but it is only lately I have come to understand. Now I am happier for it." "Then you have come home. I am glad, for I, too, am just come home." Her hand still rested in his, and it was in that moment that the seeds of their love were sown. (To be continued ) Would You Find Peace? Gene Romolo Would you find peace? Then stand amid stark quaking aspen trees And hark to their tranquility of tone, When their bright leaves are jostled by a breeze... Behold dawn raise the windows of the day, And light arrange its great lamp on the sill... List to bubbling brooks with pebbles play. Peace lingers long beside a bloom-banked till. Seek for peace when day's end has gone down Below a pastel tinted horizon. Peace on earth is an illusive thing, Much like a bird continuously awing. WVholeWheat Bread Jessie Nellis Makes 2 large loaves, pans 9%x5%x2% inches, or 3 smaller loaves, pans 8'%4x4%x2% inches. Measure 7 c. Whole-wheat flour 1/3 c. Powdered dry milk 1 c. White flour into a 3-quart % ¢. Cooking oil mixing bowl 1 tbsp. Salt Crumble 2 cakes fresh yeast in small yeast and sugar, Stir with spoon bowl or cup until like syrup, then combine Add 2 tbsp. Sugar mixtures and add 2 c. Warm Mix in large 3-quart bow] water, alternately with as much Beat well in a separate bowl whole-wheat flour as the 4 eggs beater will take nicely. Add % ¢. Dark syrup Stir in the remaining whole-wheat flour with a large spoon. Use white flour to knead bread on the board, turning dough onto canvas-covered, floured board. Knead until smooth and springy. If electric mixer is not used, beat the eggs well in a large bowl with rotary beater, and stir in remaining ingredients well. Place in a large greased bowl or container and cover with dry cloth. Let rise until double in bulk. The dough will rise at any regular room temperature, but more quickly at 80° to 85° F. Turn dough onto kneading board, knead down, and divide into two or three parts, according to the size of pan used. Roll dough with rolling pin into rectangular shape, turning over once or twice, to remove bubbles. Fold one-third of dough from each end back onto itself, pressing firmly together, keeping corners square. Roll dough into loaf, rolling gently but firmly with hands to insure uniform texture. Place loaf in well-greased pan and cover with a dry cloth. Let rise until 1 to 1% inches above pan. Place in 400° oven for 5 minutes to spring loaf, then reduce heat to 325° F., baking larger loaves 50 minutes more. And smaller loaves 40 minutes more. A a Shree Little Sisters Dora Toone Brough Last night I was baby-sitting To Julie and Jolee, age two;: And darling Patricia just half. -past three— Her eyes are delphinium blue. I sang, then told stories and cuddled; They kissed me and laughed with glee, Heaven opened real wide to Grandma, For three angels sat on her knee. Page 532 From The Field_ Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for ""Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1950, page 278, and the Handbook of Instructions, page 123. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Muriel S. Wallis UINTAH STAKE (UTAH), ASHLEY WARD VISITING TEACHERS MAKE A ONE-HUNDRED PER CENT RECORD FOR NINE YEARS Front row, seated, left to right: Nellie Kloeppel; Phidelia Anderson; Sarah Smith; Elmaide Freestone. Second row, seated, left to right: Kathleen Allred; Annie Morrison; Flossie Pace; Stella Freestone; Irene Karren. Back row, standing, left to right: Nellie Gardiner; Mary Kidd; Nellie Merkley; Beatrice Harrison; Flora Winn; Alene Swett. Eva Mecham and Elva Deans were not present when this picture was taken. Other wards which were honored at a visiting teacher convention held February 13, 1955, were: Naples, with one hundred per cent for seven years; Vernal Second Ward, one hundred per cent for six years; Lapoint, six years; Davis, three years; Bonanza, Vernal First Ward, and Maeser, one hundred per cent records for one year. Muriel S. Wallis is president of Uintah Stake Relief Society. Page 533 534 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1955 Photograph submitted by Vivian R. McConkie ENSIGN STAKE (SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH), SOUTH TWENTIETH WARD RELIEF SOCIETY HONORS PAST PRESIDENTS AT ANNIVERSARY PARTY Center table, right, at the far end of the table, Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor in the general presidency of Relief Society; third from Sister Sharp (in light-colored dress), Josephine Folland, Secretary; Myrtis Thompson, First Counselor; Emma Buckmiller, President; across the table, at the left front, Carma Manwaring, Second Counselor. Vivian R. McConkie is president of Ensign Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Rose B. Brimley MARICOPA STAKE (ARIZONA) RELIEF SOCIETY BOARD AT ANNIVERSARY PARTY HONORING PAST PRESIDENTS, March 17, 1955 Left to right: Mildred B. Jarvis, social science class leader; Opal John, Magazine representative; Rose Brimley, Secretary; Zelda Merritt, First Counselor; Esther Miller, President (cutting the cake); Willa Gray, Second Counselor; Davida Dalton organist; Marva Addington, chorister; Ivern Openshaw, literature class leader; Hazel Cook, visiting teacher message leader; Della Standage, theology class leader. Rose B. Brimley, Secretary, Maricopa Stake Relief Society, reports: "On March 17th, we honored the seventieth year of the stake organization. We called our program "Yhrough the Years' and honored each president. Those still alive represented themselves, and the others were represented by members of their immediate famihes. Sister Mildred B. Jarvis wrote the history of the stake from its organization in 1885. 'The program was very successful and brought together many old friends of past years. Following our lead, quite a few of the wards wrote the history of their organizations and honored their past presidents." NOTES FROM THE FIELD 535 Photograph submitted by Alice Alldredge LAS VEGAS STAKE (NEVADA) SINGING MOTHERS FURNISH MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, April 24, 1955 Lucy Bunker, stake chorister, is standing in front of the piano; Fern Olive, pianist, is seated at the left; Kathryn Bleak, organist, seated at the night. This chorus is composed of eighty-three women, and includes representatives from each of the fourteen wards of the stake. Some of these women had to travel more than a hundred miles to participate in the chorus. Alice Alldredge is president of Las Vegas Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Verny J. Olson SOUTH SALT LAKE STAKE (UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE Front row, center, reading from left to right (in dark dresses): Nancy Olsen, stake chorister; Virginia G. Johnson, stake organist; Verny J. Olson, President, South Salt Lake Stake Relief Society; Melvina Dust, Second Counselor, at the right on the fourth row. Once each year this group of Singing Mothers furnishes the music for stake quarterly conference. The group is composed of singers from nine of the ten wards in the stake. Nine stake board members and seventeen members of ward presidencies are among the group. 536 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1955 Photograph submitted by Matilda B. Gilbert FRANKLIN STAKE (IDAHO), FRANKLIN WARD RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS Front row, seated, left to right: Veroka Nash, who served six years; Isabell Lowe, who served as president twice, a total of twenty years; Alice Woodward, who served six years. Back row, standing, left to right: Stella Biggs, who served for three years; Areta Doney, five years; Elma Porter, present President. These devoted sisters have served as presidents of the Franklin Ward Relief Society since 1912., Matilda B. Gilbert is president of Franklin Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Loleta W. Dixon WEST UTAH STAKE (UTAH), RIVERGROVE FIRST AND SECOND WARDS ANNIVERSARY PARTY, March 15, 1955 Front row, seated, left to right: Bessie Cochran, organist, Rivergrove Second Ward; Veneta Broadbent, Secretary, Rivergrove Second Ward; Gwen J. Christensen, former ward president (Rivergrove), now President, Sharon Stake Relief Society; Beth Mars- NOTES FROM THE FIELD 537 den, West Utah Stake theology class leader; Inez Hindmarsh, West Utah Stake work meeting leader; Ada Jackson, Work Director Counselor, Rivergrove Second Ward; Zelma Killpack, Education Counselor, Rivergrove Second Ward Relief Society; Bishop Wesley Carter, Rivergrove Second Ward; America Perry, President, Rivergrove Second Ward Relief Society; Belle S. Spafford, General President, Relief Society; Estella D. Lewis, President, Rivergrove First Ward Relief Society; Alice Hawkins, Employment Counselor, Rivergrove First Ward Relief Society. "It was a rare privilege to have President Belle S. Spafford as the guest speaker at our Relief Society birthday party,' Sister Lewis and Sister Perry report "The two wards were combined for the occasion, and over one hundred women enjoyed the afternoon together." Loleta W. Dixon is president of West Utah Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Luella C. Ricks TACOMA STAKE (WASHINGTON), THIRD WARD ANNIVERSARY PARTY March 18, 1955 Front row, seated, left to right: Second Counselor Ruth Brackenbury; President Edith Reese; First Counselor Jean Ricks; Secretary Ruth Calihan; Margaret Crouch; Ethel Orth. Second row, standing, left to nght: Dorothy Stevens; Rhea Hansen; Della Russell; Elveda Wood; Vilate Bottoms; Luella C. Ricks, President, Tacoma Stake Relief Society. On this delightful occasion a smorgasbord was prepared for the members of the Relief Society and their partners. A program and games were then enjoyed, using the theme of the first Relief Society organization. 'he birthday cake was decorated with pictures of President Emma Smith and President Belle S. Spafford. Top hats and bonnets were presented to everyone present. UIE} DEPARTMENT Sheology—Characters and Teachings of The Book of Mormon Lesson 34—Political and Religious Disintegration Elder Leland H. Monson (Text: The Book of Mormon: Helaman chapters 1-5:5) For Tuesday, November 1, 1955 Objective: To show how unrighteous desires and acts bring political and religious disintegration, but the Lord is merciful and prospers those who repent. Struggle Over the Judgment-Seat N the fortieth year of the reign of the judges, there was much contention over the judgment-seat. Pahoran had died and three of his sons, Pahoran, Paanchi, and Pacumeni, contended for the position. This created a three-fold division among the people. An election was held, and, according to democratic procedure, Pahoran was elected. But the minority who supported Paanchi refused to abide by the decision of the majority. Paanchi who was seeking to overthrow the legitimate government and thus destroy the liberty of the people, was tried according to the voice of the people and condemned to death, "... For he had raised up in rebellion and sought to destroy the liberty of the people" (Helaman 1:8). His followers then sent Kishkumen to murder Pahoran "... As he sat upon the judgment-seat" (Helaman 1:9). So speedy was Kishkumen's flight, after the murder, that no one overtook him, and, as he was disguised, he went unpunished and formed a Page 538 secret combination with his band. Pacumeni was then chosen by the voice of the people to be chief judge and governor over the land. Moronihah Defeats the Lamanites The following year the Lamanites armed "... With swords, and with cimeters and with bows, and with arrows, and with head-plates, and with breastplates, and with all manner of shields of every kind" (Helaman 1:14), came to battle against the Nephites. 'The leader of these Lamanites was Coriantumr, a dissenter from the Nephites, and a descendant of Zarahemla. 'They attacked the city of Zarahemla in the center of the land. Because of their internal conflict over the judgmentseat, the Nephites had neglected to station a sufficient number of guards in the land of Zarahemla, feeling that the Lamanites would not attack it. In the battle which resulted, Pacumeni was slain by Coriantumr. Not satisfied with the capture of this great city, Coriantumr started LESSON DEPARTMENT for the city of Bountiful. He captured many cities and strongholds between Zarahemla and Bountiful, for he wanted to obtain the north parts of the land. Coriantumr's march through the center of Nephite territory gave advantage to Moronihah, leader of the Nephite forces. Moronihah was the son of the former chief captain Moroni. Moronihah, like his great father, was not only a military leader but a man of God. "... Moronihah did preach many things unto the people because of their iniquity... And did prophesy many things unto them concerning their iniquities, and what should come unto them if they did not repent of their sins' (Helaman 4:14). He brought fresh forces and supplies from the outer strongholds and, ultimately, surrounded the Lamanites. Retreating towards Zarahemla, Coriantumr was slain. The Lamanite forces yielded. "And it came to pass that Moronihah took possession of the city of Zarahemla again, and caused that the Lamanites who had been taken prisoners should depart out of the land in peace" (Helaman 1:33). Rise of Gadianton Robbers The murder of Pacumeni and the capture of Zarahemla made _ necessary the calling of another election _in which Helaman, son of Helaman, was raised to the position of chief judge. Possessed of an overweening ambition for power, Gadianton, "... Who was exceeding expert... In his craft, to carry on the secret work of murder and of robbery..." (Helaman 2:4) made himself ruler of the Gadianton band which was composed of Kishkumen and _ his followers. Gadianton sought to 539 place himself in the judgment-seat. Flattered by Gadianton with promises of power, Kishkumen attempted to murder Helaman, and was stabbed in the back by one of Helaman's servants. Helaman, knowing the danger of this secret combination of conspirators, sought to destroy the organization by killing the leaders. For safety, Gadianton and his band fled unharmed into the wilderness. For three years there was peace, but in the forty-sixth year of the reign of the judges, "... There was much contention and many dissensions..." (Helaman 3:3) among the Nephites. Dissenting groups left for the land northward to inherit the land. And they did travel to an exceeding great distance, insomuch that they came to large bodies of water and many rivers... They did spread forth into all parts of the land, into whatever parts it had not been rendered desolate and without timber, because of the many inhabitants who had before inherited the land... The people became... Expert in the working of cement.... And the people... Did dwell in tents, and in houses of cement (Helaman 3:4 ff.). Peace and Prosperity Under Helaman Helaman filled "... The judgment-seat with justice and equity; yea, he did observe to keep the statutes, and the judgments, and the commandments of God; and he did do that which was right in the sight of God continually; and he did walk after the ways of his father, insomuch that he did prosper in the land. "And it came to pass that he had two sons. He gave unto the eldest the name of Nephi, and unto the youngest, the name of Lehi. 540 And they began to grow up unto the Lord" (Helaman 3:20-21). "And it came to pass that in this same year |4oth year of the reign of judges] there was exceeding great prosperity in the church, insomuch that there were thousands who did join themselves unto the church and were baptized unto repentance. "And so great was the prosperity of the church, and so many the blessings which were poured out upon the people, that even the high priests and the teachers were themselves astonished beyond measure. "And it came to pass that the work of the Lord did prosper unto the baptizing and uniting to the church of God, many souls, yea, even tens of thousands. "Thus we may see that the Lord is merciful unto all who will, in the sincerity of their hearts, call upon his holy name. "Yea, thus we see that the gate of heaven is open unto all, even to those who will believe on the name of Jesus Christ, who is the Son of God" (Helaman 3:24-28). Nephi As Chief Judge "And it came to pass in the fifty and third year of the reign of the judges, Helaman died, and his eldest son Nephi began to reign in his stead. And it came to pass that he did fill the judgment-seat with justice and equity; yea, he did keep the commandments of God, and did walk in the ways of his father" (Helaman 3:37). Dissensions from the Church, murder, and other crimes continued through the period in which Nephi served as chief judge. The rebellious part of the population, however, was slain or driven among the Lamanites. These exiled deserters, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1955 hating their Nephite brethren, stirred the Lamanites up to a point where they agreed to unite with the dissenters in a battle against the Nephites. Again, in the fifty-seventh and fifty-eighth year of the reign of the judges, the Lamanites captured Zarahemla, and "... Also all the lands, even unto the land which was near the land Bountiful" (Helaman 4:5). The Nephites fortified themselves in the land Bountiful ',.. From the west sea, even unto the east; it being a day's journey for a Nephite, on the line which they had fortified and_ stationed their armies to defend their north country" (Helaman 4:7). In the sixtieth year of the reign of the judges, Moronithah recaptured many of the cities between Bountiful and Zarahemla. Commenting on these battles and their consequences, the historian Mormon interpolates: "Now this great loss of the Nephites, and the great slaughter which was among them, would not have happened had it not been for their wickedness and their abomination which was among them; yea, and it was among those also who professed to belong to the church of God. "And it was because of the pride of their hearts, because of their exceeding riches, yea, it was because of their oppression to the poor, withholding their food from the hungry, withholding their clothing from the naked, and smiting their humble brethren upon the cheek, making a mock of that which was sacred, denying the spirit of prophecy and of revelation, murdering, plundering, lying, stealing, commit- LESSON DEPARTMENT ting adultery, rising up in great contentions, and deserting away into the land of Nephi, among the Lamanites— "And because of this their great wickedness, and their boastings in their own strength, they were left in their own strength; therefore they did not prosper..." (Helaman 4:11-13. See also Helaman 4:23-25.) Nephi Devotes Life to Church Repentance again brought back to them some of their former prosperity, for they now realized that possible annihilation faced them. "Yea, they began to remember the prophecies of Alma, and also the words of Mosiah; and they saw that they had been a stiffnecked people, and that they had set at naught the commandments of God; "And that they had altered and trampled under their feet the laws of Mosiah, or that which the Lord commanded him to give unto the people; and they saw that their laws had become corrupted, and that they had become a wicked people, insomuch that they were wicked even like unto the Lamanites. "And because of their iniquity the church had begun to dwindle; and they began to disbelieve in the spirit of prophecy and in the spirit of revelation; and the judgments of God did stare them in the face. "And they saw that they had become weak, like unto their brethren, the Lamanites, and that the Spirit of the Lord did no more preserve 541 them; yea, it had withdrawn from them because the Spirit of the Lord doth not dwell in unholy temples— "Therefore the Lord did cease to preserve them by his miraculous and matchless power, for they had fallen into a state of unbelief and awful wickedness; and they saw that the Lamanites were exceedingly more numerous than they, and except they should cleave unto the Lord their God they must unavoidably perish" (Helaman 4:21-25). It was then (in 30 B. C. The sixtysecond year of the reign of the judges) that Nephi who "... Had become weary because of their iniquity..." (Helaman 5:4), relinquished the judgment-seat to Cezoram, "... And took it upon him to preach the word of God all the remainder of his days, and his brother Lehi also, all the remainder of his days" (Helaman 5:4). Nephi knew that "... Wickedness never was happiness" (Alma 41:10), that nations cannot sin with impunity. Questions and Topics for Discussion 1. Who were the sons of Pahoran who contended for the judgment-seat? 2. What did the secret combination, called the Gadianton robbers, do to injure the Nephites? 3. Which was the most important office to Nephi, being chief judge or high priest? Give reasons for your answer. 4. What causes political disintegration? Religious disintegration? 5. How did the historian Mormon answer this question? Visiting Seacher ITlessages Book of Mormon Gems of Truth Lesson 34—"But Thou, When Thou Prayest, Enter Into Thy Closet, and When Thou Hast Shut Thy Door, Pray to Thy Father Who Is in Secret; and Thy Father, Who Seeth in Secret, Shall Reward Thee Openly" (3 Nephi 13:6). Edith S. Elhott For Tuesday, November 1, 1955 Objective: To point out that we are admonished to pray in secret and we shall be rewarded openly. HEN we were children and had a deep and earnest desire for something—something that at that moment was more important to us than anything else, we did not shout it from the housetops, nor tell everybody about it. Rather, we bided our time. We thought about it, we watched for a quiet moment when we could ask one or both parents to grant to us the thing that we longed for. Sometimes it was a material need or just understanding, or a word of advice. Other times we wanted to express gratitude for many kindnesses, considerations, and indulgences. Any of the above we considered too personal and private for an audience, and so it is with prayer. Our deepest and most serious thoughts whether of pleadings or thanksgiving are between us and our God. 'Therefore, we approach him in quiet and in secret and in supplication gain a clear channel—a channel always open to us. The Savior has given us advice on prayer as to how, when, and where to supplicate. The Lord's Prayer found in both The Book of Mor- -mon and the Bible is his pattern— both direct and simple. We know God sees us as we are Page 542 and he has told us, "... Your Father knoweth what things ye have need of before ye ask him" (3 Nephi 13:8). Secret prayer conveys an honest plea and there is no need for sham or pretense. One can pour out his heart uninhibited in solitude, and this, alone, is good for the soul. When our freedom and liberty were in jeopardy at the time of the American Revolution, General Washington sought the Lord in secret prayer. He knew no one could help or advise him but his God. He drew away from his associates and laid his problems before his Maker. The answer to that prayer was liberty and freedom. The boy Prophet of this dispensation, after much thought and speculation, went alone into the woods to pray. His desire for knowledge of his Heavenly Father's will was so sincere and personal that he could only talk it over with him in private. 'The answer to that prayer brought the gospel of Jesus Christ back to this earth in its fullness. This is a perfect example of both the Prophet and others being rewarded openly, a reward that all mankind may enjoy, if they will but live for it. It is so easy to go down on our LESSON DEPARTMENT knees in time of trouble and sorrow and say as King David said: Hear my prayer, O Lord, and let my cry come unto thee. Hide not thy face from me in the day when I am in trouble; incline thine ear unto me: in the day 543 when I call answer me speedily (Psalms 102:1-2). Let us not forget, also, to go to the Lord often and in secret with thanksgiving in our hearts for his loving generosity. Work I leeting—Food Preparation and Service (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting). Lesson 2—Meal Planning Rhea H. Gardner For Tuesday, November 8, 1955 woman can rightfully be credited as being a good cook when she prepares foods and combines them in meals in such a way that everyone at the table eats what he should because they taste so good. One of the important responsibilities of every homemaker is the establishment of good food habits for family members. Well-balanced, properly cooked, attractively prepared colorful meals encourage good food habits. The secret of successful food combinations lies in the skillful use of contrast. Contrast in Flavor Commonly used bland, staple foods, such as bread, cereals, rice, potatoes, and macaroni need to be accented by small amounts of decided flavors. At breakfast, fruit, bacon, or marmalade may serve that purpose. At other meals, sauces, relishes, salads, cheese, and certain vegetables are valued, in part, for the flavor contrast which they provide. A repetition of the same flavor within a single meal is a mistake. Contrast in Texture Textures in food are the characteristic qualities that we describe as hard, soft, crisp, chewy, etc. A meal made up of too many dry and crisp foods overtires the jaws. A meal that is too soft gives little sense of satisfaction. Contrast in Color For occasional festivity, carry out a color scheme, but let moderation be the watchword. Colorless meals are likely to kill the appetite. A meal of stewed chicken, mashed potatoes, and cauliflower could be made much more appetizing with the addition of a sprig of parsley, or chopped parsley, butter put over the cauliflower, and with a dash of paprika or strips of green peppers or carrots. 'These garnishes would increase the attractiveness of the plates with little additional labor. A more colorful vegetable would also add to the attractiveness of the plate. Contrast in Temperature Cold foods and hot foods served 544 at the same meal supply attractive contrast, whether the meal is served in July or December. This difference in temperature is an important consideration. Contrast in Concentration Foods which contain _ large amounts of sugar, fat, or protein are rich or concentrated. Foods which contain a large amount of water or fiber are diluted. The skillful menu planner keeps each in its proper place. Planning Ahead An understanding of what is needed to prepare a well-balanced meal and planning ahead add to one's shopping enjoyment and satisfaction. The shopper who can select the right cut of beef for stew will serve a better stew. The shopper who knows the tests for selecting good citrus fruits, vegetables, eggs, and other fresh products will serve meals with more appetite appeal. Paper and pencil, a chair, a table, and you, make a perfect quartet for pre-shopping savings and sense. You need a rough idea of the family's needs for meals for the next week. Jot down these meal plans for reference before making shopping lists. Then you are ready to match your plans to what are the best market buys. First, scan the food advertisements in your local paper. Check to see what meat or meats are the best buy, with consideration of what you have served recently. Having decided upon meats, next choose vegetables to go with them. You may have some canned or frozen vegetables at home, and wish RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1955 only to buy some fresh ones for a crisp salad. Before buying foods, compare their values according to the number of servings obtainable from each. Cabbage may be for sale at three cents a pound. An average serving of cabbage is one-fourth pound, and the only waste would be about two outside leaves. Spinach may be advertised at two pounds for twenty-five cents. It takes one-third pound of spinach for an average serving. Compare costs of the two vegetables. Staples are also important. Make a habit of replenishing them before they are all gone. A young bride had green peppers on her shopping list, priced at twenty-three cents each. She admitted that the price was out of line with her budget, but she said, "I must have one, for my recipe calls for one-fourth cup chopped green peppers." An equal amount of celery, parsley, or onion might have served just as well, especially while green peppers were out of season. A bunch of parsley in your garden during the growing season, and in a pot in the kitchen window other times, can save pennies and contribute much to the eye appeal of your meals. It is genuine fun to do things when you bring wisdom to the task. As you grow wiser, you will grow richer, because you cannot help but save money as you add up knowledge and apply it in your everyday tasks. Suggested Activities for the Class Leader With an actual meal, or with the use of pictures, demonstrate the various kinds LESSON DEPARTMENT of contrasts in a menu. Visit grocery stores, just prior to giving the lesson, for examples of good buys. Show or tell how each good buy could be used to give eye and taste appeal to family meals. 545 Discuss the value of the shopping list and how to make and use one. An example might consist of the items needed to make a fruit salad, such as grapes, oranges, bananas, etc. Note the supplementary material to this lesson in the article "Do You Serve Five-Star Meals to Your Family?" by Rhea H. Gardner, on page 516 of this issue of The Relief Society Magazine. Of iterature—Literature of England Lesson 50—Stevenson's Prose Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: The Literature of England, II, Woods, Watt, Anderson, pp. 934-951) For Tuesday, November 15, 1955 Objective: To gain a clearer understanding of the familiar term "strength of character" by studying some of Stevenson's prose and relating it to his life situation. EVENSONG The embers of the day are red Beyond the murky hill. The kitchen smokes; the bed In the darkling house is spread. The great sky darkens overhead, And the great woods are shrill. So far have I been led, Lord, by thy will; So far I have followed, Lord, and wondered still. The breeze from the embalmed land Blows sudden toward the shore, And claps my cottage door. I hear the signal, Lord—I understand. The night at thy command Comes. I will eat and sleep and will not question more. (Text, page 881) OR the frail Stevenson death was the constant reality, as near to him as the air he breathed, or could hardly breathe. At age twentyeight he wrote, "If Iam spared..." and "'... We theorize with a pistol to our head..." (text, page 936). Of the four essays in our text three are dominated by his awareness of age and death. At the age of thirtyfour, when most men have scarcely begun to live, Louis wrote his "Requiem": Dig the grave and let me lie. Glad did I live and gladly die, And I laid me down with a will. (Text, page 881) The poem "Evensong" quoted above states clearly and beautifully his willingness to submit in peace to a death as near as it was unexplained. Although death was thus his constant companion, his acknowledgment of death's presence was always serene, with no bitterness nor panic. For Stevenson to 546 have ignored death would have seemed to him cowardly and unrealistic, two sins which led _ his private list. Stevenson thus granted death its due, but no more than its due. He was forced by his own honesty and integrity to face death without fear or resentment or excitement. But his constant affirmation, indeed the essence of his life-message, is that a morbid preoccupation with death must never be allowed to infringe upon the great demand and duty of a life still unquenched. To live life now, while it is still ours—this is for him the highest duty. And it must be lived on our own terms: we must follow the truth as we see it. Or, in Stevenson's words, ""I'o know what you prefer instead of humbly saying amen to what the world tells you you ought to prefer, is to have kept your soul alive." The grandeur of man's estate, believes Stevenson, is for man here below to achieve nobleness, unselfishness, kindness, and love despite death. And as we dwell, we living things, in our isle of terror and under the imminent hand of death, God forbid it should be man the erected, the reasoner, the wise in his own eyes—God forbid it should be man that wearies in well-doing, that despairs of unrewarded effort, or utters the language of complaint. Let it be enough for faith, that the whole creation groans in mortal frailty, strives with unconquerable constancy: surely not all in vain (''Pulvis et Umbra," text, page 951). What greater sin could we mortals commit than to desire to escape death? Never did Robert Louis Stevenson wish to annihilate death; he wished only for the strength and courage to triumph over it. And, most important, he had the brashness, the temerity, the courage to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1955 defy death when for him death was the end of all. The blessed security of an afterlife spent in unison with mate, offspring, and God, is a sublimity Stevenson could not comprehend, nor permit himself. Realize within yourself, for example, how violently you would be forced to redefine life and death and virtue and sin had the following words come from your pen: If I could believe in the immortality business, the world would indeed be too good to be true; but we were put here to do what service we can, for honour and not for hire.... The soul of piety was killed long ago by that idea of reward. Nor is happiness, whether eternal or temporal, the reward that mankind seeks... His soul is in the journey; he was born for the struggle, and only tastes his life in effort and on the condition that he is opposed... How can he be rewarded but by rest? (Furnas, Voyage to Windward, page 230). Now we are more deeply prepared to recall two of Stevenson's keystatements: that "man's highest duty is to be happy," and that most of all we should seek in life to gain courage, "courage, the footstool of all the virtues." Frailty and Courage Throughout his life Stevenson's body was extremely thin. He never weighed much over a_ hundred pounds, and he was described as "a bundle of sticks in a bag" (Henry Adams); one who gives the impression that "there is no flesh between his bones and his clothes" (Mark Twain); while Sidney Colvin, his dearest friend, recalled him as "so small... You could put your thumb and finger round his thigh." Similarly, all remarked on his gleaming, nervous eyes, his tremendous nerv- LESSON DEPARTMENT ous energy which caused him to stride about the room while conversing, as if charged with electricity. In his own physical weakness, then, originated his concern with death, but also from within came his voracious will to live fully and deeply. But let us hear Stevenson's belief as couched in his own condensed rhythmic prose: As courage and intelligence are the two qualities best worth a good man's cultivation, so it is the first part of intelligence to recognize our precarious estate in life, and the first part of courage to be not at all abashed before the fact. A frank and somewhat headlong carriage, not looking too anxiously before, not dallying in maudlin regret over the past, stamps the man who is well armored for this world. And not only well armored for himself, but a good friend and a good citizen to boot. We do not go to cowards for tender dealing; there is nothing so cruel as panic; the man who has least fear for his own carcass, has most time to consider others.... So soon as prudence has begun to grow up in the brain, like a dismal fungus, it finds its first expression in a paralysis of generous acts. The victim begins to shrink spiritually; he develops a fancy for parlors with a regulated temperature, and takes his morality on the principle of tin shoes and_ tepid milk.... Who would find heart enough to begin to live, if he dallied with the consideration of death? And, after all, what sorry and pitiful quibbling all this is! To forego all the issues of living in a parlor with a regulated temperature—as if that were not to die a hundred times over, and for ten years at a stretch! As if it were not to die in one's own lifetime, and without even the sad immunities of death!... It is better to lose health like a spendthrift than to waste it like a miser. It is better to live and be done with it, than to die daily in the sickroom. By all means begin your folio; even if the doctor does not give you a year, even if he hesitates about a month, make one brave push and see what can be accomplished in a week.... 547 Every heart that has beat strong and cheerfully has left a hopeful impulse behind it in the world, and bettered: the tradition of mankind.... For surely, at whatever age it overtake [such a] man, this is to die young (Aes Triplex, text, PP. 944-45). Descriptive Power Nor should we be reluctant in acknowledging to Stevenson his mastery of descriptive and narrative techniques. "I know what pleasure is," he wrote, "for I have done good work." His powers of making land and seascape come alive are exemplified throughout his early travel books, his Scotch novels, and in Treasure Island, which many claim fits the description of a spot which can be identified on the California coast. Treasure Island Louis had always maintained that a map tells more than a book, so when. He invented a map of Treasure Island to amuse his stepson Lloyd, Fanny, Lloyd, and Louis' father at once caught the fire of his imagination and began suggesting episodes and characters. Louis loved the story, writing a chapter daily, then reading it to the family each night around the roaring fireplace. First entitled The Sea Cook, it was published anonymously, since Stevenson wanted to protect his reputation as a serious writer. He wrote his friend William E. Henley, "If this don't fetch the kids, why, they have gone rotten since my day." Truer words were never spoken. Since Treasure Island was written, all boys have been deeply grateful to Stevenson for having made it possible for them to be Jim Hawkins, at least for a span of years in their lives. Jim is not only the 548 hero, but the tool whereby Stevenson gets his story told. And what a story, from the very first masterful sentence: Squire Trelawney, Doctor Livesey, and the rest of these gentlemen having asked me to write down the whole particulars about Treasure Island... Keeping nothing back but the bearings of the island, and that only because there is still treasure not yet lifted, I take up my pen in the year of grace seventeen—, and go back to the time when my father kept the ''Admiral Benbow" inn, and the brown old seaman, with the saber cut, first took up his lodging under our roof. In this brief passage Stevenson not only tells the reader that the boy survives a great adventure; he fills the passage with the magic names—Squire, Treasure Island, Admiral Benbow inn—and words that stir up hackles on any boy's spine: "brown old seaman," "saber cut," and "treasure not lifted." And how really (and romantically) the old seaman is described:... He came plodding to the inn door, his sea-chest following behind him in a hand barrow; a tall, strong, heavy, nutbrown man; his tarry pigtail falling over the shoulders of his soiled blue coat; his hands ragged and scarred, with black, broken nails; and the saber cut across one cheek, a dirty, livid white (Treasure Island, 1903 edition, page 3). The heart of the book, of course, lies in the witty, shifty Long John Silver. Alternately young Jim feels near to him, then fears him. When Jim finally stumbles into the dark stockade, right into the hands of the mutinous pirates, it is Long John who saves him and ties Jim to him as they start out for the treasure, climbing uphill. The thought of the money, as_ they drew nearer, swallowed up their previous RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1955 terrors. 'Their eyes burned in their heads; their feet grew speedier and lighter; their whole soul was bound up in that fortune.. Silver hobbled, grunting on his crutch; his nostrils stood out and quivered; he cursed like a madman when the flies settled on his hot and shiny countenance; he plucked furiously at the line that held me to him, and, from time to time, turned his eyes upon me with a. Deadly look (Treasure Island, page 249). When they arrived at the treasure site, they found only grass-covered boards and a broken pick. Sensing trouble, Silver passed Jim a doublebarrelled pistol, and the two sidled quietly away from the pirates who:... With oaths and cries, began to leap, one after another, into the pit, to dig with their fingers.... Morgan found a piece of gold. He held it up with a perfect spout of oaths.... It went from hand to hand.... ""T'wo guineas!"' roared Merry, shaking it at Silver.... "You're the man for bargains, ain't you? You're him that never bungled nothing, you wooden-headed_ lubber!"' "Dig away, boys," said Silver, with the coolest insolence; "you'll find some pig: nuts, [hickory] and I shouldn't wonder." "Pig-nuts!" repeated Merry, in a scream, "'mates, do you hear that?" (Ibid, PP. 252-253). Yes, it's good to know beforehand that Jim escapes alive, so real is the scene, the characters, and the hate between them. Yes, all the trick's in the telling, and nobody has ever surpassed such telling of boys' yarns. Short Stories In his mastery of Scotch dialect and psychology Stevenson is second only to Sir Walter Scott. Particular: ly memorable are his haunting "Thrawn Janet," considered by some his best short story, and the powerful courtroom scenes from The Weir of Hermiston, both mas- LESSON DEPARTMENT terpieces of dialect, suspense, char acterization, and narrative _ skill. Furthermore, it is valuable to read his works dealing with his beloved Scotland to remind ourselves that, despite his weak appearance and his dark complexion and artist's haircut, he was throughout. His life loyally, thoroughly Scotch to the core. On one occasion in a French cafe when a burly Frenchman said all Englishmen were weaklings, the spare Stevenson rose at once to the defense by slapping his face resoundingly, the usual preliminary to a duel, which in this instance did not materialize. In his later years one of Stevenson's dearest friends was Henry James, one of the greatest writers of the century. Both these men were pioneers in their ability to "get inside" their characters' complex minds, and to create in words the very real gap between people as they appear and as they really are within their own hearts. Here Stevenson can be found at his best in two of his most skillfully wrought, most terrifying short stories, "Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde," and "Markheim," both considered masterpieces by critics as by the reading public at large. The Moralizer In these stories, as in all his essays, Stevenson is always the moralist, always punishing evil and sin which thwarts goodness and reason, always invoking his reader to accept responsibility for his own acts and thoughts and desires, always ready to defend truth and virtue and justice. Here again the stern morality of his Scotch forebears was the ruling passion of his life, not only in ay his writing but in relation to the world about him. Whenever he saw cruelty or bloodshed or hypocrisy among his contemporaries his boiling blood seemed to flow into his weapon-pen. Never did Stevenson surpass the moral fervor of his letter to the Reverend Dr. Hyde of Honolulu who had publicly disparaged Father Damien of the Molokai Leper Colony for being in "simple truth a coarse dirty man, headstrong and bigoted." The letter from which this quotation was taken was written by Reverend Hyde to a brother minister to protest the erection of a proposed memorial honoring Father Damien, a Belgian priest who had voluntarily joined the leper colony by living amidst them for twentyfive years, lightening their burdens and easing their sufferings. One Sunday, in 1885, his sermon was begun, not with the usual "my brethren," but with the grim "'we lepers." Father Damien died two years later of leprosy. When the Stevenson party had passed through Honolulu in 1889 Stevenson had met the Reverend Hyde in his comfortable mansion in Beretania Street; also at this time Stevenson lived for more than a week in the leper colony, and talked with those who had known Father Damien. When, therefore, this selfless Belgian peasant was attacked by a. Minister of a rival sect who had never dared or bothered to set foot on the cursed, dreary island of Molokai, Stevenson was outraged. In white heat he defended mortal, fallible Damien as one of the great martyrs of history. He had chosen to become one with lepers while 550 the Reverend Hyde had practiced his cultural, proper version of Christian charity by ignoring Molokai. This letter, one of the great moral documents in our literature, is to be found in A Treasury of the World's Great Letters, Simon Schuster Publishers, 1940, a book found in most libraries. Stevenson's Prayers Particularly in the decade following Stevenson's death, in 1894, many excerpts from his "Christmas Sermon" were reprinted. 'Today he is still widely quoted. Perhaps best known is his definition of success: That man is a success who has lived well, laughed often and loved much; who has gained the respect of intelligent men and the love of children; who has filled his niche and accomplished his task; who leaves the world better than he found it, whether by an improved poppy, a perfect poem, or a rescued soul; who never lacked appreciation of earth's beauty or failed to express it; who looked for the best in others and gave the best he had. But, for beauty of form, truth, and soul, consider the following excerpt from his Vailima Prayers, a fitting final representative of the essential Stevenson: We thank Thee for this place in which we dwell; for the love that unfites us; for the peace accorded us this day; for the hope with which we expect the morrow; for the health, the work, the food, and the bright skies that make our lives delightful; for our friends in all parts of the earth, and our friendly helpers in this foreign isle. Give us courage and gaiety and the quiet mind. Spare to us our friends, soften to us our enemies. Bless us, if it may be, in all our innocent endeavors. If it may not, give us the strength to encounter that which is to come, that we be brave in peril, constant in tribulation, temperate in wrath, and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1955 in all changes of fortune, and down to the gates of death, loyal and loving one to another. Artist, moralist, man of courage and kindness and charm, Robert Louis Stevenson himself is the best proof of his central conviction that "The good heart is all." 'Truly here lies his noble, enduring strength. REPRINT PERMISSIONS The general board expresses great appreciation to William Sloane Associates Inc., and to Charles Scribner's Sons for permission to reprint the following excerpts from the writings of Robert Louis Stevenson used in this lesson and in Lesson 49 (for October 1955) published in the July issue of the Magazine: Voyage to Windward, by Joseph Chamberlain Furnas, published by William Sloane Associates, Inc., New York City, New York, 1951. Treasure Island, by Robert Louis Stevenson, published by Charles Scribner's Sons, New York City, New York, 1903. Excerpts from the following poems and prose works published by Charles Scribner's Sons, New York City, New York: "My Wife"; "Evensong"; "Requiem"; "Pulvis et Umbra"; "Aes Triplex"; "Christmas Sermons"; The Weir of Hermiston. "For Success" from Prayers Written at Vailima, by Robert Louis Stevenson; copyrighted 1904 by Charles Scribner's Sons; 1932 by Lloyd Osbourne. Thoughts for Discussion 1. Discuss Stevenson's philosophy of life as expressed in the excerpt from Aes Triplex. 2. Discuss Stevenson as a psychologist; as a moralist. 3. For Stevenson what is the highest good in life? 4. What quality or qualities attract you most forcibly to Stevenson's prose? Social eiGisnee—l be Constitution of the United States Lesson 16—The Living Constitution Eldert Albert R. Bowen For Tuesday, November 22, 1955 Objective: To study the reasons and concepts contained within the Constitution which made a strong and stable National Government possible. Constitution Divinely Inspired To students of government the genius of the founders in producing the Constitution of the United States is an unending source of wonder and admiration. They produced a document that would serve as a framework of government not only for a Nation of approximately three million people scattered along the Atlantic seaboard from Massachusetts to Georgia, but which would, likewise, serve the needs and exigencies of a Nation of over one hundred and sixty millions spread over a continent from the Atlantic to the Pacific and from Canada to Mexico. It seems incredible that the mind of man, unless aided by divine help, could have so successfully and magnificently accomplished this task. We Latter-day Saints and many others not of our faith, believe' that those men did not act out of sources of their own wisdom alone, but were indeed inspired of God. (See D. & C. 101:77-80.) Crises Facing the Constitution In our study of the Constitution the time has come when we should give consideration to factors which make the Constitution of the United States the living document which it is. Preliminary to this consideration let us briefly recall some of the crises and difficulties which the American Government, under the Constitution, has been required to surmount. Enmity to Constitution In the first place in the very beginning when the Constitution was adopted, it had many enemies. It has been mentioned before that it is even doubtful that a majority of Americans of that day were in favor of its adoption. It was only natural that those opponents should be on the lookout for opportunity to criticize its operation. National Versus States Rights Next and even more important was the fact that there were two basic and fundamental concepts of government which were destined to clash in a giant struggle for supremacy. They did clash and that struggle continued until the victor was determined by the Civil War. The concepts of government to which Page 551 552 reference is made are that of a strong central government on the one hand and that of states nights on the other. The struggle was bitter and many times threatened the existence of the Union. 'The supreme test was, of course, the Civil War and all students of the elementary history of the United States know how close the Union came to an end in that war. We still hear the echoes of that struggle, which spans the entire period of our national history, in our own time. Thomas Jefferson, a great American, was to become the leader and, subsequently, the symbol of the exponents of the doctrine of states tights. Alexander Hamilton, by instinct and background, was_ the spearhead of the forces which believed in a strongly unified central and National Government. In the preceding lesson it was pointed out how Hamilton laid the foundation which gave to the Federal Government its strength and stability. The institutions and ideas of Hamilton like those of Jefferson have endured also to the present day. The average American of Washington's day had almost an inborn distrust of strong government. The thirteen colonies, which _ finally made up the union of states, were jealous of each other and of their individual powers and prerogatives. Sectionalism was rampant to such an extent that Washington warned of its dangers to unity in his Farewell Address. Furthermore, local government is always more responsive and sympathetic to local needs and problems than is a remote and distant central government. For this reason the inRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1955 dividual citizen is inclined to look to his local state government for help and protection. The Constitution an Indissoluble Contract Finally, it was never dreamed by the people of that time, that the Union was indissoluble. Indeed, it was supposed and taken for granted that the Union was a voluntary association formed by the states from which they might withdraw at will. It took the Civil War to demonstrate that the Constitution of the United States formed an indissoluble contract of union which could not be broken. All of these reasons and concepts formed the forces which were constantly working and tugging to pull down the national house. To withstand these forces the Constitution had to have within itself the seeds of strength and union which would be stronger than the opposing forces of destruction and disunity. - It should also be remembered that the Constitution has survived the test of many wars. 'Two of these have been world wars. In the meantime, America has passed from a rural and agricultural economy to the stature of an industrial giant and has become a great world power. The impact of this transition has been terrific. The changes in our national life have produced great strains upon our governmental and national institutions. 'To the Constitution must be given much of the credit for the successful solution of the problems which all these events and changes have brought about. The Constitution is flexible. It was designed to serve the needs of LESSON DEPARTMENT the Atomic Age as well as the needs and problems of a simple, largely rural and agricultural Nation. Constitutional Bulwarks for Survival of Government We shall now proceed to specify what are generally accepted as the reasons why the Government of the United States under the Constitution has survived. An effort will be made to point out the forces of this survival in the order of their true importance. In doing so the writer is deeply conscious that others may disagree with the order in which the reasons are set out, but humbly believes that general acceptance will be given to the enumeration itself. Judicial System It is the opinion of many authorities that the Constitution has survived because the framers, by the provisions of Article III, created a judicial system which was to become a great political force in the Nation. The creation of the Judicial Department was the great and crowning achievement of the framers. The Judicial Department was constituted an equal co-ordinate branch of the Government. The entire judicial power of the United States was vested in this department, in the Supreme Courts, and such other courts as Congress should create. The judges of the various courts were freed from _ political temptation and influence by tenure (their period of holding office), co-existent with good behavior which, for practical purposes, meant for life. Furthermore, the judicial power was extended "to all cases in law and equity arising under this Constitution, the laws of the Unit- 553 ed States and treaties made or which shall be made under their authority," etc. By these provisions, while not stated in explicit language, the courts were given the power to determine finally the limits of the constitutional authority of the other two branches of Government, namely the Legislative and the Executive, and also of the state government in relation to the Federal Government.. Fortunately for the new Nation, the Federal courts did not hesitate to assume this power. Under the very great leadership of John Marshall, Chief Justice of the United States, the doctrines of constitutional authority were formulated and laid down in several great opinions. Much more will be said of John Marshall hereafter. No part of the Constitution has been so adaptable and has functioned so brilliantly in practice to meet the needs of a growing nation as has Article III. Constitution, the Supreme Law of the Land Next in importance, perhaps, is the fact that Article VI made the Constitution of the United States, all laws made in pursuance thereof, and all treaties made under the authority of the United States, the supreme law of the land, binding upon the judges of every state. By this device the framers made certain that in the contest between individual states and the Federal Government, the latter would be supreme in all matters of power granted to the National Government by the Constitution. Under Marshall the 554 court soon seized upon this weapon to assert and establish the supremacy of the National Government. Constitutional Power and Authority Over the Individual Citizens and the State Courts Third, the coercive authority and power of the United States under the Constitution may be and is applied directly to the individual citizen. It has been pointed out heretofore that the basic reasons for the failure of the Government to function under the Articles of Confederation were, first, because there was no provision made under the Articles of Confederation for a Federal Judiciary in which the national laws could be enforced and, further, under the Articles of Confederation, the National Government had no coercive authority or power over the individual citizen. The state courts would not enforce the national laws within their several jurisdictions and, consequently, the National Government was powerless and finally broke down. All this was changed under the Constitution. Now the individual citizen would be amenable to the constitutional demands of the United States, and furthermore, those demands would be enforceable in the courts of the United States. In addition and also of great importance was the fact that state courts were accountable to enforce the Federal laws and could no longer ignore them. Finally, and in addition, state legislatures could no longer pursue their own independent way, but, henceforth, were to be prevented from encroaching upon the prerogatives and powers delegated to the Federal Government. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1955 System of Checks and Balances Fourth, the Constitution of the United States provided a system of checks and balances among the three departments of the Government, which in practice has worked out to prevent one department from usurping the powers of another. This has discouraged and prevented dictatorship. To the courts must also go the major credit for preventing such usurpation from occurring. Protection of Rights of the Individual Citizen Fifth, the Constitution and_ its Amendments have provided for the protection of the individual rights of the citizen. In America the majority rules, but the nghts of the minority may not be trampled upon or disregarded. There are rights over which the Government has no control and which it may not abolish or even diminish. Among those which have already been reviewed are the fundamental ones of religious freedom, freedom of press and of assembly, the guarantee of full, open, and public trial, and the many others to which reference has been made. In brief, the Constitution established a Government of laws and not of men. Change in Constitution Provided by Amendment Last of all, the provision for amendment contained in the Constitution guarantees that when changing times and new conditions demand, it may be changed and amended to meet the needs of the times and conditions as they arise. LESSON DEPARTMENT No hasty or sudden whim shall be permitted to effect the amendments, but upon the considered judgment of the Nation as a whole, necessary changes or changes which the national will demands may be accomplished. This is a safety valve which dispenses with the necessity of revolutions and uprisings which have occurred and now are occurring in many lands where no change in government is possible by popular demand, but only by revolution and bloodshed. Combination of National and State Control The original idea of the framers also was to leave, as far as possible, the control of matters of local concern to the states and those of national concern to the National Government. This has been a source of strength to our national life and, in practice, has worked out general- 555 ly as the framers intended, if not exactly as they intended or as could be desired. Many other matters could well be considered regarding the Constitution which have lent stability, flexibility, and vigor to our national life, but time and space will not permit their discussion. How _ fortunate we are to live under the protection and enlightened doctrines of our great and wonderful Constitution. Questions on the Lesson 1. What were the political philosophies of Hamilton and Jefferson? How did they differ? 2. What were the forces of disunity in the United States which might have destroyed her as a Nation? 3. What are the sources of, power contained in the Constitution which prevented dissolution of the Union? 4. May states withdraw from the Union at will? When was this question decided? 5. Give as many reasons as you can why the Constitution has held the Nation together. An YInvisible Means of Support Caroline E. Miner | ge would be empty without the gospel. The support it gives to us is invisible, but it is nonetheless real and sustaining. The support the gospel gives to us is purpose in life, the knowledge that we came from somewhere, that we are here in this earth life to experiment and school ourselves, and that we are going to live on eternally. How futile would be all the trials and vicissitudes of life without this over-all view of existence. Because of these invisible means of support, we are able to muster sufficient strength and courage to face discouragements, handicaps, illnesses, and death, and go forward to love and serve our fellow men and our Father in Heaven. Invisible, but powerful beyond belief, were the influences that sustained the early pioneers of this Church as they faced persecution and death at the hands of their enemies and suffered unimaginable hardships as they trekked across the great wilderness of this country to make their homes in the fastnesses of these mountains. Men of vision in all ages have had invisible means of support. Lincoln, in his dark hours of despair, sought and secured strength from invisible sources. Washington at Valley Forge found on his knees the power and strength to carry him through great hardships. It is this inner strength that sustains one weak and frail of body, with no visible evidence of strength. By comparison the invisible means of support gives greater power than any visible means could give. Ours for the asking are powers of strength invisible but mighty. Choral Collections For Ladies Three Part Choruses = Library Collection No. 1—Fox...........85 — Auditorium Collection No. 1—Harms...75 a Auditorium Collection No. 2—Harms...75 = Auditorium Collection—Remick............75 — Auditorium Collection—Witmark.......75 = Let's All Sing!—Stone.........................85 oe 'Let There Be Song!—Ehret.................85 = Showtunes—Schirmer........................--1.00 a. Showtime Choral Collection No. 1~ aie Showtime Choral Collection No. 2— T. B. Harms.. 75 — Music Sent on Approval — Use this advertisement as your order blank DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 45-47 South Main Salt Lake City 1, Utah Please send the music indicated above. Cl On Approval (0 Charge (2 Money Enclosed _| Baynes Mode | is wen wersarc rood 210 mans toa Page 556 Gm pl tcut Margery S. Stewart Wherever you are... Being Lonely and afraid. Whoever you are, being Ground between stones Of sorrow, Running blind in the maze Of indecision, there is A way. There is a healing; There is a shield invulnerable. I do not bring you An empty promise, a dead Platitude, sand for your Building. I know. I have been all those things; Lonely, Sorrowful, afraid. He gave Me light for dark places, Paths in the desert, balm. Once in the thick fog, Lost, I found a marker. Prayer Is a marker. Revenant Ethel Jacobson I had forgotten This is where we met. Now the clouds are dark; Now the path is wet, And no bird sings On the rain-lashed bough That clatters in the wind, Forsaken now. Once dappled sunshine Lay along the grass, And a redbird sang For a lad and his lass, And the wind wasn't chill And sharp with regret.... Have I forgotten? This is where we met! —_ Choral-Time—Marks Chappell........... 75 75 She Cat Rug Elizabeth Williamson | aa tug, hooked for the cats, was made from discarded and worn summer cotton dresses, with the strips cut on the straight of the materials. The design was adapted from an old Peruvian weaving, depicting the cat family. The colors of the cat rug are dark green for the cat, faded yellow background, and brown border. Often we hesitate to make articles of our own because we feel we are not original or creative. If we must copy, it is better to go to the finest art sources to find traditional designs which have been handed down to us. We may alter them to suit the occasion, change the color to harmonize with our surroundings, but we will have a finished product that is in good design. If a public library is not available, we can turn to motifs in our own homes such as a detail from a piece of old lace, a fragment of early glass, or heirloom quilts. (Da tchers Kate Richards T is really as it should be, that some are blessed with gypsy heels, and must wander here and there, seeking out new places, new people, new adventures in fields of progress and advancement, both public and private. But there are, also, the stay-at-homes, who are the watchers of the fire, the keepers of the fortress of home, and who are forever awaiting the returnings—a thankless trust, seldom spoken of, lauded, or praised. But these watchers, too, are needed, and each will recognize her call and know her destiny. From Milton, a great English poet, comes the line: "They also serve who only stand and wait." Page 557 Trouble Lucille R. Taylor 7 aOUEay is like a stone wall that cannot be moved by worry or wishing; nor will it be moved by self-pity. For others have been stopped by walls just as thick and just as high. Trouble must be faced by ourselves. It is within us to move these stones that wall ° us in, keeping us moored to the shore, when our souls tug to be set free to sail unbounded upon a calmer sea. The wall cannot be crumpled into nothingness at our feet by aimlessly bumping our heads against the stones; nor by adding stone upon stone cemented together with pessimistic despair. The only tools that will wear away the stones are faith, hope, cheerfulness, and perseverance, used in the hands of an undaunted toiler. Then if, for some unknown reason, the wall still stands — it is time to work harder than before — giving our patience a new coat of cheerfulness and hope. Soon we will find the stones have worn thin, and are colored with faith and love that will enable us to see through the wall. It is then our souls are free to rise above the pile of stone and rock that has held us bound. YOUR FUTURE IS OUR YOU CET THE BEST FOR THE LEAST WHEN YOU TRAVEL WITH CONCERN VIDA FOX CLAWSON 11) cur sacontat nine te ties are among the best in the nation. Training is offered in eight basic Write or Phone: schools in preparing for a successful career. We trai tudents to make a livVIDA FOX CLAWSON ngiamdia wanhyilts. Registration: Fall Quarter — 966 East South Temple conc eases, as Salt Lake City, Utah Write for catalog and information. Phone: 4-2017 Utah State Agricultural College LOGAN, UTAH Page 558 ws Song of the Fleart Elsie Sim Hansen 'lg was eatly morning. Black, threatening storm clouds hovered near the horizon. Only an ever-changing pink glow gave an indication the sun was struggling valiantly to emerge. Seconds later, a triumphant sun quickly transformed the millions of tiny raindrops on my Camellia bushes into a sparkling array of jewels. Almost simultaneously, as if the sudden appearance of twin rainbows across the eastern sky had been a signal given by a hidden maestro, a scarlet linnet, perched high in the branches of a Chinese elm tree, burst forth into a joyous song. Completely enthralled, I listened intently while this beautifully clad little bird sang a medley of blue skies, gentle winds, and sleeping flowers. There were no discordant notes of yesterday's fears or the doubts a tomorrow might bring in this song of his heart, for high above the earth he could see only the glorious promise of the new day. ATTENTION! ALL SINGING MOTHERS CHORUSES! FOR SPECIAL PROGRAM NOVEMBER 6, 1955 "Peace I Leave With "O Lord, Most Merciful''....18¢ — MAIL ORDERS PROMPTLY FILLED — GLEN BROS. MUSIC CO. Salt Lake City 74 So. Main [t's awaiting You... E YES there is still a tremendous amount of outstanding instruction and use awaiting you in this and other copies of the Relief Society Magazine. Your editions may be handsomely bound at the West's finest bindery and printing plant for $2.50 cloth bound and $3.50 leather bound per volume plus postage for mail orders. Follow these postage rates if you send your order by mail: Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles 35 150 to 300 miles ou... 39 300 to 600 miles 00. 45 } 600 to 1000 miles _o...54 1000 to 1400 miles ' 1400 to 1800 miles Over 1800 miles _...0000 0. Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press 31 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah. Phone 4-258] Page 559 Shey Pass in Review Eva Cordery Literature Class Leader Thirty-third Ward, Bonneville Stake The literary great of England's past Have come alive for all of us Through their inspired and gifted genius In immortal classics that will last. Carlyle, Ruskin, and Rossetti Endeavored through their art and prose To find a cure for England's woes. They aimed at those, whose petty Hates and shams caused misery and pain. With them, Christina, poet sister of Dante, Whose humility was a lesson to humanity, Had no thoughts of any worldly gain. Next followed, with heartbreak in her wake, The mystic, Emily Bronte, whose sad fate Struck pity, as fickle fame came late. Trials she bore, to make the stoutest quake. By way of change, in lighter vein, Came the humorists, who did berate With satiric nonsense, to deflate The nation's leaders; then with disdain Made fun of politics and aristocracy. Then came Eliot and her novels Depicting life in halls and hovels, And last, not least, in high autocracy, Firm amid the changing scene Stood Matthew Arnold, strong and calm, His philosophy a spiritual balm, Teaching values of a life serene. _- Look to the Mountains Blanche Johnson AS I look from my front door at the mountains to the north, I wish so very much that I might take from them a little of their dignity and strength. I know that countless generations of human creatures have lived beneath their towering heights, and each generation has lived its foolishness and its goodness, its smallness and its greatness. But regardless of man's pettiness and ugliness, the mountains still stand firmly anchored in majestic strength and beauty, never weakened by tebellion or anxiety. O Father, give me of the mountain's strength! Page 560 2. The Story of the Pearl of Great Price James R. Clark Years of intensive research has produced this fine book which gives renewed luster and understanding to this standard work. In this volume, a careful study is made of the restored extracts from the records of Adam, Enoch, Noah and Moses — of Joseph Smith and the restoration of the records of Abraham and Joseph — and the significance of this standard work to modern-day life. $3.00 (------—: OPEN A CONVENIENT CHARGE ACCOUNT Name.. Address. 24 Fast South Temple -- Salt Lake Citv. Utah ~ ial — Open a convenient charge account at Deseret Book — DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah Gentlemen: Enclosed you will find ( ) check ( ) money order ( ) charge to my account in the following amount $.............. For the encirc'ed (numbered) books: 2 3 1. The Spirit Giveth Life Lynn A. McKinlay The First Principles of the Gospel are described, in this book, as being dynamic forces and acts that bring about spiritual rebirth. The author relates them intimately to every aspect of daily living. $2.00 I I I I | I I J I I l I | | I l | I | I | I | | I | I | | I I I I | L BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY prepares you for tomorrow's leadership in many departments, under outstanding faculty, with finest teaching equipment: Accounting Agricultural Economics Agronomy Air Science Animal Husbandry Archaeology Art Bacteriology Bible, Modern Scripture Botany Business Management Chemistry Church History Clothing and Textiles Economics Economics, Home Management Educational Administration Educational Instruction Educational Research, Services Educational Values, Programs Engineering Sciences: Acoustical Civil Chemical Electrical Geological Mechanical English Finance and Banking Food and Nutrition Geography Geology Health Education and Safety History Homemaking Education Horticulture, Landscaping Housing and Design Human Development and Family Relations Industrial Arts and Drawing Intercollegiate Athletics and Intramural Athletics Journalism L. D. S. Church Organization and Administration Library Science Marketing Mathematics Modern and Classical Languages Music Nursing Physical Education for Men Physical Education for Women Physics Political Science Psychology Radio and Television Recreation Scouting Secretarial Training Sociology Speech and Dramatic Arts Theology and Religious Philosophy Zoology and Entomology — CLIP AND MAIL FOR FREE INFORMATION — PUBLIC SERVICES DEPARTMENT Brigham Young University, Provo, Utah Please send me free of charge the following: (_.) Catalog ( ) Admission application ( ( ) Other ) Housing application ( ) ROTC information Name Street City VOL. 42 NO. 9 Lessons for December SEPTEMBER 1955 A Perry Picture—Copyright 1904 INDEPENDENCE HALL, PHILADELPHIA So the Sramers of the Constitution Philadelphia. 1787 Alberta H. Christensen James Madison — Keeper of the Word In journaled words, penned to the fractioned hour By you, James Madison, the Founding Fathers rise To their full stature, speak again with power, To press opinion, weigh, and summarize. Through you, we watch these architects survey A virgin acreage; avoiding silt And shifting sand, they strike foundation rock On which a house of freedom may be built. Through you, their fervor traces with a flame The corridor where freedom candles burn; A pulse restored beats in a printed name, For only you, with future sight, return The silenced voice, the echoing bells once heard. How history-wise you were — Keeper of the Word! George Washington—Counselor Where freedom balanced with uncertainty, You pressed no argument in bold debate (Although men sought your counsel privily) And yet your presence was the counterweight Against belief that liberty might fail. _Not syllables — for your convention words were few; Trenton and Valley Forge and Yorktown spoke for you. We KO OK * Look at your country now — George Washington, Counseled by freedom to a full maturity. Years upon years ago you helped to make it free, Your courage marshalling each patriot son. It was so young, so very much in need Of sound and prudent fathering, to keep It safe from injuries of greed. Heart-deep Was your devotion, your faith as firm as stone; You guided well its first uncertain steps Until the infant Nation had strength to walk alone! Pamiamin oO ee You were the oarsman, Ben, that vital season Of seventeen eighty-seven, though few Would know, outside the square, white paneled room Where Freedom's charter faltered on the reef Of sharp debate. Here reason sparred with reason, And calm nerves tensed, but you adroitly steered The boats of thought to wharves of compromise; You smoothed the waves of tension when you veered From currents of dissent into an alternate Of peaceful words and unified belief. Word injuries were healed in that recess Your seasoned thinking urged, and oh, how wise The sparkling jest—though you were eighty-two— That checked the windy-words forecasting doom, Thus great men fashioned phrases to express Our human rights, inherent and inviolate. The Cover: 'Granite Dells, Near Prescott, Arizona" Photograph by Willard Luce Cover Design by Evan Jensen Page 56] From Near and Sar I am so grateful for the Magazine and do so enjoy the wonderful contributions of our Authorities and also the editorial section. The Magazine has been a great help and inspiration to me here in the mission field. It seems like a dear friend coming to call. —Mary G. Sorensen President, Danish Mission Relief Society Copenhagen, Denmark I have been receiving The Relief Society Magazine for some months. I find it very interesting. I wish to add I am very grateful to you for it. —NMrs. Helen Markovejos Hallandri, Attikes Greece I have really enjoyed the Magazine and feel that the articles and features have contributed to my spiritual growth. So often before, I would say "I'm only a housewife," but now I've learned to appreciate the position a wife and mother holds in the building of Zion, so I can hold my head high and say "I am a homemaker," knowing full well this is the position the Heavenly Father wants each of us to fulfill with diligence and with love. Within me has been born a desire to be a better mother, wife, and housekeeper. I still fall short of my goal, but I trust I will continue to learn with the help of the Magazine and the association of the sisters. But, most of all, I hope my daughters will learn what I've learned —that to enjoy the blessings of the gospel, you must live it and associate with the saints, so that you can continue to grow. —Mayona Grinder Arlington, Virginia I want to tell you how much I enjoy reading The Relief Society Magazine. I am only fifteen, but ever since I was a little girl I have read it. I look forward to it every month. —Miss Judy Irene Lee Aberdeen, Idaho Page 562 We truly enjoy the Magazine and the spirit it brings into our home. I choose some of the most choice articles from the Magazine to read to the family at the table during our dinner hour. The wholesome and inspiring stories are especially appreciated by my teen-age daughters. I keep all of my subscription issues and take them to loved ones when they are in the hospital. We love our Relief Society Magazine. —Laura W. Magnusson Anchorage, Alaska Let's have some more stories from that talented writer, Frances Carter Yost. —Mrs. Clyde Crandall Rupert, Idaho I enjoy the Woman's Sphere page in the Magazine very much. It must take a lot of work and effort to collect so much material concerning women's activities all over the world, in every field of endeavor. It amazes me that women can. Develop talents in so many fields. I am afraid I never find time for anything outside of home and Church. A husband and little children constitute a full-time job for me, so I admire women who do this and other works, too. —Margaret Piele Albuquerque, New Mexico I thought you might be interested in my care of these valuable little books which are gems of sunshine in my shutin hours. I assemble them in order, then bind them into books. I learned bookbinding some years ago, and now I find this a wonderful way to enjoy my Magazine for many years. Each book has an index to help me find articles more easily, too. I am a convert and have never missed a copy of the Magazine since joining the Church. —Mrs. H. L. Thielke Bremerton, Washington THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - - - - - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - First Counselor Velma N. Simonsen - - - - - Second Counselor Margaret C. Pickering - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Mary G. Judd Evon W. Peterson Alberta H. Christensen Winniefred S. Anna B. Hart Leone O. Jacobs Mildred B. Eyring Manwaring Edith S. Elliott Louise W. Madsen Helen W. Anderson Elna P. Haymond Florence J. Madsen Aleine M. Young Gladys S. Boyer Annie M. Ellsworth Leone G. Layton Josie B. Ba Charlotte A. Larsen Mary R. Young Blanche B. Stoddard Christine H. Robinson Edith P. Backman RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - = - - - - - - c - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - = - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Vol. 42 SEPTEMBER 1955 No. 9 Con tents SPECIAL FEATURES A Tribute to President David O. McKay a Elizabeth Hill Boswell 565 The Influence of Relief Society in the Home................... A Marion D. Hanks 566 Autumn in the Tetons perecercrcecnccce LnWillard Luce 576 Harvest Festiva). O..... C. CececcececeeccccecececeecceeecceeeeceeececceseceeccussoceesescsesceceasenensneeasnaeecesersnseneseecensseessNell Murbarger 579 The First Prayer Made in the Congress of the United States............ E Reverend Mr. Duche 589 A Table Decoration for Social Science Day nsosetereseneceee thInez R. Allen 605 Annual Report for 1954 Margaret C. Pickering 607 The Bell.. Celia Luce 623 FICTION Apple Polishing Frances C. Yost 572 Special Birthday — Part II.... = o.. Olive W. Burt 591 ermanas—Chapter 3 oo.. Ececceee eects aFay Tarlock 598 GENERAL FEATURES From Near and Far oincccecesceccccecesesceccccecececoceereccncseeecevncecceeneceaseccuesnecessecsecsavavesveceasseusaseneeessenscecesceseseceenecsessseeeesseaeaes962 Sixty Years Ago - cecveeeeeeess OBB Woman's Sphere... Ramona W. Cannon 587 Editorial: ''Anxiously Engaged in a Good Cause"............ Marianne C. Sharp 588 Notes to the Field: Annual General Relief Society Conference. — 590 Buying Textbooks for Relief Society Lessons -22...22.....2..:2:: ccececseceecseeeneeteesneneees 990 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities.........-..-.-.-::: csssesseeeeeeeee: Margaret C. Pickering 619 FEATURES FOR THE HOME Bulbs for Spring Glory..... Dorthea N. Newbold 582 There''s a Poultry Dish for Every Occasion Rhea H. Gardner 596 Lilly Bell Hinckley Makes Unusual Quilt Designs 20.......... C. Ecssscscesseseseseeeeesesneescneccstecneseeosneenens 606 Glamorize Spectacle Cases.. Elizabeth Williamson 639 LESSON DEPARTMENT Theology: Nephi, Son of Helaman Leland H. Monson 624 Visiting Teacher Messages: 'But When Thou Doest Alms" Edith S. Elliott 628 Work Meeting: Poultry Selection and Preparation.............. Rhea H. Gardner 629 Literature: John Millington Synge and the Irish Theater 20... Eecceeeeeceeeeee eeeBriant S. Jacobs 632 Social Science: No lesson outlined POETRY To the Framers of the Constitution—Philadelphia 1787—Frontispiece.... Alberta H. Christensen 560 Autumn Testament aChristie Lund Coles 571 Homeward Turning oun... CecececcscssesescsesecesecevesseseeseecssesavsvcesnsesesecsssavecvesseaeseeceeecceeeesacesMargery _S. Stewart 578 Ricci acre ee a rrLeone E. McCune 585 Autumn Pilgrim ~ sees... Beatrice A. DiEnes 595 Pulse Of Peace ooo. Ceeseececesveccecescccsesecsecesesssesusesecsesssessseeceesessassesesesesenececeseseseseceveceeees... Dorothy J. Roberts 596 Ns bearvent ht U3 oY eOKS) 61 _ reper epee USI aEthel Jacobson 603 The Gathering Hour... Esceeeeeceeeeeeeeeees Eva Willes Wangsgaard 606 TMGASTONE <2 leovil-s--osesnenecscscsccsesorasass ttt eroeanacennccsunsasasnecscseeeseeee ——EE_Beatrice K. Ekman 623 Contrast.... SoeLilli Ss. 623 Signs of Autumn "athe ae Be.,, Catherine E. Berry 639 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 40 North Main, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year, payable in advance. Single copy, 15c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 38, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Page 563 Courtesy Z. C M. I. Photo Reflex Studio PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY Page 564 A Sribute to President David O McKay On His Eighty-Second Birthday, September 8, 1955 Elizabeth Hill Boswell Born to this world of sturdy pioneer stock, Nurtured in a home of faith and prayer, Imbued with a love of learning and of men, He stands, stalwart, handsome, unafraid, Our prophet, leader, teacher, loving friend. No woeful Job nor wroth Elijah he Flinging curses at a frightened world, But a kindly prophet of a latter day With compassionate and understanding heart, Leading by example and by faith In the footsteps of the Son of God. A prophet, yes, and loving father, too, To every child that ever crossed his way, With time to listen to some childish woe Or saddle up a horse for happy rides. Always laughing, always smiling eyes, A friend to love and follow without fear. An inspiring teacher, born with love of man As every teacher must be to succeed, But more, imbued with that true love of books That makes of every one a treasured friend, Teaching us by precept, story, poem, Following again the Master's plan. A loving husband, considerate and kind, Exemplifying in this weary world All that is manly, virtuous, and true, The answer to the worldly cynic's taunt That faithfulness does not exist today. This is the man on whom we look with pride. This is the man we follow without fear. This is the man we pray for every day, The kind of man that God meant man to be. Page 565 The Influence of Relief Society in the Home President Marion D. Hanks Of the First Council of Seventy A child's kiss Set on thy sighing lips shall make thee glad; A poor man served by thee shall make thee rich; A sick man helped by thee shall make thee strong; Thou shalt be served thyself by every sense Of service which thou renderest. —Elizabeth Barrett Browning + CF) 4 ee Happy he With such a Mother! Faith in womankind Beats with his blood, and trust in all things high Comes easy to him; and though he tmp and fall, He shall not blind his soul with clay. (Happy he with such a Mother!) T is not always possible to look into our lives and specifically identify and credit, as to origin, lessons learned and influences felt and inspiration received from individuals and incidents and _ institutions. Perhaps many of us acknowledge gratefully the effect and impact in our lives of some fine teacher or friend or leader, without being able to recall any specific lesson or idea that he or she taught us. Some of us remember some particular class we participated in for a period, out of which we came humbler, wiser, more dedicated individuals— without recalling a single specific example of the lessons or experiences which so affected us. Yet most (if not all) of us recognize the great influential effect in our lives of certain people and experPage 566 —Tennyson iences and activities and organizations. So it is with my life and the influence of Relief Society in my mother's home: some few specific aspects of its influence I can now clearly see and remember; but this great auxiliary organization had a wider and more important meaning in our home than any certain set of lessons or experiences would seem adequate to indicate. 'This has been true, I am sure (and is today and will always be), in countless other homes where the wonderful influence of this prophetically established organization has been felt. Some time ago I visited my mother and found her chuckling over an entry she was reading from the minutes of a Relief Society meeting held 11 June, 1887. Having been involved in Relief Society work all the adult years of her life, as a member, literary and social science class leader, ward president for six depression years, stake board member, stake president for ten years, and, now again, as a faithful member, mother has maintained a lively interest in the organization and all its activities. The entry she was reading in the 1887 minute book follows: Sister Z. Smith said they were choice spirits that came to these meetings to be fed and urged all the sisters to arise to their feet and they would obtain a blessing. Sister Watmough advised the sisters to live nearer the Lord and thereby regain His presence. She said when the earth's foundations were laid "the sons of God shouted for joy," but no mention was made of the sisters being there. "Let us do our duty and get along the side of the sons," she said. Sister Stevenson arose to correct the quotation referred to by Sister Watmough.. She said: " "The morning stars sang and the sons of God shouted for joy.' Sisters, we were the morning stars and we were there when the foundations of the earth were laid." This (to me) priceless and very humorous exchange might well be taken as indicative of the understanding and faith the wonderful women of the Relief Society have (and have always had) in the Church and gospel of Jesus Christ. The faithful women of the Church know that while the Priesthood is conferred upon the men, the highest blessings of the Priesthood can only be shared by man and woman together: "Neither is the man without the woman, neither the woman without the man, in the Lord" (I Cor. 11:11). The woman's place THE INFLUENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY IN THE HOME 567 in the Church is by the side of her husband, neither superior to him nor subservient to him. She might well be thought to be the "morning star" in the lives of her husband and family. Wear an incalculable boon it would be to the full realization of the Lord's purposes for the Church and its people, if every mother in the Church would understand and accept the responsibility of gaining (1) a personal knowledge of the principles of the gospel, and (2) a personal testimony of their truthfulness and divine origin, and then set about prayerfully and faithfully to live them and teach them to her children. It was the Prophet Joseph who said: "The Ladies' Relief Society is not only to relieve the poor, but to save souls' (D. H. C., V, page 25). I am grateful beyond expression that my mother had the wisdom and inspiration to know that her own dedication to learning and living the gospel were vital to the faith of her children. The basic Relief Society objectives of developing faith, of studying and teaching the gospel, of participating in the full program of the Church—these were implicit in her home. Widowed early in life, with six minor children, ill herself, she found strength and courage in her faith in God and his revealed truths, and reared her family in the light of them. When outside influences and temptations beset some of us, her firmness and faith and high expectations for us helped to combat them; when some of us sometimes fell short of what we ought to have been, her calm cour- 568 age and confidence in us helped us to regain the ground. While I remember mother studying the gospel and preparing to teach its principles in her Relief Society and M. I. A. Classes, I do not now recall any specific occasions when we discussed them (though I am sure we did in our home evenings). I do not remember ever hearing, for instance, a specific discussion on the principle of faith at home, but I will never forget the lessons of faith I learned there. I could not have been more than three or four when my sainted father came back to visit mother and me as I slept in my little bed alongside hers. It was a time of deep difficulty and he had come to give encouragement and love. We talked the next morning of his visit, and there was no question in either mind that he had been there; each of us saw him and heard him and remembered what he said. Probably I was not yet five when a serious illness brought us to mother's bedside in the early morning hours. 'The first order of activity was to kneel there and pray to our Heavenly Father; the second was to run for our neighbor, Brother Kotter, to come to administer to her; the third was to discuss whether a doctor should be called. My first lesson in repentance and forgiveness I learned on mother's lap, sobbing out a confession of some childish misdeed, observing her sorrow and disappointment, and feeling the warmth of her love and the gentleness of her heart in her pardon. Among other truths we learned from our mother was a firsthand RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1955 lesson on honoring our parents. Mother's own pioneer mother came to live in our home the last years of her life. 'There was some talk from others outside the home about civic or other welfare assistance, and very little personal concern from some who should have been concerned. 'There was sometimes foolish (and now deeply lamented) youthful intolerance in grandmother's problems and difficulties. But none of this came from mother, the one who bore most of the burden. She truly honored her mother in health and in sickness, in happiness and in very trying circumstances. This lesson I'm sure I shall not forget nor cease being grateful for. As to obedience to the Lord's commandments, as to Church activity, as to courage, to us our mother's own life has always been the most impressive lesson available. ND how did the Relief Society program help in our home? The Relief Society would have all of its members "care for the poor, the sick, and the unfortunate," and "minister where death reigns." Just how important would it be to our Father in heaven and to our brother men to have this ideal realized in the lives of his children? I'm sure that countless homes of Relief Society workers reflect my own appreciation for learning this lesson. I could not number the hours nor occasions of friendship and loving sympathy given the ill, the sorrowing, the needy or fearful, the bereaved. Nor could I put a price on the worth of observing, as a youth, the activation of this ideal. My first remembered lesson in un- THE INFLUENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY IN THE HOME selfishness came with my weekly commission to carry a plate of warm dinner from our Sunday table up to old Sister Olsen on the corner, a plate usually prepared before our own meal was undertaken. Awareness that even the humblest and most modest of homes and individuals have something very vital to share with others came, as, in her Relief Society and other Church work, Mother, daily, gave freely of her love, faith, deep sympathy and understanding, of her encouragement and kindness, and of her meager material supply. QNE of the goals and objectives of the Relief Society organization is to "foster love for religion, education, culture, and refinement" in the lives of its members and all whom it touches. How wonderfully im portant this ideal should be in every L. D. S. Home! Every complete life needs the direction and inspiration of religious truth, needs to be acquainted with the working areas of civics and political thought, needs the soul-lifting touch of wonderful literature and music. How grateful I am for the Relief Society work my mother did in teaching literature and social science! I first heard of Longfellow and Hawthorne, of Shelley, Keats, Byron, and Shakespeare through her studies. My first acquaintance with the names of Sir Walter Scott, of Lewis and Clark, of Sacajawea, came around the table as she talked of her lesson work. My first efforts to write poetry were based on her lovely poems, stimulated by her Relief Society labors. (As a little boy I once insulted a less literary minded four-year-old playmate by calling him "James 569 Whitcomb Riley," a" name I'd learned from a Relief Society lesson but which he thought was an epithet! ) The Lord has told us that the "=, Stullnessworthercarth' (all those things which he has provided for our "benefit and use") is given us "both... To strengthen the body and to enliven the soul" (D. & C. 59:16 ff). No life is really full which gives entire emphasis to material things and ignores the beautiful and cultural and inspirational in the world. No home meets its full opportunity which fails to awaken its inhabitants to an. Appreciation of these things; and it would seem to me that a mother does not meet the full possibilities of her parenthood who makes no effort to open the lives of her children to an enjoyment of them. Possibly no organization in the Church is more awake to its responsibilities in the realm of the beautiful and cultural than the Relief Society. Some of the earliest and clearest memories of my youth are of the (to me, then) impossibly intricate quilts taking form on the quilting frames in our front room, with the ladies chatting happily as they painstakingly stitched the patterns. I remember, too, the rugs that were sewed and woven, the old phonograph records that were heated and softened and molded into trays and dishes, the cloth and paper and wire flowers that were fashioned, the piano-bench cover and the chair seats that were sewed or done in needlepoint, the vases that were made out of bottles covered with numerous bits of the lining of Christmas card envelopes and shel- 570 lacked. These early lessons in beauty included, too, the musical duets and choruses being practiced around our piano, and the sight and smell of bread and cookies and pies and cakes and chili made for the ward dinners and bazaars, where we each proudly identified our own mother's pies and her aprons and handiwork as they hung on display. Wovutp any mother be unaware of the importance of these activities in building a love of beauty and creativeness in the lives of her children? The poet Saadi said: If of thy mortal goods thou art bereft, And of thy slender store Two loaves alone to thee are left, Sell one and with the dole, Buy hyacinths to feed thy soul. God's gifts to man, he said, are to "... Strengthen the body and to enliven the soul." A member of the Relief Society fully meeting the challenge of the organization's objectives would be diligently engaged in seeking "... To assist in correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of community life." She would be studying the story of her country's and community's institutions and would insist upon being a_ participating citizen, and urge her children to do likewise. She would be interested in all candidates for office, and might become one herself. The effect of consistent attention to the Relief Society social science lessons over the past years would be to supply a remarkable education in the basic documents and institutions of our country and our society. (The practical effect of Relief Society's stimulus to civic responsibility was to move me, at the age of eight, to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1955 leave a ladies' political caucus 'in our front room and go to a typewriter to prepare a personal ballot on which I indicated my preference for one of the then candidates for the Presidency of our country!) Does one really wonder how much the attitude of a parent toward mankind influences a child in his later relationships? One basic Relief Society objective is "... To manifest benevolence, irrespective of creed or nationality." I will not forget an experience of a few years ago when I tried, unsuccessfully, to find public accommodations in our city for three fine, clean, educated negro boys. Who were visitors to Temple Square as members of a college choir. All efforts having failed, I called my mother and found, as I expected, no hesitancy in her, at all, as she offered her home for the use of the boys during their stay, and came herself to share our tiny apartment while they lived in her home. The young men discovered a benevolence and a Christian kindness in her act which made them truly love her: and which stimulated in them, as it has done in me, a greater desire to be, in reality, a brother to all men. Our home was a very average and humble one—no one of us would ever think to suggest otherwise, and we were all average and humble children. But our home (like countless other Latter-day Saint homes) and our lives (like the lives ot countless other Latter-day Saint children) were greatly blessed and affected by the influence of the wonderful program of the Relief Society. What a blessing would come to the Lord's children and his Church, humanitarian program of this inif every Latter-day Saint woman spired organization, the Relief Sowere to carry into her home and ciety of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints! Ligious, educational, cultural, social, the child... With such a mother! Don Knight eonmacimmunnegtemscneey cso as RUBICON BAY, LAKE TAHOE, CALIFORNIA ee Wain Sestanient Christie Lund Coles The world has lit the emblems of her faith Along each mountainside and lane and stream; The yellow trees give testament that she Is one with the promise and the golden dream. The flaming maples bank the fires of hope, And promise—with a pine-tree surety— That when the darkened wintertime is done Rekindled light will tip each willow tree. THE INFLUENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY IN THE HOME make available to her family the re- 571 Happy the home and fortunate Apple Polishing Frances C. Yost Martha Carlson had promised the children she would drive them to school today. "Please, Mamma, this first day!" was their oft-repeated plea, and it echoed and re-echoed in Martha's ears. Martha secretly longed to spend the day at school herself. Little Joey, the youngest, was beginning first grade, but there were the apples which needed picking. As they walked down the path toward the family car, Martha's four children clustered around her like mushrooms. Martha looked upon each of them with a degree of pride. The children all had respectable names, names with meat to them, like the stalwart name her own parents had given her. But Martha never used their real names. <A mother had special privileges, and she had a pet name for each of them. Priscilla, she called Prissy; Rebecca was Becky; William Junior was just Junie, and the fourth, the little shaver and the apple of her eye, though christened Joseph, was Joey. Martha thought Joseph was the very nicest name a man could be given. So many great men were named Joseph, like Joseph of Nazareth, Joseph of Egypt, and Joseph Smith of latter days. Yes, Joseph was a good name, and she was glad her youngest had the name, but she affectionately called him Joey. Martha showered love and affection on Page 572 I was the first day of school, and her growing children, and _ they thrived upon it. As she and the children walked under their favorite apple tree growing by the road, Martha looked up at the rosy red apples. ""The apples hang heavily on the trees, they should be picked today," she murmured. Then to herself she mumbled, "But starting Joey properly in kindergarten is more important today. It's a mother's privilege to stay with her little one all the first day, and I'm going to do it, apples or no apples." "Can we take an apple to the teacher?" Becky asked, her brown eyes glowing with excitement and expectation. Becky would be in the fifth grade this year. "Tt might put us in good standing with a new teacher!" Prissy said. "You know 'an apple for the teacher.' Get it?" Prissy was in junior high now, and had learned that it paid to do some apple polishing. Everyone laughed, even Martha. "Yes," Martha replied to Becky's question, "there's time for each of you to pick some apples. There's tissue in the glove compartment, you can do your apple polishing right in the car." Martha shifted the car into drive, and sat back relaxed to enjoy the four-mile ride to town. The children were quietly polishing their apples. They had picked a few extra ones for special friends. APPLE POLISHING Martha was still in a quandary; the apples did need picking. Should she go right back home and pick the apples? It would mean quite a lot to the family if they were picked before the wind blew them from the trees. Or should she let her heart direct her, and visit school? A mother should spend the first day at school with her little one, Martha argued against her better judgment. As the car glided swiftly along the paved highway, Martha's thoughts shifted into reverse.... *# OK Ke Ke OK T was another beautiful September day, eight years before, but the sky and the atmosphere were identical. Martha felt the same sensational feeling of having her apron strings cut this day, as when it was her first-born who was starting off to school. Martha couldn't take Prissy, for they didn't have a car. All they had was a pickup truck, and Steve had it in the fields where he was working. Martha couldn't even walk the familiar country lane with Prissy, and see her board the bus, because of the two little ones at home. But she watched the child swishing down the lane in her new red, white, and blue pin-stripe dress, with an air of importance for so shy a little girl. Martha watched at the window until the bus stopped, and little Prissy climbed aboard. Prissy would know some of the children, but many faces would be strange to her. It was a long day for Martha, though the duties of home were much the same. There were four- 523 year-old Becky and tiny Junie to occupy her every moment, but Prissy held her every thought. Junie and Becky were here beside her, she did not wonder about them. The clock finally worked itself around to four o'clock, and Martha saw the approaching school bus. Her first impulse was to run up the lane to meet Prissy, but she checked herself and watched at the window. Prissy alighted from the bus, and walked, grownup like, up the lane, with never a backward look. The time of waiting seemed long to Martha, though little Prissy hurried to the house. As she entered the doorway, it seemed that Prissy had grown up since morning. Gone was the inward fear of boarding a bus alone and meeting the world without Mother. Martha knew Prissy had accepted the challenge and proved herself. Inwardly, she had to admit that little six-year-old Prissy had been the bravest of the two of them that day. Looking back through life, one can see the places of change, like great locks through which one glides on a flood wave, sometimes smoothly and sometimes with undercurrents. Martha then saw in her mind's eye, the day little Becky started for school. It wasn't quite as hard to see her cut the apron strings. Becky was a dream child, dressed in a dainty pink linen frock. Again Martha had no alternative but to see the children take the bus the first day of school. Still no family car, and still the pickup in use on the farm. Again, she was tied at home with two tiny children. But the play pen was safe, so she could leave the little boys while she walked the short distance to the bus with the girls. "It won't be necessary, Mother." Prissy said. Prissy was only a third grader, but caring for the children made her a responsible, miniature mother. "We'll manage nicely alone. I'll hold tiny Becky's hand all the way, and take her directly to Miss Palmer's room." The day proceeded much like other days, cleaning, baking, caring for the little children, but always wondering what was taking place in the halls of education four miles away. When late afternoon brought the yellow bus to the lane again, Martha saw the girls alight and skip down the familiar lane, with Prissy still clenching Becky's hand. As they entered the house, Prissy showed the drawings Becky had made at school, a church, and their own home. Martha knew, then, that although Becky would manage nicely out in the world, she would always lean just a little on her older sister Prissy. ARTHA had read somewhere that life is not a tiled road leading to the pearly gates, but more like a pendulum swinging from a clock, sometimes toward misery, sometimes toward joy. 'The day Junie started school was mixed with misery and joy for Martha. The Carlsons now had a beautiful blue sedan, which was ready and waiting for Martha's use. Martha saw Junie that day in September of his sixth year, as plainly as if it were televised. Junie, as lean as the shoot of a willow, was an independent youngster who took responsibility. How many times had she told him, he was the oldest son? Yes, Junie could easily have made it alone, as Prissy had the first day, but Martha had the car, and Grandma would gladly tend baby Joey. Martha decided nothing would stop her from attending school this time. As they alighted from the car Martha took Junie's hand in hers. But he squirmed for release as they walked up the cement sidewalk toward the schoolhouse. Junie was wearing brown cords like the other beginners, but in his red cowboy shirt he stood out like a delicious apple among them. It was not until Miss Mason had assigned him his seat, and he had taken his place, and Martha was sitting with the doting parents in the rear of the room, that the tears started rolling down her cheeks. Martha felt a twinge of guilt, but she could not control her tears. She looked around at the other mothers who had come for the first day. Susan Shields looked downright happy about it. Probably she was thinking of the money she would save now when afternoon parties came along, and she wouldn't need to hire a sitter. | Martha looked at all the other mothers. Some were smothering luxurious laughter, which seemed to escape in short high peals in spite of themselves. She gave a sigh, which was half exasperation at herself. Why was it that she was the only mother who felt like crying? The others showed sparkling flashes of wit, but her vision was blurred. Try as she would, Martha could not control the tears. Finally she arose from her chair, murmured an 574 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1955 APPLE POLISHING excuse to the other mothers about having to get home to prepare lunch. Miss Mason saw her and started to speak, but Martha, her vision much clearer and her thinking sharper, motioned that she just wanted to slip out unnoticed by Junie, and hurriedly left the room. Outside the air was crystal clear under the September sky, and Martha did some shopping at the market, but her heart was not in it. She picked up baby Joey at Grandma's, and hurried home to her ever waiting work.... ND so it comes to now, Martha thought. It is all here to read except the final chapter. She knew she must not go into the school today, lest she be deluged with tears. She was glad she hadn't promised Joey that she would visit his class. Later on, but not this first day. Martha drove up to the school curb where the buses unloaded. "Good luck in junior high, Prissy. You look lovely in your new red plaid, Becky. Remember your handkerchief, Junie." And to Joey she said, "You're a big boy, Joey, run into your room, its the first one on the left inside the hall." Martha wanted to sweep this little fellow into her arms and tell him that she loved him, and that she would be thinking of him every single moment all day, but she mustn't bring on the tears, until he was Safely out of sight. 575 Martha watched Joey's straight little body, clothed in new levis and plaid shirt, cut across the lawn. A thnll coursed along her veins at sight of him. Joey was a wiggleworm, but he would be like a dry sponge absorbing every new idea at school. At the entrance of the school, Joey turned and waved, making a large arc with his little arm, and with the other hand he threw a tiny kiss that only a mother would recognize. Martha managed a smile and a little wave of her hanky in teply. Yes, Joey was little, but he could go it alone, as the others had. Martha sat there in the car for a few minutes. A person shouldn't try to drive while her eyes were full of tears. When the deluge was over, she turned the car around and started homeward. As she drove into the lane, the house looked the same, but you couldn't expect a house to know the heart had gone out of it. 'There would surely be a tense, heavy hush inside, with no children to make the rafters ring. She dreaded going inside. Then Martha caught sight of the favorite apple tree. Every apple seemed to beckon to her. Suddenly, she felt an entirely new emotion. This was just the day to pick the apples. Tears, lots of tears would help to wash away the spray. Her tears would not be wasted while she picked and polished apples. + + + + + ¥ Willard Luce JACKSON LAKE AND MOUNT MORAN, WYOMING ae Autumn in the Tetons Willard Luce HROUGHOUT the _Intermountain Empire, autumn ls color photography time. Much of the Empire is high country, cool, pleasant, and beautiful all summer. But it's autumn that puts the tang in the air and the golden shimmer to the foliage. é It's autumn that gives the Jackson Hole country, in northwestern Wyoming, its most colorful season. This is high country, all of it. Autumn comes early and suddenly, like a main event with no preliminaries. Page 576 Like a good main event, too, it puts on a good show. Splashes of gold and yellow and crimson dot the mountainsides. Rivers of gold and blue snake their way through the valleys and canyons. In the early dawn, owl hoots travel the party line back and forth. From across the valley a bull moose challenges the world. Like a main event, too, it often ends with startling suddenness. The Chamber of Commerce at Jackson will tell you that autumn AUTUMN IN THE TETONS comes to the Grand Tetons around the eighteenth of September, and a week later to the Grand Canyon of the Snake River, south of Jackson. Last year it was two weeks late. A few years ago, some eastern photographers waited around for three weeks and never did catch it. So it is rather risky business trying to hit the Jackson Hole country ae its colorful best, but it is worth it, if you do. Throughout the Grand Canyon of the Snake River, there is color aplenty. United States Highway 89 and the Snake River try to outmanoeuver each other down through the Canyon. 'Towards the lower end, scrub maples make blends of crimson and green. High on the Willard Luce THE GRAND CANYON OF TH 577 hills are the aspen, golden against the sky; and, down along the river, the willow trees are golden against the blue of the river. This is Kodachrome country. Mornings are crisp. Steam comes uP from the river like fog, and there ls a nearness of winter in the air. In Jackson, people move rapidly on a morning like this. They hurry along the streets with little puffs of breath punctuating their movements, their leisurely attitudes of the past summer forgotten. Only a few miles north of Jackson you get your first real view of the Grand Teton range ramming its jagged edges up against the sky. But iv' at Moose, where you once again reach the Snake River, that you get E SNAKE RIVER, WYOMING your first impact of autumn in the Tetons. Here the Grand Teton soars up above the river, above the valley, above the surrounding peaks, like some medieval king surveying his domain. Here, again, you get the sharp contrast of blue and gold —the blue of river and sky, the gold of the willow trees. Farther up are the lakes, Jenny, String, and Jackson Lakes. This is higher country still, and the willows and the aspens and the evergreens grow side by side. From Jackson Lake a dirt road curves its way up Signal Mountain. From the top, the world stretches out like a gigantic rug. To the south and east, the tree-lined Snake River makes its twisting, gold-bordered path down through the valley, blue against the gray of the sage and the purple haze of distance. To the west, Jackson Lake makes blue ribbons among its many islands. Beyond the Lake, Mt. Moran rears up against the sky. Closer are the foothills of Signal Mountain, yellowish-orange with aspen. Then, to the north, golden flats stretch outward, finally giving way to the dark forest of evergreens. Possibly the largest areas of intense autumn color in Grand Teton National Park are the huge willow flats north of Moran. Here miles of golden willows glow in the sun, backdropped in the west by the rugged range of the Tetons. The Jackson Hole country has always been noted for its big game hunting; but the area offers no greater shooting than color photography in the autumn. And you can always bring back a trophy to hang on the wall! Homeward Turning Margery S. Stewart When I come home again this year, Oh, what shall I see first, For all my heart's afire with love And I am sick with thirst That will not slaked be, until My eyes have drunk of every hill— Of every hill, of every street That holds a moment of my life, Of every house that welcomed me. Homesickness is a burning knife _ That will not leave the wound alone, But cries remembrance in each bone. Softly, softly I shall go, My slippered feet upon the lawns, And see that only I have changed; There is no difference in the dawns, No difference in the love I hold... Save it grows deeper, growing old. 578 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1955 Harvest Festival Nell Murbarger ITH the arrival of the year's W first seed catalog in January, we began planning our exhibit for the Harvest Festival the following autumn. Mister Foster, who lived on the next quarter-section of land to the south, didn't go in for fairs and such tomfoolery, as he called it. He said there was enough trouble connected with homesteading without asking for any more. Possibly there were times when Father felt a little the same way. I don't know. But, at least, he never made any objection to our fair "fixin's'—not even during midsummer when _ haying, threshing, bugging potatoes, and hauling water seemed to place a demand on our every waking moment. And now, at last, after all our months of plotting and planning, the big day was at hand! The only room in town large enough for the exhibition was the Community Hall, over Allen's General Merchandise, and we had been warned that shortly after sunrise, on fair day, exhibitors would begin lining up before its door—each keenly intent on securing for himself a desirable exhibit space. With that same idea in mind, we had been out of bed by three o'clock that morning, and an hour later had found us with the chores done, breakfast eaten, the wagon loaded, and the horses clattering along the sixteen miles of road that led from our homestead into town. It was barely eight o'clock when we arrived in town, but we were not a moment too early! Already, Allen's store was crowded from front to back with other homesteaders and their families from as far west as Ardmore, and Indians from as far east as Pine Ridge. Every spot of ground, normally vacant in that end of. Town, was filled with saddle horses and buckboards and lumber wagons; and the wagons, in turn, were filled with bawling calves and fat shoats, and yellow pumpkins and watermelon preserves. After hours spent arranging and changing, and hunting hammers and tacks, and holding consultations, and registering entries, the last display was placed and polished to the owner's satisfaction, the last fluttery exhibitor was shooed from the room, and the judging committee went into action. Although the general public was barred from the hall until after the judges had selected the prize-winning entries, a bevy of small fry managed to insinuate itself beneath the rope barrier at the door. Naturally, I was part of that bevy; my pigtails being, probably, about the second pair under the rope. 'Tagging expectantly at the judges' heels, I watched breathlessly and hopefully as blue ribbons were affixed to the longest ear of corn, the largest potato, the tallest wheat, the best booth. Whenever the committee took time out for a two-to-one argument, I would stare wide-eyed over the room, and think that such elegance was almost beyond belief! 'The enPage 579 tire hall had been decorated with twisted crepe-paper streamers of every color imaginable. Some of the booths were further festooned with American flags and bunting, and there was one booth trimmed in wild grapevines cut along Horsehead Creek where early frost had painted their leaves in brilliant crimson, almost like a new red hair ribbon! LTHOUGH I felt a trifle guilty and disloyal for even thinking of such a thing, I couldn't help wishing, just a little bit, that there was a creek on our homestead where grapevines would grow. But, grapevines or not, I was still certain that no other booth in the entire hall was as grand as our booth! We had decorated it with tall stalks of Indian corn, and vines bearing moonlike pumpkins. Across the entire back of the booth were yellow sheaves of rye so tall the full-grained heads reached above Father's shoulder; and on a table centering the booth, were heaped platters of smooth-skinned whiterose potatoes, fat oxheart carrots, popcorn, and Australian brown onions, and beefsteak tomatoes.... As soon as the judging had been completed, the public swarmed into the hall—spreading instantly to every corner of the room like water loosed from a dam! Father and the other men folks spent most of the time around the grain exhibit, where they argued the merits of the new Turkey red wheat against the old stand-by, macaroni wheat. Like connoisseurs examining diamonds, they fingered bowls of bright, clean grain from which had been painstakingly removed every weed seed and defective kernel. They discussed rye, barley, spelt, and oats, milo maize and millet, the exhibitors of each new variety enthusiastically describing its yield and drought-resistant qualities. Like most of the women and girls, I gravitated toward the homemakers' division where the walls were hung with hand-pieced quilts, braided and hooked tugs, knit sweaters, and crocheted doilies. There was a canning exhibit of jams and jellies and cold-packed vegetables, and a table of pies and cakes, and light bread. 'The women exchanged recipes, and told how their hens were laying, and wrote down directions for making buffalo-berry jelly, and lace edgings, and complexion cream from sheep's tallow. 'The once-a-year harvest festival served the homesteader's wife in lieu of women's clubs, and P. T. A., and sewing circles. Not for twelve months would there be another "visiting" opportunity like this, and, as though to make the most of the day, each woman talked fast and breathlessly.... Out-of-town land speculators, intently watching developments in this new "west-of-the-river" region, were conducted through the display room by local boosters and farm agents who called attention to squashes as long as salt barrels, twenty-pound cabbages, and turnips thirty inches in circumference. Enthusiastically, they exhibited a jar of Hansen plums preserved whole, explaining that here was a new variety especially developed by Professor Hansen to withstand the intense cold of our Great Plains winters. 580 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1955 HARVEST FESTIVAL Right at that moment, it was difficult to think of winter and cold weather, for even inside the building where the pine-board floor was still damp from a_ vigorous scrubbing that morning, the thermometer registered nearly ninety degrees. Outside, there was not a leaf stirring, and the August sun pounded hot on the treeless, dusty street— now so alive with more hoofs and wheels than it had known—or would know again — for many a month. Saddle horses fretted uneasily at the hitching rails, and stamped at flies. Cattle ranchers and cowboys, in "bat-wing" chaps and Stetsons, swaggered up and down the plank sidewalk, hailing friends and discussing the weather, range conditions, and the everlasting water shortage. A general air of festivity prevailed— festivity and truce. On this one day of the year, even the ranking feud between the cattlemen and the homesteaders seemed momentarily held in abeyance. Elaborate preparations had been made for the afternoon entertainment at the fair grounds, where a dusty race track encircled eighty acres of prairie. From a weatherbeaten grandstand, filled to capacity, three hundred persons cheered themselves hoarse as they watched the cow-pony races, the fat men's and three-legged races, the bronchobusting and bulldogging and calf roping, and the hilarious wagon race, "for Indian squaws only." For the afternoon finale there was a baseball game — married men versus single men. With the arrival of early darkness, a huge bonfire of packing cases was kindled in the center of Main 581 Street, and the setting was made ready for the Indian war dance. 'The performers — elaborately clad in beads and buckskin, and porcupinequill vests, and austerity — had ridden into town by horseback and buckboard. After the "pow-wow," the fivepiece town band assembled on the flag-decorated platform, and, following a brief period of preliminary toots and moans, crashed into the opening bars of "The Star-Spangled Banner." An hour later, the concert closed with a muted rendition of "Home, Sweet Home." It was past midnight before the shadowy, welcome bulk of our home buildings came into view. With white frost sparkling on barn roof and fences, and a sliver of moon riding high, the tired horses were unhitched and watered by lantern light, and we turned thankfully toward home and bed. In his arms Father carried his prize-winning sheaf of wheat, which he was planning already to enter in the forthcoming county fair at Buffalo Gap. In Mother's purse were two blue ribbons for "raised" biscuits and chokecherry butter, and a second award for dried limas. Not even the lateness of the hour could keep our hearts from singing. Let the Mister Fosters say what they would about the "tomfoolery" of the fair, but on this day the homesteader and his wife had proved to the world — and what was more important, to themselves — that they had been right in choosing as their home this virgin prairie. In the Harvest Festival their hopes had been revived, their faith in the land rededicated. Bulbs for Spring Glory Dorthea N. Newbold Deseret News Garden Editor live in a garden, for man's first home was in a garden. It is the privilege of each of us to create around us a setting—a garden—that will make life seem good. We have much of nature to work with: the land and the seasons, the sun that gives life, the wind, the birds, and the great kingdom of plant life. One of the miracles of the plant world, and there are many, is the firm brown bulb, planted in good soil during the fall months, which produces an exquisite flower in the springtime. Of all the types of gardening, planting spring-flowering bulbs gives the greatest display for the least amount of work. Bulbs need to be planted early in the fall months to allow plenty of time for the bulb to develop a good root system before the ground is frozen. Arly planting insures larger blooms. If you are anxious to extend the blooming season of your springflowering bulbs, select a site for some of your bulbs where there is some protection from full sunshine. Sun for half a day is better than full sun all day, and the morning sun is better than afternoon sun. Plant some of your bulbs in full sun, others in partial shade, some in a southern exposure, others to the north. The location of bulb plantings is Page 582 [ is the privilege of mankind to important. In the mixed borders, daffodils may be planted at the back of the borders. 'There they can display their beauty in early spring without competition from other flowers, yet they show to good advantage. Later on, the dying bulb foliage will be hidden from view by the rapidly growing plants that occupy the foreground. Every gardener should realize that the size and number of blooms produced by each bulb, also the number of years that a bulb remains productive in the garden, depend upon how well the bulb is cared for after the bloom has gone. Never, never cut off the foliage of the bulbs, if you expect them to bloom another year, and water the bulbs each time you water the other sections of your garden. Thorough watering will prolong the blooming time of tulips as much as a week. Daffodils, glory-of-the-snow, scillain wood hyacinths—all may be planted close to shrubs. They will bloom before the leaves of the shrubs give any shade, yet the bulbs usually receive enough sunshine to mature their foliage. Tulips, in most sections of our country, will need to be replaced every three or four years. Daffodils, if given proper care, should remain in your garden up to two decades. The official harbinger of spring is the tiny, common snowdrop. The frosty white bells will glisten in snow as March begins, or even Dorthea Newbold HYACINTHS Stately hyacinths keep pace with the garden walk in springtime, and waft their fragrance through the garden and the house. ULI i be PARROT CHINODOXIAS © THALIA DAFFODIL (Glory-of-the-Snow ) earlier, if the season is mild. The snowdrop prefers a semi-shaded location, and, if left undisturbed in a spot to its liking, it will flower profusely from year to year. When the first warm days of spring arrive, the delightful silken petals of the tiny crocuses open to cheer winter-weary mankind. In vivid canary yellow, purple, violet, or in solid blue or striped with white, this bright flower is known and recognized by most everyone. It covers areas in the gardens for nearly a month regardless of the weather, for, if winter returns, it merely closes its petals and waits patiently for the next sunny day to open them again. Another small charmer is the four-inch-tall Chinodoxia, or gloryof-the-snow. Its common name seems to suit it much better, for often, if it is grown in a protected area where the early spring sun can shine down on it, it will open its blue star-like blooms while there is still snow in other sections of the garden. It is at its best when planted informally and left to naturalize and increase at will. The specie tulips bring March to a colorful close. 'These are the now domesticated wild tulips from which the better known garden tulips were originally bred. Almost ignored as garden subjects until recent years, the specie tulips are becoming more popular because of their early flowering, their unusually shaped, brilliantly colored flowers. First of the specie tulips to open up are the Kaufmanniana, or waterlily tulip. Resembling water lilies in shape, the striped pointed flowers stand on stems that are less than a foot tall. There are two popular varieties — Gaiety and Vivaldi. Fosteriana is another specie tulip that opens its blooms about the same time as does Red Emperor—a much better known specie tulip. USUALLY the very first days of April are filled with the fragrance of hyacinths. A most versatile flower, it can be planted in groups in indentations in the shrub border, in formal beds, or in the perennial border in friendly groupings. 584 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1955 BULBS FOR SPRING GLORY The small grape hyacinth is available in shades from pure blue to white, and it is just as appealing as its larger cousin. April finds the garden brilliant with daffodils. They keep coming in successive waves until the last of May, for there are several flowering types among the daffodils. Among the types there are countless varieties, each with its own period of bloom. Daffodils are classified according to the length of their center part, called trumpet, when it is long; cup, when it is short; and the corona, when it is extremely short. Most daffodils have one flower to a stem, but some of the corona types have clusters of flowers. Daffodils are available in pure yellow, or yellow and white, others are a cream white or pink; some are orange. Others have almost scarlet centers or edges on the centers. The words daffodil, narcissus, and jonquil, are all very often used incorrectly. "Narcissus" is the botanical term for the entire group, however, "daffodil" is the word most commonly used. Any kind of 585 a narcissus may be called a daffodil —regardless of its color. One type may be correctly called jonquil — that is the type whose flowering stem is topped with two or more blossoms that are a deep yellow and extremely sweet scented. Foliage of the jonquil is round and rushlike. It is not flat like that of other members of the big family of narcissus. The large trumpet-type daffodils are the first to bloom, with the cup varieties coming next, and the corona types coming last. May is the month when tulips take over the garden. Cottage, Darwin, Breeder, Parrot tulips — available in every color in the rainbow. Dozens and dozens of varieties await your selection. You are limited only by the size of your garden and your budget. Bulbous iris — English, Dutch, and Spanish — should not be forgotten. The bulbs thrive best if they are planted during September. Most varieties will thrive and become a permanent resident of your garden to provide excellent flowers for dining table arrangements for many seasons. <> Reaper Leone E. McCune I never see a man, back bent Above his hoe, or turning sod Before the silver blade of plow, But pulses quicken, and I see My father's face uplifted heavenward In humble supplication, pleading That sun and rain be sent, That wind be kind, that God Might smile on modest efforts Of his co-creator here below. And as I watch a field of ripened grain That falls in amber ripples as it is mowed, I see again his tired face transformed with joy Before the golden miracle of wheat. Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, September 1, and September 15, 1895 "FoR THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WoMeEN OF ALL NATIONS" WOMEN IN CIVIC AFFAIRS: Woman herself must not cease her efforts in her own behalf, or in behalf of her own sex; because it must be apparent to all, that although women may be intellectually bright, vigorous and active, yet they lack the training and discipline men get from association, political and otherwise, which brings them in contact with each other, and the public at large. Women have occupied a much narrower sphere heretofore, and necessarily their views and opinions on questions of state... Will require time to mature. And the real method of arriving at excellence.. Will be by practice. —Editorial HYGIENIC COOKERY: Fruit should compose a large part of our diet. Grapes, apples, peaches and a great many of our excellent fruits are more nutritious in their natural condition; they should be thoroughly matured but not over ripe.... Much of our fruit can be bottled fresh or dried for winter use.... Vegetables are also wholesome but should be cooked properly. 'They should be perfectly tender but not overdone. Steaming or baking is preferable for most vegetables, because their fine flavors are thus more easily retained and their food value suffers less diminution.... J. S. W. A Love Sonc To A WIFE We have been lovers for forty years; O, dear cheeks, faded and worn with tears, What an eloquent story of love you tell! Your roses are dead, yet I love you well! O, pale brow, shrined in soft, silvery hair; Crowned with life's sorrow and lined with care, Let me read by the light of the stars above Those dear, dear records of faithful love.... —Quiver LADIES MEETING IN THE FOURTEENTH WARD, SALT LAKE CITY: Counselor E. J. Stevenson presiding.... Counselor Stevenson said, What a privilege to have remained in the courts on high to come forth in this day, when the Gospel of the Son of God has been restored in this momentous age.... We are surrounded by temptations, let us make the best of our opportunity, be as towers of strength round our children; live near to the Lord; teach by example; we should strive to overcome our weaknesses. One, today, another tomorrow. I wish young mothers would meet with us. I come to be fed and to gain strength.... We can learn many good things from books, but we learn more by listening to the experiences of others, who have passed through trials and borne them patiently.... —Vilate R. Young, Sec. Page 586 QVETA CULP HOBBY, second woman Cabinet Member in the Nation's history, resigned as of August 1, 1955. She was the first person to hold the portfolio of Health, Education, and Welfare. President Eisenhower accepted her resignation in an extraordinary public ceremony in the White House. Mrs. Hobby expressed "regret" and "a deep sense of sadness" at leaving the government service. President Eisenhower praised her for her wise counsel, calm confidence, her concern for people everywhere, and her warm heart, as well as for her talents. In World War IT Mrs. Hobby served as head of the Women's Army Corps. She is retiring because of the illness of her husband, former Governor William P. Hobby of Texas. ARIA MENEGHINI CALLAS at thirty is one of the world's great sopranos. Born in New York, she went to live in Greece at thirteen, and was engaged by the La Scala Opera Company in Milan at twenty-three. After refusing many offers to sing in America, she finally made her debut in this country with the Chicago Opera Company last November and was a sensational success with both audiences and critics. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon MARGARET BOURKEWHITE, one of the country's best photographers, has spent twenty-five years photographing for magazines. She has been shot at and risked her life many times. She has worked eight miles up in the air, two miles down in an African gold mine, out on the edge of a gargoyle on the roof of the Chrysler Building in New York, in the midst of the bloody struggle in the hills of Italy, in Russia, and in the May Day nots in Tokyo — altogether in forty-five countries. R. MARIA HAGEMEYER, of Bonn, West Germany, is the first woman judge ever to be appointed in Germany. She is a specialist in family law and was impressed during her recent visit to the United States with American laws relating to the family. IRTHDAY congratulations are extended to: Mrs. Matilda Peterson, Morgan, Utah, one hundred; Mrs. Flora K. Rich, Morgan, Utah, ninety-six; Mrs. Anna J. Larson, Logan, Utah, ninety-five; Mrs. Gunda Olsen, Morgan, Utah, ninety-four; Mrs. Annie Cooper, San Diego, California, ninety-three; Mrs. Amanda Browning, Blackfoot, Idaho, ninety-one; Mrs. Elizabeth Drown, Midvale, Utah, ninety. — Page 587 CQ—D EDITORIAL CD VOL. 42 SEPTEMBER 1955 "Anxiously Engaged ina Good Cause S6YATHAT did he talk about?" "Oh, the same old thing he always talks about," was the answer. "I know what he is going to say almost before he says it." Yet in spite of boredom, one of the very best ways to learn is by repetition. A great musician once gave his secret for memorization. He learned a piece once, and forgot it. He learned it a second time, and again forgot it. But he found that when he had learned it a third time, it became his own. That night in 1820 when Moroni appeared to the boy Prophet, he delivered the Lord's message not once, or twice, but three times during the night; and the next morning he related it to him still a fourth time. Sisters in the Church who have not given their allegiance to Relief Society may tire of hearing about it repeatedly. They may close their ears to the fact that for at least two reasons Relief Society is the greatest organization for women in _ the whole world. First, because it was founded under the inspiration of the Lord for the development and blessing of his daughters; and second, because it is guided and directed by the Priesthood of God. But some day the great majority of Latter-day Saint women may become convair-rted to Relief Society, as did the dear old Scotch grandmother to the observance of Page 588 the Word of Wisdom. When she was in her eighties, her family was astonished to hear her refuse tea, which she had drunk all her life. "But, Grandmother," one granddaughter exclaimed, "you have been taught the Word of Wisdom all your life. Why would you stop drinking tea now?" "Oh," she replied, "but I'm convair-rted." Conversion to any truth and allegiance to it may take years in some people's lives, but sometime, with repetition, it may awaken an echo in the inner consciousness of an individual and win adherence. The summer has passed, and Latter-day Saint women ate again faced with the question as to how they will spend their available time outside their homes during the coming months. Some will seek study groups along lines of their particular interests. Others will spend their time in worthy community interests, while still others may fritter away much of their time in useless pursuits. Yet Relief Society has treasures of knowledge, of sustaining faith, and of humanitarian interests to fit the inclination of any Latter-day Saint sister who would find them. Relief Society contains cultural and spiritual values found in no other woman's organization, values which will set a woman far upon the road to eternal progression. The Lord has instructed all his children: EDITORIAL Men should be anxiously engaged in a good cause, and do many things of their own free will, and bring to pass much righteousness. For the power is in them, wherein they are agents unto themselves. And inasmuch as men do good they shall in nowise lose their reward (D. & C. 58:27-28). There is no better cause in which 589 standing. Her spirit is enlarged with the blessing of charity. She tastes of the sweetness and joy of service. She has the promise of the Prophet Joseph Smith that angels cannot be restrained from being her associates. May other tens of thousands of women can be engaged. Outside their homes than Relief Society, for it accomplishes the work of the Church assigned to the women of the Church to perform. It develops a woman in better homemaking, greater knowledge, and more undercapable, choice Latter-day Saint women become convair-rted, and partake of the everlasting blessings which are showered upon those who do the work of Relief Society. —M. C. 5S. —_ Yr oe: She First Prayer Made in the Congress of the United States of America GIvEN SEPTEMBER 5, 1774 O# Lord, our Heavenly Father, high and mighty King of Kings and Lord of Lords who does from Thy throne behold all the dwellers on the earth and reignest supreme and uncontrolled over all the kingdoms, Empires and Governments, look down in mercy we beseech Thee, on these American States who have fled to Thee from the tod of the opposer and thrown themselves on Thy gracious protection, desiring to be henceforth dependent on Thee, they have appealed for the righteousness of their cause; to Thee they look up for that countenance and support which Thou alone can give; take them therefore Heavenly Father, under thy nurturing care; give them wisdom in council and valor in the field, defeat the malicious designs of our adversaries; convince them of the unrighteousness of their cause and if they still persist in their sanguinary purposes, O let the voice of Thine own unerring justice sounding in their hearts constram them to drop the weapons of war from their unnerved hands in the day of battle. Be Thou present, O God of Wisdom, and direct the councils of this honorable assembly; enable them to settle things on the best and surest foundation, that the scene of blood may be speedily closed; that order, harmony and peace may be effectually restored and truth and justice, religion and piety prevail and flourish amongst the people. Preserve the health of their bodies and vigor of their minds; shower down on them and the millions they here represent such temporal blessings as Thou seest expedient for them in the world and crown them with everlasting glory in the world to come; all of this we ask in the name and through the merits of Jesus Christ, Thy Son, Our Savior. Amen The above prayer was made by The Reverend Mr. Duche, an Episcopal Clergyman. Yotes. 0 THE FIELD Annual General Relief Society Conference 7] HE annual general Relief Society conference will be held Wednesday and Thursday, September 28 and 29, 1955. A special feature of this conference is the holding, simultaneously, of individual departments on Thursday morning. Therefore, it is advisable that as many members of the stake boards as possible attend these sessions. On Thursday afternoon in the Tabernacle, a meeting will be held to which the general membership of Relief Society and the public are invited. It is suggested that ward Relief Society presidents ask their bishops to announce in the wards the general session of the conference on Thursday afternoon, September 29. The attendance at the meetings on Wednesday and on Thursday morning is limited to stake and mission officers. Buying Textbooks for Relief Society Lessons ROM inquiries which come to the general board it would seem that some Relief Society officers and class leaders are not acquainted with the recommended procedure for acquiring necessary textbooks for lessons. The education counselor in both the stake and ward should present to the president of the respective organizations, a list of the textbooks which will be needed to teach the Relief Society lessons during the coming season. She should then be authorized to purchase these books with funds from the Relief Society general fund. The education counselor should see that the name of the Relief Society organization is written in each book before giving it to the respective stake or ward class leader for her use. At the end of the course the education counselor is responsible for collecting the books and placing them in the Relief Society library. Where a teacher wishes to purchase her own textbook in order to be able to mark it and keep it after the conclusion of the course, it is recommended that the Relief Society organization should also purchase a textbook: 1. In order that the book may become a part of the Relief Society library; 2. To be available for use by those given special assignments; 3. Because a change of teachers might be necessary during the course, and at that time it might be impossible for the Relief Society organization to purchase a copy of the desired textbook. Education counselors are urged to safeguard Relief Society libraries and to be alert to opportunities of adding to them gifts of Church and other worthwhile books. Page 590 Special Birthday Part II Olive W. Burt Synopsis: Calvin Gregory has reached the age of sixty-five, and his wife, Myra, is worrned over his adjustment to retirement from his regular work. The children and grandchildren celebrate his party, but most of the gifts are suitable for hobbies only, and Calvin feels that he is facing a future which holds little for him but old age and uninteresting, useless pursuits. YRA had not slept very long, after the excitement of Cal's birthday dinner, when she was suddenly awake. She lay there, looking at the patch of sky that she could see through the window. She knew it was still deep night, no sign of morning. She wondered what had brought her out of the depth of dreamless slumber. In a moment she knew. It was Cal. He was turning restlessly in bed, unable to relax, to go to sleep. "Cal?" she asked softly, "what is it?" Suddenly, there in the night, Cal's defenses gave way. He put his arms around Myra; buried his face in her hair. "Tm scared, Myra. Scared!" She raised her hand and gently touched his cheek. "Why, Cal?" "Oh, the years ahead—the long years and no daily work." "You'll find lots to do, Cal. The garden—your workshop—your music, Church work. And we can travel— see Mexico and the places we've always wanted to see." Cal was silent for several moments. Then he said slowly, "The garden and shop, Myra, and Church, you know they can't take up all my time. Not even with my music. I've put in an eight hour day, five— sometimes six—days a week all my married life. And I've still had time to keep up the garden, do all I wanted to in the shop, and perform my Church duties. And the organ playing—I've done that, too—I can't do those things for eight hours straight. And if I do, there'll still b@thexevenings:.. «." "Well, there's travel—" Cal's voice was desperate. "Myra, we might as well face it. We won't have money to do much traveling. Oh, we'll have social security, yes— about one-fourth what I've been earning. We'll find it difficult to keep up the house and live anywhere near as we have been living. I should have saved more, I know...." his voice trailed off, hopeless. Myra lay there beside him, thinking back. They had tried to save, but always something had come up. She remembered her own efforts. Years ago she had placed her goal at a modest hundred dollars. Oh, how she had scrimped and worked to save that money! And she had nearly reached her target when Hughie's tonsils had had to be tremoved. And complications had set in, and the entire little sum had been used up before the child was well again. Myra hadn't hesitated, of course, Page 591 when Hughie's welfare was at stake. She had just been grateful that the money was there to use for the boy. Cheerfully she had set to work again to save her hundred dollars. And after months of watching every penny, she had reached her goal and started on the second hundred. And then a terrific windstorm had come. One of the old, big trees had blown down, smashing the porch and a corner of the roof. Repairs had had to be made, and Cal's earnings at that time had not permitted him to save for emergencies. So Myra's little fund had come out a second time, and the house had been fixed up. And so it had been, time after time. Of course, of late years they had managed to save some, but never as much as they had planned. 'They had rather thought that when the children were educated and married, they could put away a large part of Cal's salary. But it hadn't worked out like that. If one of Hugh's children, or Carol's, needed something badly—like the time Elspeth had rheumatic fever and required hospitalization and a long period of special care—Myra and Cal had come to the aid of their harassed young parents, only thankful that they were able to help. But the savings had never amounted to enough to make them secure. Myra ran her hand gently across Cal's forehead, erasing the frown beneath her fingertips. "We've done the best. We could, Cal. And somehow we've managed to meet every crisis. As we'll meet this one." Cal sighed heavily. "The crises, yes. We've met those. But the extra things we've planned — the travel you spoke of. Myra, how many times have we thought we could go to Mexico, see the pyramids and the Aztec and Mayan ruins? It's been our dream for years, and now—now there just won't be the money for it. We might as well admit it, we'll have lived and died without doing the one thing we most wanted to do." "Not most wanted, Cal. What we wanted most was to have a family, and we've done that. Nothing else really matters. Anyway, I'm not afraid. Nothing in the past makes me afraid now. It just increases my confidence...." Cal's arms tightened about her. "Your confidence, darling! I have another name for it—faith. It's been your steadfast faith that has helped us and encouraged me over every rough spot. I guess faith is better than money in the bank," his voice trailed off. Myra lay still, listening to Cal's breathing grow more quiet and regular. She wanted to pray. She knew she could pray lying in bed, but that never seemed quite right to Myra. As long as she could move freely, it seemed to her that it was always proper to kneel when speaking to the Lord. Particularly when asking for help. When, at last, Cal's deep breathing showed that he was sound asleep, Myra slipped from his arms and knelt beside the bed. Bowing her head, she began to pray. Eo 8 © © © AL came down to breakfast next morning looking refreshed and relaxed. He found the table already 592 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1955 SPECIAL BIRTHDAY set, with a bowl of nasturtiums in the center and tall glasses of orange juice repeating the gay, sunshiny color. Myra, in her prettiest brunch coat, was bustling about, and the odor of frying bacon and hot buttered toast was inviting. Cal sat down leisurely, glancing at the clock. "No need to hurry," he said cheerfully, "I've got the whole day." "That's what you think, Mr. Gregory," Myra answered — energetically. "But I know better. Jim Grayson's coming at nine o'clock and the car has to be serviced...." 'Whoa, there!" Cal cried. "Back up a bit, Lady. What do you mean?" Myra grinned and sat down beside her husband. "Last night you were saying that we'd live and die without doing the things we want to do. That trip to Mexico, particularly. Well, after you went to sleep I decided that was plain silly. We're going to Mexico. I thought we'd start Monday," she finished calmly. Cal stared at her. "Are you mad, Myra? Don't you realize, even after our talk last night, that we're not going to have money to spend for travel and such oe Social security just won't. " Myra put her hand firmly over Cal's lips. "Now you listen to me, Calvin Gregory. We are going to Mexico. I have saved up some money—enough for that trip." Cal groaned. "Your savings again! I seem to remember that you've rechanneled that fund several times in the past." "T have," Myra admitted with unconcern. "And every time I re- 593 channeled it, as you call it, I've been mighty happy over the results. I've just been glad! Glad that I had it. And I'm glad now." Cal started to shake his head, but Myra went on firmly, "I consider this an emergency as much as any we've ever faced. I'm telling you, Cal, I am not going to live and -die—if I can help it—before I've seen those pyramids and ruins. So I figured we'd start Monday." "But why the rush?" "There are a number of reasons. The main one is this." She laid a magazine clipping in front of Cal. He read it, and looked up, a frown of incomprehension between his eyes. "What does this have to do with us, Myra?" YRA smiled. "You haven't forgotten how to read just because you've had a very special birthday? That clipping tells about an old book auction in San Diego next week. I want to go to it on our way to Mexico. I thought we could go down that new West Coast highway." Cal shook his head. "Old books are another extravagance we can't afford now, Myra. I hate to be a wet blanket, but, really! Old books and a trip to Mexico! Say!" he looked suddenly alert. "You haven't made some money by an investment?" "My savings are too precious to risk on anything," Myra denied. "No, but I have enough money for what I want to do. I want to buy some old books—and some Mexican glass, and maybe some pottery. But look, Cal, you can't sit there talk- ing all day. As I told you—Jim Grayson's coming at nine." She looked worriedly at the clock. "That's another thing. Jim Grayson. What's he coming for?" "To discuss the plans for the shop." Cal grabbed his hair. "I'm going around in circles. What shop?" "This one. I got up early and drew a rough sketch of it." She laid a sheet of paper in front of her husband. He looked at it and saw that it must be a sketch of some sort of room. He picked it up to study it more closely. "It's going to be our antique shop," Myra condescended to explain. "I am not going to have a higgledy-piggledy mess like some of those shops. I thought we could have a rather quaint little building —there in front, close to the street. In the front, I'd have my part. Colored glass and maybe pottery on this side, and old books on the opposite shelves. We're going to specialize, Cal. I'm sure we'll make more that way." She pointed to lines on the sketch. "This is a room divider— very original. It is made up of little pigeon holes, just large enough to hold four player piano rolls. Back of that you'll have your part of the shop, where you restore old melodeons and organs and_ pianos. There's no one in town does just that sort of work, Cal. And I read someplace that player pianos are coming back into style...." Cal was examining the paper with sudden, alert interest. Finally he looked up, his eyes shining with eagerness. "It's a wonderful idea, Myra. Completely crazy, of course, but challenging. If we can only swing it! Those piano rolls, now. Hebe Nelson told me the other day he had two big boxes full he'd give me if I'd just cart them away. And I know where I can pick up an old church organ for a song.... "See!" Myra exclaimed triumphantly. "You know it will work. You've probably been thinking of something like this down deep in your heart." Cal put his arms about her. "Maybe I have, darling. Only | didn't know it. I just sort of wished—" "Well, we'll make your wish come true. Now, I don't want to tell anyone. 'The children have set their hearts on your having a long, long rest." They looked at each other, and suddenly they began to laugh. "There's no rest where you're concerned, my darling,' Cal said. "I had a hunch that you weren't going to let me take advantage of mv years." "Tl say I won't. 'm not going to be married to an old man—not for a good many years yet. But we'll have to tell them something, because Jim will be working on the shop while we're gone and the children will want to know what he's doing." Cal grinned. "He can be constructing my workshop for me. They'll think I'm crazy, putting it out in front. But an old man can be a bit eccentric, can't he?" He paused a moment. Then asked, "Why don't we wait till we get back and let me build it? We'd save a lot of money." "T don't want you to get the rep- 594 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1955 SPECIAL BIRTHDAY utation of being a jack-of-all-trades. I want you to be a specialist—so you can charge specialist prices," she added impishly. "You really have special talent with old musical instruments, Cal. I don't want you to waste it on building shops." There was a knock at the door. Cal looked at Myra. "That's Jim," she said. Right on time." "Let him wait a minute,"' Cal answered, standing up. He took Myra into his arms. "Myra, my darling," pered against her hair. "He's he_ whis- "Do you 595 know what you've just done? You've turned a_ barren, desert prospect into a sparkling invitation to adventure. How can I thank you?" Myra's lips answered his kiss and then she said softly, "You did that for me forty years ago, Cal. When you married me. I'd be a poor sort not to return the favor." Jim Grayson rapped again, loudly. Myra slipped from Cal's arms and went to open the door. Jim looked at her in surprise. She was as radiantly shining as a youn bride.: Vian n Pilgrim Beatrice A. DiEnes She walks with morning up the path That takes her where the wild plums grow. The sunlight glinting on her pail Traces steps the years made slow. Since first she journeyed on this hill, A bride who sought a fruited tree, She makes an autumn pilgrimage Where plums grow wild, where plums grow free. Morning, embrace this gentle one Who steps upon your silvered grass, Fold back your tangled brier weed To let a pail and woman pass. For she is old, who seeks the fruit To offer him, much older still Than all the autumns she has walked When smoke-plums ripen on a hill. She has not always come alone With one bright bucket at her side, Small sons have also turned this way Knowing where the wild plums hide. Bend low, old tree, within her reach. Share your harvest, sweet and red, As long as there may be a need Of jelly for an old man's bread. es Poultry Dish for &very Occasion Rhea H. Gardner Extension Service Home Management and Furnishings Specialist Utah State Agricultural College PovrTRY is traditionally a family food. One of the first things a baby may be given to chew on is a "drumstick.'' One of the most appetizing and most easily digested foods for the aged or physically ill is chicken broth. _ One needn't ever tire of poultry, for there are practically as many different ways to prepare it as there are days in the year. Here are just a few suggestions to start your imagination working on new and interesting ways to prepare this family favorite food. Fricasseed Fowl] With Dumplings Disjoint a fowl into pieces for serving and place them in a kettle. Cover with lightly salted water, cover the kettle, and cook the fowl until tender. Simmer, do not boil. Allow 3 to 4 hours. When done, remove from the broth and keep hot in a warm, covered dish. There should be from 3 to 4 cups of broth in the kettle. Skim off the fat and measure the broth. For each cup of skimmed broth mix 1% to 2 tablespoons of the fat with an equal quantity of flour. Stirring constantly, pour the mixture into the broth in the kettle. Cook the gravy until it is slightly thickened. Season to taste. The gravy is now ready for cooking the dumplings. Dumplings Sift % cups flour, 2% teaspoons baking powder, and % teaspoon salt together. Beat 1 egg, add 14, cup milk and mix with the dry ingredients. Drop by spoonfuls into the boiling chicken gravy, cover tightly, and cook for 15 minutes. 'The cover must not be removed while the dumplings are cooking, for if the steam escapes they will not be light. Serve at once with the piping hot chicken. Chicken Casserole This is an ideal main dish, if you are one who likes to have family or friends enjoy dinner with you and yet have a restful day. 4-pound chicken, cooked and diced 2 cups soft bread crumbs 1 cup cooked brown rice ¥ teaspoon paprika 4 well-beaten eggs 1 teaspoon salt 3 cups chicken stock % cup pimento ' cup or 4 tablespoons melted butter Cook the chicken and rice a day or two before you plan to use them. Bread may also be crumbed early if kept in a covered dish in the refrigerator. Remove crusts or cut them into very small pieces. When you are ready to make your chicken casserole, heat 3 cups of the stock in which the chicken was cooked and pour it over the bread. Beat the mixture until it is smooth. Add seasonings and eggs and mix thoroughly. Fold in the nce and diced chicken. Bake for about 45 minutes or until the mixture sets, in a moderate (350°F) oven. Page 596 THERE'S A POULTRY DISH FOR EVERY OCCASION 597 Sauce Just before you are ready to scrve your dinner make a sauce of the following: % cup butter % teaspoon salt % cup flour % teaspoon paprika % cup cream or canned milk 2 cups of chicken stock 1 cup mushrooms 2 beaten egg yolks or 1 whole egg Add the egg after the sauce is thickencd and just before it is to be served. First add a few spoonfuls of hot sauce to the egg, stirring well, then, continuing to stir, add to the sauce. Cook no more than one minute. Serve with the casserole. Bread Dressing While bread dressing is served with many different kinds and cuts of meat, it just naturally scems to go with poultry. Each makes the other better when tastefully prepared. Preferably use bread that is 2 or 3 days old. Cut or break it into fine, even size pieces. For every pound of bird you will want to use about 1 cup of crumbs. Ordhnarily a pound loaf of bread 2 or 3 days old makes about 4 cups or 1 quart of light, fluffy crumbs. ¥% cup butter or other fat 1 to 2 teaspoons savory seasoning 1 pint chopped celery 1 to 2 teaspoons salt % cup chopped parsley Pepper to taste 1 small onion chopped 1 to 1% cups broth, milk, or water 2 to 2% quarts bread crumbs 2 well beaten eggs (optional) In the melted fat cook the celery, parsley, and onion over low heat, until onion is soft but not browned. In the meantime mix the dry seasonings with the crumbs. Add vegetable-fat mixture to crumbs and blend. Pour the liquid gradually over the surface stirring lightly. The exact amount added will depend on whether you want a dryish or moist-light dressing. Two well beaten eggs added along with the other liquids help to make a light dressing. Add more seasoning if desired. Pack lightly ito th body cavity just before placing the bird in the oven. Pulse of Peace Dorothy J]. Roberts The sun sets on the low, linked hills of plush, Rich as the pile on a maharajah's vest, For the shimmering, chartreuse vistas now are lush From autumn rain. Limp shadows trail the crest Of every rise, like heavy banners of furled Noon sky. Below, green plumes of the valley trees Are washed in softly fading gold and purled With chimney shafts grown amber in the lees Of light. Above, the clean glass of the sky Mounts from sinuate horizons racing by, Beryl-pale. The dappled streets turn gray. How sure, slow, and peaceful, the pulse of light Throbbing its arteried way, now day, now night. Hermanas CHAPTER 3 Fay Tarlock Synopsis: The story "Hermanas'"' (sisters) is narrated by an American woman living temporarily in Mexico. Lolita, a Mexican woman, visits the American Senora and asks for employment for herself and her daughter Graciela, who is almost eighteen, a beautiful girl, well educated, and deserving the opportunity of living in a good home, which Lolita, now a widow, cannot give her. After some hesitation, the American Senora agrees to help Graciela with her education and in finding employment. Lolita and Graciela go with the Senora to the L. D. S. Church, and Graciela is introduced to Jim Flores, studying to be a doctor. Stood there forever in the intense sunlight, I do not know. Just then John signalled me he was ready. I saw Lolita with the twins already in the car. I did the obvious thing. "Dr. Flores, won't you come home with us this afternoon? It is Amporo's day off, and we do not serve a Sunday dinner, as such, but we'll be glad to have you join us." I linked my arm with Graciela's. "Graciela is with us for the afternoon." "You are a saving angel," he said to me, his eyes on the girl. "This is one of my rare free Sundays. I was going to spend a lonely afternoon sightseeing." I have never underrated coincidence. Had it been the Sunday before or the Sunday after, they might never have met. In the corridor we parted company with Lolita, who had _ barely Page 598 J: and Graciela might have time to serve her meal. In our wing of the house, Graciela helped me with lunch, a simple one of queso colonia, that desirable cheese from our colonies in Chihuahua, and Mexican ambrosia, my own term for a heavenly concoction of tropical fruits: papaya, fresh pineapple, oranges, limes, and the exotic, golden mango. These, with the wholewheat rolls I bought on Avenida Madero, and avocados and_ tomatoes, were our fare. "T could do battle with the people who disparage Mexican food," Jim said, resting contentedly in his chair. "You forget the American assembly line," said my husband dryly from the head of the table. Not once were Jim and Graciela alone that afternoon. Such liberty was unknown to her; yet before the afternoon was gone they knew each other as only lovers can. It gave them pleasure to speak of their childhoods in Mexico. "T can still remember," I heard Jim say as I put away the dishes while he and Graciela washed them under the cold water tap, "when I was six years old, I was walking with mother early in the evening and I jumped over a pool of water left by the rain. As I jumped a gate opened in the wall and I could see honeysuckle and roses in the garden. Pll never forget how sweet they smelled after the rain. There was a tiled stairway that led to a beau- HERMANAS tifully carved door. I used to think of that garden and the scent, years after we went back to the United States. I think everyone was kind to Mother, and she tried to be happy, but she couldn't put Mexico out of her heart. Dad used to tell her that California was just like Mexico, only better, but she never forgot. She used to put me to sleep telling me stories of the village she had lived in when she was a little gitl. I must have known even then that I was coming back." He scrubbed a plate hard with Amporo's sponge-like dishcloth, holding the plate aloft to inspect it. "She died before I was grown. My first year in college Dad and I came here for a vacation. I didn't tell Dad, but I knew I was coming back." "Why did you choose this time?" Her soft brown eves adored him as she wiped a plate that had long been dry. "Oh, I've always intended to be a doctor. When we came back I kept seeing those brown babies with skinny legs and swollen stomachs, wrapped in rebozas. I'd think of the ones with the runny eyes, the crippled legs, and the sad facom,. "T know it, too," she broke in, her voice sad for all neglected and malnourished children. "In the villages where the boys' faces look as if they were forever done with hope, and the girls, their eyes so big, they seem to say, 'I know all the sorrow of the world, but something good is awaiting me.' I have felt that. Did you feel the same way?" "Why, that's exactly the way I felt when we used to stop our car 59) in the dusty road and the children would crowd close to us, so silent I felt they were reproaching me for something. I've never been able to put it in words before." His eyes were warm with admiration. Quickly Graciela stacked the plates for me. "You were saying, Jaime, about the children." She called him that for the first time. "It sounds sort of presumptuous, but I thought that someday I'd do something for them. I guess that started me on the research that eventually brought me here." He leaned against the sink, his face serious. "I have this chance at research. It means it will take me two years to finish instead of one, and then I want to take two years interning. When I get through I'm not going to bemoan the fact that I have to serve my apprenticeship in a remote village. It's where I want to be. Living so cheaply here [ll be able to start out with my own laboratory." He washed another plate, a faraway look in his eyes. 66" HIS morning when you talked to the Senora I could not understand, why did you come... Now?" Graciela's emphasis on the word was no more than the touch of a rose petal. He was polishing the sink vigorously. "The war, I suppose. I wanted to get in, like any other man, but this foot," he held up the right one clad in Scotch grain, "I had an accident when I was a kid. It's bothered me a little from time to time, nothing serious, and I didn't think it would keep me out, but it did." Reflecting for a moment, he said, "When Dad died a year ago, he left me a sum, not much, but enough for me to give in to my dream. I'd heard of the research they were doing here, and I got busy with letters and references, and here I am. Now that's my life story." With a flourish of his wrist he tossed a plate into the air. "It's your turn. Why are you back in Mexico at this particular moment?" "THE shadow of a blush darkened her face. 'Vhey had moved to the dining room, where she was folding the tablecloth. 'The afternoon sunhght, hot and strong, filtered through the leaded panes of the Gothic windows. I waited in the doorway. Would she tell him why, thus revealing her story, or would she satisfy him with a smile and a shrug of her slender shoulders? I had yet to know her character well. "It's a long story, Jaime." Her face brightened and she looked at me. "Could we all go into the patio where there is shade and a breeze?" John and I checked on the children, now asleep, and followed the couple into the front patio with the fountain. 'There she told Jim much the same story Lolita had told me, ending with, "I am to become a woman independent and unafraid, and my dear friend," her small hand was warm on my arm, "is helping me to find the way." Within the week Graciela enrolled at the secretarial school. She wasted no time, even working at her shorthand on the plunging orange bus from San Angel. Six days of the week she spent two hours with Marita and Judy. I augmented her lessons with dictation in English. Jim's free hours from the hospital and study miraculously coincided with Graciela's afternoons with us. In Mexico, summer is the heavy school season, classes are held at night; so the two had few carefree hours. Not once were they entirely alone. 'The living room, all glass doors and windows, was never safe from the sharp eyes of the de Vargas servants who passed through the corridors on their errands. Amporo was ceaselessly back and forth on her way to answer the telephone or to rush to the garden gate to admit callers. Sometimes Graciela coached Jim for his tests. In turn, he gave her dictation and answered her questions about all things Mormon. He was a third generation Latter-day Saint; his grandparents, paternal side, had been converted on their California ranch by a Utah missionary in the eighties. On the rare occasions when Graciela had time for mere talk, she mended our clothes so expertly that I have ever since been in ill repute as a mender. A few times they took the children to Lindberg Park, strolling along, each holding the hand of a four-year-old girl with light brown curls. It was our agreement with a reluctant Lolita, that she was to use the telephone booth on the street each evening and phone me if Graciela was not home at the appointed hour. This gave the girl her first taste of independence and some pleasant evenings with us when Jim was free. The two of 600 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1955 HERMANAS them would play chess or accompany us to an American movie. A few times the four of us rode through Chapultepec Park after the day's rain was over. Of this I am sure, Lolita knew each time that Jim came. We seldom saw her, for her hours as nursemaid and her duties at home filled her days. 'There was another Sunday when we were able to take her to Church. When Jim could, he managed free Sundays and took them to Church on the busses, long, tiring rides that occupied a good part of the day. In spite of her busy days, Graciela's thin frame filled out a little, and her face radiated love. It was another storybook summer for me, just to watch her as the days passed in swift succession. 'There were the fair, cool mornings, the afternoon deluges, and the young lovers looking as if life would go on forever, smooth and full of hope with no day of reckoning. HEN came a day in early August. The rain had come in midmorning, leaving everything freshly washed and sparkling. Even the palaces on Avenida Madero, old these many centuries, had some of the fresh splendor of their beginnings. Such a little thing had brought us to the Avenida. John had come home early with the unexpected bonus of a free afternoon. Work at the Stadium had been stopped by one of the unexplicable orders from the government. "Let's have dinner in town." He was poised for a rush up the stairs and a freshening shower. "I haven't taken you anywhere in weeks." 601 Happily I dressed, pausing only long enough to leave orders with Amporo for the children's dinner. We hailed a libre on Insurgentes and were deposited near one of the city's most elegant restaurants. "If we order creamed raviolas and no dessert, we can afford it," I whispered, as we stood indecisive on the narrow sidewalk of Madero. Then we saw Graciela walking towards us with two girls from the secretarial school. Like the other two, her blue-black hair was rolled in a pompadour on top and coiled in a figure eight at her neck. In her light jacket and dark skirt she was as like the other girls as if they had been together all their lives. When Graciela saw us, she gave a little shout of joy and rushed _ towards us. "We are going to Sanborn's for lunch." Graciela hugged my arm. "Tt is so exciting," chirped one of the girls. "We want to see the American senoritas, the summer school students. 'They crowd there each meal." "My mother," warbled the darkeyed senorita on the other side, "says Sanborn's is like a garden now with the girls so golden haired in their summer dresses." "Tam lucky, no? I found money hidden in my_ purse," Graciela whispered. "On this day I will be extravagant, for I have never been inside the tile palace." "We're celebrating for no reason at all," I said, my spirits as high as hers. "Why don't you ask the girls to excuse you and come with us. We'll take you to Sanborn's another time." If I had only kept still and let 602 the girl go with her friends! We were no more than seated in the deep-cushioned chairs, though too near the kitchen door, I must confess, when our second coincidence came. It was one that shattered the calm of the summer days and changed the lives of the two young people who met under my roof. In the days to come I was to deplore bitterly my invitation of that day. A waiter had just brought us a set of the glossy menus, when a party of men entered, exuding vitality and wealth. They were impeccably tailored and walked with gay confidence towards a private dining room. One of them, a tall, heavyset man with graying hair and large features, saw us and came to our table, his hands outstretched in warm greeting. "Senora," he said, bowing over my hand, "it is I who have been the loser. Now that we have at last met, you must be my guests at dinner." Miguel Munoz was a very rich man, indeed a powerful man, and he had been kind to my husband his first days in Mexico. The Senor, old enough to have fought in the Revolution, was young enough to enjoy his power and wealth. While he came from the middle classes he had married, like so many of his kind, a wife from the upper classes. She had died when their first child, a daughter, was born. His household was since ruled by his motherin-law, the Senora Valades. Little as I knew about the intimate life of the capital, I had heard stories of Senor Munoz's friendships with actRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1955 resses and dancers. Until this moment I had not met him. Within a few minutes the four of us were seated at a larger table, far from the clatter of dishes. 'Three waiters hovered over us and a bus boy with a large pitcher of ice water. The Senor was profuse in his apologies. 'The rest of the summer, he assured me, would be spent in making amends. As he spoke, his eyes lingered briefly on the wide-eyed Graciela. Nothing but the specialties of the house were ordered, and a few known only to Senor Munoz and the head waiter. Under the Senor's charm we relaxed, our tongues grew witty. "You have been to my summer home in Cuernavaca, no? Of course you have not, all because of our lazy Mexican way of tomorrow." We were lingering over the crepe suzettes. "You, Senorita," he turned his thick-lidded eyes on Graciela, "would you like to come also?" His eyes held hers, waiting for an answer. Graciela was confused. Would the Senor extend the invitation, if he knew the whole truth? In all propriety he would not. She lowered her eyes, her dark lashes casting a shadow on her creamy cheek. After a demure pause she raised her eyes to me, asking help. I smiled. "Of course you want to see the Senor's house. Cuernavaca is a lovely place." "Then it's settled." The Senor put his fork down decisively. "You are all to come Saturday." We assured him that Saturday was just right — if we could come after John had finished his work. HERMANAS "It is a pity you cannot come earlier, mornings are the best. One of my chauffeurs will call for you. You are to enjoy our scenery, not spoil the day by having to glue your eyes to the road." Outside, his chauffeur-driven car was waiting. "Today, I take a little respite from business," he said. "We take a drive somewhere, any place you desire, then I shall take you home and wait for Saturday." To John he said, "Sit in front and relax while someone else pilots you through our crazy traffic. I will sit with the ladies." We drove to San Juan Teotihuacan, city of the ancient gods. 'To me Mexico City is a city of mystery, where the past walks with the present, sometimes overshadowing it. In the streets I see the sandalled feet of the Aztec, treading on the bloodstains of the conquerors. And a flash of light that might have been the plumage of the emperor's headdress. Nowhere, to me, does the past. Press so hard upon the present as _ at Teotihuacan. Our ride was through a green valley, accented » 603 with maguey. We came first to the giant pyramid of the sun. Behind us, rising high through an opening in the clouds, was the white summit of Popocatepetl, floating in mist. We watched the clouds swirl and cover the snowy peak, then we turned and began our steep climb, all of us quiet before the mystery of the pyramid. A third of the way up the first raindrops fell. At Senor Munoz's suggestion we retraced our steps and ran to the waiting car, just in time to escape the deluge. It was inti mate inside the luxurious car, safe from the storm. The green fields were blacked out by the rain, our world was a private one of soft, sheltered seats. Senor Munoz was reminded of the rain in Paris, and Graciela told him of a time when she had been a child in Paris, coming from school, frightened by the rain. Lulled by the steady rhythm of the rain and smooth hum of the tires, I half dozed, aware of what the two were saying, but having no part in it. (To be continued) — He rmil Sh rush Ethel Jacobson I have heard the hermit thrush Singing to herself, Singing to herself in a deodar— Unseen, solitary, Hidden in the shadows, Singing to herself and the evening star. I have heard the hermit thrush Singing to herself, Singing to herself so rapturously Through all the gathering dark, Through doubt and through despair— Singing to herself, and the star, and me! Hal Rumel ME E FOR ALL" TABLE DRAMATIZING THE TH ~ 4 "LIBERTY AND JUSTICE A Sable Decoration for Social Science Day Inez R. Allen DURING the past two years, the social science lessons dealing with the Constitution of the United States have been a great source of information. How blessed we are to be able to live in a country which supports such a wonderful charter of freedom. We have learned that the Constitution belongs to every citizen of the United States, and that each individual must be mindful of the responsibilities and obligations of citizenship. During the past year we have tried to correlate our flower arrangements with some phase of the lesson. In the above picture the idea of "Liberty and Justice for All" was dramatized. 'The scales portrayed the balance and justice that the Constitution affords each individual. The doll portrayed the Goddess of Liberty, bearing the torch of freedom. One side of the scales held red tulips, while the other was balanced with blue iris and cornflowers. Snowballs and lilies of the valley were banked around the base as a symbol of purity. It is not necessary to have such a set of scales. A very simple set might be made, or perhaps a larger image could hold a small set of scales in her hand with the flowers arranged to suit the situation. Many similar arrangements might be made and used for any social science lesson given on the Constitution of the United States. Page 695 ae oS Lilly Bell Hinckley Mlakes Unusual Quilt Designs and Mlany Crocheted and Appliqued Articles ] ILLY Bell Hinckley, formerly of Rexburg, Idaho, now living in Salt Lake City, re- 4 cently completed a very unusual quilt in the "Forty-Eight States" pattern. The quilt combines geography, natural history, and exquisite handwork. Flowers and birds of the forty-eight states are represented in natural colors. Also, she has recently made a lovely crocheted tablecloth for a large table. Other items of her handwork include pillow cases, doilies, many yards of knitted and crocheted lace, and much fine embroidery in white and in colors. Eighty-two years old, Mrs. Hinckley has been a widow for several years, but before her husband's death they celebrated their fiftieth wedding anniversary. Mother of ten children, grandmother of thirty-two, and great-grandmothcr to thirteen, Mrs. Hinckley has found time for many hobbies and for much Church work. She particularly loves genealogical research and temple work. Still devoted to Relief Society, she attends meetings and helps with quilting. She Gathering Hour Eva Willes Wangsgaard Now is the hour, too soon for stars, But not too soon for peace, When the cows stand ready at pasture bars Awaiting night's release; The gathering hour when hunger calls And love is understood, When hearts are lifted as evening falls And we know that life is good. Page 606 Selected Data—Annual Report 105-4 sae activities and achievements of Relief Society for 1954, its 112th year, are reflected in this annual report. That Relief Society continues to play a significant part in the lives of increasing numbers of women throughout the world is indicated in the reports of 216 stakes and 42 missions included in this compilation. Steady progress was shown in most phases of the program, The narrative sections revealed a wide variety of interesting and inspiring activities. Relief Society welcomed 8,206 new members into its ranks during 1954, bringing the total membership to 156,300, a commendable, steady growth. However, our goal — every Latter-day Saint woman a member of Relief Society — should continue to receive special attention. During 1954, opportunity for development through participation in leadership activities was given to 97,198 women, an increase of 6,311 Over 1953. Even though the total average attendance at regular meetings showed a slight decrease (.15%), it increased substantially in the stakes. The decrease reflected in the missions was due to a changed condition in a foreign mission. Theology and testimony meetings continued to have the largest attendance, followed, in order, by work meeting, which showed the greatest increase, literature, and social science. We commend all those who throu, varied homemaking activities stimulated added interest and enthusiasm in work meeting. Visiting teacher meetings decreased 166 from 1953. 'This decrease was due to a clarification of policy that recognized only eight scheduled meetings each year, as the reports for the four summer months are regarded as part of the work meeting for those months. The total average attendance was 51.48% (50.38% in 1953), a gratifying increase. The stakes increased to 50.57% (48.92% in 1953); indicating that they are continuing to expand this vital activity. However, in the missions there was a decrease from 62.8% in 1953 to 59.68%, also due to a changed condition in a foreign mission. The increase of 202,153 visits by 4,037 more visiting teachers in 2,061 more districts brought the number of visits by visiting teachers to Latter-day Saint families to 8.27 from 8.01 in 1953. This increase indicates gradual advancement toward our goal of 12 annual visits to each family. For the first time the Singing Mothers choruses were included in the annual report which showed there were 1,777 choruses in wards and branches, with approximately 27,280 singers — a notable and encouraging growth throughout the Church of this distinctive and deeply satisfying activity. Compassionate service continued to hold its important place in Relief Society as indicated by 17,651 more visits to the sick and homebound; and 1,761 more days care of the sick over 1953. The narrative sections of the report revealed an increasing solicitude, based on individual needs, for the well-being of members and neighbors through innumerable and varied types of compassionate service. Such service reaffirms Relief Society's awareness of its continuing responsibility to fulfill the grand key words of the society as given by the Prophet Joseph Smith: "Said Jesus, 'Ye shall do the work which ye see me do.'" To-all who contributed to the progress of Relief Society during 1954, the general board extends sincere thanks. Through tireless and devoted service, stake and mission workers alike have contributed to the betterment and enrichment of human life. The world is in great need of such unselfish service, and with the loyal support of its members, Relief Society will continue to bring its benefits and blessings to ever increasing numbers of women throughout the world. General Secretary-Treasurer Page 607 MEMBERSHIP — 1954 318,690 L. D. S. Families == 15,186 over 1953 156,300 R. S. Members aT 8,206 over 1953 or 49.04% of potential membership In Stakes 264,582 L. D. S. Families - 12,807 over 1953 127,062 R. S. Members — 7,447 over 1953 or 48.02% of potential membership In Missions 54,108 L. D. S. Families +- 2,379 over 1953 29,238 R. S. Members + 759 over 1953 or 54.03% of potential membership LEADERSHIP ACTIVITIES 97,198 R. S. Members Participated in Leadership Activities — 1954 90,887 in 1953 1954 1953 General Officers.2.0.......2...01:00-------- 24 26 Stake Officers...0000.0....222-----sl-eee-00- 2,490 2,421 Mission Officers _........-...--2---..--.---- 607 504 Local Executive Officers................ 13,524 12,946 Other Officers -..........22222.200--e----2000--+ 7,011 6,291 Class Leaders -...0.........22--2---0eeeee2220-- 12,903 12,097 Visiting Teachers..............2-2.-2.------ 60,639 56,602 608 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1955 ANNUAL REPORT Location | a GEOGRAPHIC DISTRIBUTION OF RELIEF SOCIETY ORGANIZATIONS AND MEMBERS — 1954 Stakes OrganiMembers zations United States and Territories Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware District of Columbia Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania 6,145 16,691 1,306 139 376 101 689 19 See oll 30 92 204 275 340 2,206 163 605 199 29 2,602 by Missions 15 ci 27 8 32 25 OrganiMembers zations 609 Totals OrganiMembers zations 15 199 4 106 133 6,636 8 107 314 17,464 50 1,891 4 85 2 31 2 139 46 955 28 498 58 1,486 338 19,686 30 699 23 534 11 195 20 297 19 293 17 401 9 100 5 219 11 196 15 378 15 299 16 229 3 510 58 1,387 9 176 40 2,206 2 18 6 172 44 1,064 24 570 39 804 6 65 21 564 19 282 72 3,056 25 468 610 Stakes OrganiMembers zations Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia 4 Washington 55 West Virginia Wisconsin 3 50 Location 12 435 36 874 1,063 65,359 239 2,520 107 Wyoming 2,771 Total United States Other Countries Argentina Australia Austria Belgium Brazil Canada Costa Rica Denmark England Finland France Germany — East (1953) Germany — West Guatemala Honduras Ireland Japan | Mexico 3 Netherlands New Zealand Nicaragua Norway Panama Canal Zone Salvador Samoa — (1953) Scotland Sweden Switzerland Tahiti — (1953) Tonga Union of South Africa Uruguay Wales Total one Sa 59 TOTAL 2,023 1,964 124,539 56 2,381 142 2,523 127,062 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1955 Totals OrganiMembers zations Missions OrganiMembers zations 2 15 2 15 8 104 20 539 8 101 8 101 13 195 13 195 32 473 68 1,536 874 65,359 z 16 2 16 25 482 25 721 8 138 63 2,658 12 207 12 207 14 173 17 280 16 293 66 3,064 786 = 14,587 2,750 139,126 21 402 21 402 25 5 25 515 6 124 6 124 11 91 11 91 12 117 12 117 61 1,073 117 3,454 1 2 1 12 17 360 17 360 75 953 75 953 13 168 13 168 14 111 14 111 79 3,801 79 3,801 53 791 53 791 3 5 3 54 1 9 1 9 3 45 3 45 20 Za) 20 22) 57 1,137 60 1,279 21 325 21 325 65 969 65 969 1 6 1 6 13 343 13 343 Z 22 2 22 (3 18 2 18 49 669 49 669 6 61 6 61 38 44 38 494 26 370 26 370 16 277 16 277 40 565 40 565 14 159 14 159 2 336 23 336 4 45 4 45 792 = 14,651 851 17,174 1,578 29,238 3,601 _ 156,300 MEETINGS — 1954 169,473 Total Meetings Held in Wards and Branches 116,365 Regular Meetings Dal | Increase Increase A! In Stakes Over 1953 InMissions Over 1953 ghey Theology 15,566 + 999 13,701 + 46 ae Work 22,084 4+ 1,565 15,981 + 65 Literature 15,224 +- 950 10,592 4+ 77 (Optional Lessons in Missions) Social Science 13,396 + 858 9,821 -+ 64 18,654 Visiting Teacher Meetings Increase or Decrease Over 1953 In Stakes. 14,365 — 353 In Missions 4,289 + 187 34,454 All Other Meetings Increase or Decrease Over 1953 In Stakes..... 20,104 12,661 In Missions...............--------0-eee-e00000 14,350 —1,138 ANNUAL REPORT én 612 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1955 ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS — 1954 Regular Meetings 56,166 or 35.93% total average attendance in 1954 53,432 or 36.08% in 1953 Av. Attendance Av. Attendance Total Increase In Stakes In Missions Av. Attendance Over 1953 Theology 49,613 11,817 61,430. ~—-+.3,064 Work 43,356 11,221 54,577 +3,353 Literature 42,830 11,068 53,898 +2,165 Social Science 42,569 10,996 53,565 aye Visiting Teacher Meetings 31,217 or 51.48% total average attendance in 1954 28,514 or 50.38% in 1953 - Av. Attendance Av. Attendance Total Increase In Stakes In Missions Av. Attendance Over 1953 27,616 3,601 31,217 -+2,703 VISITING TEACHING SERVICE 1954 1953 Over 1688 5 Total Family Visits 2,634,185 2,432,032 202,153 "\;1 Visiting Teachers 60,639 56,602 +. 4,037 i Districts 32,428 30,367 + 2,061 Families Visited At Home 1,764,915 1,626,145 -++138,770 Not Home 869,270 805,887 + 63,383 8.27 Av. Visits were made to each L. D. S. Family in 1954 8.01 in 1953 SEWING SERVICE — 1954 1954 1953 ee, Total Articles Completed 298,005 246,686 +51,319 Av. Number of women sewing monthly at work meeting -.............. 45,158 41,867 -+ 3,291 Kinds of Articles Completed Quilts 22... Eee 17,165 16,193 + 972 Children's Clothing...... 29,079 23,824 + 5,255 Women's Clothing -.... 41,463 34,596 + 6,867 Men's Clothing............ 3,057 2,198 + 859 Household Furnishings 93,120 74,792 = +18,328 Miscellaneous Articles 114,121 95,083 +19,038 COMPASSIONATE SERVICE — 1954 Increase (or 1954 1953 Decrease) Over 1953 Ay Compassionate Services: 7' "isits to Sick and Homebound............... 235,457 = =217,806 -+17,651 Days Care of Sick........ 25,500 23,/39 + 1,761 Number of Funerals at Which Relief Society Assisted.......... 6,561 6,598 — 37 Dressing Only for Burial -................. 678 716 — 38 ANNUAL REPORT 613 CHURCH WELFARE SERVICE — 1954 1954 1953 —_ dncnesge, Average number of women participating in Welfare sewing at work meeting.... 8,648 8,237 -+- 411 Average number of women participating in Welfare sewing at sewing center.... 3,178 2,357 + 821 Average number of women participating in Welfare projects other than SEWING....-.------2ceeceeceeeeeesees16,243 10,919 5,324 FAMILY WELFARE SERVICE — 1954 1954 1953 Over ies Number of initial family visits under direction of bishop.........._ 10,983 8,628 a2 oe Number of subsequent or follow-up visits _...... 26,874 19,439 --7,435 Number visited who gave service on Church Welfare co) (eS ae 2,289 1,573 + 726 Number of women visited who sewed at work meeting _.............. 2,246 1,738 + 508 Number of women visited who sewed for themselves and families 2,774 2,048 + 726 614 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1955 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL REPORT FOR STAKES AND MISSIONS Receipts and Disbursements, 1954 Cash Balance on hand, January 1..............$ 1,036,488.57 Receipts 2.......22--eeecceeccee cee eeeeeeee eee eee eee 1,517,003.50 $ 2,553,492.07 Disbursements —.......-..-..2..2222---2----0--200-00------ 1,466,112.69 SCash Balance on hand, December 31........$ 1,087,379.38 Assets and Liabilities, December 31, 1954 Cash Balance on hand, December 3]........$ 1,087,379.38 Wheat Trust Fund Deposited at Presiding Bishop's Office ~..............2-.----- AZZ 912.22 Other Invested Funds (Savings,: Bonds, etc.) -...2.22-.22-2-: c2eceeeceeeeeeeeeneeeeeeeees 93,687.64 Real Estate and Buildings 00.222... 88,993.41 Furniture and Fixtures —...0222222-2.2...-..--.2---- 764,003.80 Other Assets _.00.......0220-20-ece-eeeeeeeeeeeceeeeeee 178,681.94 "Total ASSCES cco... Encen cence$ 2,635,658.39 Liabilities Accounts Payable...2..22.2.2.2-2..22----2----20-eeeeo$ 2,244.36 Balance Net Worth _...0022202222.222222-2:2200---- 2,633,414.03 Total Liabilities and Net Worth........$ 2,635,658.39 REPORT OF FUNDS FOR NEW RELIEF SOCIETY BUILDING 1947 - 1954 Receipts Contributions.200.00000000002000.2 222 eeeeeeeeeeeee eee$ 563,098.73 ae 18,588.55 Proceeds from sale ""Wist Ye Not"...... 2,606.50 Total Receipts 22... Eee eesceeeeeeeeeeees$ 584,293.78 Disbursements Including Construction Expense _................--..--.---- 182,004.65 Cash Balance December 31, 1954........$ 402,289.13 ANNUAL REPORT 615 616 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1955 COMPARATIVE FINANCIAL AND STATISTICAL DATA 1953 - 1954 1954 1953 Changes 1953 to 1954 Number Number Number or or or Amount Amount Amount Per Cent Organizations Stakes and Missions, Total........ 258 yg 7 - 29 Stakes 2... Eee ceeeeeeeeee 216 209 + a |e oe Missions 2.02... Ee eee 4 a0 -— — etal =... Ee. 3,601 3461 150 + 4.35 Wards in Stakes _002 2,023 1,877 + 146 + 7.78 Branches in Missions............... 1,578 1574 + + -" Za Membership Total................... 156,300 148,094 + 8,206 + 5.54 Stakes 2. Cesecececencocenceneeceecens 127,062. 119,615 + 7,447 + 6.23 Missions 0.2... ----------eeneeseeeee «= 29,238 279 | "ep + 2167 General Officers and Board Members...................+ 24 26 — 2 — 7.69 Stake Officers and Board Members.................... 2,490 meal 69 -+ 2.85 Mission Presidents and Other Officers 2.2.22... 607 504 + 103 +-20.44 Ward and Branch Executive Officers................ 13,524 12,946 + 578 -+ 4.46 Other Officers 20.0000. 7,011 6,291 + 720 +11.44 Class Leaders 00200000 12,903 12,097 + 806 + 6.66 Visiting Teachers _ 0.0... 60,639 56,602 + 4,037 + 7.13 All Other Members................ 59,102 Seer | 17395 =" 331 L. D. S. Families—Total........ 318,690 303,504 + 15,186 + 5.00 In Stakes 20200202 264,582 251,775 + 12,807 + 5.08 In Missions _.....0.220. 222.22 ee eevee 54,108 51,729 + 2,379 + 4.60 Meetings and Attendance 1. Meetings Held, Total _............ 174,733 168,426 + 6,307 + 3.74 General Board Meetings.......... 29 31 — 2 — 6.45 Relief Society General Gonfé@renée........... T...... 1 1 — — Group Stake Conventions........ 112 106 + 6 + 5.66 In Stakes and Missions............ 5,118 4,796 + 322 4+ 671 Stake and Mission District Board Meetings................ 2,791 M673 + =6ts -pete4l Stake and Ward Officers (Union) Meetings............ 2,327 2,123 + 204 + 9.61 In Wards and Branches.......... 169,473 163,492 + 5,981 + 3.66 Regular Meetings for Members.........2..-..-..-. Eos-000- 116,365 111,741 + 4,624 4 4.14 March Sunday Night Meetings —..........-essee 11,518 9,360 + 2,158 +23.06 Visiting 'Teacher Meetings.. 18,654 18,820 — 166 —.88 Preparation Meetings.......... 18,013 18,842 — 829 — 4.40 Relief Society Conferences.. 3,002 3,025 — 23 —.76 R. S. Conf. Preliminary Meetings.................. S0-0s000 1,921 1,704 + 217 +412.74 ANNUAL REPORT 2. Average Attendance at Regular Meetings for Members.. In Stakes _.2.222-..2.. E2ceeeeeseeeeeeeee In Missions..................-.----------- 3. Per Cent of Members Represented by Average Attendance at Regular Meetings.................. In Stakes -00.20220-. Eceeceeceeeeeee In Missions.................-..-.---- 4. Average Attendance at Visiting Teacher Meetings.............. 5. Per Cent of Visiting Teachers Represented by Average Attendance o..-.----eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee 1954 Number or Amount 56,166 44,650 11,516 35.93%, 35.149, 39.3897, 31,217 51.48%, Visits by Stake and Mission Officers To Wards and Branches........ To Wards by Stake Officers... To Branches by Mission and District Officers -..........-.------ Activities 1. Visiting Teaching: Number of Visiting Teacher Districts -...2..2-2.2..2.---------00--++ Family Visits — Total............ Home _.......2..-22-.--22---20000002- Number of Communications in Lieu of Visits _...........0.2.22.2---- 2. Educational Meetings: Average Attendance at Relief Society Quilts 2. Children's Clothing.......... Women's Clothing -........... Men's Clothing._................ Household Furnishings.... Other (Miscellaneous).... 23,411 18,201 5,210 32,428 617 1953 Changes 1953 to 1954 Number Number or or Amount Amount Per Cent 2,634,185 2,432,032 1,764,915 1,626,145 869,270 67.00% 32,910 61,430 54,577 53,898 53,565 45,158 298,005 17,165 29,079 41,463 3,057 93,120 114,121 53,432 + 2,734 + 5.12 40,352 + 4,298 +10.65 13,080 — 1,564 —11.96 36.08%, 33.739; 45.93%, 28,514 + 2,703 + 9.48 50.38%, 20,793 + 2,618 12.59 16,302 -- 1,899 +11.65 4491 + 719 +1601 30,367 ++ 2,061 + 6.79 202,153 + 8.31 4-138,770 + 8.53 805,887 -+ 63,383 + 7.86 66.86% 29,491 + 3,419 +11.59 58,366 + 3,064 + 5.25 51,224 + 3,353 + 6.55 51,733 + 2,165 + 4.18 51,593 + 1,972 + 3.82 41,867 -- 3,291 + 7.86 246,686 + 51,319 +20.80 16,193 + 972 + 6.00 23,824 + 5,255 122.06 34,596 -- 6,867 19.85 2,198 + 859 +39.08 74,792 +. 18,328 124.51 95,083 + 19,038 20.02 618 4. Compassionate Service: Visits to Sick and Homebound Number Days Care of the Sick Number of Bodies Dressed for MUTA ncc---- ncteeecccsaeece--neee-s Number of Funerals at Which Relief Society Assisted........ 5. Church Welfare Services: Average Number Women Participating in Welfare Sewing at Work Meetings................ Average Number Women Participating in Welfare Sewing at Sewing Center _..00....0.. Average Number Women Participating in Welfare Projects Other than Sewing 6. Family Welfare Services: Number Initial Visits Under Direction of Bishop.............. Number of Subsequent or Follow-up Visits 0.020... Number Visited Who Gave Service on Church Welfare Projects 00.2. Number of Women Visited Who Sewed at Work Meeta | Number of Women Visited Who Sewed for Themselves and Families Total Number of Wards and Branches With Lists of Nurses Wards Total Number of Wards and Branches Having Singing Mothers Choruses Wards Magazine Relief Society Magazine Subscriptions Finances Cash Receipts Cash Disbursements _... Net Assets 0.0... 1,466,112.69 2,633,414.03 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1955 1953 Changes 1953 to 1954 Number Number 1954 Number or Amount 235,457 25,500 678 6,561 8,648 3,178 16,243 10,983 26,874 2,299 2,246 2,774 2,043 1,566 477 1,777 1,430 347 27,280 23,095 4,185 128,86814 1,332,694.79 or or Amount 217,806 + 17,651 23,738% + 1,761% (CS 38 6,598 — 37 8,237 + 411 2257 A 821 10,919 +. 5,324 8,628 + 2,355 19,439 + 7,435 1573 + 726 1,738 + 508 2,048 + 726 1,881 + 162 1,394 + 172 487 — 10 Amount Per Cent + 8.10 4. 7.42 — 5.31 56 4. 4.99 1.34.83 4-48.76 27.29 4.38.25 4-46.15 4.29.23 4-35.45 + 861 4-12.34 — 2.05 119,850-4.9,01814 + 7.52 a$1,517,003.50 $1,423,757.66 +$ 93,245.84 + 6.55 4. 133,417.90 10.01 2,481,039.69 + 152,374.34 + 6.14 From The Field [=== Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field"' in the Magazine for April 1950, page 278, and the Handbook of Instructions, page 123. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIE Photograph submitted by May E. J. Dyer CENTRAL STATES MISSION AUXILIARY RELIEF SOCIETY BOARD Seated: May FE. J. Dyer, President, Central States Mission Relief Society. Standing, left to mght: Alice Andrews, St. Louis; Edith Conwell, Kansas City; Lilly Clark, Kansas City. Sister Dyer reports the organization of this board: "An auxiliary board has been formed in the Central States Mission. The purpose of this board is more properly to provide the districts and branches of the mission with information and instructions as provided by the general board of Relief Society, that the full program of the Church may become operative. In the Relief Society division of the board, I have found it advisable and have called three worthy and capable sisters to assist me with the work. This has proved very helpful, and the work of Relief Society is going forward." Page 619 620 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1955 Photograph iets ce Lyle 1 | Coombs ' FRESNO STAKE (CALIFORNIA), FRESNO SECOND WARD HANDICRAFT, ANTIQUE, AND HOBBY SHOW, May 6, 1955 DeLoris P. Fawns, publicity chairman of this unique event, reports the program as follows: "The purpose of this cultural activity is threefold: 1. To create interest in hobbies and handicraft. 2. To show that having hobbies and creating things of interest is one of the finest ways to be happy, to develop an interesting personality, and to maintain a well-adjusted life. 3. To show the people of Fresno and Fresno County what their neighbors and friends are doing in many cultural fields of endeavor. "The whole community is invited to participate.... The public is urged to take part even though they are not Church members. People who have made or collected items of interest are invited to bring them to the show so that others may enjoy looking at their works of art, hobbies, etc.... The exhibit is for one day only, from ten A. M. To ten p. M. Simple refreshments are served to all guests.. This show has created so much interest among non-members of the Church that they continually inquire as to when the next hobby show will be. "Some of the articles of interest which have been exhibited include: a collection of 250 bells; early American glassware; hundreds of old dolls and dolls of all nations; 200 or more salt and pepper shakers; water color paintings; Indian arrowheads; South Pacific native collections; ceramics; textile painting; antique furniture; beautiful hooked rugs made by the women of a class conducted by one of the Relief Society counselors; leather craft; rock and gem collections; genealogical records; valuable old books, papers, and magazines; button collections; pioneer clothes and other pioneer articles; handicraft of many kinds (needle point, petit point, quilting, crocheting, etc.); old-fashioned albums; gun collections; toy automobiles — made by children; artificial flowers; quaint office machines of all kinds; travel collections. "Sister Lydia McCauley, one of the Relief Society counselors, has been the general chairman for the past four years.... Each year more and more non-members take part and look forward to the next exhibit.... More and more people are beginning to treasure the objects handed down to them and appreciate their value." Lyle J. Coombs is president of Fresno Stake Relief Society. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 621 Photograph submitted by Elsie J. Brinkerhoff KANAB STAKE (UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS FURNISH MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, April 1955 Stake chorister Elizabeth B. Esplin stands back of the rostrum, in the center, and the stake organist Leah L. Brinkerhoff, stands at Sister Esplin's left. Elsie J. Brinkerhoff is president of Kanab Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Mary L. Henrie DESERET STAKE (UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT ANNUAL CONCERT Front row, fifth from the left: chorister Ivy Allred; sixth from the left, organist Roma Ekins. Mary L. Henrie, President, Deseret Stake Relief Society, reports that Relief Society women from the thirteen wards and branches of Deseret Stake participate in this chorus: "Abraham, Callao, Delta First, Second, and Third Wards, Deseret, Hinckley, Leamington, Lynndyl, Oak City, Oasis, Sugarville, and Sutherland, each has an active Singing Mothers chorus, and each takes its turn at furnishing the special musical number for our regular union meetings. During the eight months of the regular Relief Society season, the members of the Singing Mothers choruses meet once a month an hour before the regular union meeting. 'They also practice as a group for special events to be held in their own wards. During the four summer vacation months it has been our custom for the past eight years to hold a regular weekly stake Singing Mothers practice and conclude the summer's activities with a concert in the latter part of August." 622 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1955 Photograph submitted by Evelyn P. Brown SAN FERNANDO STAKE (CALIFORNIA) SINGING MOTHERS FURNISH MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, May 22, 1955 Seated, left to right: Shirlea Weston, accompanist; Elizabeth Sorensen, chorister. Sister Sorensen, in reporting this lovely occasion, comments: "This is the first experience in the stake that our women have had as a Singing Mothers group. They all seemed to enjoy it so much and many of them traveled long distances for practices." Evelyn P. Brown is president of San Fernando Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Eva C. Taylor EASTERN STATES MISSION, ONEIDA DISTRICT, MOHAWK (LAMANITE) BRANCH (HOGANSBURG) RELIEF SOCIETY MAKES FOUR QUILTS Front row, seated, left to right: Florine C. Armstrong; Mary N. Cook, President; Bessie H. Crofts, Second Counselor; Elizabeth J. White. Back row, standing, left to right: Eita Gwyn Anderson; Dorothy B. Nadeau; Lucy G. Cole; Elizabeth Ann Cook. Eva C. Taylor, former President, Eastern States Mission Relief Society, submits an interesting report from this small branch: "The Mohawk (Lamanite) Branch of the Oneida District has completed four lovely quilts in the last four months. The Relief Society was organized May 16, 1955, and now has eight active members enrolled. Bessie H. Crofts, the Second Counselor, is a full-time missionary in the Eastern States Mission. While serving on the reservation among members and non-members, she has won the hearts and respect of the people through her services to them as a teacher of homemaking. They have sought her guidance in times of illness, for general housekeeping, and the various arts and crafts of home life, as well as for the gospel." Florence Smith Jacobson is president of Eastern States Mission Relief Society. She Bell Celia Luce I held a tiny, shining copper bell in my hand. My fingers closed tightly over the whole bell and I swung it. There was no music from the bell, only a discordant, dull clank. Then I held the bell only by the tiny handle at the top and swung it again. This time the bell swung free, and the joyous bell music sang gladly through the air, lovely bell music that has sung the songs of happiness and holiness all through the ages. People are like bells. Without freedom, there is a discordance in life. With freedom, they can make their lives a beautiful symphony of happiness. Stansient Beatrice K. Ekman Vainly I hold the summer to my heart, Striving to keep the fragrance of the rose, But, like the birds, the joys so soon depart And over summer's glory... Autumn blows, Strange that a memory can grow so dim.... Illusive as a dream... The face of him. Conti Lillian S. Knudson There's a quiet around this morning, And it's only half past nine. You can even hear the ticking of the clock! It's an empty kind of quiet, Part the neighbors' and part mine— School's begun! There's a rush of babbling voices, And it's only half past three; The walks are filled with hurrying, scurrying feet; It's a pair of eyes so shining, and Two arms held out to me— School's let out! NOTES FROM THE FIELD 623 YN DEPARTMENT Sheology—Characters and Teachings of The Book of Mormon Lesson 35—Nephi, Son of Helaman Elder Leland H. Monson (Text: The Book of Mormon: Helaman, chapter 5:5 through chapter 12) For Tuesday, December 6, 1955 Objective: To show that when we sacrifice and exercise faith in the Lord, he gives us power to accomplish great things. Missionary Activities of Nephi and Lehi Nephi and his brother Lehi were very much impressed with the instructions their father Helaman gave to them, in which he emphasized the need of their believing that Jesus Christ would come and _ redeem mankind by means of his atoning sacrifice. 'This message loomed so large in the eyes of young Nephi and Lehi that Nephi had no difficulty in deciding to resign as chief judge and to devote all his energies to missionary work. (Read Helaman 5:5-12.) The people were ripening for destruction, for their laws had become corrupted. 'Those people who elected to do evil were far more numerous than those who chose to do right. In a representative form of government this trend signifies decadence. Page 624 Fcr the purpose of correcting this condition, Nephi and Lehi knew that they must cast everything else aside and preach of the atonement of Christ. They started their work in the city Bountiful, proceeded to Gid, and Mulek, and from there to all the people of Nephi who were in the land southward. Then they traveled to Zarahemla to labor among the Lamanites. So forceful and cogent was the message of Nephi and Lehi among the Lamanites that they succeeded in baptizing 8,000 of them. From Zarahemla, Nephi and Lehi went to the land of Nephi to continue their work with the Lamanites. In the land of Nephi, they were committed to the same prison in which Ammon and his brethren had been incarcerated years before by the servants of King Limhi. They were confined without food for many days. LESSON DEPARTMENT Miraculous Conversion of the Lamanites Determined to slay them for their missionary activities, the Lamanites came to the prison. As they entered the prison they discovered that Nephi and Lehi... Were encircled about as if by fire, even insomuch that they durst not lay their hands upon them for fear lest they should be burned. Nevertheless, Nephi and Lehi were not burned and they were as standing in the midst of fire and were not burned (Helaman 5:23). The Lamanites watched in terror. Nephi and Lehi, recognizing that they were being divinely protected, admonished the Lamanites not to fear, for it was God who had shown them this power. Then the earth shook and the prison was overshadowed with a cloud of darkness. From above this cloud, all present heard a voice saying:... Repent ye, repent ye, and seek no more to destroy my servants whom I have sent unto you to declare good tidings (Helaman 5:29). (Read Helaman 5130-33.) One among the crowd, Aminadab, a Nephite dissenter, saw the faces of Nephi and Lehi through the cloud of darkness. They shone even as the faces of angels, and were turned as if addressing heavenly beings. At the request of Aminadab the multitude looked, and soon they were asking with whom Nephi and Lehi conversed, and what they, as Lamanites, might do to remove the cloud of darkness which overshadowed them. Aminadab called them to repentance and asked them to believe in Christ. The multitude prayed and soon the cloud was dispersed and they 625 were all encircled by a pillar of fire. The Spirit of the Lord descended upon them, and:... There came a voice unto them, yea, a pleasant voice, as if it were a whisper, saying: Peace, peace be unto you, because of your faith in my Well Beloved, who was from the foundation of the world (Helaman 5:46-47). The people saw the heavens open, and angels came down and ministered to the three hundred who were present. Intensive missionary activity on the part of many who were present on this occasion convinced most of the Lamanites of the truth. They laid down their weapons of war, and cast aside the hatred they had for the Nephites. 'They gave back to the Nephites the lands which rightfully belonged to them, and by twenty-nine B. C. The Lamanites were more righteous than the Nephites. In twenty-eight B. C. Nephi and Lehi went into the land northward to preach. They were assisted by many righteous Lamanites. The Nephites and Lamanites mingled freely with each other during this period. 'There was free commercial and social intercourse between the two peoples. Both groups were prosperous. 'The land south was called Lehi, and the land north was called Mulek, after the son of King Zedekiah, "... For the Lord did bring Mulek into the land north, and Lehi into the land south" (Helaman 6:10). Decline of Righteousness Among Nephites In twenty-six B. C., however, political and economic difficulties arose. 'The people began to commit murder, to rob and to plunder to gain riches. The Gadianton band was revived. It was members of this band who had murdered the chief judge Cezoram. Organized crime soon flourished among the people, and a period of decadence set in among the Nephites. It was the Lamanites now who were the bearers of the truth. They succeeded in eradicating the Gadianton robbers from their midst, however the band grew to such power among the Nephites, that, by twenty-four B. C., it controlled the government. Because of wickedness among the Nephites in the land northward, Nephi returned from the land northward to Zarahemla. Government itself began to totter, and Nephi knew that he must undergird it with righteousness or it would collapse. His soul was filled with sorrow because of the wickedness of his people. Nephi Calls Nephites to Repentance Nephi entered a tower in his garden in Zarahemla and supplicated the Lord in sorrow for the wickedness of his people. (Read Helaman 7:7-9.) The people saw him and assembled together. Nephi called them to repentance and foretold their utter destruction except they repented. He prophesied that unless they did repent their lands would be taken from them, and they would be exterminated. He told them of the corruptness of their laws. Judges belonging to the secret band of Gadianton robbers were present. Angered by Nephi's criticism, they tried to stir the people to opposition. Defended by some who were righteous, Nephi presented an abundance of evidence to validate his faith that Christ would come and redeem all who would believe in him and keep his commandments. As a climax to his talk, Nephi warned the people that destruction was at their doors unless they repented. As an indication of that destruction, he said:... Go ye in unto the judgment-seat, and search; and behold, your judge is murdered, and he lieth in his blood; and he hath been murdered by his brother, who seeketh to sit in the judgment-seat. And behold, they both belong to your secret band, whose author is Gadianton and the evil one who seeketh to destroy the souls of men (Helaman 8:27-28). Five men, all of whom were skeptical of the power of Nephi, went to see if they would find what Nephi had spoken. They found the chief judge lying in his blood. So astounded were they that they fell to the ground in fear of the judgments Nephi had predicted, and were oblivious to everything about them. The servants of the murdered chief judge, Seezoram, had already raised the cry of murder among the people and soon a group assembled. The five men who had fallen to the ground were accused of the murder and committed to prison. When all the evidence came to the fore, however, these men were released. Then the judges accused Nephi. He gave them a second sign, telling them to go to the house of Seantum and to examine him and they would "... Find blood upon the skirts of his cloak" (Helaman 9:31), which would be the 626 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE-—-SEPTEMBER 1955 LESSON DEPARTMENT blood of Seezoram and that he would confess to the murder and exonerate Nephi. Seantum was examined and all Nephi had predicted came to pass. Many who knew all the circumstances concerning Seezoram accepted Nephi as a prophet of God. Promises of the Lord to Nephi The people, however, were divided. Nephi, cast down because of the wickedness of the Nephites, started for his house. On the way, he was blessed and comforted. A voice from heaven said:. I have beheld how thou hast with unwearyingness declared the word. And thou hast not feared them, [the peo. Ple} and hast not sought thine own life, but hast sought my will, and to keep m commandments... Behold, I will bless thee forever; and I will make thee mighty in word and in deed, in faith and in works; yea, even that all things shall be done unto thee according to thy word, for thou shalt not ask that which is contrary to my will. Behold, thou art Nephi, and I am God. Behold, I declare it unto thee in the presence of mine angels, that ye shall have power over this people, and shall smite the earth with famine, and with pestilence, and destruction, according to the wickedness of this people. Behold, I give unto you power, that whatsoever ye shall seal on earth shall be sealed in heaven; and whatsoever ye shall loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven; and thus shall ye have power among this people....-And. Now behold, I command you, that ye shall go and declare unto this people, that thus saith the Lord God, who is the Almighty: Except ye repent ye shall be smitten, ry unto destruction (Helaman 10:4-7, 11). God gave to Nephi a power which few men have exercised—power over the elements... He was given this power because he had grown in righteousness to the point where 627 God knew he would exercise the power with wisdom. From that time onward Nephi intensified his teachings to the people that they could choose between repentance and destruction. In their wickedness they chose destruction and reviled Nephi,. And did seek to lay their hands upon him that they might cast him into prison" (Helaman 10:15). Nephi, however, "... Was taken by the Spirit and conveyed away out of the midst..." (Helaman 10:16). To prevent the destruction of the people by the sword, for wars were being conducted throughout the land, Nephi asked the Lord to send a famine to win the people unto their God. God sent the famine in nineteen B. C. For three years the famine took its toll. 'Thoroughly disciplined by hardship and sorrow, the people turned to God and repented of their evil ways. 'They pleaded with their chief judges and rulers to ask Nephi to use his power in their behalf with the Lord to turn away the famine. Nephi asked the Lord to send rain and the rains came. 'The people recognized Nephi as a prophet, a man of God, having great power and authority given him from God. Duting this time Lehi was "... Not a whit behind him as to things pertaining to righteousness" (Helaman 11:19). Peace was among the people for several years, but by eleven B. C. The Gadianton band of robbers was revived. 'The band grew in numbers until it was large enough to defy the armics of the Nephites and Lamanites. By seven B. C. The people "\... Did wax stronger and stronger in their pride, and in their wicked- ness; and thus they were ripening again for destruction" (Helaman laeay)'. God had blessed and prospered the people as long as they placed their trust in him. Because a majority of the people had chosen to be wicked, their government itself was endangered. And thus we see that except the Lord doth chasten his people with many afflictions, yea, except he doth visit them with death and with terror, and with famine and with all manner of pestilence, they will not remember him. O how foolish, and how vain, and how evil, and devilish, and how quick to do iniquity, and how slow to do good, are the children of men; yea, how quick to hearken unto the words of the evil one, and to set their hearts upon the vain things of the world... And how slow are they to remember the Lord their God, and to give ear unto his counsels, yea, how slow to walk in wisdom's paths.... Therefore, blessed are they who will repent and _ hearken unto the voice of the Lord their God; for these are they that shall be saved (Helaman 12:3-5, 23). Questions and Topics for Discussion 1. Distinguish between Cezoram and Seezoram. 2. Why does the Lord find it necessary to chasten his people? 3. Why did the Lord give Nephi power over the elements? 4. What often happens to a people when God blesses them abundantly? 5. What made Lehi and Nephi such great missionaries? 6. What happens to representative government when a majority of the people choose iniquity? Ussiting Seacher IT lessages Book of Mormon Gems of Truth Lesson 35—"But When Thou Doest Alms Let Not Thy Left Hand Know What Thy Right Hand Doeth; That Thine Alms May Be in Secret; and Thy Father Who Seeth in Secret, Himself Shall Reward Thee Openly" (3 Nephi 13:3-4). Edith S. Elliott For Tuesday, December 6, 1955 Objective: To point out that alms should be given in secret and the Lord shall reward openly. T is the nature of women to be generous. Usually a mother's whole life is one of giving to her family. Relief Society members are well schooled in the meaning of sharing, giving, helping, alms, compassionate service, generosity, and other related words and phrases. In fact, the gospel of Jesus Christ teaches us to see the needs of our brother and alleviate them. To love our neighbor as ourselves will bring the blessings of eternity to this earth. The friendly Lebonese writer and philosopher, Kahlil Gibran, says, "Your friend is your needs answered.... And he is your board and your fireside. For you come to him with your hunger, and you seek him for peace" (The Prophet, page 66). May each of us be that friend. 628 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1955 LESSON DEPARTMENT The really beautiful part of giving is the personal reward of unbounded joy experienced by the giver. There are always Christmases, anniversaries, and other occasions to remind us of, at least, a bit of sharing; but to the real Christian soul, every day brings an opportunity to serve in some capacity our families, neighbors, or friends. When we study world statistics which tell about the poverty and limited opportunities of many millions of people, we see the literal fulfillment of Christ's statement, "For ye have the poor always with you..." (Mt. 26:11). No wonder the Savior repeatedly pleaded for us to minister to the needs of the unfortunate. Compassionate service was one of the most important reasons for the founding of our Relief Society. Let us not forget that we were commissioned by the Prophet Joseph Smith to assuage suffering. 629 Let us be reminded that sharing has many facets. We really give little when we give of our possessions. It is when we give of ourselves that we truly give. Alms is a small word; but it has a mighty meaning, one of which is to give of thyself. A kind word, a friendly smile, the understanding of a problem, sincere forgiveness of a wrong may all be catalogued under this four-letter word. I am sure that none of us keeps a list of our kind deeds tacked to the gatepost for all to see. Yet some of us, by word or inference, like to let it be known that we have served, perhaps just to hear a word of praise. Yet the real joy of sharing comes when only three persons are aware of it—you, the one you have helped, and your God. "That thine alms may be in secret; and thy Father who seeth in secret, himself shall reward thee openly" (3 Nephi 13:4) should be our guide. Work Nleeting—Food Preparation and Service (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 3—Poultry Selection and Preparation Rhea H. Gardner For Tuesday, December 13, 1955 OULTRY is one of the most versatile of all meats. According to the method of preparation, it may be served at any meal of the day, for party refreshments, packed lunches, and picnics. Today there is no off-season for poultry. One may serve superior quality fried chicken on Christmas Day just as well as on the Fourth of July. Roast chicken or turkey may appear on the summer picnic menu just as well as for Christmas dinner. Stewed Chicken Because of the variety of ways in which poultry may be prepared, it need never become unpopular. Stewed chicken is no doubt the method most frequently used. The name is misleading, for a good cook never "stews" chicken. Rather, she covers the meat, which has been cut into serving portions, with hot water and cooks it slowly. Once the water reaches the boiling point, the heat is reduced so that thereafter the water bubbles gently, but does not boil. Onions, carrots, celery leaves or seeds, or peppercorns, and salt are added to the water according to individual taste. Check for tenderness by pressing a_ fork against the meat rather than into the meat so there will be no loss of the natural juices from the meat. Chicken cooked in this way may be served at once with the thickened gravy and dumplings or mashed potatoes, or may be chilled and served in innumerable ways later. If it is not to be served immediately, place the chicken and stock in a mixing bowl or an enamel pan for cooling. Cold Chicken or Turkey Cooked chicken or turkey, cut from the bones, is delicious for sandwiches, either sliced or ground and seasoned with pickle, salad dressing, minced green onion, or finely chopped celery. Chicken or turkey salad is a favorite party refreshment when served with hot rolls. Celery cut into small pieces is an ideal base for this salad. Casseroles Casseroles rate high in popularity fer company meals, both with the cook and guests. The fowl may be cooked well in advance of the occasion and kept in the refrigerator. Other ingredients of the casserole, of which wild or brown rice, or noodles, are favorites, may also be cooked ahead of time. Only a few minutes are then required for combining all ingredients before placing the dish in a moderate oven for final cooking. Recipes for such casseroles may be found in most cook books. Chicken Pie Another good Sunday dinner or party dish is chicken pie. Remove the cooked chicken from the bone and cut it into one or two-inch pieces. Season the chicken stock, if necessary, then thicken it. Carefully blend precooked and diced carrots, peas, or celery with the chicken and gravy. Or fill your baking dish with alternating layers of chicken and vegetables, then pour the gravy over them. Cover the dish with hot mashed potatoes or small baking powder biscuits. If a potato topping is used, have the other ingredients piping hot first, then place the pie into the oven just long enough for the potatoes to brown lightly. Baking powder biscuits require a hot oven for baking. Filling should be preheated to near the boiling point before the biscuits are placed on top, since baking them requires only a few minutes. Chicken Fricassee Chicken fricassee might be called pot-roasted or braised meat. 'The pieces of chicken are dipped into flour, then browned in a_ small amount of hot fat, then they are put into a heavy cooking dish. A small amount of liquid is added and the chicken is simmered over low heat or in a slow (300°F) oven until tender. Herbs, such as sweet marjoram, thyme, celery leaves, or parsley may be added as desired. 630 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1955 LESSON DEPARTMENT Frying Poultry Poultry to be fried may be dipped in crumbs, flour, cornmeal, or mixtures of all these, then slowly fried in fat about one inch deep in a heavy pan with a well-fitting lid, or it may be dipped in a batter and fried in deep fat held at 370°F. It should be at least partially precooked by steaming when the latter method is used. Broiling Poultry Broiling is a less frequently used method, but one that is fast increasing in popularity. Chicken to be broiled should first be steamed. To steam chicken in a roaster, pour about two cups of hot water into the pan. Place the chicken on a rack in the pan so it does not touch the water. Cover and leave in a moderately hot oven (375°F) for from thirty minutes to one hour. To broil, place the chicken about five inches below the source of heat on an oiled broiling rack with the skin side away from the heat. Turn each piece four times during cooking, basting and salting each time. Allow about thirty minutes for broiling. Roast Poultry Roast chicken and turkey are long-time favorites. Roast birds are generally considered incomplete without dressing. Rub the inside cavity lightly with salt, then fill it 631 about three-fourths full with your favorite dressing. 'This allows space for the dressing to swell as it cooks. Close the openings with sewing or the use of skewers. With a soft string bind the legs and wings to the body for uniform cooking and even browning. Place the bird on a rack in a shallow pan, breast down. Cover the top and sides of the bird with a cloth onto which a small amount of fat has been spread. Place in a 325°F oven and roast until. Tender. An oven as low as 250°F roasts the bird evenly and to a beautiful golden brown, but requires about fifty per cent more cooking time. If the skin becomes dry during roasting, pour some of the drippings in the pan over it or put a little more fat onto the cloth. Whichever way you may prepare your bird, moderate to low heat is economical for both meat and fuel, and the results are better flavor, better texture, less shrinkage and more attractive serving. Turkey may be prepared in exactly the same ways as chicken. It is often a better buy than chicken because of the higher percentage of meat to bone. Activity for the Class Leaders Discuss the advantages and disadvantages of cooking with aluminum foil. Litenature—Literawure of England Lesson 51—John Millington Synge and the Irish Theatre (1871-1909) Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: The Literature of England, 11, Woods, Watt, Anderson, pp. 1002-1009) For Tuesday, December 20, 1955 Objective: To understand better Synge's relation to Irish Nationalism, and to appreciate more fully his dramatic powers. Permission for Reprinting: Excerpts from the drama Riders to the Sea, by John Millington Synge, quoted from the text The Literature of England, volume 2, by Woods, Watt, and Anderson, are reprinted in this lesson by the kind permission of Random House, Inc., New York City, New York. The general board of Relief Society is very grateful for this permission. "THE grim days following Dunkerque in May 1940, were the darkest in England's entire history. Within that month England desperately appointed a new Prime Minister, so low was home morale after Norway and Denmark were taken. 'That very day Germany invaded France, which soon fell, and Italy quickly declared war on England, who now stood alone. So inadequate was England's naval screen that within the month she lost half a million tons of shipping; her mightiest battleship had been sunk. At Dunkerque 350,000 of her fighting men were miraculously rescued, but the bulk of her armaments, even to rifles, lay abandoned on Dunkerque's beaches. Invasion was imminent. Britain was almost helpless, and she knew it, as did Ireland. Yet the Irish Free State, England's own blood through the centuries, remained neutral, even denying to England air bases and the desperately needed submarine bases which controlled her vital sea lanes in the Atlantic. Why did Ireland maintain her neutrality? Page 632 Ireland Versus England The answer lies in the past. In 1841 Ireland had eight million people; a decade later she had six and one-half million, and by 1900 hardly more than four million. 'Thus within sixty years more than half of Ireland starved or died or emigrated to America to escape forced worship, near illiteracy, and political and agricultural unfairness maintained by the controlling aristocratic landowners. First in 1885, then in 1895, and finally in 1912, Ireland fought bitterly for Home Rule and her own Parliament, only to be as bitterly opposed by Protestant North Ireland, or Ulster. At the outbreak of World War I, North and South Ireland had armed themselves and were ready to fight out their differences: the Catholic Eire demanding Home Rule, the Protestant Ulster demanding their rights to continue as British subjects. During Easter Week, 1916, severe riots in Dublin brought about near civil war, but because of World War I, the Irish LESSON DEPARTMENT Free state did not legally exist until 1921., Thus, though Ireland was important to the United Kingdom's food supply, protection, and continued growth, Parliament finally voted her independence. England had invested huge sums of money in Ireland, and her contribution to British literature and drama had been considerable: Congreve, Farquhar, Goldsmith, Swift, Sheridan, Wilde, Shaw, and Yeats, yet all this was past. Synge ["'Sing"] Raises Irish Wrath It was Synge's lot to point out in his plays that his fellow Irishmen were still human, and somewhat less than perfect. Within the decades after fiery Parnell's death in 1891, Irish Nationalism was at its strongest. No wonder that, both in Dublin and Philadelphia, hot-headed Irishmen booed and _ yelled at Synge's Playboy of the Western World until not one word the players said could be heard after the first three minutes, for they felt that a fellow Irishman had insulted them in his Playboy, which seemingly depicted Irishmen as admiring a murderer. It is a tribute to both the art and character of John Millington Synge that he kept himself entirely free from personal and political argument. Now that his genius as a dramatic artist and poet is acknowledged world-wide, his fellow Fenians are less touchy, and sometimes almost proud of his accomplishment. And well they may be, since at least one critic has referred to his Riders to the Sea as the greatest one-act play in English, even while admitting that his Playboy of 633 the Western World is his masterpiece. Synge's Life Born near Rathfarnham, just outside Dublin, in 1871, John Millington Synge was the youngest of eight children. Both his grandparents had been ministers in the Established Church of Ireland. His father, a gentle lawyer, who loved most the pleasures of staying at home, died before John knew him, and his mother, not without difficulty, put him through Trinity College in Dublin, where he excelled in languages and literature, and was so interested in music that he toured Germany hoping to prepare himself for a musical career. But, though he had learned to play the flute, he did not play well, and finally he faced squarely his inability to compose with any fluency. Turning his hopes, then, to literature, he took up residence in Paris, where he had a great love for old French literature and the classics, influences which are strong in his plays. The Aran Islands In 1898, when he was twentyseven, he met William Butler Yeats, his fellow Irishman who, with Lady Gregory, had done all the planning for the Irish National Theater, which was to open the following year in Dublin. Completely supported by his family, save for a few journalist pieces he had published, Synge was preparing a study on the French author Racine, but, actually, his future was aimless, if defined at all. At once Yeats felt his genius for language and urged Synge to return at once to Ireland, there to record the speech and folkways of his peasant fellow men and to give them expression in literature for the first time. Inspired by Yeats' vision, Synge went at once to the Aran Islands, "a triad of treeless rocks in the Galway Bay," off the coast of western Ireland. For the next few years he spent several months among the Aran peasants, listening carefully to the pronunciation of their dialect, writing down the actual words and expressions they used, and studying their beliefs and superstitions. Earler Synge had learned to speak the Celt or Gaelic tongue, the language of ancient Ireland, which aided him greatly in his study. With the aid of this tool, and his passionate dedication to recording the exact word and vowel color, he earned here his most precious literary tool, namely the speech of the Irish peasant. It was largely this preparation in language which enabled Synge to refine the actual Irish speech into the concentrated art of his plays. Synge's Self-Discovery Synge felt very much at home on these treeless islands, largely untouched by modern civilization. Here, as was his life-long habit, he lay for hours in the sun watching the ocean-swells coming in or studying nature in his wanderings. Friends had always been amazed at his knowledge of every plant, bird, and animal. In a sense, then, amid this isolated bleakness, "where men must reap with knives because of the stones," Synge found not only the subject matter and the speech for his great works, but he found as well his real self. Synge's Personality All his acquaintances recall Synge as the quiet, unaffected recluse. In Paris, where so many writers dressed extremely as a pose, he wore a slouch hat and heavy boots and a plain black suit and cape; indeed he said he had gone to Paris "to be quiet and wear dirty clothes if he liked." His personality was lovable and shy, even, to new acquaintances, dull. His few friends liked him for his gentle manner and his soft-spoken speech. He talked but little in a group, never about himself, nor did he gossip about others. He loathed brilliance or smartness, and, according to John Masefield, "he was the only Irishman I have ever met who cared nothing for... Political issues." The "Timeless" Irishman The language of the Aran islanders "set free" his style, and the acquaintance with quiet, wild nature ministered to his essential self, but the greatest attraction he found in these people was as representatives of the timeless, primitive nature of man. To Synge "modernness means unlrishness."". But to study these descendants of ancient Gael who for centuries had battled at first hand with nature in the great struggle for survival—to Synge this revealed the essentials of age-old nature in direct purity. For these Irish folk he had the highest respect. He felt that those who have for so long dealt with the essential realities of such a hard, even brutal life, are the true aristocrats. It was his great accomplishment to see in these rude fisherfolk high universal qualities, and to record them in a refined poetry which fit his subject. 634 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1955 LESSON DEPARTMENT Synge, the Artist We can now see more clearly that Synge was entirely the artist, entirely unconcerned with problems of the present in his eagerness to stand aside and watch the basic realities of man's timeless existence as exemplified in unspoiled, spontaneous Irish peasantry, who were, he felt, the nghtful heirs to the superstitions, legends, and ageless ways of thinking and _ enduring which were the richest heritage of Ireland. The care with which he wrote reveals his high esteem for his art and materials. He composed on a portable typewriter, revising and rewriting as many as thirteen times before he was satisfied. He worked for months over a sentence and strained endlessly for just the right word. But once he achieved a version which satished him, he trusted his intuition completely, and never changed one word or line in any of his finished plays. The Nature of Drama... The purpose of playing, whose end, both at the first and now, was and is, to hold, as 'twere, the mirror up to nature; to show virtue her own feature, scorn her own image, and the very age and body of the time his form and pressure [resemblance]. (Hamlet: Act 3, Scene z) Thus Hamlet spoke to the players the purposes of drama, nor can he be improved on. In common with all fiction, drama, too, aims to recreate reality, to put in the actor's mouth words that seem real, to create real people, to reproduce the conflicts and laughter of real life. Or so it seems. Actually a play is no more real than a poem or a story, but that 635 makes it more valuable and desirable, not less so. For life may seem monotonous and shapeless, and from the dawn of mankind people have hungered to recreate the forces and peoples about them, just as children imitate animals and adults or act out a scene. It is the special task of art to select, to condense, and to sharpen actuality. This is done by every successful play or movie—successful, that is, if it creates the illusion of reality. We must recall that we read plays and attend plays and movies with the hope of being fooled: it isn't real life at all. But while we know we are being fooled, we love it, that is, if the illusion of reality seems real and the artificiality of scenery or plots or language is not apparent. This universal enjoyment at making life live again is healthy and rewarding, particularly if the reader of a play will use his own creative imagination to make every gesture, tone of voice, movement, and action come alive. Then he can make the play almost as powerful as if the stage were directly before him. Then, too, he is ready to sense the conflict which is basic in all drama, as in life, and to see how, through the resolution of the conflict, or resignation to it, the author of the play has shown us, with the play as mirror, some virtue or scorn or pressure of life which we see now for ourselves, and which has been known universally by all mankind. The Irish National Theater In the spirit of rising nationalism, a group of young people at Trinity College, in Dublin, formed a "Young Ireland" Club as early as 1848. Its purpose was to stimulate interest in Ireland's past: the Gaelic language, Irish legend, folklore, and her national heroes such as Cuchulain (Ku ku lin) and Diedre (Dathre). When the Irish politicians sought to rouse Irishmen to pride in their nationalism, it was inevitable that the goal of the "Young Ireland" group be intensified and made dominant in Ireland. Hence in the eighties many clubs sprang up which taught the Gaelic tongue. To the despair of the English, checks were signed in Gaelic, railroad timetables and road signs were written in Gaelic, and part of the daily newspapers appeared in Gaelic. This same spirit produced the Irish Renaissance in poetry and drama beginning just before the turn of the century. Lady Gregory and Yeats were convinced that Ireland could regain her old intellectual and artistic vigor only by going back to the sources of Irish greatness, not only in legends and poems, but as summed up in the present Irish character. These they depicted in plays which they wrote and performed, first, in 1899, in the organization called The Irish National Theater. This group met with varying success, but it produced many plays about Ireland, written by Yeats and Lady Gregory and other Irishmen. In 1904 it was reorganized as the Abbey 'Theatre in Dublin, a group of players at first composed of average working-class people who participated as recreation and as a patriotic obligation. This troupe has toured America innumerable times, and is today one of the outstanding groups of players. In its first year of organization Synge was made a co-director of the Abbey Theatre, and his play Riders to the Sea was produced. 'Though it was not the notorious success that Playboy was, it was highly esteemed, since it revealed the considerable powers Synge had already shown in his first play, In the Shadow of the Glen, produced a year earlier. Riders to the Sea The scene is laid in the kitchen of a fishing hut on the west coast of Ireland. Maurya, an aged fisherman's widow, who has already lost to the sea four sons and a husband, has been waiting for nine days to learn whether her son, Michael, has also been drowned. A priest has brought clothes from distant Donegal for the family to identify; Cathleen and Nora, Maurya's daughters, fearing they might be Michael's, keep them from their mother, who is trying to prevent Bartley, her youngest son, from going to sea during a storm. But he feels he must go, so without his mother's blessing, he goes to get his horse and leaves. Her daughters chafe her for withholding her blessing, so she goes to bestow it, and the girls examine the bundle of clothing and find them to be Michael's. As mother Maurya waits at the "springwell" for Bartley, she has a vision of the dead Michael riding near Bartley on a gray pony; spellbound, she says nothing to Bartley as he tides by to the sea. She returns home, and still almost horror-bound tells her experience to her daughters, scarcely hearing when they tell 636 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1955 LESSON DEPARTMENT her of Michael's death. Soon the villagers bring the drowned body of Bartley, knocked into the sea by the gray pony and drowned. 'Then Maurya says, ""They're all gone now, and there isn't anything more the sea can do to me." As Maurya begins performing once more the tasks necessary for burying the dead, an old man agrees to make a coffin for Bartley from the fine new pine boards purchased for Michael. Oxtp Man (looking at the boards): Are there nails with them? CaTHLEEN: There are not, Colum; we didn't think of the nails. ANnoTHER Maw: It's a great wonder she wouldn't think of the nails, and all the coffins she's seen made already. CaTHLeEN: It's getting old she is, and broken. Maurya (puts the empty cup mouth downwards on the table, and lays her hands together on Bartley's feet). They're all together this time, and the end is come. May the Almighty God have mercy on Bartley's soul, and on Michael's soul, and on the souls of Sheamus and Patch, and Stephen and Shawn (bending her head); and may He have mercy on my soul, Nora, and on the soul of every one is left living in the world. (She pauses, and the keen rises a little more loudly from the women, then sinks away. ) Maurya (continuing): Michael has a clean burial in the Far North, by the grace of the Almighty God. Bartley will have a fine coffin out of the white boards, and a deep grave surely. What more can we want than that? No man at all can be living forever, and we must be satisfied. (She kneels down again and the curtain falls slowly.) (Text, page 1009) To appreciate fully Synge's great control over the characters in the play, it must be read in full, and can well be read in your group, since it is only one act. 'There is never a wasted word throughout; how well 637 Choral Collections For Ladies Three Part Choruses S... Choral-Time—Marks............--s-2esccceeneee 075 s.. Library Collection No. 1—Fox...........85 S... Auditorium Collection No. 1—Harms...75 2... Auditorium Collection No. 2—Harms...75 =... Auditorium Collection—Remick...........75 =... Auditorium Collection—Witmark.......75 =... Let's All Sing!—Stone.........................85 Sexe Let There Be Song!—Ehret.................85 = Showtunes—Schirmer...................--...--1.00 -_. Showtime Choral Collection No. 1— Chappell............2...-.-2--22--22c2eceeeeseeeees 75 —_ Showtime Choral Collection No. 2— T. B. Harms... 75 — Music Sent on Approval — Use this advertisement as your order blank DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 15 East First South Salt Lake City 1, Utah Please send the music indiccited above. 1 On Approval Li Charge © Money Enclosed Name Addr2ss City & State -............... I Daynes Made UITLILASTAIIILSIO? E. Lst South Sah Lake (AS NORTH UNIVERSITY, PROVO of 2860 WASHITETON BUT C&DEN THE WORLD'S FINEST PIANOS Mason & Hamlin The Stradivari of Pianos EVERETT Finest Toned Spinet Piano Built CableNelson Finest Low Priced Piano Built ~ All Obtainable At Beesley Music Co. Pioneer Piano People 70 S. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH he exemplifies his own belief (as stated in the preface to The Playboy of the Western World) that "In a good play every speech should be as fully flavoured as a nut or apple, and such speeches cannot be written by anyone who works among people who have shut their lips on poetry." - The economy of his style, and the exactness of every word and stage direction make this short play almost a miracle of compression. Synge's Greatness The great power of the play lies in its ability to make this beaten, resigned mother's acknowledgment of her sons' deaths symbolize a universal experience which all of us must face. Throughout her hard life love has been great, which has made her suffering great. And now, as the sea, which symbolizes the uncontrollable chance of human existence, takes her last son from her, she is half-sorry, half-rejoicing that she is free of any future sorrow, since she has lost all that she can lose. The "illusion of reality" which this play creates is so complete, so successful, that the reader knows it happened. Yes, it did, but in the mind and heart of one man only. First of all it is true to values and forces Synge himself saw in Ireland as interpreted by him in his art; after that this play is true to the fishfolk of Aran, and, finally, to all humanity as they meet death in resignation and suffering. Thoughts for Discussion 1. How did Synge's artistic purposes coincide with those of the Irish Nationalist movement? Wherein did they differ? 2. How could Synge love the Irishman and yet, in such a stormy period, be unconcerned with present-day politics? 3. After reading Riders to the Sea, comment on Synge's belief that "every speech should be as fully flavoured as a nut or apple." 4. What universals do you find in his characters; in the theme of Riders to the Sea? Social Science The Constitution of the United States No lesson is planned for December in this department, due to the holiday season. 638 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1955 oor Glamorize Spectacle Cases Elizabeth Williamson yo no doubt have seen many eyeglass cases of leather, felt, cloth, and other materials in the stores and gift shops. It is a lot of fun to personalize similar ones for your friends. 'They are very simple to make. Cut two pieces of felt the size of an eyeglass case. Before these are stitched together by machine, add the design you wish to use. Embroider in silk or wool. Add beads or sequins for accent. Use the initials or name or symbol of the person for whom you are making the gift. If the case is for a bird fancier, applique a cunning yellow bird on a black background. Give the bird a pearl eye. If the recipient of your gift likes the ballet, cut out several dancers and applique them against a contrasting background. For those who like music, sprinkle pearls with embroidered stems for miniature notes. Anything which signifies their personalities will be sure to please your friends and will let them know you put in a thought especially for them. > Signs of Viakumn Catherine E. Berry The first gold leaf, like the first gray hair, Hardly shows at all, But the tree and I both know it's there, Harbinger of fall. ENVIRONMENT... And College One of the most important factors in selecting a college is the environment offered at the school. The standards, the ideals, the associations can have a profound and lasting effect on the lives of the students. The University of Utah, your state university, offers a wonderful home environment and the opportunity to study with students who have the same principles, standards, ideals and religious beliefs. The University of Utah also offers a wide selection of courses of study and one of the finest faculty groups in America. There are advantages and opportunities at the "U" that cannot be matched at any other school. See what the "U of U" has to offer you. Check these dates: Sept. 22-23—Registration for former students. Sept.24 —Registration for Freshmen. Sept.25 —Beginning of class work. For full information, write Office of the President UNIVERSITY of UTAH SALT LAKE CITY — UTAH Page 639 It's awaiting # YOU GET THE BEST You... YES there is still a tremendous amount of outstanding instruction and use awaitRelief Society Magazine. Your editions may be handsomely bound at the West's finest bindery and printing plant for $2.50 volume plus postage for mail orders. Follow these postage rates if you send your order by mail: Distance from VIDA FOX CLAWSON Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles 35 150 to 300 miles 2.0... Eeeeeceeeeee 39 Ph = red to ie mie oo 45 i: 600 to miles. Meriterori Patera: 1000 to 1400 miles — 1400 to 1800 miles, Over 1800 miles 2.00222... Eee.87 ed uptown office. 966 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah Deseret News Press Phone: 4-2017 Phone 4-2581 GD 31 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah Thorough Business|) ELECTRIC COOKING costs the average family & only about -— 9¢aday Gr There's no substitute for thorough and Professional training, and there are many plus factors that only LDS Business College offers... Such features as spiritual atmosphere, classes in religion, college credit, lively and friendly student activities and many other plus advantages. AUTUMN CLASSES START SEPT. 6th LDS Be Modern BUSINESS COLLEGE Live Electrically Branch of Brigham Young University 70 North Main e Salt Lake City UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. 640 FOR THE LEAST WHEN YOU TRAVEL WITH VIDA FOX CLAWSON RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1955 ing you in this and other copies of the cloth bound and $3.50 leather bound per Leave them at our conveniently locat- 00, Now $.98 Plus 12¢ Postage s e ® THE 3 2: Your Rugged Constitution ee Bruce Allyn Findlay and Est Blair Findlq 300K OF Clear explanations and Colorfyy Nustrati in Utstanding b ox) {ON Will he} You gqj thoro UNnderstandin MORNA fapcined within Pact bo Vital Concern to ey Woods, Watt and Anderson YOUR RUGG pects. Volume 1] Continues with the Ro i TION Wordsworth, Shelley, Keats CONSTITU e Quthors. Omantic ntic Poets—B, Coleridge, * Gnd down thro ms, S con temporary and 'I—$5.59 each (plus 25¢ Postage) 4: Treasure Island Robert Louis Stevenson High Seq Gdventures and rich descriptions Of ages Past make this Classic 0 enjoy q Story well told, Cloth Edition 1. Plus 12¢ Postage per Pocket Edition 25; homas Hardy compelling Novel relates the € Tustic w ves and trials of People who lived ex Countryside; Nineteent cent England's le letec ury. EScrip- "zations are excellent. Tage George Reynolds' Book of Mormon Chart $3.00 Plus 30¢ Postage. = — ee ee COMPANY a 1 | East Outh Temple | Salt i City, Utah L. Ent emen: | Encloseg Please find Check Money order H | Sette eeeeeseics - Charge to my Account the ia. | | for the books listed below: | ame of book Price I a | te! — ] I Address ] | City ents OF Utah ii nseee, Co. State. ] silat bo Mais Lamioasion tes I Residents of h include 2% Sales tax, pk Ny Falls ate | ea © Postage for the first book; 8c for each additiong! I sy Ook, = ase. £D €ading | Volume I Contains England's early literature, including the Bits from the Writings of Chaucer, Pepys, Shakespeare, 9nd down fo the rereading, It's an excellent Choice for those | ENS -EN-39-58339 Got Your Peaches? Got Your Pears? Get Your.... "Jf sugar FEB It's the time for home canning. Fall fruit is ready and in plentiful supply. Order your canning sugar today. Sugar not only acts as a sweetening agent, but helps to preserve the natural flavor, shape, and texture of fruit. Make sure you buy pure U and | Sugar. For your home canning, you can't buy a finer, purer, whiter sugar anywhere. Its performance has been ' tested in tens of thousands of homes and found perfect for every sugar use. When at your grocer's, always buy U and | Sugar. 7 VoL 42 NO 10 ~ » Lessons for January Reflections Dorothy J. Roberts Wind hushed, fall-brushed, Pool and aspen pause, One in color, one in form, Linked in a single cause. High, true, sky blue Wed to the water's will; Woods' bold leaf gold Caught where the pond is still; Trees white, clouds light Traced on the halted stream; One fine, thin line Severing substance and dream. Tall, slim, pale stem Framed in an autumn nook; Gold grove, pool's trove, Twinned on bank and brook; Boughs' grace, twigs' lace, Beauty on water, on water and land, Save for a shore's horizon, Undivided, stand. The Cover: "The Citadel, Glacier National Park, Montana" Photograph by Josef Muench Frontispiece: "Autumn Pool, American Fork Canyon, Utah" Photograph by Leland Van Wagoner Cover Design by Evan Jensen Page 641 From lear and Sar I appreciate the Magazine very much and have been a subscriber for thirty-five years. Never once in all that time has the Magazine gone unread. What a wealth of material I find! Especially do I enjoy reading about the achievements of so many wonderful women mentioned in "Woman's Sphere." Thanks to Nell Murbarger for her story "Bringing Home the Cows" (July 1955). When I read it so many memories of childhood days came back to me — of when I, too, took the cows back and forth, to and from the pasture. —Mrs. Rosella L. Dunkley Preston, Idaho I would like very much to renew my subscription for the Magazine.... I am very thankful for the Magazine. The study of The Book of Mormon and the other studies, too, make all things so much more understandable than any other study there is. —BMiss Leora Porter Provo, Utah I am very desirous not to miss any of the issues of the wonderful Magazine. My fourteen-year-old daughter says: "I just love The Relief Society Magazine. It is my favorite one." I certainly agree with her. —RMrs. Beatrice Duncan Monterey, California I love Relief Society work and The Relief Society Magazine. We were happy to see Sister Annie M. Ellsworth's picture in the June issue. I worked under her in the Central States Mission and I love her very much. I am enclosing some lines in appreciation of the Magazine: There is food for thought on every page, Inspiration and good cheer; Helps for busy housewives and mothers These pages bring from year to year. —Mrs. Effie A. Reynolds Deming, New Mexico Page 642 I have enjoyed The Relief Society Magazine for nearly half a century. As a young gitl I was thrilled with the fiction and poetry. As I grew older, I learned to appreciate the entire Magazine for its character-building and literary attributes. Then, as time went on, the helps for homemakers and the spiritual philosophy have attracted more of my attention. The comprehensive lesson material feeds the urges of my soul. —Mrs. Uarda Black King Twin Falls, Idaho I cannot begin to tell you how much we appreciate the Magazine. Out here where we are laboring there isn't a Relief Society organization. 'There are only ten members in this little branch, including men, women, and children. I have been a member of the Relief Society ever since I was married forty-four years ago. This is the first time I have lived where there isn't an organization. —Mary Hatch South Hot Springs, Arkansas I want to thank you for giving the women of the Church and the world such a wonderful Magazine. Every thought and word encourages higher and __ better thoughts, along with the good ideas for home improvement. My thanks to you for such a wholesome Magazine in my home. —Made Shelley Holbrook, 'Arizona I love to receive The Relief Society Magazine. It is the only touch I have with the Church, as our nearest meeting place is sixty miles away. I read the Magazine from cover to cover as soon as I receive it. My little girl always enjoys looking through it, also. Thanks for a wonderful Magazine. —Mrs. Louise Gibbs Horton, Kansas THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - - - - - - President Marianne C. Sharp - ~- - - - First Counselor Velma N. Simonsen - - - - - Second Counselor Margaret C. Pickering - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Mary G. Judd Evon W. Peterson Alberta H. Christensen Winniefred S. Anna B. Hart Leone O. Jacobs Mildred B. Eyring Manwaring Edith S. Elliott Louise W. Madsen Helen W. Anderson Elna P. Haymond Florence J. Madsen Aleine M. Young Gladys S. Boyer Annie M. Ellsworth Leone G. Layton Josie B. Ba Charlotte A. Larsen Mary R. Young Blanche B. Stoddard Christine H. Robinson Edith P. Backman RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Vol. 42 OCTOBER 1955 No. 10 Con tents SPECIAL FEATURES Revelation in Our Personal Affairs Marion G. Romney 644 The Great White Sands aNell Murbarger 654 "Por This Case') oooneceeceecencececenecceceneecencencccesecrecteceeneneeeeteeeeeestees Emily Wilkerson 665 "Thou Art Thy Mother's Glass'? 2.....2. Ec. CcccesseseescssececececcsecescencccnseteaceneeaeeceeteseceeansceeeeseessHelen B. Morris 667 FICTION A Mirror for Virginia Helen Hinckley Jones 650 'Just Like the Ones I Used to Know' oui Pansye H. Powell 669 Hermanas — Chapter 4 i AFay Tarlock 678 GENERAL FEATURES From Near and Far 642 Sixty Years Ago 658 Woman's Sphere............... Ramona W. Cannon 659 Editorial: Valiant Womanhood............... - Vesta P. Crawford 660 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities 002.02. 2..2c. CceeceeeeceeeeceeeeeeeMargaret C. Pickering 685 FEATURES FOR THE HOME African Violets for Your Home Shirley Seegmiller 662 Happiness Lucille R. Taylor 668 Adah A. Harper Martin Has Crocheting for a Hobby........ Ee... Ee 675 Make Soup Often 2o. Cc cee ceeecesessssccecsecesesecceseecceeseeeeeseeecesquresoseaceceausnesaeseaneesaeeseeeeeeeecseessRhea H. Gardner 676 Wearing a Pretty Face 0... Ccc Mabel Law Atkinson 684 A Hooked Rug for Girls or Boys Elizabeth Williamson 710 LESSON DEPARTMENT Theology: Predictions Concerning the Coming of the Messiah....................--Leland H. Monson 691 Visiting Teacher Messages: ''Therefore, Blessed Are They Who Will Repent and Hearken Unto the Voice of the Lord"........... Edith §. Elliott 695 Work Meeting: Soups........ Rhea H. Gardner 696 Literature: Se oh the Poet of Empire oo. IecececcceccscesesseeneececesesenseceseeeceeaceneceeessBriant S. Jacobs 698 Social Science: The Constitution and the Courts Albert R. Bowen 703 POETRY Reflections — Frontispiece _Dorothy J. Roberts 641 "October Afternoon,'' by Christie Lund Coles, 649; ''Old Book,'' by Gertrude T. Kovan, 653; "How to Make a Dream Come Right," De Ethelyn M. Kincher, 657; ''Autumnal Equinox,"' Margaret Hyatt, 661; ''The Ornament,'' by Thelma J. Lund, 666; ''Dreams,"' by Zara Sabin, 668; "I Found October,'' by Agnes Just_Reid, 677; ''Stilled Moment,'' by Maryhale Woolsey, 677; October,'' by Gene Romolo, 683; ''Faith,'' by Vesta N. Lukei, 684; "Redecorating," by Dorothy O. Rea, 690; *'Autumn Soliloquy,'' Zera Wilde Earl, 712 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 40 North Main, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year, payable in advance. Single copy, 15c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Page 643 Revelation in Our Personal Affairs Elder Marion G. Romney Of the Council of the Twelve (Excerpts from the Baccalaureate Address Given at Ricks College, Idaho, May 22, 1955) RESIDENT Clarke, members P of the faculty, distinguished guests, brothers and sisters, and members of the graduating class, whom we especially honor this night: I am very grateful to President Clarke for the complimentary things he has said about my father, George S. Romney, who gave so much of his life to the development of Ricks College and the Fremont Stake. HOOK And now to you graduates: I[ compliment you upon the good fortune of having received your formal education in the Church school system. No restrictions have here been put upon your search for knowledge through scientific observation and research. Here at Ricks you have enjoyed all the facilities for learning available at other educational institutions. And, in addition and of far greater consequence, you have been here taught that there is available, through other means, a vast reservoir of knowledge not available through scientific methods. The knowledge of which I speak may be appropriately referred to as religious knowledge. It has to do with "things as they are, and as they were, and as they are to come" (D. & C. 93:24). Such knowledge is communicated to men through direct revelation from heaven. It can be obtained in no other way. You have been here made acPage 644 quainted with some of this knowledge, and schooled in the ways by which you may continue to draw upon it. To teach that there is such knowledge and train us in the processes by which we may obtain and live for it, is the unique function of the Church school system. Indeed, such is the major function of the Church itself. Not only do other educational systems fail to train their students in the processes whereby they can obtain such truth, but the reality of any such knowledge is in many of them categorically denied. The head of the department of philosophy in a neighboring state university, discussing the question "Is religious knowledge possible?" recently said: We must conclude, then, that we do not possess any religious knowlelge... Knowledge which concerns _ specifically religious matters and which is _ neither identical with any scientific knowledge nor included within the scope of any science (Great Issues Forum Series, Series 2: Religion, pp. 4, 13). As I listened to this declaration, there went through my mind the statement of the Lord, as recorded in the 88th Section of the Doctrine and Covenants and often repeated in the revelations: "The light shineth in darkness, and the darkness comprehendeth it not" (D. & C. 88:49). REVELATION IN OUR PERSONAL AFFAIRS Tile prevalence of these benighted conclusions, with which the minds of so many men are bound, is indeed a great tragedy. How fortunate are we who, in contrast thereto, have been taught along with our secular learning the great eternal truths revealed from heaven in this dispensation, truths which transcend the wisdom of men as the heavens transcend the earth. The Prophet Joseph Smith designated the record of the vision in which he had seen the different degrees of glory in the future life, "a transcript from the records of the eternal world," and adds: The sublimity of the ideas; the purity of the language; the scope for action... Are so much beyond the narrow-mindedness of men, that every honest man is constrained to exclaim: "It came from God" (D. H. C. I:252-253). From that treasure house of religious knowledge, we have learned the purpose of mortal life. We have been taught the nature of God and our relationship to him, which, said the Prophet Joseph, is the most important knowledge man can have. Without an understanding of it, he continued, men can understand the purpose of life little better than the beasts. We have been taught that we ourselves are eternal beings, the offspring of God, his begotten sons and daughters. We have learned that our separation from him is but temporary, and that it is his purpose to confer upon us immortality and, if we will receive it, eternal life; that, as a matter of fact, mortal life is a part of eternal life and fits into all that has gone before and into all that lies 645 ahead. Having been thus taught, we confidently rely upon God's assurance that his "Spirit giveth light to every man that cometh into the world; and... Enlighteneth every man through the world, that hearkeneth to the voice of the Spirit. And every one that hearkeneth to the voice of the Spirit cometh unto God, even the Father" (D. & C. 84:46-47). We have here been taught that from the days of our first mortal parents, God, our Heavenly Father, has in every dispensation sent heavenly messengers to reveal the truths of the gospel to holy men, who, in turn, have recorded them and taught them to the people. The restoration in this dispensation began with a burst of revelation. In an unprecedented open vision, Elohim himself and his beloved Son revealed themselves to the Prophet Joseph Smith. In person they came and stood full length before him. He saw them, they spoke to him, he heard their voices. He asked them questions, and Jesus gave him answer. The Gold Plates from which, by the gift and power of God, Joseph Smith translated The Book of Mormon came by revelation. 'They were delivered to him by an angel, a resurrected person. The Book of Mormon itself is a revelation. In it are recorded many great and important revelations given by the Lord to ancient American prophets, revelations which, if heeded by the United States and other American nations, would preserve them in peace, prosperity, and happiness. The Priesthood came by revela- tion. By revelation the Prophet Joseph Smith was directed step by step in organizing and building up the Church. Directed by revelation, each of his successors, from President Brigham Young to President David O. McKay, has led the Church. ES, modern revelation is a reality, a continuing reality. But for it, the Church could not persist, Ricks College, our alma mater, would not be. She owes her birth and her existence to the fact of revelation. And now to the heart of my message to you graduates. I hope you will consider it worth your noting, remembering, and applying in your lives. Great and glorious as are the foundation revelations by which the gospel and the Priesthood were restored and by which the Church is led, still of equal importance, and of more particular concern to us at this graduation and commencement time, is the fact of personal revelation, that is, the fact that each one of us may receive for himself direct communications from heaven. This is the message I would have you graduates carry with you from these services. If we have learned this truth and schooled ourselves to receive revelation for our own comfort and guidance, we are now ready to commence real life fortified with wisdom and strength beyond the ken of mortal man. In such personal revelation lies the source of power of men of God. The Prophet Joseph Smith taught this. Important and numerous as were the revelations received by him, close as were his relationships with heaven, certain as was he of the truth of the things he taught, yet he never presumed or infringed upon the prerogative of his fellows to know for themselves. When he told Newel K. Whitney that the Lord wanted him to be a bishop, Brother Whitney was perplexed and said to the Prophet: "«"T cannot see a bishop in myself, brother Joseph; but if you say it's the Lord's will, I'll try." ' "You need not take my word alone;' answered the Prophet, kindly. 'Go and ask Father for yourself.' "Newel felt the force of this mild rebuke, but determined to do as he advised. His humble, heartfelt prayer was answered. In the silence of night and the solitude of his chamber, he heard a voice from heaven: "Thy strength is in me.' The words were few and simple, but they had a world of meaning. His doubts were dispelled like dew before the dawn. He straightway sought the Prophet, told him he was satisfied, and was willing to accept the office to which he had been called" (Elder Orson F. Whitney, The Contributor, Jan. 1885, Comp. Hist. Of the Church, I, page 271, note). Not only did the Prophet refrain from infringing upon the rights of his fellows to know for themselves, but he expected them to be able to receive communication from heaven. For example, in counseling with his brethren about sending an exploration company to the West, he said: Send twenty-five men: let them preach the Gospel wherever they go. Let that man go that can raise $500, a good horse and mule, a double barrel gun, one-barrel rifle, and the other smooth bore, a saddle and bridle, a pair of revolving pistols, bowie-knife, and a good sabre. Appoint a leader, and let them beat up for volunteers. I want every man that goes to be a king and a priest. When he gets on the mountains he may want to talk with his God... (D. H. C. VI, page 224). 646 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1955 REVELATION IN OUR PERSONAL AFFAIRS You see, this matter of receiving guidance by revelation was not a mere theory with the Prophet Joseph Smith. It was stark reality. He lived by such revelations, and urged others to do likewise. VERY confirmed member of the Church has been given the gift of revelation. The gift of the Holy Ghost is the gift of revelation, for the Holy Ghost is a_ revelator. Therefore, as the Prophet said, "No man can receive the Holy Ghost without receiving revelation" (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, page 328). It is the mission of the Holy Ghost to reveal the truth of heaven to those who qualify to receive it. Every one of us, if we will, may so qualify. We must ever keep in mind, however, that he will not dwell in an unholy environment. He is used to the society of God, for he is an associate of the Father and the Son. When we receive the gift of the Holy Ghost, we are commanded to receive him; he is not commanded to come to us. But if, with all our hearts, we truly seek him, he will come to us and guide us in the making of decisions at every crisis of our lives. Decisions made under his inspiration are made in the wisdom of God. In The Book of Mormon there is a statement with respect to God's doings, that "all things have been done in the wisdom of him who knoweth all things" (2 Nephi 2:24). I see in this the inference that one's wisdom is based upon, and therefore limited by, his knowledge. 'This being so, God's wisdom is infinite because his knowledge encompasses everything in the uni- 647 verse. "He knoweth all things," says Jacob in The Book of Mormon. "There is not anything save he knows it" (2 Nephi 9:20). Man's wisdom, on the other hand, is most vulnerable because his knowledge of truth is so very, very limited. Is it not, therefore, clear that he who acts under the guidance of the Holy Spirit is infinitely advantaged? By the spirit of revelation we may know the truths of the gospel as they have been revealed to others. You will recall that Moroni says, near the end of The Book of Mormon: And when ye shall receive these things, I would exhort you that ye would ask God, the Eternal Father, in the name of Christ, if these things are not true; and if ye shall ask with a sincere heart, with real intent, having faith in Christ, he will manifest the truth of it unto you, by the power of the Holy Ghost. And by the power of the Holy Ghost ye may know the truth of all things (Moroni 10:4-5). Acting on this principle, we may with accuracy, through inspiration, sift the truth from the error in the teachings of men. No Latter-day Saint, with the gift of the Holy Ghost operative in him, can be led astray by false theories and philosophies. By the power of the Holy Ghost, we may be guided in our personal affairs. We need make no mistake, for example, in the selection of a life's companion. If we would properly present this sacred and important matter to our Heavenly Father in earnest prayer and supplhication, having a desire and a willingness to be guided in our decisions by the power of the Holy Ghost, we would make no mistake. There would be no dissensions or divorces in our homes, if we would there subject ourselves to the guidance of the Holy Spirit. In the selection of our life's work by which we make a living, we can, if we will but seek it properly, be guided by revelation. We can observe from the Prophet's account of the revelations received by him during the restoration, that revelation came to him in different ways. At times individual persons, resurrected beings, appeared to him. He saw and conversed with them, as one man sees and converses with another. Sometimes he heard the spoken word without seeing the speaker. At other times the voice of the Lord came into his mind as it came into the mind of Enos, who thus described it: And while I was thus struggling in the spirit, behold, the voice of the Lord came into my mind again, saying: I will visit thy brethren according to tueir diligence in keeping my commandments (Enos 10). ' fourth and, perhaps, the most familiar manner by which revelation is received is commonly referred to as inspiration—the witness of the Spirit to one's thoughts and feelings. This type of revelation falls short of formulated sentences, but it is, nevertheless, just as real and certain when one becomes responsive to it. In the Doctrine and Covenants the Lord gave the key to an understanding of this type of revelation. You will recall that at Oliver Cowdery's request, the Lord gave him the gift to translate from the Gold Plates. But because Oliver did not pursue the gift, it was withdrawn from him, whereupon the Lord, admonishing him not to murmur, said: Behold, you have not understood; you have supposed that I would give it unto you, when you took no thought save it was to ask me. But, behold, I say unto you, that you must study it out in your mind; then you must ask me if it be night, and if it is right I will cause that your bosom shall burn within you; therefore, you shall feel that it is right. But if it be not mght you shall have no such feelings, but you shall have a stupor of thought that shall cause you to forget the thing which is wrong (D. & C. 9:7-9): We, as individuals, can be guided by the Holy Spirit through inspiration, until we develop the faith to receive other types of revelation. And if we will follow the procedure given by the Lord to Oliver Cowdery, we can be sure about the inspiration we receive. My father used to tell me that there was as much difference between a man who lived under the inspiration of the Spirit and one who didn't, as there is between a growing tree and a dead stump. And I know from experience that this is true. No person ever has lived, and no person ever will live through a mature mortal life in harmony with truth, without the guidance of the Holy Ghost. One who goes through life without his inspiration cannot avoid making wrong decisions. 'This is so because such a person must rely upon the wisdom of men which, as above indicated, is very, very limited. One cannot come to religious knowledge and truth in 648 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1955 REVELATION IN OUR PERSONAL AFFAIRS this manner. On the other hand, one who lives under the inspiration of the Holy Ghost walks through life in harmony with all that went before and in harmony with all that is to come hereafter. His mortal life cannot fail of success. At the end, he will be ready for all the eventualities to come. If you have learned while at Ricks to know and understand the 649 spirit of revelation and to walk under its direction, your education has been most successful. This one lesson will do more for you as you journey through life's experiences, than the total knowledge of the uninspired world. My hope is that you have learned this lesson, and may God grant that you may so walk, I humbly pray. October Afternoon Christie Lund Coles The afternoon is still Save for the whir of a cricket Or the crack of the grasshopper In the drying grass. I sit in the sun which is warm, Though the air has a sting Of cool forewarning, And the shadows grow long and slim; I see the chrysanthemums Untouched by last night's frost; I see the sunflowers Still triumphant, Though lesser flowers lie Powdering to dust. This is an hour of silence, And of sharp nostalgia. My instinct is to run To where there are noise and people. Yet, I know this is good, This aloneness and this autumn. Out of this mulch, beauty will be born, And strength, and purpose. I sit alone and quiet In the October sun. A Mirror for Virginia Helen Hinckley Jones 66 ELL, well, and how are we today?" Nurse Wilson's round face wore its usual this-is-my-job smile. Her voice had its usual this-is-my-job cheeriness. "So, we're going home today." Virginia felt herself pushing against the voice which was too big for the cool, clean sea-green room with its two neat high beds. "Yes, I'm going home," she said wearily. "Come now, we aren't very cheerful.' Nurse Wilson placed the thermometer expertly under. Virginia's tongue and lifted her wrist. "For seven weeks we've been asking when we could go home, and now that the day has come we've got the jitters." That was before I knew that Carl would be back tonight, Virginia thought. She wondered if Nurse Wilson's words needed an answer. At any rate the thermometer made one impossible. "Everybody gets the going home jitters; that is, everybody that has been with us long. But we mustn't let going home scare us. We'll be all right." "Thanks." Virginia watched the woman nod with approval as she read the thermometer. "Miss Eams will be in to help you dress when your husband comes for you." "My brother is coming. My husband doesn't get in from Arabia until this evening." Nurse Wilson rearranged the Page 650 things on the bedside table, putting the hand mirror within easy reach, and placed several magazines by the side of the bed before she bustled to the door. At the door she turned and, for a moment, she was one woman speaking to another in an off-the-job tone. "I'm sorry you feel the way you do, Mrs. Stanley. It's going to be hard, but you can take it. You're a very real person, T theme" A very real person. A very real person with a very real problem. Mrs. Jackson, in the neat bed across the room, was running a comb through her sparse gray hair. "T wish that woman wouldn't move so fast. She makes me tired just keeping my eyes on her!" Virginia smiled. '""That's the way it is with my little girl. I used to hold a cookie or toy for her and she'd take it with such a quick movement that I felt ever so slow." "Let's see. How old is Jacquie?" Mrs. Jackson asked. It was a question Virginia had answered nearly every day. "T'wo and a half." "She'll surely be tickled to have you home." "T don't know if she'll even know "? Me. "Well, they do say children have short memories.' Now was the time to tell Mrs. Jackson about The Problem. Mrs. Jackson was old. She'd lived a full, rich life. Maybe she'd know the answer. Virginia could - say, A MIRROR FOR VIRGINIA "Jacquie may not know me. I hardly know myself — now. You see, I used to be pretty." She reached toward the bedside table to lift the mirror, but her hand drew back of its own volition. She knew what she would see—the face of a stranger. She thought of one feature at a time. She started with the hair which had been a live gold when Carl took the engineering contract in Arabia. It was dead and straw-colored now. She thought of the purple circles under her eyes. Even her eyes were different somehow; not a bright and dancing amber, but a dull, colorless hazel. She ran her fingers over the tiny wrinkles in her forehead, down the deep ones between her brows and across the tiny ones that rayed out from the outer ends of her eyes. Last of all, she touched the long scar that zigzagged from her cheekbone to her chin. Finally she looked at her skeleton-like hands and studied the dark splotches against the white skin. Carl had loved her hands. "Tm really not very eager to go home now that the time has come," she told Mrs. Jackson. ° "THE old lady gestured toward the pictures in the double frame on the dresser. "Not eager to go home to that handsome husband and that beautiful little girl?" she asked. Handsome, beautiful, Virginia thought. In their tight little circle of three, only she, Virginia, would be—ugly. Carl was tall, with dark hair cropped short enough to hide the curl, and he had the warmest brown eyes in the world. Jacquie was a short and chubby baby with gold 651 brown hair which turned up ever so slightly just above her dimpled shoulders. Her brows were fine and dark and she had long, curling black lashed framed eyes which were surprisingly light. Light gray or light green or light blue, according to the color that they reflected. She had a sweet little pug nose and soft warm little lips that were miniatures of Carl's. At least Carl would have something beautiful left in his life. When he had gone to Arabia, reluctantly, but with the thought that the fabulous salary would erase his schoo] debts and let him start off with a clean slate, they had been afraid that something might happen to him. He might be injured in the complex machinery, he might contract a strange disease, he might —but neither of them had _ ever guessed that a negligent motorist in a market parking lot would pay so much attention to the dog beside him, that he'd run into Virginia the one day that she happened to be carrying a gallon bottle of vinegar. It was one accident in a million, and it had happened to her! "Stay just as you are," Carl had told her when he left. But she hadn't. Oh, she hadn't. "T hate to have Carl see me — now," she told Mrs. Jackson, and her hand went involuntarily to her cheek. "Oh, that,' Mrs. Jackson said. "He'll never even notice it." You don't know Carl, Virginia thought. You don't know how he is about beauty. "T love you, Ginny," Carl had always said the last thing in the evening and the first thing in the morning. "Why"? Her one word was part of the ritual. "Because you're beautiful." CARL loved all sorts of beauty. One morning he had called her shivering from her bed and led her to the wide front window of their student apartment. "Look," he had said. And the world had been spread before them white and dazzling. Every branch on the one elm that stood in the scraggly yard was bent under an icing of spun sugar and rhinestones. Some time earlier, a bird had walked across the snow-covered lawn and left a tiny row of writing which, somehow, accented the beauty. "T can live a day — maybe a lifetime with that picture in my mind," Carl had said. And Virginia had agreed, "It's the most beautiful thing I've ever seen." "Now, now," Carl had laughed, his mood _ changing — suddenly, "where's your looking glass? 'The most beautiful thing in the world is my wife, Ginny. You can't fool me." And he had kissed her. Virginia turned over and picked up one of the magazines to hide her tears. Through the blur she saw the advertisements for shampoo and face powder and lotion. Beauty, beauty, everything for beauty. Every girl and woman had the right to be beautiful. The most precious memory she had — one that she had held close to her every night since Carl had been away, was of their beautiful and sacred marriage ceremony in the temple. When they had returned home, a dear friend had led them to a large mirror. "Look at that picture,' he had said. "See every detail. Carry it with you always, and, when you come to your golden wedding anniversary, to the two of you the picture will be the same — the most beautiful picture in the world." Now Virginia felt the tears hot against her eyelids. Poor Carl, she thought. Poor, poor Carl! T was afternoon before Bud came for her, big and blustering and efficient as only a seventeen-year-old brother can be. Going down in the elevator he teased her, trying to make her laugh, but she was quiet. This was no time for fooling. "Carl wired," Bud said. "He'll be in even earlier than he planned. About five." He was silent for a moment then he exploded. "What's the matter with you, Sis? Aren't you glad?" "I hate Carl to see me like — like this," she said slowly. He gave her a perfunctory glance. "You told him about the accident?" "Of course, but...." "Well, then...." She had hoped to sneak into her mother's house unnoticed, but her mother was bidding goodbye to a group of guests who were just leaving the back patio as Bud roared up the driveway. Jacquie was clinging to her grandmother's hand, looking like a living doll in a frilly dress of sprigged nylon over innumerable petticoats. For a moment everyone was silent — the engine stopped, all conversation was suspended. Then, 652 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1955 A MIRROR FOR VIRGINIA abruptly, Jacquie's little voice shouted, "Here's my Mommie. Here's my pretty little Mommie!" She tore away from her grandmother's hand and climbed into the seat that Bud had just vacated. She wrapped her arms around her mother's neck. "My pretty little Mommie, my pretty littlke Mommie," she repeated over and over again. Later, when Carl came, Virginia was resting in bed in the room that had been hers as a girl. 'The shades were drawn and she could scarcely see the storybook dolls that stood in their cabinet in slightly drooping finery, the shelf of books which started with the Bobbsie twins and ended with college textbooks. Carl stopped at the door for just a second, until his eyes became accustomed to the dimness, then, with a bound, he was at her side, gathering her in his arms. "I love you, Ginny," he said, his lips against her face. From force of habit Virginia supplied her word. "Why?" "Because you're beautiful." Abruptly she drew herself from her husband's embrace. "It's dark in here," she said with an edge of brittleness in her voice. "Open the curtains." He opened the curtains, then 653 came back to the side of the bed. "There," he said. "Is that better?" "Look at me, Carl." He dropped to his knees beside her. "Ginny, Ginny, darling! You've never been so beautiful!" She lifted his hand and traced one of his fingers over the long jagged scar on her cheek. "I was afraid to have you come home, Carl, afraid." "But... 2" "When Jacquie saw me she said, 'My pretty littl Mommie,' but then she was looking through the eyes of love." "What sort of eyes did you think your husband would have?" He kissed her then. "Darling," he said, "don't you know by now that a woman should look at herself in the heart of her husband, not in a plain glass mirror?" And, abruptly, Virginia knew that the magazines were wrong with their advice to keep a husband by using golden hair rinse or complexion soap or a new kind of lipstick. She might grow scrawny or fat, she might gain a hundred wrinkles or a double chin; but as long as there was love in their marriage, she would be beautiful in the mirror that matters most. Old Book Gertrude T. Kovan T open up the pages of a book, Its leaves a secret for so many years, And there, within its center, as I look, Are marks of someone's long-forgotten tears. One paragraph stands out, tear-stained, and yet Its wisdom fills my heart with new-found joy. The Great White Sands Nell Murbarger NE of our Nation's most un- () usual playgrounds, as well as one of the strangest deserts on earth, is embraced in the area set aside as White Sands National Monument, in south central New Mexico. Although popular conception generally pictures deserts as drab wastelands, comprised of shifting sand dunes, burned lava rock, or grim salt flats, this particular desert area bears no resemblance to any of these. Here, instead, is a gleaming fairyland of tiny crystals — an estimated thirteen billion tons of them! Spread as much as 200 feet in depth, over 176,000 acres, and testing ninety-nine per cent pure gypsum, the "sands" of this strange place are so glistening white that the dunes have been aptly likened to a stage setting of the Sahara, done in granulated sugar! For more than half a century before this area was officially recognized and awarded National Monument status, the outer fringes of the dunes had been a popular site for picnics and public gatherings. Aside from the pleasure given by such outings, however, the pioneer settlers disliked and distrusted "The Great White Sands" — fearing that in the course of their inexorable drifting, they would ultimately swallow farms and homes, even the growing frontier settlements of Alamogordo and Tularosa. Since 1933, this unique New Mexican desert has become one of Page 654 the most unusual playgrounds in the world. Perhaps it is the fairylike fantasy of the place that wields such a strange influence over visitors that youth and age alike — even venerable grandfathers and matronly ladies — cast off their inhibitions to frolic in the clean sand like delighted children. Whole families join in building elaborate sand castles and digging "'pirate caves." They roll down the steep slopes together, or slide down on snow skis, or in impromptu "toboggans" made of tin dishpans. 'They turn cartwheels and somersaults in the sand, and run footraces, and play ball in it. For small children, in particular, it is unlikely that a more ideal playground exists anywhere. Here are no rocks to bruise small feet, no streams or lakes into which adventurers may tumble, not even a spot of hard ground on which tender knees may be skinned. Where else might nearly four thousand school children be turned loose — as happens here on annual "Play Days" — without fear of a single injury, insect bite, or snake bite? Further, to the special gratification of meticulous mamas, the sands are as clean and dust-free as freshlylaundered table linen, and no matter how rough-and-tumble the game, here is nothing to soil the whitest Sunday frock or snowiest trousers. High school football players from nearby towns even come to the THE GREAT WHITE SANDS Sands to "wash" their white wool sweaters in the same manner Victorian ladies used cornmeal for cleaning their fascinators. One popular sport of interest to every Sands visitor — either as participant or spectator — is sand skiing. Using ordinary snow skis on the steep, lee faces of the dunes, extremely high speeds may be attained, although the runs, of course, are short. As a result of constant abrasion, every grain of sand ls glasssmooth and spherical; and after a day of skimming over the dunes, the running surfaces of the skis are said to be even more highly polished than before. Flora and fauna of the Sands area, as well as the rich historical backNell Murbarger EARLY MORNING, 655 ground of the region, are skillfully portrayed and described in the small museum at Monument headquarters. [he manner in which both plant and animal life have met the challenge of the dunes is especially fascinating. As any dark-colored object is extremely conspicious against the gleaming white sand, all insects or animals of dusky hue become glaring targets for their enemies. This fact, presumably, has worked as a natural program of selection, with only the lighter-colored members surviving until several all-white, or nearly-white, forms have developed. Thus the Monument presents the unique spectacle of white spiders, white lizards, and snow-white pockWHITE SANDS NATIONAL MONUMENT, NEW MEXICO 656 et mice. Even an all-white coyote was reported here over a period of several years. In the lava beds, immediately north of the White Sands, some of the same species have developed forms nearly black in coloration. Along the outer fringe of the dunes area every morning finds an intricate tracery of small neat tracks formed by lizards, birds, mice, skunks, rabbits, and other small creatures; but even the boldest of these penetrate only a short way into the wilderness of the dunes. In the extreme heart of the sands, there is said to occur no vestige of animal or insect life. One of the greatest mysteries of the Monument is that any form of plant life is able to exist in these gypsum dunes, which contain no trace of nitrogen, generally regarded as an absolute necessity for plant growth. Most logical of. The several theories advanced in this connection, is that the several species of plants which thrive in these environs must be provided by nature with some unknown means of manufacturing their own supply of this vital element. Another factor that lends interest to dune-dwelling plants is their adaptability to a highly unstable, ever-shifting world. Since there is no possibility of retaining a foothold in the thirty-mile-long windrows of drifted gypsum crystals, such plants must anchor their roots in the solid flat beneath the dunes. Thus, in order to keep their crowns above the smothering sands, they must be able to lengthen their stems, as required. One species of plant that has proven itself especialRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1955 ly adaptable in this regard is the yucca, or Spanish bayonet. Although the tvpe of yucca common to the Monument is but normally three or four feet in height, this process of elongation to escape the higher-climbing sands here has resulted in fantastic specimens with necks as much as fifty feet in length! Viewed against a background of wind-rippled dunes, the grotesque forms exhibited by the yuccas have especial fascination for photographers. Due to the extreme glare of light on the crystalline sands, unfortunately, shutterbugs (hii iia with the White Sands, almost invariably overexpose their films. This same light reflection, naturally, can effect a serious sunburn; and even on partially-cloudy days, dark sunglasses should be worn as protection to the eyes. Persons who spend fairly long periods in the dunes without such protection, often suffer the same ill effects as are produced by snowblindness. Except for a refreshment concession in the headquarters area and a free picnic ground equipped with tables, fire grills, and pole boweries for shade, the Monument provides no. Accommodations for eating or lodging. Good motels, hotels, and restaurants are available, however, at Alamogordo, only fifteen miles distant. Geographically, White Sands National Monument is situated a little more than 100 miles north of E Paso, from which point it is reached via paved highways, U. S. 54 and 70. From Albuquerque, about 250 miles to the north, the Park is best approached via U. S. 85, 380, 54, and 70- THE GREAT WHITE SANDS In addition to viewing the Great White Sands, visitors will doubtless wish to include sidetrips to numerous other points of interest in the vicinity. An hour's drive to the east of the Monument lies the high Sacramento Mountain region, with its abundance of tall pines, deer, and scenic vistas. A short distance to the north, lies the forbidding black waste of the lava beds, where once-molten rock is now hardened in grotesque and picturesque splendor; and Mescalero Apache Indian Reservation, nearby, is "home'' to part of this once-ferce tribe of warriors. Although clinging to a number of their ancient ceremonies and ways, the Apaches have adopted 657 most of the customs of their white brothers and now engage profitably in cattle ranching and farming. And, of course, no student of frontier lore will want to miss colorful "Old Lincoln Town' where, seventy-five years ago, a lusty page of Western history was written by the youthful outlaw, Billy the Kid, and the bloody Lincoln County War. Further inquiries concerning the fascinating vacation-land of the White Sands and its environs, may be addressed to the Monument Custodian, Alamogordo, New Mexico, or to the Chambers of Commerce either there, or at Las Cruces, New Mexico. Flow to Make a Dream Come Right Ethelyn M. Kincher How to make a dream come right? Look it in the face and see Where it leads eventually; Where it goes and what it means...,. And all other little dreams That may follow in its light. How to make a dream come right? Work at it from sun to sun, Keep it close when day is done; Give it scope of vision true, See what it will do for you When it really comes in sight. How to make a dream come right? Know it for the thing it is, Keep it clean; remember this: Dreams gone wild are tyrant kings, You must master all it brings, If you make a dream come right! Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, October 1, and October 15, 1895 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WoMEN OF ALL NATIONS" THE NATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN: In 1891, at the National Council in Washington, D. C., the Relief Society became connected with the National Council of Women of the United States. This entitles the society to an equal standing with all the great organizations thus federated in the Council, giving to each and all this broad system of representation, and of becoming widely known, not possible except by united efforts. —Emmeline B. Wells AUTUMN Thou burden of all songs the earth has sung, Thou retrospect in 'T'ime's reverted eyes, Thou metaphor of everything that dies, That dies ill-starred, or dies beloved and young, And therefore blest and wise— O be less beautiful, or be less brief, Thou tragic splendor, strange and full of fear! In vain her pageant shall the Summer rear: At thy mute signal, leaf by golden leaf, Crumbles the gorgeous year. —Selected LETTER FROM NAUVOO:..... Many times when reading or hearing about Nauvoo, I have wished in my heart I could visit that sacred spot of Earth... But here I am verily walking those very identical streets that our beloved Prophet and Patriarch while in life walked so many, many times.... Being shown the spot in the river, where Joseph Smith baptized for the dead.... We then visited the cottage where the Prophet first lived then the Mansion.... Of the temple there is not one stone left upon another, there are stores built upon the block, also vacant places sown in grass.... Surely the blessing of the Lord has not rested upon this place since the expulsion of the Saints. —E. J. S. WHO KNOWS Who knows we have not lived before In forms that felt delight and pain? If death is not the open door Through which we pass to live again? —Scelected RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE IN CARDSTON, CANADA: The Relief Society of the Alberta Stake of Zion convened October sth... Stake President Mary L. Woolf presiding.... President Sarah B Daines was called upon to report the Cardston Society over which she presides... Spoke of the unity that exists among them... The rearing of children and the necessity of teaching them strict obedience... Counselor Rhoda Hinman spoke on the life of Joseph the Prophet and the many excellent traits of his character... Sister Ella Nielson... Spoke on the subject of marriage.... —Jane W, Bates, Sec. Page 658 N The House of a Million Shells, a new art attraction for tourists in Laguna Beach, California, we heard a lady explaining a long wall map of Hawaii, made of beautiful, many-colored shells. "This is the Island of Oahu, and this (pointing to a small, dark pattern) is the Mormon temple, a most beautiful building." The artist is Mrs. Ida Kuhn, who has lived in Hawaii most of her life. She has personally gathered millions of shells, creating from them remarkable native scenes, including a portrait of King Kamehameha I, with more than 200,000 shells in it, and this long mural map, which required six months' work. As a decor in the main room, she has portraits of two Latter-day Saints, a girl and a man, native entertainers, whose friendship she prizes. A great humanitarian, softspoken Mrs. Kuhn has taken into her home and, in most cases, loved into being good citizens, more than four hundred wards of the Hawaiian juvenile courts. She has also maintained a convalescent home for the poor, the blind, and other handicapped persons. WAN HARBRECHT, charming young Latter-day Saint lyric soprano who has won recognition in Italy and America, went as the soloist with the Tabernacle Choir on Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon its European tour. At the Bern Temple dedication, she sang, in addition to the numbers with the choir, "Bless 'This House.' Columbia Artists, with whom she had an exclusive contract for the year for concerts, radio, television, and record making, kindly released her for the famous tour. RS. GLENN WISE, of Madison, Wisconsin's new Secretary of State, is the first woman in her State to hold a constitutional office. She is a grandmother, with a master's degree in economics from the University of Wisconsin. IRTHDAY congratulations are extended to: Mrs. Maud R. Acord, El Paso, 'Texas, ninety-eight; Mrs. Lydia Butterfield Cole, Salt Lake City, ninety-four; Mrs. Jane Clark Collingwood, Coronel Suarez, Argentina, ninety-three; Mrs. Rose Slaughter Duzett, Emery, Utah, ninety-two; Mrs. Thurza Allen, Salt Lake City, ninety-two; Mrs. Lucinda Pace Redd, Monticello, Utah, ninety-one; Mrs. Sina Bishop Reid, Mrs. Nancy Adeline Perkins Simpson, Mrs. Susan Elvira Sidwell Grant, Mrs. Esther Clark Pattillo, Mrs. Ellen Lovell Rowe, all of Salt Lake City, and each ninety years old; Mrs. Emma Johnson, Grantsville, Utah, ninety. Page 659 EDITORIAL cm© VOL. 42 OCTOBER 1955 NO. 10 Valiant Womanhood E often survey the testament of the past for examples of vallant womanhood and travel the long road into the far reaches of history, and then forward to the times of our more immediate ancestors. We think of the Pilgrim women and the wives and mothers of the soldiers of the Revolution. The narratives of the Church in Kirtland, in Far West, and in Nauvoo, are replete with heroic women who placed their ideals and their eternal purposes far above all thought of passing comfort or happiness It has been said that the courage to be happy is the greatest courage of all, but more often the truth seems to be that it takes greater courage to accept temporary unhappiness for a future purpose. More valor is required to follow a difficult road, which may have a more luminous destination. Many of our pioneer mothers and grandmothers in the arid areas of the West would have found their lives unendurable, if they had not been able to think of their situations as segments of a greater whole, and their families as a unit forever. Protected by such courage, was a young woman who lived in the eighteennineties on a lonely homestead in western Utah, twenty-five miles from any settlement. She lived in a log cabin, with only her two children, for many months while her husband was herding sheep on the Page 660 high mountains surrounding the homestead valley. When he said goodbye, he advised his wife to keep an evening candle in the window as a sign that all was well. If she needed help, she was to build a bonfire on the top of the cellar. Throughout the long months, in spite of hunger, illness, and danger, the candle glowed in the shadows and no bonfire ever called the husband from his work. Valor is manifested not only in the broader borders of life, but it may be found also within narrow routine. A woman in a small frontier town, the mother of a large family, having many responsibilities and little rest, decided that she would plan her household in such a way that the Sabbath, at least, would be a day of worship and contemplation. Accordingly, throughout the week, and particularly on Saturday, the mother planned and worked toward an ideal observance of the Sabbath. The house was carefully cleaned in advance, each child having a responsibility. Food was prepared, bread baked, a main dish cooked, dessert prepared; clothing for each member of the family was carefully laundered and pressed and all articles for each child placed together so that there would be no confusion on Sunday morning. 'That family grew up with the blessed heritage of a serene and beautiful Sabbath. The accomplishment was EDITORIAL not easy. It required steadfast courage, an undeviating purpose. Valor is not confined to any century nor to any group or individual within a span of time, for every era has need of valiant women, 'Their problems may not be the same, but there are few life paths where sunlight falls continually. 'The young widow, with her family to rear alone, the older widow facing the dark years of adjustment — all those who must struggle against poverty, grief, disappointment, loneliness. Many women have found that, though to outward appearances, they may be carrying their burdens alone, most of them realize that hosts of valiant women of other days accompany them on each and every part of the life journey; the women 661 of their ancestral houses who bore danger, sickness, tragedy, walk in memory with the women of today, and. Beside each of us, perhaps, a handcart woman trudges or a lonely figure follows a covered wagon. Courage may not be inherited, but the characteristics of a brave approach towards the problems of life are surely bequeathed, if one but knows how to use the heritage. No woman of the Church need ever walk alone, for the dear continued and ever-widening charity of her sisters in Relief Society is like a shining guardian, even from young womanhood until the end of the life journey, and will be extended into eternal worlds. —V. P. C. Autumnal Equinox Margaret Hyatt Let me rest here on this time-worn stile, Built to lift tired feet across the boundary rail, Dividing gold-crested ripening grain From sharp stubble left by harvesters today. Let me share the plaintive evensong Of field doves, killdeer scurrying to nests Hidden in rank grass along this selfsame fence. Though late afternoon's still warming sun Turns dust and autumn haze to gold, Something in the rising wind Whispers warning of long winter nights. So I would tarry just a little while Before I cross the field of fallow ground To meet the purple twilight just beyond. African Uxolets for Your Flome Shirley Seegmiller Fo® the past few years, the swing in houseplants has been steadily turned more and more to the fabulous African violet, king of the Gesneriads. Simple steps, easy directions, and a smaller price now encourage the reluctant greenthumber at least to try his luck. The success experienced by a large percentage of these flower lovers usually results in more confirmed violet fans. The main elements needed for this success are infinite patience, care, and attention. The results will provide a beautifully flowered plant that will glorify the home the year around and win many new friends. Yet the growing of violets from seed is no task for the inexperienced. The propagation of plants from the tiny dust-like seeds has proved most difficult, but the growing of these amazing flowers comes so easily from leaves and plant division that no one should be discouraged. Plants from leaf starts will be in bloom long before the seeds can produce new plants. Varieties To help you start out with a good variety of named plants, here are a few samples of the various colors: Snow Prince, has a large white single blossom with regular foliage; White Madonna, a double white; an outstanding blue with dark foliage, Blue Warrior; Blue Belle, a fully double blue of slightly darker hue; Edna Fischer, double plum-colored, with a white edge; Red King, single flowered. Pink Wonder is a patented offering with very dark flowers of extremely large size, and single. The new pink doubles are still in the testing stage, as some tend to come single from leaves. Ohio Pink Bountiful has become very popular. For a variety type violet, Painted Girl is just that. Snowy white blooms glisten as if they had been sprinkled with stardust, and some of them are bordered with orchid. Fantasy is another fast-climbing favorite, a lavender bloom heavily splotched with darker purple. These are but a few of the variety of listed violets now available. Actually almost any color you wish can-be found in either single or double flowers. Starting Plants From Leaves The leaves you procure, in order to make good, fast-growing starts should be taken from healthy, blooming plants. They are easy to handle, and the plantlets from them seldom disappoint the anxious grower. As little as six months, from start to full bloom, is not unusual. Two methods of rooting leaves have proved equally popular, and more important, successful. Rooting in water has long been the standard procedure. Use a narrow necked bottle, test-tube, or similar utensil, equipped with a collar made of paper or aluminum foil that will hold the fleshy part of the leaf out of the water. Be sure the stem is well down into the bottle. Several leaves may be rooted in the same water. A tiny drop of commercial fertilizer will speed up the process. Tiny white roots will appear on the stem end within ten days to two weeks. The newer method of rooting now being used by most violet houses, is the moist vermiculite process. Almost any kind of container can be used, a box lined to prevent Page 662 AFRICAN VIOLETS FOR YOUR HOME 663 leakage, a deep glass bowl, or a shallow pan. Over a layer of soil or sand, an inch or two of fine vermiculite is smoothed. The growing medium is then soaked well and the leaves inserted and kept moist, but not wet, until the young plantlets are about an inch high. Potting the Young Plants As soon as the leaf has a good set of young roots, it should be potted in a sterile mixture of sand, Sphagnum or peat moss, and good rich loam. When the young plants have made a good start; repot them in a richer mixture, cutting down on both sand and moss. Be sure when planting the rooted leaf, that the roots are barely covered, and firmly tamped. Care should be taken not to bury them too deeply, nor to pack the soil too tightly upon them. Always provide good drainage, as sour soil will rot any type of flower, and the African violet is especially susceptible. A few chunks of broken pot, small stones, or, especially, a few pieces of charcoal will make good drainage. When potting, use a squat container, not more than five inches wide. If large show plants are desired, the plants may be transferred to a larger container, after they begin to mature. Almost any Willard Luce PROCESS OF GROWING VIOLETS FROM LEAF CUTTINGS At right, leaf placed in water for the formation of rootlets; center, new plant in soil; at left, young plant putting out new leaves; background, violet plant in bloom. 664 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1955 type pot will do, although consistently better results have come from the porous clay containers. Check and make sure that the hole in the bottom goes clear through, so that complete drainage is possible, and waterings can be made from the bottom. Watering the Plants In most areas the water contains minerals and chemicals, both natural and those added for purification. Most of these are harmless to the plants, but they do tend to collect in the soil, after repeated watering from the bottom of the pot. At least once a week, give the plants a good soaking from the top, to wash out these waste materials from the soil. In watering, take care not to wet the leaves of the plant. The old cry of "Don't ever water a violet from the top" has been disproved. In fact, a good top watering is essential, but water on the leaves may cause the plant to burn. Should the sun hit a wet leaf, a white scald will result, and the leaf will rot and fall. Another burn is caused by cold water. A violet abhors cold water and sudden temperature changes. A draft will cause complete bud droppage in a very short time. The Proper Amount of Light African violets love light, even direct sunlight, if it is carefully administered. Don't jeopardize your plant by placing it where the sun beams through a south or west window in the late spring and summer. An east or north window is best. Feeding Violets There are few set rules for feeding violets. One feeding a month until they begin to bloom is usually enough. A good feeding about once every two weeks while the plant is in bloom should suffice. If a plant seems to need an extra boost, dilute the food a little more and use it every ten days. Water only when the soil feels dry, and never leave the plant sitting in water. Crown rot is the worst enemy of the African violet and is hard to combat. Almost always deadly, it can take a blooming plant in as little as five days. Should this happen, clip the healthy leaves from the plant, roct them for new starts, and destroy the old crown. Never use the same soil that housed a diseased plant. Dividing the Plants Dividing plants is an operation that takes considerable practice to master. The violet grows in crowns, small plants within themselves, which can be separated easily, since all the leaves of one crown turn in the same general direction. A perfect crown has its own full rosette or circle of leaves, but sometimes the parts of a two-crown plant grow "back to back," and the rosette of each cannot be seen until they are divided. Extreme care must always be taken in dividing, as the shock to the root system can be disastrous. It is wise to watch an expert the first few times. The crown can be gently pulled apart, or severed with a very sharp knife. Always divide the plant when there are few or no blooms, so that the strength of the severed plant can go into new roots, and the shock will be lessened. Until you've actually owned a blooming violet, you won't be able to understand fully the almost fantastic popularity of this particular plant. Yet one violet seldom satisfies, and usually the growing of violets expands into a most delightful hobby. Gon Ghis Cause Emily Wilkerson TTA was a big girl now with E; children of her own. But try as hard as she might, her tears came sliding down her cheeks. Her folks were selling the old home, and it was a siege of nostalgia that took her speeding out from her home in town. 'The thoughts that kept sweeping across her mind caused a rough lump to form in her throat. She stopped the car on the parking in front of the big bridge and leaned forward on the wheel, looking at the big house and the surrounding yard. "IT wonder what other people think when they look at it?" she asked herself. "They don't have memories of flower beds blooming, that are now gone. That fence once was the pride of the whole family, with its even row of peeled cedar posts—look at it stagger and sway in the wind now." Her eyes followed the row of rosebushes which had grown to uneven heights, the limbs fallen from trees tangled in their tops. "No, people looking at it would not feel a warm love for the old moldy things that have been so treasured by me," she decided. She got out of the car and started up the walk. The stone steps that led into the house were chipped and worn. It was a funny thing how people let things go that, a few years back, they would have thought were tertible. As she went on into the house she noticed, for the first time, that her mother no longer kept the corners dusted and shining as she used to do. Maybe I should help her more, she thought. Her father was leaning over a large box of books, nailing the top on ready to ship to the new apartment in town. "Well, Etta, Iam glad you came. Seems a bit more than your mother and I can do to get these things together before the movers come to haul them away." Now the movers had gone, and her father's car was racing on down the road to the new home. She wandered through the empty rooms looking at the bare walls and floors. She came to the bedroom where she and Joe had lived when they were first married; Ronnie had been born there. The walls still held the wallpaper that Joe had put on them fifteen years ago. How hard he had worked to finish that room in time to make it pretty and comfortable for her and the new baby! Etta could see her mother standing at the foot of her bed, where she had suffered with her; but Etta couldn't do anything about it now, the time was past. It had taken until after Ronnie had started to school and Etta had five more children before she had felt that the children were really her own. They had seemed to be her mother's, and as if she were only tending them. Big scars on the walls, where little Joey had poked holes with a play sword once when he was visiting his grandparents, didn't look so Page 665 666 hideous today. She wondered why her mother hadn't covered them up. She saw the worn floors, where many little feet had traveled over the doorsills, wearing them thin. Those little feet were big feet now, and they were wearing trails down the river of time. She came out into the late spring sunset and made sure the door was locked behind her. 'Then a heavy lump came again in her throat, and she walked, aching to stay, across the lawn to the car. Everything wanted to recall to her all that had ever happened in her life and plant her again a child right here. She wept silently. Well, maybe there was something to this after all:... Lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven.... For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also (Mt. 6:20-21). She knew she couldn't take the farm with her, and that she couldn't run it by herself. Her father had reached the milestone where he no longer could labor so hard. The glowing sun seemed to be a little brighter just before it sank behind the western horizon. Etta slipped the key into the slot and started the car. KOK K KK TTA reminded herself that life is a moving thing, something RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1955 that goes on and on and that, living or dying, we are continually leaving something dear behind us. Her mother had often told her to look forward and never back. How many times had she said, "Etta, you can't pick up your tracks, but watch carefully where you make new ones." Etta looked at her own neat little garage as she parked the car. 'The shining kitchen floor smiled a gleaming welcome as she entered the house. How homey the yellow organdy curtains looked. "Home," she whispered, "new steps that Joe and I have taken together." What was it her father had said to her the first night after they were married? For this cause shall a man leave father and mother, and shall cleave to his wife: and they twain shall be one flesh... (Mt. 19:5). Etta looked out the window to see the big welding truck stop in front of the house.. She saw Joe climb out in his dirty coveralls. No longer did she hate the coveralls, but she loved the strong character that shone throughout the lines of toil in Joe's dear face. She started placing the dishes on the table for supper, knowing the children would be flocking in, and feeling a deep contentment to plot new steps forever forward. > She Ornament Thelma ]. Lund The ornament upon my desk, Around which copper plate is pressed, Was once a wrinkled leather shoe That held a baby foot, and knew Her first attempt to stand alone And capture freedom for her own. Chou Art Shy Mothers Glass ' Helen B. Morris URING my turbulent adolescent years I was guilty of many of the impulses usually ascribed to the age. I slammed doors and dropped handkerchiets full of tears. I protested and contested. More often than not my hostility was directed toward my parents, and my mother in particuJar. One day when I sat down to my mirror, I discovered a newspaper clipping in place of the shiny nose I had anticipated. I have forgotten the words that were printed there, but the meaning is indelible in my memory. It was reminding me of my debt to my mother and that the repayment was due in kind consideration. It was a reminder put there by one who loved her most—my father. It meant much even then. But today, as a mother myself, the meaning has become clear. I am getting understanding. I think of my parents as I jump from my bed in the black night to tush to an anxious cry, and in a state of half consciousness attempt to satisfy the need. All I have to do is push a button to get a light, another for heat. My parents lighted a kerosene lamp and started a fire in the old Home Comfort before they could hush my cry and return to their warm bed. I think of my parents when I hang out a line full of diapers every other morning. Again I push a button and my work is done. I remember that my father drew water from a well and carried it in a bucket to the kitchen. He chopped wood and built a fire to get it hot, then my mother washed the clothes I wore with the aid of a scrubbing board. I remember my parents when | hold a child weak with fever in my arms. I am secure in the knowledge that whatever is wrong can probably be corrected with a visit from the doctor and a needle full of a wonder drug. 'Then I remember their anxiety as I choked with croup and burned with measles. I remember my mother trembling as we sat alone one rainy night with nothing to stop the bleeding from my tonsillectomy. I see their cheerful care and service day after day as I Jay in bed for months with rheumatic fever. When I go to town and buy armfuls of Christmas toys for my children, I remember my mother busy sewing clothes for my own precious doll. I see again the happy Christmas morning of my childhood. When I find myself complaining at being alone when my husband's duties take him away from home, I remember the nights and days and weeks of service my father and mother have given for their Church and community. I know that very service has helped to create my heritage. I look at my own babies relaxed and breathing deeply in their beds and feel a sudden gratitude that they are safe and near. 'Then I can Page 667 668 imagine why my parents were concerned about the time I came in from a date, and how fast my boy friend drove his car. I can understand their alarm when I sped away on the back of a squeaking, thundering motorcycle. All this I have learned. The years ahead will teach me much more. And when my sons and daughters are men and women, I will look at them and see myself crossing the years again. 'They will be the reflection of my youth. Then I will understand what my father said when last we visited at home. During that RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1955 sleepy hour before the dawn my child awakened crying that his ear ached. My father joined us in the kitchen as we prepared the aspirin and the hot water bottle. Our faces were drawn and our eyes half shut. "These are the joys of married life," he said. "Thou art thy mother's glass, and she in thee calls back the lovely April of her prime" (Shakespeare, Sonnet 3). My parents see in me the beauties of the days gone by. I find in them anew the gifts of life and sacrifice they gave to me. Dre ams Zara Sabin Little boy, with wide blue eyes And sunny summer smile, Of what do you think as you look so wise, And hold my hand the while? Do you know that I love you and wish you were mine? That we would never part; Is that why your eyes so brightly shine As you snuggle against my heart? Dear little boy with wide blue eyes, If all of my dreams had come true, I would have had children of every size, With, maybe, a boy like you! Happiness Lucille R. Taylor AM the world is searching for joy and happiness, but these cannot be purchased for any price in any market place, because they are virtues that come from within, and like rare jewels must be polished, for they shine brightest in the light of faith, and in the service of brotherly love. "Just Like the Ones I Used to Know" Pansye H. Powell on the radio for the ten o'clock news and found herself listening to the last measures of "Here Comes Santa Claus." "Only December tenth," she commented aloud to the four walls of her living room, "and they've been broadcasting Christmas music for a week already." Ordinarily Margaret loved Christmas music. Back home in Connecticut, she had always liked to have the songs played over and over, and she would sing with the radio. But that was in Connecticut. Now, she and Henry were a long way from their friends and relatives, and there was no possible chance of their spending Christmas with them; so every carol the radio played was a reminder to Margaret that, for this year at least, Christmas would not be too merry for a young couple who were strangers in a strange land. She looked out her living room window to the mountains. She always thought of the Psalm when she did this; there was a kind of companionship in the snowcapped giants. 'They didn't change, but stood day after day, like tall guards over the city in the valley. "Whence cometh my strength," Margaret quoted softly, as she stood looking out across Fifteenth Street, through the barren branches of trees toward far heights. Mi on the Rodgers turned She was not listening to the radio, though she was vaguely aware that a carefully modulated voice was now reporting on world affairs; her own affairs were too immediate and her own feelings too intense for listening to other matters. Henry said she ran the radio for company, just to have a voice in the house while he was gone all day at his new job in the telephone company office. Henry knew she was lonely. They had lived in the valley city four months in the same house that they had rented upon their arrival. In that time Margaret had been busy at first, converting their rented house into a home, so she had not missed too much her friends in the little New England town where she had always lived until she and Henry were married. Now that everything was in order, her wedding presents all in place, and her thankyou notes all written, day after day she grew increasingly lonely for the companionship of neighbors and friends she had always enjoyed. Why, she thought, I've lived here four months on this street, and I don't know anybody but my neighbors on either side; if one of them hadn't had a dog and the other a little boy, I wouldn't even know their names. As it is, I don't know much more than that about them. And, as for the people in the twelve other houses in this block, I know Page 669 670 the man across the street from us is a doctor, because he has a name plate by his door. It's strange to live where your close neighbors are strangers. I wish.... ER reflections on the strangeness of the 1900 block on Fifteenth Street were cut short by the ringing of the doorbell. When she opened the door, there stood the postman, with a big box in his hand. "Good morning," his cheery voice greeted her. "Got a Christmas package for you already. From Connecticut, too. Guess they wanted to be sure you got it in time!" Margaret beamed. "Oh, thank you! That is from Mother. She wrote us it was on the way." Margaret and the postman were acquaintances of four months' standing. She enjoyed his genial attitude and air of accepting her as one of the established citizens. Now she watched him go off her porch and through the side lawn to her neighbor's on the south. Then she turned to her mail. She placed the package from home by the fireplace, feeling warmed by an inward glow as she thought of the loving hands that had prepared it for her, It would be something to look at and think about until Christmas Eve, when she and Henry would follow her family's custom of opening their packages before they went to bed. Margaret sat down by the living room window with her needlepoint. Her train of thought persisted in returning to her loneliness in this land. She thought of the time two months ago when she had stood at the bay window in her dining room RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1955 and watched a casket being carried from a home down the street half a block. My neighbor, she had thought, and I don't even know whether he is old or young, man or woman. She remembered that her neighbor on the north — the one with the little boy — had told her during one of their brief conversations that the people in the two houses across the street had once had a disagreement over a fence dividing the two lawns, and were not even yet on friendly terms with each other. She wondered that her neighbors all seemed to go their own ways, each wrapped up in his own little world. She had gone to church each Sunday since their arrival in the city, but no one had yet come to call on her, and she was sure that no others in the block were Latterday Saints, although she saw her neighbors setting out on Sunday morning at about church time, as she left her house. The only tie that she and Henry shared with these people in her block was the tie of the neighborhood; to a stranger in a community that tie was very important. It gave him the sense of belonging, of being part of the real life of the town. So far, she and Henry had not had any of this "belonging" spirit shared with them. QNCE Margaret had an idea, she followed it to its ultimate expression. 'That was how it happened that on Saturday afternoon she was busy at her desk. There she decorated a group of white cards with a border of Christmas holly running around the edge. "JUST LIKE THE ONES | USED TO KNOW" Then in red ink she wrote this greeting: Just once a year For Christmas cheer Let's neighbors all be jolly And prove that we Can friendly be Amid the pine and holly! She signed each card "From Your Neighbor on Fifteenth Street." Later in the day, she made a trip down to the post office, where she mailed a card to each family in the block. On the way she had stopped at Henry's office, told him her idea, and secured his help in locating the names and addresses of her neighbors. On the way home from town she and Henry stopped to buy a beautiful tall tree, a perfect pine, just the right height to fill the corner by the fireplace in their living room. They spent that evening decorating the tree—their first tree together in their own home, the first they hoped of many they would share, as their lives went on together through the years. Margaret sighed happily as she stepped back to view the finished tree. Henry had placed the star at the very top, where it glowed with soft radiance when he turned on the Christmas tree lights. He put his arm around her and bent to kiss her cheek. "Happy?" he questioned. There was affectionate anxiety in his voice, for he knew how she must feel, so far away for the first time in her life from the people she knew best, at the time of year when home ties pulled most strongly. "Very happy, dear," she answered. "I guess I'd be happy any- 671 where with you, Henry. Of course I miss everybody back home, but we'll just have to be patient, and soon maybe we'll have people here that we'll like, too, almost as much." Sunday they went to church and spent the day quietly together. Monday morning Henry hurried off to the office by eight-thirty, and Margaret was alone again. She straightened her house with an efficiency that would have pleased her meticulous housekeeper-mother; she put on her prettiest blue-checked gingham housedress. 'Then she took her needlepoint and sat down quietly by the window to work at it, feeling lonely but comforted as she looked at the big package under the tree. Sometime over the weekend another package had appeared beside the one from Connecticut; that would be Henry's, she knew, for her. She would not let herself be tempted to peek into it. She would wait, for Christmas would be different anyway this year, and she would not spoil any of its pleasure by foreknowledge of her gifts. S she worked, she could watch life going on along Fifteenth Street. She saw her neighbor on the north drive out her driveway; her little boy's head could just be seen above the car door as they went past her window. Across the street another neighbor was sweeping her walks, pushing a flurry of leaves before her broom. Everything was so placid and homey in the gentle December sunlight. At eleven o'clock the postman came down the street, stopping at each house to leave his package and letters. He did not miss a one. Margaret smiled to herself; she had seen to that, for every house in the block would have a card today from her, a neighbor. Finally he came up her steps. She heard the click of the lid as he closed her box. Margaret went out for her mail. There were Christmas advertisements from the local stores, cards from the East, and a small package from Henry's sister in Minneapolis —but where was the little card she had mailed to herself? She had thought she would know when her neighbors received the cards she sent if she sent herself one, and the card had not arrived. Well, perhaps it would be on the afternoon delivery. She had read her mail and placed the gift unopened under the tree, and was in the kitchen just ready to start preparing a small lunch for herself when the doorbell rang. An elderly woman whom Margaret had noticed many times on the street was standing at the door. Her voice shook with age as she said, "Good morning! I'm your neighbor, Mrs. Stoneman. 'This card was left at my home by mistake today. It is addressed to you, and it is such a lovely day I just thought I'd walk up with it." "Why, thank you,' Margaret smiled. "That's very kind of you. Won't you come in and rest a minute before you go back?" The older woman seemed happy to be invited in. "I've been meaning to come to see you," she said, "ever since you moved here, but my husband was ill at the time and after his death I just haven't done much more than I've had to." Margaret had another of her ideas. "Why don't we have lunch together?" she queried. "You're alone and I'm alone, so let's just have a snack here together. I'd love to have you, if you will." "TI wouldn't want to put you out..." began Mrs. Stoneman, but Margaret interrupted. "I'd just love to have you. I'm alone so much that it's a real pleasure to have someone with me. | made some salad this morning for our dinner tonight and there's plenty for our lunch. Ill open a can of creamed chicken." "Then [ll stay, and it's a pleasure to me to be here. After John died, I just stayed on in the house by myself. The children want me to live around among them, but I'd rather stay in my own place. My son John is coming for me at two o'clock to take me out to his house for the afternoon and for dinner tonight. May I call him to tell him I'm over here?" "Of course." Margaret placed her Christmas card on the table and hurried out to the kitchen. She had the chicken on to warm and was serving the salad when Mrs. Stoneman joined her. ATER, over their ice cream and cookies, Mrs. Stoneman praised the salad which Margaret had made from a new recipe which she had found in a newspaper. "Would you like a copy of the recipe?" Margaret asked, proud that her dish had won the praise of a practiced cook. "T'd love it. Ill never be too old to enjoy something new. It's very kind of you to make the day so 672 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1955 "JUST LIKE THE ONES | USED TO KNOW" pleasant for an old woman like me." Margaret copied the recipe. She and her guest were just finishing the dishes when a car stopped out front. Mrs. Stoneman exclaimed, "There's John now, prompt as a clock!" Margaret helped her new friend into her coat and escorted her to the door. John Stoneman smiled genially in answer to his mother's introduction of the younger woman and then carefully helped his mother down the steps to the car. "Come to sce me sometime," Mrs. Stoneman called back, and John tipped his hat to the pretty, flushed little housewife at the door. Margaret watched them out of sight, then turned back to her cheerful living room, which seemed somehow to be still harboring a friendly spirit. When Henry came home, Margaret was full of her day's experiences. After Mrs. Stoneman had left, she had gone out into the yard to hang out her dish towels in the winter sunlight. And there, across the street, were Mrs. Wright and Mrs. Hatcher, who hadn't talked to each other for so long, carrying on an animated and friendly conversation! 'Vhen who should walk by together but Pola Gorlowski and Jack Frank, whose families lived side by side. Mrs. Stoneman had told her about them all. "Do you suppose," Margaret questioned, "that the Christmas cards did all that?" "Could be," Henry answered. Time moved on, pushed by Christmas rushing. 'The little pile of packages under Margaret's 673 tree grew steadily as the mails brought remembrances from faraway friends. Her own present for Henry was carefully wrapped in concealing papers and placed with the other packages. Every night she and Henry made a fire in the fireplace and sat in their living room, breathing the fragrance of the tree, happy to be together, drawn closer by their common homesickness. On Wednesday afternoon before Christmas, Henry called home from the office. "How'd you like to go out to dinner tonight?" "Wonderful," Margaret assented. "What're we celebrating?" "Oh, nothing in particular. Just thought I'd like to take the prettiest girl I know out to dinner for a change." HEY dined at one of their favorite spots, leisurely enjoying the food, lingering over their dessert as they used to do before they were married. Finally Henry said, "Guess the old office drudge had better do that work he brought home tonight, Mrs. Rodgers. [Il take you to the show some other time. Let's not do everything the same night." When they drove up in front of their house, Margaret exclaimed, "Did we leave all those lights on?" "Don't remember doing that," Henry grinned. "Maybe we've got visitors." "Henry!" Margaret scolded. "You knew all the time something was going to happen. What is it?" "Well, Mrs. Stoneman called me today at the office and said some of the neighbors wanted to give us a surprise party for Christmas. I don't know any more than you what's going on." 674 "Let's go find out," Margaret suggested. 'They ran up the walk, hand in hand, enjoying the thrill of the surprise party before they were even a part of it. It was Dr. Broderick who opened the door for them. In their living room were all the neighbors in the block—the Franks, the Gorlowskis, Mrs. Wright, Mrs. Hatcher, Mrs. Broderick, the Crotons with their dog, and the Johnsons with little Jimmie. Mrs. Stoneman beamed from the kitchen door. "Surprise!" they all shouted. Margaret laughed and cried as they crowded around to shake her hand and Henry's. Jimmie pointed to the tree, under which the stack of gifts was piled high. Dr. Broderick made a speech. "We people who live on Fifteenth Street want you to know that we are glad you have come to live with us. We want to be good neighbors to you and to one another. We hope you will be very happy in our neighborhood, and that we will all be happy together. We're really glad to have this opportunity to be together, and we hope you will enjoy the little gifts we have brought for your house." "Oh, thank you!' Margaret breathed, smiling bravely through a must of tears. "How lovely of you to do this. Who ever thought of it?" VERYONE looked at Mrs. Stoneman. "Well," she admitted, "I did sort of work up the idea. I knew you were lonely out here, and I thought we could cheer you up and have a chance to know each other better, too. Now, I think you should open your packages." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1955 Everyone watched eagerly as Henry and Margaret unwrapped their gifts, exhibiting each in turn and identifying the givers. 'The gifts were not expensive, but all were useful, from the crocheted pot lifters Mrs. Stoneman had made to the pretty winter bouquet Mrs. Frank had arranged. Even Jimmie brought a contribution; it was a glass fish from the dime store, but it looked like costly crystal to Margaret. Later she stole out a moment to talk to Mrs. Stoneman, who was stirring cocoa in the kitchen. 'They were alone; everyone else was playing charades in the living room. "Why did you do it?" Margaret whispered. "Did you know that...?" "Of course, I knew," Mrs. Stoneman's voice held laughter. "My son's the handwriting expert on the police force. All I had to do was to show your Christmas card and your recipe to him. He identified you immediately. I think it was a wonderful idea, and so do all your neighbors. Even Mrs. Wright and Mrs. Hatcher are glad you sent those cards. 'They wanted to be friends again, but neither would make the first gesture. Each thought the other sent the card.... Listen!" In the living room Olga had sat at Margaret's little spinet piano. She began playing softly "I'm Dreaming of a White Christmas." One by one the voices took up the words. Jimmie's piping little soprano joined with Dr. Broderick's bass. Out in the kitchen Mrs. Stoneman hummed as she stirred the cocoa. Margaret stood silent, looking out through barren branches toward mountains lost in winter "JUST LIKE THE ONES | USED TO KNOW" 675 gloom. She saw a white snowflake "Don't thank me," Mrs. Stonefloat against the pane. Others fol. Man ejaculated. "You did it yourlowed rapidly. Self. You saw what this street need- "Just like the ones I used to ed and you did something about it. R y " y, 5 7,: = know," the voices were singing. Ve are the ones who should thank Margaret repeated softly, " 'Just like; the ae I used to Pow: Oh Mrs. YO" ee go ape yourieyesiand:, "take these cookies in. When they Stoneman, thank you! I can never,; thank you enough. I'll never be finish that song, they'll be ready to eat everything in the house!" lonely now." Adah A. Harper Martin. Lesa, Arizona, Has Crocheting for a Hobby a A. Harper Martin has many worthwhile hobbies, but crocheting is one of those which has given much pleasure to her and to her friends and relatives. Among the numerous articles which she has completed are twenty-one tablecloths (fifty-four by fifty-four inches); three afghans; over one hundred hot pads; and "'so many doilies, I don't know how many, all kinds, ruffled ones and fancy ones, and so many other things too numerous to mention." She has been married fifty-five years, has six children, thirty-two grandchildren, and seventeen great-grandchildren. She reared her family on a farm, and still found time for much Church work. She has been active in Sunday School, Primary, and years ago in Religion Class. Interested in genealogical work, she has completed extensive research, has done temple work for hundreds of names, and for the past five years has served as an ordained temple worker. She has been a Relief Society visiting teacher for thirty-seven years. Now, at the age of seventy-seven, she is still busy, still happy, and still useful. Nake Soup en Rhea H. Gardner Extension Service Home Management and Furnishings Specialist Utah State Agricultural College At hail to soup! Budget stretcher, appetite stimulant, time saver, and all-around good food! No matter what size the appetite may be, there's a soup to satisfy it. Soup made of clear meat stock and seasoned with vegetables makes a delicious beginning to a luncheon or dinner. To prepare the stock, cover a 4 or 5-pound fowl, or a soup bone from veal or beef, with 12 cups cold water. Simmer for about 3 hours or until meat is tender. Then add: 5 sticks celery % cup chopped carrots % bay leaf 6 sprigs parsley % cup chopped onion 1 teaspoon salt Simmer the stock-vegetable mixture about % hour longer. Remove from heat and cool. Strain the broth and chill. It will solidify and make a good aspic or jellied soup. Serve either chilled or piping hot with bread sticks or crisp wafers. Canned soup stocks or bouillon cubes may be substituted for the homemade soup stock. Split Pea Soup is a favorite main course dish. A set or tossed salad and a light dessert are all that are needed to complete the meal. To make split pea soup you will need: 1 pound split peas ham hocks, or 2 large stocks of celery % pound lean cured ham 2 medium carrots 2 bay leaves 1 small onion salt to taste 3 qts. Boiling water "2 teaspoon thyme Combine all except thyme and simmer until peas are soft. Add thyme last 20 minutes of cooking. Press through a sieve, reheat, and serve. Potato Soup was a favorite main dish in pioneer days when fresh meat as a rule was a "company" food. It is still a favorite in many families. Dice 3 medium to large potatoes and cook in enough hot water almost to cover until potatoes are nearly tender. While they are cooking, dice 3 strips bacon and fry to a light brown. Remove bacon to a dish. To the hot fat add: 1 small onion chopped fine % teaspoon celery salt 2 tablespoons flour dash of pepper 1% teaspoon salt Stir continuously until the mixture is light brown. Add 1 quart milk and continue to stir until thickened and free of lumps. Add potatoes, mix, and serve. This soup, served with slices of Swiss or cheddar cheese, a crisp, colorful salad, and a light dessert, makes a well-balanced "five-star" meal. Tuna Chowder is another soup that is almost a complete meal in itself. In a deep kettle saute until tender 2 thinly sliced, medium-sized onions in 2 tablespoons of oil Page 676 drained from the tuna. Add 1 cup boiling water, salt to taste, % teaspoon thyme, % teaspoon pepper, and 4 medium diced or sliced potatoes. Simmer in a covered pan for 15 minutes, then add 1 cup cooked peas, 1 seven-ounce can tuna, and 3 cups milk. Simmer for a few minutes and serve at once. Other kinds of fish, lightly beaten eggs, or grated cheese may be used in place of the tuna. If eggs are used, stir them into the hot soup seconds before it is to be served. You may wish to add grated cheese after the soup is put into individual bowls. Cream-Base Vegetable Soups are both appetizing and nutritious. They provide an excellent way for using left-over vegetables and vegetable stock. Saute 1 tablespoon minced onion in 2 tablespoons butter for five minutes over low heat. Blend in 1% tablespoons flour, "4 teaspoon salt, and % teaspoon paprika. Stir in slowly and heat to the boiling point, 1 cup whole milk and 1 cup vegetable stock. Add % to 1 cup cooked minced or sieved vegetables. Season as desired. Serve piping hot. AC Sound October Agnes Just Reid I woke to find October at my gate And looked upon a dead and frozen world; Each flaming flower had met the common fate, Each leaf and petal lay distorted, curled. But autumn sun still beamed benignly warm, There was no time to waste in vain regret; The same Good Giver brings the sun and storm— Death is the thing, in life, we must forget. We cannot shadow now with things to come, We must press on to happiness ahead. Tomorrow is the day for which we sigh, We must forget the past, the flowers dead. For well we know, despite the bitter pain, That everything. That dies will live again. Stilled Moment Maryhale Woolsey When older eyes scan tall October hills, Secking the bright mosaic of yesterday, And find, instead, the summit hoary white, Contoured against cloud banks of sullen gray.... Time becomes one stilled moment, sharply etched Upon the heart—and winter's frigid hand Foretouches life, as first snow early falling Dims the warm splendor of the autumn land. MAKE SOUP OFTEN 677 Hermanas CHAPTER 4 Fay Tarlock Synopsis: 'The story "Hermanas" (sisters) is narrated by an American woman living temporarily in Mexico. She has befriended Lolita, a widow, and her lovely young daughter Graciela. At Church Graciela is introduced to Jim Flores, studying to be a doctor, and they are immediately attracted to each other. Graciela enrolls in a secretarial school, and her friendship with Jim deepens into love. One day the American Senora and her husband take Graciela to dinner in a fashionable restaurant, where they meet a wealthy Mexican, Senor Munoz. ECAUSE it was late, Graciela spent the night with us. Before she removed her jacket, she must call Jaime to tell him of the wondrous events of the day. It was his night to be on duty, but she felt close to him, she said, in the house that was a home to both of them. Eager about Saturday's plans, her eyes soft with love, she said, "If Jaime had this day free I would not go." Anxiously she looked at me. "Senor Munoz was kind enough to include my mother in the invitation... Would it be proper, would you be in agreement that she go?" I wondered what the Senora Valades would say to Lolita, the quiet little serving woman in the black dress. "Of course we would be glad to have your mother. She might enjoy the ride and a day in the warm sunshine." Graciela's eyes danced. "I will tell her your words. She may be persuaded to come." She grew pensive. "I wish Jaime were free." Her Page 678 eyes searched mine. "If he were, would you ask the Senor for permission? It would not be proper for me." "The Senor is not an old personal friend. It is just as well Jim stays at the hospital, for I do not wish to ask favors." Lolita did not go. There was a worried look on her face when she came to the wall door, old Ramon close behind. "It is only because you will watch her, Senora, that I consent." Disapproval was in_ her voice. We came to the Munoz home in the countryside about one o'clock. It was my first visit to a Cuernavaca estate; so the details are vivid to me. The gatekeeper, in his long shirt and loose white trousers, opened the iron gate for us, and we rode down the long shrub and flower-bordered drive to the house. Hollywood could not have created a_ better scene, the low-tiled-roof house of many wings, the quiet patios filled with the perfume of flowers and splashing fountains, the long arcades with the orange passion flower and honeysuckle swaying in the breeze. Down the grassy slope that led to the floor of the little valley was a giant swimming pool, rippling bluegreen in the warm breeze. The bathhouse, with its marble pillars and perfumed vines, might have been lifted from an ancient Roman villa. The modest little Greek temple on one side was devoted to steam baths. HERMANAS At the opposite end of the valley was a pleasure dome, straight out of Xanadu and Kubla Khan, and complete with a river. The little river swirled and dashed along the bottom of a natural barranca, artificially terraced and gardened. Close by the frothing waters were shade-covered benches and hammocks. 'There were, in addition, rose gardens, Camellia and gardenia gardens, pools mirroring banana fronds and bamboo, and running streams with serene white ducks. And, hidden by a tall hedge, a prosaic vegetable garden. Inside the house our feet sank in the soft pile of Chinese rugs. The kitchen, which haunts me still, was tiled in brilliant blues and yellows, and had three refrigerators and sinks, as well as three white-capped cooks. Down the center of the huge room ran a double tiered table upon which was arranged every cooking utensil known to man. Even John, whose perpetual retort to extravagance was "no funccione'"' was impressed into silence. Graciela's eyes, on the tour of inspection, were big as saucers, but she kept her head high. Once she whispered, "I wish Jaime could see this." Miguel Munoz was the perfect host. He made us feel that he meant the traditional, "My house is yours." But the long-faced, sharpeyed Senora Valades who greeted us, asked shortly to be excused, saying she had a headache. "My mother-in-law," Senor Munoz explained politely, "does not speak English, and it would further strain her head to be with us today." It was my secret opinion that 679 the lady did not care for Americans. His daughter, a pretty, sulky-looking gitl of fifteen, with reddish brown hair, came to shake hands with us. She was dressed in a gay peasant skirt and white blouse with handmade lace, and was soon excused to ride away in a foreign sports car with a male cousin to an afternoon party at another estate. Left to ourselves, we lounged in the sun and shade, and ate fresh strawberries by the turbulent stream. Everything was ordered to please us, from the time of swimming to eating in the shaded patio. Graciela, by some inflection in the Senor's voice, was always included and made to feel honored and safe. When dusk fell, it was unpleasant to know we must leave this place of luxurious fantasy. As we walked towards the car, the perfume of the flowers strong in the swift-falling dark, Graciela leaned close and whispered, "When we leave tonight, this place will disappear in the darkness and never come to life again." "Yes," I whispered back, "I can see the genie. He's waiting, ready to rub the lamp." Senor Munoz, ahead with my husband and the twins, turned back to smile at us. "I look forward to spending many more pleasant Saturday afternoons with you in the sunshine of Cuernavaca. It is a promise, is it not?" Perhaps the genie was not yet ready. Few days later John flew to the States on business, and I lunched at Sanborn's with two American friends. Halfway through our meal, a gentleman I knew seated himself at a small table, almost touching ours. He was the jaunty and elderly Mr. Henry Carson, an important official in the bank where we had our small account. In Mexico it is not exactly easy for a foreigner to cash a check. Early in John's work he had made artangements with Mr. Carson to cash some of the American men's checks. Quite often I had climbed the long stairs to Mr. Carson's office to get his signature on a check. A few times his secretary, a beautiful young woman, moda aristocratic, would sign for him. Mr. Carson, who had long been a widower, treated her with fatherly solicitude. Today he did not look pleased. Indeed he was triste, the Mexican triste. Because our tables were so close I discreetly asked him why he looked so downcast. He sighed as he gave his order to the pretty waitress in her long skirt and bright headdress. "My secretary," his sigh was longer, "has been with me for almost seven years. She is everything a good secretary should be: efficient, kind, tactful, intelligent and even beautiful. Now she is leaving me to be married." "That was to be expected," I said. "T've often wondered how you could keep so attractive a girl shut up in a banker's office." "I know." He struck the table with the tines of his fork. "It has been my good fortune that her fiance took so long to establish himself." He gazed sadly at his fork. "You know the custom here, a man must be able to afford a wife before he marries. And now," he pushed his fork away from him as if it were the offending bridgegroom, "I must find a new one. And that, my dear lady, is not easy." By this time my two friends were deep in personal confidences, and I felt free to continue with Mr. Carson. "Why," I asked, hoping to cheer him, "is it so difficult? So many nice girls take business training. It should be easy to get one for so desirable a position as yours." "Easy! My dear lady." His gray brows rose in protest. "Do you know what I require?" "I'm interested in learning." "She must be intelligent and adaptable. She must take shorthand as easily as the bird flies and type like an angel." "Pues." I shrugged my shoulder in true Mexican style. "A little difficult, but not impossible. What else?" "IT have only begun." He drummed on the table with his knuckles. "She has to have a voice as soft as Micaela's. After seven years I couldn't stand a strident voice." "Continue, Senor," I encouraged him. "She has to be tactful, intuitive. She must have a cheering smile, for I grow frosty these late mornings of my life." "And is that all?" I asked it with a little impudence. "Oh, above all, in addition to being able to spell in Spanish, she has to speak English, hear English, write English, as if she were English born." OHN was not there to restrain me, though I could hear his voice, slightly irritated, warning me, "You can't rush in there and offer 680 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1955 HERMANAS to find him a secretary. Our relations have been strictly business. Besides, he's able to help himself." I did not listen to the voice. "T think, Mr. Carson, that I could find you a secretary with all your qualifications — and more — if you are interested." "Am I interested?" He sat erect in his chair, his shrewd eyes burrowing deep into mine. "My dear lady, you have heard me complaining and ruining my digestion, so much so that I'll be unable to enjoy one of the few pleasures, left me, my lunch at Sanborn's. Where is this paragon, if she does exist? And I tell you plainly, I am all doubts." I planned my words carefully. "I could come to see you sometime next week... If you really want to hear about her?" In all my plans for Graciela, some of which I admit, in retrospect, were a little confused, I had not thought of a position comparable to the one Henry Carson would offer. "Next week!"' His voice rose high. "You can't hold me over the coals that long. Come sooner, in fact, come today." I glanced at my companions, still deep in conversation over their dessert. "We're waiting for the Juarez shops to open. If I come by around four o'clock, will you be in?" "Tl be holding the door open until you come." Just then his waitress set his dish of creamed chicken before him, and he sniffed it distrustfully. I bowed, smiled, and was gone. It had been our plan to keep Graciela in school a month longer. 681 What was a month? I fairly hugged myself with joy. Our interview ended with my promise that Graciela would see him the next day. After he had interviewed her, his Micaela would give her tests for English, shorthand, and typing. If, in my interview, I gave the impression that Graciela's mother had been more a companion and less a cook to the Senora Urbina, I did it on purpose. Mr. Carson would just as soon have Lolita a laundress as a duchess, but Micaela of the aristocratic mien must not be prejudiced. The night before Graciela's tests was a rainy one. Jim came for supper at the respectable hour of seven. Marita and Judy were already in bed, and the three of us had the living room in blessed peace. Our three heads were close together in the circle of light cast by the one reading lamp. In the semi-gloom outside the circle, the brown walls and the dark carved mahogany chairs and chests loomed huge in the shadows. Jim sat close to Graciela on the Morocco leather sofa, drilling the nervous girl in terms he deemed peculiar to bankers. I pretended to read, but my eyes were more often on her bent head. In this tense atmosphere the telephone ring came like an explosion. Swiftly I crossed to the fireplace and snatched the receiver off its hook. Miguel Munoz was on the other end. After his gracious salutations, he informed me that he had at his disposal for tomorrow night in the Belles Artes a box for the last performance of a famous Spanish dancer. "It was only this last moment 682 that I knew the box was free," he apologized. I would like nothing better, I told him, than to see the dancer, but at this time my husband was in the States and we would therefore be unable to go. 'The Senor, who knew his old Spanish customs, did not press the subject, but I was certain the smothered sound of displeasure I, inadvertantly, heard was not caused by my refusal. After the Senor had expressed his regrets, he asked in an elaborately casual way about the little Graciela. Had I seen her since the Saturday we had honored his home? "She is with me tonight." That should have been all I said, but in a rush of understanding, I knew why my favor had been courted. I wanted to stop any further advances on his part. "Right now," I said, "her young man is preparing her for the ordeal she faces when she applies for her new position." There was a second's eloquent silence on his part. Later, I knew how well he understood me, for my blunder gave him an opportunity to act with more precision than he had planned. Gracefully he said goodbye, promising to call as soon as my husband returned. Both Jim and Graciela looked questioningly at me, as I placed the receiver in the cradle. "It was Senor Munoz." I sat down and picked up my book. "He asked about Graciela." "The old boy is getting solicitous," Jim said, taking the pencil from Graciela's hand and closing her notebook. "Let's have a quick game of chess and call it a night." Graciela got out the chess board, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1955 and I picked up some knitting. Jim won the game, then told us goodnight. We sat in the living room until we heard the lock click in the gate and his whistle as he trotted towards Insurgentes to get a bus. EXT morning I walked with Graciela to the Avenida and waited until she got on the red bus. She smiled shakily from the crowded platform. 'This next hour would be a milestone in her life, and no one could help her. As for myself, I had a hard time occupying myself the next few hours, and when the bell rang shortly before one o'clock, I was waiting at the gate to admit her. I did not have to ask the question, the joy in her face was enough. "T am to return tomorrow," she said, when we had cried some happy tears together. "Mr. Carson's secretary will train me for two weeks, then I'll be, as you say, on my own. I am so happy I have that bursting feeling." Jim came for dinner and took Graciela home. The first moment when Lolita could catch a glimpse of happier days to come was for mother and daughter alone. I wanted only one thing — Lolita to tell me of her joy — but she neither came nor telephoned, and I was vaguely hurt. Graciela herself did not come so often. Her days were long, not broken by the long siesta hours, when the entire city seems to pile into busses, homeward bound. Graciela ate her lunch from Lolita's basket and worked by herself, trying to learn the office routine. When she finally came, her joy in her work and in her new independ- HERMANAS ence was contagious. As usual, she came on Saturday. Jim was waiting, and they took the children to Lindberg Park. When they left, at night, they planned to meet the following Saturday. When that next Saturday came, Jim waited in the garden until dusk. Each shadow that fell across the gate through the long afternoon meant Graciela. When it became too dark for shadows, he still sat there, refusing to go into the house with John and the twins. "Don't worry," I kept repeating. "Something has come up. You know how difficult it is for her to telephone." "T don't like the role of the suspicious lover." Jim leaned forward in his garden chair, his fingers interlaced, "but there is something wrong. I can't understand it. When I waited for her at work two days ago she looked strained and jumpy, and that isn't like Graciela." He looked at me for confirmation. "T thought maybe she was just overtired. She's been under a strain all summer, working to be ready for a job. Then this chance of a lifetime came so suddenly." He stood up, stretching himself and looking down at me from his slim height. "T'm not so sure now that I had the right answer." Absent-mindedly he picked a pink 683 rose from the bush near him and crushed the fragrant petals between his fingers. "I might as well say it aloud." Casting the rose aside he sat down again, facing me in the gathering darkness. "Do you know anything about this Munoz character, really? Has he been seeing Graciela?" "T haven't seen or heard from him since that night he telephoned when you were here." I was not as surprised by Jim's frankness as I might have been, for I had been ordering the same thoughts away from me. I rose, and Jim with me, our feet lingering on the tile path. When we came to the low front step, I paused, my hand on the carved lintel, "I may as well confess, the gentleman seemed too interested, but," and I almost believed myself as I said it, "T don't think he has seen her. I think he would see her through me. Anyway," I added lamely, "he doesn't even know where she lives." "A little thing like that wouldn't stop him." Jim held the door open for me. "I'd go to San Angel tonight, but I'll be late at the hospital if I don't hustle." He called goodnight to John, and, a moment later, I heard his whistle for a taxi. The next Saturday we did not see either Jim or Graciela. (To be continued) <> October Gene Romolo Loveliest of all the autumn months Is dulcet-toned October; For her the welkin wears a brighter blue... For her the sun turns high its golden lamp And sets it in the west at close of day, To burn...-and burn... And burn... Until it forms another gleaming world... Another gold-paved way. Wearing a Pretty Face Mabel Law Atkinson | eset when I was resting, silently chanting sonnets in the process of creation to keep my mind from the almost unbearable arthritic pain in my legs and feet, the doorbell rang. I erased the frown of annoyance that came to my face, and, by the time I reached the door and had opened it, I had managed a smile. There stood my baby daughter — a senior in high school — tall and beautiful, who explained with a happy laugh, "I just wanted to hear the doorbell, Mom. I felt elegant as I rang it." My laughter, in a minor strain, mingled with hers, for we are proud to have such a luxury after so many years of having callers knocking on our door. Then, by some mystic alchemy, the wheels of time spun backward to a summer afternoon fourteen years ago, when I was summoned from my resting by a gentle knocking. Almost too ill to do so, I arose and slowly made my way to the door, reshaping my face into a smile of welcome on the way. There stood my baby, a blue-eyed, yellow-curled little darling of four, laughing up at me. My smile had vanished and I greeted her with, "Why did you make mama get up and come to the door, my dear? Don't you know that is being unkind?" I shall never forget seeing the radiant brightness fade from her sensitive little face, the laughter from her lips and eyes. A picture of contrite babyhood, the quick tears brimming over, she said, "But Mummy, I wanted to see you wearing your pretty face!" The impact of those baby words, with their implication, had come as a shock to rouse me from all semblance of self-pity. Holding her close, I then realized that no matter how ill or fatigued I was, I must let this last little child of mine see a joyous, smiling mother as the others had done; that all of my dear ones needed my smiles more than did the occasional caller. "A penny for your thoughts, Mom!" I was returned to the present by my daughter's voice, the same which had rebuked me, but with lilting overtones the years had added. I looked into the unshadowed depths of her eyes, still the same clear-blue, and with quiet, reminiscent laughter easing my pain, I spoke more to myself than to her, "Dear little girl, I have found that 'wearing a pretty face' makes a lighter heart within me." And it still does. GG OF OF ee Page 684 From The Field 7 Note® Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1950, page 278, and the Handbook of Instructions, page 123. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Elizabeth W. Hatch IDAHO STAKE PRESENTS TABLEAU "A SCRAPBOOK OF ENGLISH LITERATURE" AT CLOSING SOCIAL, May 1955 Left to right: Rhea Lau, as Ann Hathaway, who introduced Shakespeare; Grace Whitworth, as Mary Bobbin, who introduced William S. Gilbert; Janice Andreason, as May Campbell, who told about her sweetheart, Robert Burns; Gale Sanders, as Emily Sclwood 'Tennyson, who introduced Alfred Lord 'Tennyson; Norene Bunn, as Dorothy Wordsworth, who introduced William Wordsworth. These women are the literature class leaders in the following wards, respectively: Soda Springs Second Ward, Chesterfield, Soda Springs First Ward, Lund, and Conda. Wanda H. Reed, Secretary, Idaho Stake Relief Society, reports this unique tableau as being worthwhile and significant as a literature class activity: "This was held on a stake basis under the direction of the literature department, the stake leader being Gertrude Stephens. The women were attired in the costumes of their historic period." Elizabeth W. Hatch is president of Idaho Stake Relief Society. Page 685 686 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1955 Photograph submitted by Odette Coulam SANTA MONICA STAKE (CALIFORNIA) PRESENTS PAGEANT "GO FORTH AND TEACH," April 29, 1955 Standing at the front, left to might: Harold Nufer as Moroni; Nellie Stevenson, stake theology class leader; R. J. Howard as Helaman; Odette Coulam, President, Santa Monica Stake Relief Society; Theodore Bergeson as Alma; Helen Coleman, 'teader; Bishop Wallace R. Reid of LaCienega Ward. Singing Mothers of the stake may be seen seated at the tables at the left. Photograph submitted by LaRue O. Nixon ROOSEVELT STAKE (UTAH) HONORS VISITING TEACHERS AT CONVENTION, May 15, 1955 Front row, left to mght: Inez Burgener, Secretary-Treasurer; LaRue O. Nixon, President; Isobell Forsythe, a visiting teacher for sixty years; Anna Murray, First Counselor; Jean Summers, Second Counselor and composer of two skits and a poem for the convention. Second row, standing, left to right: Eva Holmes, Magazine representative; Dawna Dennis, organist and composer of a song "Onward Visiting Teachers'; Dora Freston, visiting teacher message leader and speaker at the convention; Dr. Lurrine Allen, social science class leader; Minnie Angus, chorister and composer of a song ""T'eachers."' NOTES FROM THE FIELD 687 Back row, standing, left to right: Katie Duncan, literature class leader; Venice Durfee, theology class leader; Erma Eldredge, work meeting leader. LaRue O. Nixon, President, Roosevelt Stake Relief Society, reports this convention as being unusually successful. It was planned for "the three-fold purpose of honoring the visiting teachers, stressing the importance of their calling, and stimulating better visiting teaching. The talents of the board members were improved through writing original songs and skits to stress the purposes, and taking part in the convention." Photograph submitted by Mary Kotter NEBO STAKE (UTAH), WEST WARD RELIEF SOCIETY CONDUCTS POETRY WRITING PROJECT Front row, seated, left to right: Lillian Christiansen, First Counselor; Hazel Baird, President, and one of three winners; Ardell DeHart, literature class leader; Ruth Rothe, contest chairman and award winner in the contest; Bernice Thompson, award winner; Ina Sheets, who received honorable mention in the contest. Second row, standing, left to mght: May Hiatt, Second Counselor; Betty Hurst; Clay Jackson; Elda Throckmorton; Eva Hill; Rebecca Twede; Vera Finch. Back row, standing, left to right: Edna Hendrickson; Erma Schramm; Mary J. McClellan; Ivena Hendrickson; Donna Hiatt. Under the direction of Ardell DeHart, literature class leader, an inspirational and deeply satisfying poetry writing project was conducted in the spring of 1955. 'The poems, written by members of the West Ward Relief Society, were printed in an attractive booklet entitled '""Whispered Thoughts." In their foreword to the booklet, Sister DeHart and Sister Rothe commented: '""These poems have been written by the West Ward sisters 'while on the run.'... These poems show that no matter how busy we are, we can take a few moments out to grow a little. Each sister who contributed has added not only to her own life, but a touch of humor, whimsey, and beauty to our lives...." Mary W. Kotter, President, Nebo Stake Relief Society, expresses the joy and satisfaction which the women experienced in this creative activity: ""These women have found the thrill of creative writing.... It is evidence of the happy times they have had in their literature lessons. Their poems were read during the luncheon period of a work meeting." Four women received special recognition in the contest, three winners and one honorable mention. Lois Sorensen edited the booklet and did most of the typing and much of the arranging. Fern Wellington helped in the work of printing, and May Hiatt assisted with the entire project. 688 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1955 Photograph submitted by Virginia R. Vaterlaus MONTPELIER STAKE (IDAHO), MONTPELIER SECOND WARD SINGING MOTHERS FURNISH MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, May 22, 1955 Center section, front row, at the right: Anna Chatterton (in dark dress), Second Ward chorister; center section, second row, fifth from the left: Lillian Phelps, Second Ward Relief Society President. Left section, second row, first at the left: Ruth K. Anderson, soloist; third from the left: Virginia R. Vaterlaus, President, Montpelier Stake Relief Society. Right section, front row, at the left: Jennie Spidell, organist. In reporting the activities of this enthusiastic group, President Vaterlaus comments: "These Singing Mothers, under the direction of Anna Chatterton, have furnished special music upon many occasions. They presented a cantata in the ward and in the stake, and have furnished music for sacrament meetings, stake union meetings, and quarterly conference." BS Ee tn. Sige Weg Photograph submitted by Beth M. Stallman INGLEWOOD STAKE (CALIFORNIA) SINGING MOTHERS FURNISH MUSIC FOR RELIEF SOCIETY CONVENTION, May 1955 Organist Lucille Peel (in dark dress) is seated at the piano; chorister Kathryn Squire (in light dress) stands at the nght of the piano. Beth M. Stallman is president of Inglewood Stake Relief Society. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 689 Photograph submitted by Genevieve Anderson EAST LOS ANGELES STAKE (CALIFORNIA), EASTMONT WARD VISITING TEACHERS ACHIEVE A ONE HUNDRED PER CENT RECORD FOR FOUR YEARS First row, seated on the floor, third from the left: Afton R. Later, President. Back row, standing, fifth from the left: Florence Vance, Counselor; sixteenth from the left: Arvilla Scott, Counselor. Genevieve Anderson is president of East Los Angeles Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Veda F. Moss RENO STAKE (NEVADA) FORMER RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS HONORED AT VISITING TEACHERS CONVENTION Front row, standing, left to right: former presidents Bertha Purdy, Isabell Cooke, Lena Oxborrow; Elder Stanley Lindsay, adviser to the present stake Relief Society board. Back row, standing, left to right, Reno Stake Relief Society board: Mary Schelin, social science class leader; Roxa Keele, work meeting leader; Helen Dickson, chorister; Della Naef, visiting teacher message leader; Ada Sneddon, First Counselor; Veda F. Moss, President; JoAnn Stewart, Second Counselor; Alice Manley, Secretary; Zola Beebe, organist; LaRue Linthicum, literature class leader; Gladys Greive, Magazine representative; Edna Platt, theology class leader. Photograph submitted by Dorothy Zaugg WEISER STAKE (IDAHO), PAYETTE WARD SINGING MOTHERS FURNISH MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, June 1955 Organist Fannie Chandler stands in the foreground at the organ Front row, left to right: Charlotte Stringham, chorister; Ada Budge, Counselor; Clara Kite; Blanche Bateman; Verla Jensen; Barbara Bahr; Reba Hammer; Ruth Glover; Iona Brown; Joyce Jorgensen; Delta Keck; Anna Olsen. Back row, left to right: Reba Comish; Norene Vawter; Blanche Ashton; Ileen Sucher; Reah Kidd; Erma Chadwick, President; Edna Hardy; Rosella Sinclair; Jenny Wilde; Alene McDonald; Jean Smart; Loris Lords; Muriel Nicholes; Luella Frogley; Geneva Mitchell. The Payette Ward chapel was dedicated at this conference. Dorothy Zaugg is president of Weiser Stake Relief Society. Redecorating Dorothy O. Rea The ceiling of my outdoor room Is changed from blue to gray. Summer walls, once splashed with green, Are red and gold today. The grassy carpet, too, is new. Once woven shade and sun, It's now embossed with maple leaves, In shining colors spun. The garden seat, where springtime sat, Never fearing frost nor cold, Is autumn's chair close beside A hearth of flaming marigold, 690 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1955 Sheology—Characters and Teachings of The Book of Mormon Lesson 36—Predictions Concerning the Coming of the Messiah Elder Leland H. Monson (Texts as cited in the Bible; Pearl of Great Price; The Book of Mormon) For Tuesday, January 3, 1956 Objective: To show that the Israelites of the Western Hemisphere, as well as those of the Eastern Hemisphere, looked forward to the coming of Chuist. THE birth of Christ did not come unannounced and unheralded. The Israelites on the Eastern Hemisphere and on the Western Hemisphere looked forward to his birth in the flesh. 'The Hebrew nation had many records, accepted by them as revelations from God. These records were "rich in prediction and promise respecting the earthly advent of the Messiah." Sacrifices Emblematical of the Sacrifice of Son of God These records show that Adam and his descendants were instructed to offer sacrifices to God, emblematical of the great sacrifice of the Son of God who should come in the meridian of time. A modern revealed record of the fall of man in The Pearl of Great Price, contains the following narrative of this significant event: And after many days an angel of the Lord appeared unto Adam, saying: Why dost thou offer sacrifices unto the Lord? And Adam said unto him: I know not, save the Lord commanded me. And then the angel spake, saying: This thing is a similitude of the sacrifice of the Only Begotten of the Father, which is full of grace and truth. Wherefore, thou shalt do all that thou doest in the name of the Son, and thou shalt repent and call upon God in the name of the Son forevermore. And in that day the Holy Ghost fell upon Adam, which beareth record of the Father and the Son, saying: I am the Only Begotten of the Father from the beginning, henceforth and forever, that as thou hast fallen thou mayest be redeemed, and all mankind even as many as will (P. Of G. P., Moses 5:6-9). Adam's posterity looked forward to the coming of the Only Begotten Son of God to redeem them from their sins. Dr. James E. Talmage wrote: The system of sacrifice expressly enPage 69] joined in the Mosaic code was essentially a prototype of the sacrificial death to be accomplished by the Savior on Calvary. The blood of countless altar victims, slain by Israel's priests in the course of prescribed ritual, ran throughout the centuries from Moses to Christ as a prophetic flood in similitude of the blood of the Son of God appointed to be shed as an expiatory sacrifice for the redemption of the race (Jesus the Christ, page 45). Furthermore, blessing Judah, his father Jacob, prophesied: The sceptre shall not depart from Judah, nor a lawgiver from between his fect, until Shiloh [Christ] come; and unto him shall the gathering of the people be (Gen. 49:10). Job rejoiced in the redeeming power of the Messiah and prophesied: "For I know that my redeemer liveth, and that he shall stand at the latter day upon the earth" (Job 19:25). Piercing the veil which separates the present from the future, Isaiah, "writing as if he saw the accomplishment of the divine purposes as if already achieved," wrote: For unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given: and the government shall be upon his shoulder: and his name shall be called Wonderful, Counselor, The mighty God, The everlasting Father, The Prince of Peace. Of the increase of his government and peace there shall be no end, upon the throne of David, and upon his kingdom, to order it, and to establish it with judgment and with justice from henceforth even for ever. The zeal of the Lord of hosts will perform this (Isaiah 9:6-7). Isaiah specifies conditions surrounding the Savior's humble life and sacrificial death. He saw that Jesus would be despised and rejected of men, that he would be a man of sorrows, and acquainted with grief (see Isaiah 53:3), that he would be a "patient and willing sacrifice" for the sins of men. (See also Isaiah 11:1; 7:14). Jeremiah, E: zekiel, Hosea, and Micah directed the attention of their generations to the future coming of the Messiah. (See Jesus the Christ, page 48. ) Behold, the days come, saith the Lord, that I will perform that good thing which I have promised unto the house of Israel and to the house of Judah. In those days, and at that time, will I cause the Branch of righteousness to grow up unto David; and he shall execute judgment and righteousness in the land (Jeremiah 33:14-15). And I will set up one shepherd over them, and he shall feed them, even my servant David; he shall feed them, and he shall be their shepherd (Ezekiel 34:23). Afterward shall the children of Israel return, and seek the Lord their God, and David their king; and shall fear the Lord and his goodness in the latter days (Hosea 3:53). But thou, Bethlehem Ephratah, though thou be little among the thousands of Judah, yet out of thee shall he come forth unto me that is to be ruler in Israel; whose goings forth have been from of old, from everlasting (Micah 5:2). Zechariah broke out in song regarding the entry of Jesus into Jerusalem: Rejoice greatly, O daughter of Zion; shout, O daughter of Jerusalem: behold, thy King cometh unto thee: he is just, and having salvation; lowly, and _ riding upon an ass, and upon a colt the foal of an ass (Zechariah 9:9). Zechariah also foretold the crucifixion and the contrition of the Jews: "... And they shall look re me whom they have pierced..." (Zechariah 12:10). 692 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1955 LESSON DEPARTMENT And one shall say unto him, What are these wounds in thine hands? Then he shall answer, Those with which I was wounded in the house of my _ friends (Zechariah 13:6). And I said unto them, If ye think good, give me my price; and if not, forbear. So they weighed for my price thirty pieces of silver (Zechariah 11:12). Jesus Testifies of Prophecies Concerning Himself That these prophecies which we have recounted did refer to the coming of Jesus in the flesh is explicitly stated by Jesus himself when he said to the apostles:... These are the words which I spake unto you, while I was yet with you, that all things must be fulfilled, which were written in the law of Moses, and in the prophets, and in the psalms, concerning me. Then opened he their understanding, that they might understand the scriptures, And said unto them, Thus it is written, and thus it behoved Christ to suffer, and to rise from the dead the third day (Luke 24:44-46; see also Luke 24:25-27). John the Baptist Testifies of Jesus as the Christ Finally, John the Baptist proclaimed that: I indeed baptize you with water unto repentance: but he that cometh after me is mightier than I, whose shoes I am not worthy to bear: he shall baptize you with the Holy Ghost, and with fire.... Then cometh Jesus from Galilee to Jordan unto John, to be baptized of him (Matthew 3:11, 13). Prophecies of Christ in Book of Mormon The scriptures kept by the people of the Western Hemisphere, The Book of Mormon, are just as explicit concerning the coming of the Son of God to redeem the world. 693 Nephi Testifies of Christ Nephi, son of Lehi, informs us that as his father was journeying with the little colony across the wilderness towards the land of promise, that the Lord revealed the time and the place of the future advent of Jesus. Wrote Nephi: Yea, even six hundred years from the time that my father left Jerusalem, a prophet would the Lord God raise up among the Jews—even a Messiah, or, in other words, a Savior of the world. And he also spake concerning the prophets, how great a number had testified of these things, concerning this Messiah, of whom he had spoken, or this Redeemer of the world. Wherefore, all mankind were in a lost and in a fallen state, and ever would be save they should rely on this Redeemer. And he spake also concerning a prophet who should come before the Messiah, to prepare the way of the Lord— Yea, even he should go forth and cry in the wilderness: Prepare ye the way of the Lord, and make his paths straight; for there standeth one among you whom ye know not; and he is mightier than I, whose shoe's latchet I am not worthy to unloose. And much spake my father concerning this thing. And my father said he should baptize in Bethabara, beyond Jordan; and he also said he should baptize with water; even that he should baptize the Messiah with water. And after he had baptized the Messiah with water, he should behold and _ bear record that he had baptized the Lamb of God, who should take away the sins of the world. And it came to pass after my father had spoken these words he spake unto my brethren concerning the gospel which should be preached among the Jews, and also concerning the dwindling of the Jews in unbelief. And after they had slain the Messiah, who should come, and after he had been slain he should rise from the dead, and should make himself manifest, by the Holy Ghost, unto the Gentiles (I Nephi 10:4-11). Benjamin Testifies of Christ King Benjamin, filled with the spirit of God, told his people: For behold, the time cometh, and is not far distant, that with power, the Lord Omnipotent who reigneth, who was, and is from all eternity to all eternity, shall come down from heaven among the children of men, and shall dwell in a tabernacle of clay, and shall go forth amongst men, working mighty miracles, such as healing the sick, raising the dead, causing the lame to walk, the blind to receive their sight, and the deaf to hear, and curing all manner of diseases. And he shall cast out devils, or the evil spirits which dwell in the hearts of the children of men. And lo, he shall suffer temptations, and pain of body, hunger, thirst, and fatigue, even more than man can suffer, except it be unto death; for behold, blood cometh from every pore, so great shall be his anguish for the wickedness and the abominations of his people. And he shall be called Jesus Christ, the Son of God, the Father of heaven and earth, the Creator of all things from the beginning; and his mother shall be called Mary. And lo, he cometh unto his own, that salvation might come unto the children of men even through faith on his name; and even after all this they shall consider him a man, and say that he hath a devil, and shall scourge him, and shall crucify him. And he shall rise the third day from the dead; and behold, he standeth to judge the world... (Mosiah 3:5-10). Alma Testifies of Christ Alma was equally as specific regarding the coming of the Messiah. He wrote: And behold, he shall be born of Mary, at Jerusalem which is the land of our forefathers, she being a virgin, a precious and chosen vessel, who shall be overshadowed and conceive by the power of the Holy Ghost, and bring forth a son, yea, even the Son of God (Alma 7:10). (Read also 7:11-13.) To his wayward son, Corianton, Alma said: And now, my son, I would say somewhat unto you concerning the coming of Christ. Behold, I say unto you, that it is he that surely shall come to take away the sins of the world; yea, he cometh to declare glad tidings of salvation unto his peop'e (Alma 39:15). Thus we see that in all ages and in the scriptures of both hemispheres, the prophets have borne testimony concerning the future coming of the Messiah. The literal fulfillment of the prophecies validates our claim that they were of divine origin. Indeed, the sacred scriptures did announce, did herald the coming of the Messiah to redeem mankind from their sins. Questions and Topics for Discussion 1. Discuss the predictions concerning the advent of the Messiah in the Old Testament. 2. In what way was the system of sacrifice a prototype of the sacrificial death of Christ? 3. What Book of Mormon prophets are mentioned who foretold the coming of Christ? 4. How specific were their predictions? 694 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1955 Visiting Seacher ITlessages Book of Mormon Gems of Truth Lesson 36—"Therefore, Blessed Are They Who Will Repent and Hearken Unto the Voice of the Lord Their God; For These Are They That Shall Be Saved" (Helaman 12:23). Edith S. Elliott For Tuesday, January 3, 1956 Objective: To point out that repentance and hearkening to the voice of the Lord bring salvation. WE should be ever grateful that © the Lord, mindful of our frailties, has provided us through the glorious principle of repentance with a way of obtaining eternal life. Knowing how cunning are the wiles of Satan, our Heavenly Father knows that some of his children will succumb to them, to a greater or less degree. But still he has given us our free agency and, therefore, we have the nght to determine our life's behavior. Christ taught repentance, pointing out his willingness to forgive sincere contrition. An example of his desire to guard and protect us is when he cried out in anguish: O Jerusalem, Jerusalem... How often would I have gathered thy children together, even as a hen gathereth her chickens under her wings, and ye would not! (Mt. 23:37). An example of the saving power of repentance in an individual's life is the occasion when a sinful woman was brought before Jesus by the scribes and Pharisees. In his own way he gave her the opportunity to repent and admonished her "... Go, and sin no more" (John 8:11). The great prophets of all dispensations cried repentance, Their exhortations are told in both the Bible and 'The Book of Mormon. Saul (Paul) in his repentance and humility, spent his life urging his fellow men likewise to repent and experience the fruitage of the gospel. Samuel, the Lamanite, preaching the blessings of repentance, dedicated his life to show the way to salvation. The scriptures are abundant in incidents proving the eagerness of our Father in heaven to shower his children with gifts and blessings on the principle of repentance. Great joy comes to both a wrongdoer and his loved ones, when he accepts the doctrine of repentance and patterns his future life in accordance with his repentance. We read in Luke 15:7:. Joy shall be in heaven over one sinner that repenteth, more than over ninety and nine just persons, which need no repentance. There are sins of omission as well as sins of commission. Sins of omission can cause deep sorrow. Neglect of doing a favor, speaking a kindly word, warning of danger, or failing to offer succor to the needy, is guilt that also calls for rePage 695 pentance. In the New Testament we are advised: Therefore to him that knoweth to do good, and doeth it not, to him it is sin (James 4:17). We need never hesitate nor fear to ask forgiveness in humility for our mistakes. Take comfort in this statement: Behold, he who has repented of his sins, the same is forgiven, and I, the Lord, remember them no more (D. & C. 58:42). Work ITleeting—Food Preparation and Service (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 4—Soups Rhea H. Gardner For Tuesday, January 10, 1956 66()F soup and love," writes Thomas Fuller, "the first is best. Love has its charms, but only soup so well nourishes the young, stokes the fires of manhood, and comforts the old." A steaming bowl of good soup does more than whet the appetite and warm the stomach. The hot liquid taken into an empty stomach is easily assimilated, acts as a stimulant, and prepares the way for whatever follows. Soup is easy to make and easy on the budget. Preparation of Soup Stock Shank bones or knuckles make the most flavorful stock. If there is marrow in the bones, it will be that much better. Ask the butcher to cut the bones into several pieces so that all the flavor extracts will be dissolved as the soup cooks. Meat, bone, and fat, in the right proportions, are all necessary for the making of good soup stock. Serving greasy soup is a cardinal culinary sin. Often good soup bones are available for a nominal sum at butcher shops. Most of the meat is usually trimmed off, but you can buy soup meat to go with them, still making it a very good buy. A good soup has a pleasing appearance and a blended, satisfying flavor. The soup stock may be either brown or just a plain clear color. To prepare brown stock, cut meat in one-inch cubes and brown them over moderate heat in marrow taken from the bone. If there is none, a small amount of suet cut into small pieces and melted may be used. Put the well-browned meat into the soup kettle with the bony parts. Cover the meat with cold water and bring it slowly to a boil. Simmer for several hours. Never let the soup boil. If vegetables are to be added to give flavor to the stock, wait until about half an hour before the soup is done, with all except the onions. They may be put into the soup a little earlier than the other vegetables. Add vegetables 696 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1955 LESSON DEPARTMENT that are to be served with the soup, just long enough before serving time to permit them to become tender. If green peas are to be added, precook them and add just before the soup is served. Cut all vegetables in pieces large enough so they will be identifiable when the soup is served. The idea that everything can be dumped into the soup kettle is all wrong. Combine only flavors and foods that go well together. Give soup making all the care and thought you give any other dish. Meat trimmings and bones from roast meat can be used to make good meat stock. One or more bouillon cubes may be needed to improve the flavor. Soup Variations Meat stock may be served clear, either piping hot or chilled and jelled, as the first course of a formal dinner. With just a few vegetables and a spoonful of pearl barley, rice, or noodles, it may be the first course of an informal dinner. With an ample amount of vegetables, barley, noodles, or dumplings, soup may be the main course of the family meal. Thick soups are often the main course of a luncheon or supper. If you wish to serve a light soup but have no meat nor meat stock, French onion soup is the answer. It is easily and quickly made. Saute five cups thinly sliced peeled onions in one-fourth cup of butter in a Dutch oven or heavy kettle. Stir onions often and fry until they are a beautiful golden brown — not any darker. Sprinkle onions with one- 697 fourth teaspoon each of pepper and granulated sugar and one half teaspoon salt. While onions are browning, dissolve five chicken bouillon cubes in five cups of hot water. When onions are browned, sprinkle one tablespoon of flour over them and stir until well mixed. Add bouillon cubes and simmer twenty minutes. Creamed soups are made by combining equal parts of white sauce and strained vegetables. Pour hot vegetable pulp and juice into the hot white sauce. Stir until blended. Grated cheese or finely cut parsley, sprinkled over the top of the soup just before it is served, make attractive variations. "Sandwich sundaes" are favorites of many children. Pour a_ hot cream soup over a sandwich, either plain or toasted. Some favorite combinations are toasted cheese sandwiches with cream of tomato soup; cold lamb sandwiches with cream of pea soup; and tuna sandwiches with mushroom soup. A soup which was_ frequently made by our grandparents, particularly those of Scandinavian descent, was dried fruit soup. Often it was served as the main course at the evening meal. It is good served hot or cold with cinnamon toast. Soup may have been born out of the need of economy, but it is now served in homes of every rank and in every land. Activity for the Class Leader Discussion of canned, dried, and frozen soups. Note the supplementary material to this lesson in the article "Make Soup Often," by Rhea H. Gardner, on page 662 of this issue of The Relief Society Magazine. ee Literature of England Lesson 52—Kipling, the Poet of Empire (1865-1936) Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: The Literature of England, II, Woods, Watt, Anderson, pp. 896-909) For Tuesday, January 17, 1956 Objective: To taste the full flavor of Kipling's pungent diction by reading some of his poems and learning of his experiences which made them possible. KEPLING spoke for the great middle-classes—soldiers, clerks, sailors, housewives — who had tired somewhat of "'literary" lady-like poets of the mid-century, and who hungered for the recreation of the realistic world of the here and now — fresh, terse, unvarnished, even harsh. Here lies the major accomplishment of the poetic Kipling. Kipling's Parents Kipling's parents, both children of Methodist ministers, met one balmy summer afternoon at secluded Rudyard Lake in rural Staftordshire; it was only fitting that their first-born be named after the place where their love began. In his autobiography Something of Myself, Kipling speaks of ''my Father possessing his sage Yorkshire outlook and wisdom, and my Mother, all Celt and three-parts-fire, were both so entirely comprehending that except in trivial matters we had hardly need of words," Until their deaths in his forty-fifth year, they were "in truth the only public for whom I had any regard whatever." Kipling's Childhood Kipling was born in Bombay in 1865, where his father was Professor of Architecture at the University, later director of the museum at Page 698 Lahore. His nurse, or ayah, taught him Hindustani, which so nearly became his mother tongue that he had to translate mentally when speaking to his parents. When he returned to India's familiar haunts at age seventeen, he found himself muttering phrases which he did not understand. On occasion throughout his life the Indian phrase came first. When he was six, Rudy and Trix, his younger sister, were taken to England by their parents and left with relatives at Southsea, to be educated as young English children should be. The next five years were the most horrible of his life. He was beaten constantly, scolded, called the wickedest sinner destined for eternal hell-fire, forced to walk in the streets with a sign LIAR across his back, and confined to his room for long periods without books, his only escape. The uncle was mild, even kindly, but the aunt in her misguided religious zeal made his life a living nightmare. And when she finished with him each day, her son would taunt him for his sins throughout the long hours of the night. The hardest blow of all was the children's belief that their beloved, gentle parents had intentionally deserted them, and, since all mail was LESSON DEPARTMENT A Perry Picture RUDYARD KIPLING (1865-1936) ~ carefully censored, they had no way of learning otherwise until their mother's return, after almost five years. At once she sensed the trouble when Rudy put up his arm to ward off the blow as she came to tuck him into bed. She transferred them elsewhere, but in one of Kipling's most poignant stories, "Baa, Baa, Black Sheep," he has recorded his classic plea for the rights of children to be loved rather than so mistreated. Some forty years later his sister returned to see if the house was still standing, but she could not bear even to look at it. In 1935 Kipling wrote his sister that he wished he could "burn the house down, and plough the place with salt." Thus hatred came early to the young Kipling. From age twelve to seventeen he 699 attended Westward Ho, an academy in England for the sons of poorer Britishers stationed overseas. His eyes were so weak that he could not participate in sports and games, so, to his delight, he was excused from them all that he might read. And read he did. He had written his father in India, "Send me all the books in the world," and they were his great love as well as his escape, for he was too brilliant, too queer and intense to be popular. The Young Journalist At seventeen, with full face whiskers and a remarkable maturity, Kipling returned to India to be assistant editor on the Lahore Pioneer. For a few months he lived with his parents, but soon he was living alone, reading a book while he ate, and working his heart out at every task in the newspaper office for a superior whom he detested. But he was often ill from dysentery and other tropical diseases, and from overwork, since whenever his co-worker was ill Kipling had to get the paper out alone. He recalled men toppling over with fever at the club, and with mounting horror he anticipated each hot, muggy season as it approached. Suddenly he discovered a way to escape, to free himself from despondency: he would become a writer, and earn enough money to go to London and match his products with the best. When he was transferred to the staff of the most influential paper in India at Allahabad, he continued inserting tales and poems in its columns. He traveled throughout India, and_ sold paper-back editions of his stories to local railway offices, soliciting buy- ers via penny postcard. As soon as his works reached England they were scnsationally successful. In 18809, at the age of twenty-four, he returned to England via the United States. From San Francisco to New York he asked for job: after job. Hus style was so virile, his subjects so near reality, that everywhere he was rejected. When he submitted his stories to Harper and Sons, he received the curt reply, "Our business is the publication of literature.' In London he rented a garret, again worked hard under editor William E. Henley, and soon was making a good living. His BarrackRoom Ballads became immensely popular, and, at the age of twentyseven, he was making enough that never would he have to write another word. Kipling and America Of his first American trip Kipling wrote that he "loved no people as much as these." For their friendliness and warmth he was especially grateful. In 1892 he married an American, Caroline Balestier, and settled down in "Bliss Cottage'' in Brattleboro, Vermont, for a_lifetime of writing. Soon they built a mansion, and rode about the countryside in coach and four, dressing every night for dinner, and finding the local people dull, materialistic, and hypocritical. A family quarrel with his brother-in-law over property so incensed Rudyard that he took the matter to court, much as he hated publicity. The trial made him appear ridiculous; abruptly they sold all their holdings and went to England. In 1899 they returned to New York where Kipling came near death from pneumonia, and Queen Victoria and Kaiser Wilhelm asked to be kept informed of his condition. He recovered, but his second daughter died. Thus twice embittered against America, the Kiplings retreated to the Sussex countryside in England, never to return. And he never ceased hating America, fearing her democratic system, and condemning what he regarded as her bragging, materialistic national character. Kipling's War Against Man Cecil Rhodes' plans to form a secret Anglo-Saxon 'society which would insure British supremacy in South Africa had long been known to Kipling, one of Rhodes' nearest friends. During the Boer War, and from 1900 to 1907, the Kiplings spent half their time in Africa, often as guests on the Rhodes estate. But where the earlier Kipling had championed Tommy Atkins, the common soldier, and Fuzzy Wuzzy, his enemy, magnificent in courage, now he honored the administrators and governors. The first World War but intensified the hate and mistrust he had already for the Germans. The body of his only son was never found, and, in bitterness, he ordered taps played every sunset over Loos Battlefield where he died. More and more he explored the mystical and supernatural realms in an attempt to solve the great problem of his last years, namely, how to find some consolation for the personal losses he had suffered and for the evils which, for him, threatened the Empire. His mood is strongly put in his poem "The Power of the 700 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1955 LESSON DEPARTMENT Dog," when he warns against "giv- _ ing your heart to a dog to tear." His distrust of his fellow-creatures, which seemed to dominate his later years, comes to a climax in the final stanza of '"Mowgli's Song Against People" (The Jungle Book). Kipling's Early Poetry Kipling's greatest strength lies obviously in his first works. His poetry has been widely quoted; and with probable justice, John Masefield maintained at the time of Kipling's death that his "If" was the most popular poem in the language. His narrative powers, his accurate eye and ear, and his drumbeat thythms have irresistible appeal. 'To his poems, then, we should turn briefly. Most writers struggle and starve, but in prose or verse Rudyard Kipling can tell a story until chills run down your spine while your blood surges, and so he was worth nearly four million dollars at his death. His concern is not to make us think, or to debate matters of right or wrong, but to bring the reader there, feeling, hearing, smelling, fearing, and admiring. He does not praise or blame the actual characters he has known as much as he catches them just as they are. And the genius of the man is in his feeling for phrases, endlessly varied drumbeat rhythms, and, above all, the exact words which give us the sensation of being immediately there. As he said in one of his rare public interviews, "You must bait your hook with words. I used to search for words in the British Museum." 701 Kipling's Word-Magic Everywhere in Kipling these lush jewel-words drip over us; how skillfully he uses place names to alert our imaginations: Burma, Irrawaddy, Moulmein Pagoda, the Gugger River, Umballa, Kalka, Pinjore, Simla, Purun Bhagat, Peshawar. And how better could he illustrate his great point that "What do they know of England who only England know?" than to give his characters names loaded with the flavor of distant places, adventure, courage, aye, even magic, such as Sikander Khan, Mulvaney, Ortheris, Learoyd (the soldiers three), Mowgli, Dinah Shadd, Puck of Pook's Hill, Gunga Din—the list is well nigh endless. Thus by his ear and eye being constantly alert for the cosmopolitan, characterizing name, Kipling helped prove to Englanders that England is all and everywhere. Kipling, England's Masculine Poet Probably Kipling's first great achievement, and his most popular, was to glorify the dialect of the Cockney English footsoldier, formerly held to be too vulgar even to be respectable. All Kipling's powers mentioned above are illustrated in selected stanzas from "Mandalay," page goz, lines 11-12 and 23-25, in the text. In two of his best-known poems, "Fuzzy-Wuzzy" and "Gunga Din," the power of language is well-nigh irresistible, see page goo, lines 21-24; 39-48, text. The other great reason his Bartack-Room Ballads were most popular is that, in striking contrast to his later beliefs and writings, here he expresses respect for any man, be he black or brown or British, if he has courage and strength, as in his "Ballad of East and West." This poem is an example of Kipling's narrative powers, his_ belief in the strong man, his use of thymed, rhythmical lines to enhance his effect, and his use of strong (sometimes overly strong) words. It tells of the Colonel's Son pursuing Kamal over the mountainous Tongue of Jagai. In the poem the word snick is exactly right. And: They have ridden the low moon out of the sky, Their hoofs drum up the dawn.... Gives the typical Kipling tone. Such verve, fanned to flame by Oath, Blood, Knife, God, has not failed to feed the adventure-hungry of all ages, those of Kipling's own day and since. In our text, "The Mary Gloster" and "A Smuggler's Song" exemplify other phases of his narrative powers and might well be read aloud. Kipling, Empire Builder From his earliest years Kipling preached with his strongest moral fervor, his strong-man, strong-country philosophy. While still a lad he had written in dedication to Queen Victoria how "all are bred to do your will... To fight and follow still and work your Empire's destinies." In this belief Kipling never weakened; he only became embittered when he saw British imperialism fading. When, in 1899, he wrote "The White Man's Burden" (text, page 908), he was aware of the responsibility to "Take up the White Man's burden...." Kipling preached with driving thetoric that if the heathen peoples of the world are to recognize the authority of good government, it must be held sternly before them. "War Is a Game" which Kipling found to be neither good nor bad, but real. His poem "Loot" likewise is real, both in emotion and belief. "Hymn Before Action" (1896), was written shortly after Jameson's raid into Dutch territory in Africa (the incident which also inspired "If.") In a more exalted vein, it states anew Kipling's views on war, empire, and death. In later years Kipling wrote poetty that had lesser influence. His "Boots," written earlier, catches the weariness of footsoldiering better than any poem ever written, and should be known. His "Sussex" tells stirringly of his love for "that one spot beloved over all" which contains the essence of most all of his life, as do most of his writings. Nationalism has never been stronger than in Kipling; indeed in a sense he defiined the word, as "Sussex" proves. Recessional Kipling's great poem is, of course, "Recessional." It is so tempting to blame him for his love of war and empire, sometimes excessively stated, as in "Loot." "Lest we forget," however, helps us recall how he championed the underdog, both the British "Tommy Atkins" (text, page 898), and foreigners. And, while he loved the British Empire, he criticized her leaders severely for corruption and carelessness during the Boer War. In 1897, during the Empire-wide celebration of the "Sixtieth Anniversary of Her Majesty's Most Glorious Reign," it was Kip- 702 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1955 LESSON DEPARTMENT ling who saw the need for humbling England in her pride of power and possessions. In this magnificent hymn, with undertones of meaning welling up from beneath and _ between his words, it was Kipling who had the courage to ask for those "drunk with sight of power" that: Judge of the Nations, spare us yet, Lest we forget — lest we forget! If Kipling is to be known at his best, this poem must be read _ together, and known in detail, and valued for the majestic humbling blow it struck. Certainly it strikes the blow which gives it greatness, and Kipling, too. Let us leave him 703 then, with the sword of his best poem in our hearts. Thoughts For Discussion 1. What incidents in Kipling's childhood most decisively influenced his later life? 2. Much as he was fascinated by India, what device did Kipling use to escape from it? 3. Discuss Kipling's attitude toward Americans. 4. Do you feel Mowgli's "Song Against People" is representative of the later Kipling? Why? Why not? 5. Characterize the elements in Kipling's poetry which make it so compelling. %. What did the word Empire mean to Kipling? Social Scvence—The Constitution of the United States Lesson 17—The Constitution and the Courts Elder Albert R. Bowen For Tuesday, January 24, 1956 Objective: To show how the courts of the United States under the great leadership of John Marshall established the principles of the Constitution. Application of Constitutional Ideals into Action High-sounding phrases and lofty ideals have little meaning and are of less value when they remain mere abstractions. It is only when ideals and great philosophical concepts are translated into action and are applied in the lives of men, that humanity profits. This is as true in the field of government as it is in any other human institution. The efforts of the great men who conceived and. Produced the Constitution under divine inspiration and guidance would have remained sterile and fruitless, if the principles of government so wonderfully expressed in the Constitution had remained dormant. An example of the futility of mere words and ideas written on paper, even when expressed in the most noble terms, may be found in other constitutions. The language may apply to the institutions of free men, it may profess to be concerned for the welfare of man, and to be dedicated to freedom and liberty. Yet it is recognized that such a constitution may cloak a tyranny. Righteousness of Leading Statesmen and Judges It was a blessing of divine Providence that the men into whose hands was committed the task of translating the Constitution of the United States into action, were men who were genuinely devoted to the ideals of liberty and justice and the welfare of their fellow countrymen. Washington, Adams, — Jefferson, Hamilton, and many others, who were associated with them in establishing the new Government, were honorable and upright men. It was also to be demonstrated that the men who were chosen to be the judges to exercise the judicial power of the United States were of unusual caliber—men who discharged the duty of their office with great distinction and honor. Americans may look with just pride upon the accomplishments of their judiciary. With few exceptions these judges have been men of integrity and have discharged the duties of their important calling with honor. In addition, they have also been men who have pursued with singleness of purpose the object of preserving the institutions of freedom which were set up under the Constitution. The Judiciary, the Guardian of the Constitution. The Constitution established the judiciary the guardian of the Constitution. This guardianship was created and made workable by making the Judicial Department an equal co-ordinate branch; by providing for the independence of judges, and by committing the judicial power of the United States into the hands of the courts. In no other judicial system in the world are judges in a position from which they may speak out when the occasion requires it and, with binding force and authority, nullify the actions of the Legislative or Executive Departments as usurpations of their respective powers. If they may do so at all under any other government, it is only to a very limited extent. The People the Source of Power of Government The American system, which embodies a Government of the people, made possible the creation of a judiciary possessing such power. Only under a system which (1) acknowledges the people as the source of the power of government; and (2) under which the government is permitted to exercise only such power as may be expressly or by implication conferred upon it by the people, may limitations be prescribed within which government must operate, and beyond which it may not exercise its powers. Such is the Government of the United States. Greatness of Chief Justice John Marshall The man who was destined to place the stamp of greatness upon the American Judiciary was John Marshall, third Chief Justice of the United States. Until the advent of Marshall, who was appointed Chief Justice in the closing days of John Adams' Administration, when the Federalists were on the eve of being ousted from office, there was nothing distinctive about the functions of the Supreme Court. It had little business to transact and had ex- 704 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1955 LESSON DEPARTMENT A Perry Picture JOHN MARSHALL (1755-1835) erted even less influence upon the Government. In fact, John Jay who was the first Chief Justice resigned his office because he did not esteem the office of Chief Justice of the United States as important and influential as being Governor of New York. However, before dismissing Marshall's predecessors too lightly, it must be acknowledged, in fairness to them, that they were men of high ability and their work did pave the way for some of Marshall's great decisions. It was to be Marshall's honor to build upon their beginnings the edifice of a great judicial system. Biographical John Marshall was born September 24, 1755, in Virginia. He was born in a modest family of good 705 lineage. He had family connections with some of the great landed families of Virginia, but he was not one of them. He was a man of sincere democratic ideals. He took part in the Revolution and it is said that because he fought for his country in that war, he became an Amertican before he was a Virginian. In other words, Marshall became an ardent and strong advocate of the Union and was a champion of the Constitution. He, eventually, became a lawyer and was a leader of the bar of Virginia. Marshall was serving as Secretary of State under Adams when appointed by him, without Marshall's knowledge or consent, to be Chief Justice of the United States. On February 4, 1801, Marshall took the oath of office and launched upon a judicial career which lasted until his death in 1835. Between the time of his appointment and his death, Marshall established for himself the greatest name in the history of the American Judiciary. There have been many great judges in the history of the United States, such men as IJolmes, Taft, Story, Cardozo, and emda but space will not allow a discussion of their contributions to the constitutional law of our country. Because Marshall was the first great judge, and because his decisions were so fundamental in importance and demonstrate so clearly the way in which the courts have influenced the growth of the Constitution, reference in this lesson will be confined to Marshall's great work. Marshall was a master debater. It is said of him that it was virtually impossible to get the better of him in an argument. He was logical. He had an unerring instinct for fundamentals, and could sweep away the irrelevant and the superficial and arrive at the heart of a proposition with apparently no effort. He would seize upon the weakness of an argument and, by invincible logic, demolish it point by point. He was so brilliant in his performance that after he had written one of his decisions of great national importance, Randolph of Virginia, one of his bitter opponents, is said to have stated, "All wrong, all wrong, but no man in the United States can tell why or wherein." Establishment of National Power as Delegated by Constitution John Marshall has justly been called the "Father of American Constitutional Law." His great contribution was to define and establish the limits of national power as opposed to the champions of states' rights. His opinions made the power of the Federal Government supreme within the limits of the powers delegated to the Federal Government by the Constitution. He, likewise, established the principle of Judicial Review (See lesson 10, Relief Society Magazine, October 1954, page 708) by the application of which the actions of both state and Federal Government may be scrutinized to ascertain if those actions are within the bounds of the authority prescribed by the Constitution. Marshall took the Constitution as the basis for his opinions, and, from the four corners of that great document, carved out the principles which are the standards by which Government in this country has functioned ever since his day. Principles Enunciated by Marshall Professor Edwin S. Corwin in his very interesting book, John Marshall and The Constitution, gives the history of these great decisions. Space will not permit the narrative of events which led up to these cases, but they were mighty landmarks in the constitutional history of this country. We may only point out the principles which Marshall enunciated and which now are accepted without dispute as the law of the land. They are: 1. The states did not create the Constitution or bring it forth as an act of state sovereignty. It is an instrument of the people of the United States and not a compact of states. 2. The Constitution must be interpreted in such a way as to secure the most beneficial use of the powers created under it, and is not and was not intended to safeguard the prerogatives of state sovereignty. 3. The Constitution was designed to accommodate the needs of the national life for all time; to be "adapted to the various crises of human affairs." 4. The Government of the United States is one of enumerated and delegated powers, but within the scope of those powers it is sovereign. Not only may it choose the means to carry out the conferred powers, but, in addition, it is supreme over any asserted powers which are in conflict with those powers. 5- Congress alone may regulate interstate commerce and the states may not intrude into such regulation, even though Congress may not have acted. 6. The Government of the United States is not present in the various states by their sufferance, but by the supreme authority of the United States. 7. All courts of the United States may review and pass upon all legislative and 706 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1955 LESSON DEPARTMENT executive acts for the purpose of determining if they are within the powers conferred by the Constitution and, if they are found to be contrary to the Constitution, they are void. Marshall's Conviction of His Political Obligation Marshall had a deep and _profound conviction of his obligations as a judge. It was a sense of mission which led him to regard the judicial office which he held as more than judicial in its scope. He refused to accept the idea that the court was limited to the bare deciding of cases brought before it for review, but believed, rather, that the court had a political obligation to promulgate sound constitutional principles. In deciding cases he did not confine himself within the narrow limits of the precise question presented for review, as is customarily the procedure of courts. He had no hesitancy in ranging far afield from such narrow confines and, with broad sweeping argument, established the constitutional doctrines which his convictions led him to believe. It is of interest that Liberty Bell in Independence Hall, in Philadelphia, cracked and became silent when it was tolling for Chief Justice Marshall's death. On "John Marshall Day," February 4, 1901, commemorating the one-hundredth anniversary of his appointment as Chief Justice, it was said of him by Senator Lodge as follows: John Marshall stands in history as one of that small group of men who have founded states. He was a nation-maker, a statebuilder. His monument is the history of the United States and his name is wnitten upon the Constitution of his country. > iin Ai dn ln sel ile il il dilin tiin l Mn i t i i i i i i i i i i i DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY HAS MOVED TO 15 East lst South vTwwuwwuwewvwwvewwewewwuwwwwuwuww« vwouwwoewvwewwvewwuewewueueuuwuuVuVUwT€ We Invite You To Visit the New DAYNES, Salt Lake's Newest, Most Modern, Attractive, and Convenient Music Store COME IN AND SEE THE INTERMOUNTAIN AREA''S MOST COMPLETE STOCK OF... @ PIANOS STEINWAY LESTER @ CONN ORGANS @ RECORDS Angel Capital Decca RCA Victor Coral Mercury Columbia N. G. M. London A Complete Hi-Fi Dept. @ MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS Pedler Holton Gretsch Guitars Martin @ SHEET MUSIC and all MUSICAL ACCESSORIES "We deal only in merchandise of proven quality... Stand back of everything we sell... Strive to sell at a fair price." Daynes Misc | NTT 5 &. (anh, Sat Late 145 NORTH UNIVERSITY, PROVO #! 2260 WASHINGTON BT. GGDEN It has been the influence of the courts which has given life and vigor to the Constitution and which is directly responsible for the vitality of our national life. Through adaptation to changing needs, the Constitution has survived the perils which have beset it. It will continue to survive as long as the courts of the United States faithfully and fearlessly apply its principles to the national life. Note: It is not expected that a discussion will be held in regard to the details of the court system; but this note is added to the lesson to provide a better understanding for class members on the courts in the United States. The Federal Court System Article III of the Constitution of the United States creates the Supreme Court and authorizes the creation of inferior courts by the Congress. The Supreme Court was created by the Constitution. Under the Judiciary Act of 1789, in the first session of the first Congress, a Chief Justice and five Associate Justices were chosen. The number of Justices varied for some seventy years, but, since 1869, there have been nine, a Chief Justice and eight Associate Justices. They are appointed by the President by and with the consent of the Senate. The Constitution defines no qualifications for Justices, so the President is free to appoint anyone whom the Senate will confirm. Thcir tenure in office is for life during good behavior, and they can be removed by impeachment only. The idea for a court with power to examine the acts of the executive and legislative branches of the Government to determine their constitutionality was original with the framers of the Constitution. To this power of Judicial Review (see lesson 10, Relief Society Magazine, October 1954) is given a high degree of credit for the wonderful performance for over one hundred sixty-six years of our great Constitutional Government. While comparatively few acts of either branch have been declared unconstitutional, the very presence of a court of this nature, is a deterrent to any acts it could so condemn. However, the Supreme Court does not take upon itself the power to review all laws passed (this would obviously be impossible), but uses its judicial power to determine constitutionality when _particular cases involving the law in question are brought before it. "That power is capable of acting," said the Supreme Court, "only when the subject is submitted to it by a party who asserts his rights in the form prescribed by law; it then becomes a case." There are two types of cases that may properly originate in the Supreme Court (that is, over which the Supreme Court has "original jurisdiction"); one, those involving Government representatives of foreign nations, ambassadors, consuls, etc.; and, two, those involving the states. It has appellate jurisdiction (the right to review the decisions of lower courts) in all other cases that come to it from the Circuit Courts of Appeal, District Courts, and State Courts. It is expected that the cases Which reach the Supreme Court will involve constitutionality or matters of great national importance. Circuit Courts of Appeal were established in 1891 to relieve the burden of the Supreme Court. The United States and its territories are divided into ten regions or circuits. Usually the decisions of Circuit Courts are final, and most cases are not appealed further to the Supreme Court unless constitutionality is involved. Their decisions may be reviewed only by the Supreme Court. One justice of the Supreme Court is assigned in an advisory capacity to each Circuit or regional Court of Appeal, but they have appelate jurisdiction over the Federal District Courts within the circuit. District Courts are the next lower courts. There are over eighty districts in the United States and its territories, many of which have smaller divisions. From one to sixteen judges preside over each district, and each state has at least one district. The District Courts have original jurisdiction over most cases—that is, almost all Federal cases are begun in Dis 708 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1955 LESSON DEPARTMENT trict Courts. Occasionally cases begun in State Courts are brought to Federal District Courts. If so, they are cases that are removed from State Courts under the provisions of the law and rules of the court. Special or Legislative Courts The Constitution gives Congress powcr to create "inferior courts" as needed. These courts have been created to meet very specific needs and so have limited jurisdiction. The four main Special Courts are: The Court of Claims, which was set up by the Government in 1855, in which the Government permits itsclf to be sued. As the Government is sovereign, it can only be sued upon its consent. It would be almost impossible for Congress to consider the number of bills made necessary by this procedure, so this court aids in a legislative manner. The United States Customs Court was created to adjudicate the controversies that inevitably arise over the value and amounts of tariff duties levied upon goods entering the country. The United States Court of Customs and Patent Appeals was created in 1910 to hear appeals from the Customs Court decisions and the United States Patent Office decisions. The Tax Court of the United States was created in 1942 to hear tax controversies exclusively, arising from the decisions of Federal tax collecting. Agencies. Some other Legislative Courts are: Courts of the District of Columbia, while similar to the 'Territorial Courts, are of separate and distinct nature because the District of Columbia is directly governed by the Federal Government (Congress). Congress, therefore, set up two courts: a Court of Appeal and a District Court, to serve this area. These courts may be classified as of legislative origin. There are also Territorial Courts located in Hawaii, Alaska, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, and the Panama Canal Zone. These differ from District Courts in that ( 709 —S SQ PLS We will be able to supply any of the costumes for Relief Society plays and pageants. Mail orders will be promptly filled. American Flag We are also the headquarters for the American Flag. Please write or phone THE SALT LAKE COSTUME COMPANY 248 South Main Street Salt Lake City, Utah Phone: EM 3-1031 or EM 3-9842 ATTENTION! ALL SINGING MOTHERS CHORUSES! FOR SPECIAL PROGRAM NOVEMBER 6, 1955 "Peace | Leave With "O Lord, Most Merciful"....18c — MAIL ORDERS PROMPTLY FILLED — GLEN BROS. MUSIC CO. Salt Lake City 74 So. Main they have jurisdiction over all matters, local as well as Federal. They were created under the power given to Congress under the Constitution, to make all rules and regulations needful regarding Amenican Territones. The Military Court of Appeals was established in 1942, in which three civilian judges review the decisions of the courts-martial. There are and have been other courts of this nature created to facilitate the administration of laws made by Congress under the powers delegated to it. The Federal Court System, then, aids the President in his duty to detect and prosecute violations of Federal laws, aids the Legislature in the administration of laws enacted, and aids the Judiciary in_performing its responsibility of interpreting the laws, deciding controversies, and establishing rights. All state constitutions provide for a state Supreme Court and creation of inferior courts. All other courts are of state origin—District Courts, Municipal, Juvenile, and Justices of the Peace. Questions on the Lesson 1. What department of the Government has been called "the guardian of the Constitution"? 2. What constitutional provisions made it possible for the courts to perform this function? 3. Is the system of the United States unique in this respect? Why? 4. What principle in the Constitution made it possible to control the power of Government? 5. George Washington is known as the "Father of His Country." By what similar title is John Marshall known? 6. Did Marshall regard his responsibility as a judge as more than a judicial office? What was his philosophy of his duty as Chief Justice of the United States? 7. What was Marshall's great contribution to the growth and development of the Constitution? 8. What constitutional principles were established by the opinions of John Marshall? A Hooked Rug for Girls or Boys Elizabeth Williamson 7 galloping horse will please any child who is interested in cowboys, Indians, or horses. Suggested colors: black horse on a beige background to blend with any color scheme, or colors may be chosen to harmonize with the room—dark blue on a red background, brown on yellow, dark green on pink. There are endless combinations, but the horse should be darker than the background to stand out effectively. 710 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1955 JOSEPH SMITH Said — ed THERE is anything calculated to interest the mind of the Saints, to awaken in them the finest sensibilities, and arouse them to enterprise and exertion, surely it is the great and precious promises made by our Heavenly Father to the children of Abraham."— "Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith," page 163. Between the covers of this book is the story of our Father Abraham's Children—and of God's "precious promises" to us. DO YOU KNOW THEIR VALUE TO YOU? Here is a chart of the beginning of your pedigree (24 generations from Adam to Ephraim). It is prepared with dates and references, ready to file in your family record. (See Doctrine and Covenants 27:10; 86:8-11; 103:17; 132:30-31; 136:21-22.) THE AUTHOR, James H. Anderson, was an outstanding student of scripture and history. He has written about YOUR RACIAL FAMILY and birthright. (DETACH AND MAIL) Order For "'"GOD'S COVENANT RACE" from EARL W. HARMER, Publisher 1177 Yale Ave. Salt Lake City 5, Utah This beautifully bound r book and chart will pleasI antly surprise you. For your I own library — or for a | friend you want to please | Saerordsr new:! PRICE $2.00 POSTPAID I | | I | _ [] Please send C. O. D. Youll be glad Enclosed Check or Money Order YOU at Christmas — send in a! Please send........................ Copies to me. Address oo... -eececeeeeeeeseccneecennecensceeceserseeceeeeavecaseresee YOU GET THE BEST FOR THE LEAST WHEN YOU TRAVEL WITH VIDA FOX CLAWSON Write or Phone: VIDA FOX CLAWSON 966 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah Phone: 4-2017 It's awaiting You... YES there is still a tremendous amount of outstanding instruction and use awaiting you in this and other copies of the Relief Society Magazine. Your editions may be handsomely bound at the West's finest bindery and printing plant for $2.50 cloth bound and $3.50 leather bound per volume plus postage for mail orders. All mail orders must be paid in advance. Follow these postage rates if you send your order by mail: Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles 00... Eessseneceeeeeeee35 150 to 300 miles 4 300 to 600 miles... 600 to 1000 miles... 1000 to 1400 miles... Over 1800 miles....0......0. Eeeee ee 87 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone 4-2581 31 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, af) Autumn Soliloquy Zera Wilde Earl The school bus plies. Its careful way Along our country road, Pausing at all my neighbors' gates To gather its precious load. How brief the years till the children Will be gone from the homes they bless Grown up and gone, to leave behind A strange new emptiness. The bus rolls by; I have watched it go So many times before, But now I sigh, for it never stops At our gate any more, Open Mondays and Fridays 'till 9 p. M. FREE Parking! 754 South State Salt Lake City, Utah SEARS ROEBUCK AND CO QUILTING COTTON All new 25% Wool, 75% Cotton treated a eliminate linting, scuffing. Weight 2 $s. 100% NYLON QUILTING 72x90-in. 2 ib. $2.98 100% DACRON 72x90" 25% NYLON, 75% WOOL 712 1400 to 1800 miles....... 72x90-in. Cheese Cloth Cover 214! B. 72x90-in. 2 Ib. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1955 5 $2.19 ea. $5.98 $2.79 Open a convenient 30-day charge account New LDS: Books for your L Where Is Wisdom? A new book by STEPHEN L RICHARDS President Richards has received wide recognition as a thoughtful, provocative speaker. In this new book, choice selections and excerpts are taken from his many addresses to religious groups, business meetings, and service organizations. This wealth of material makes outstanding quotations for use by speakers and readers. $3.50 2. The Ten Commandments Ti oday New and Vital Reading Today... Fundamental principles laid down at Mt. Sinai are given an atomic age interpretation by members of the Council of the Twelve (Joseph Fielding Smith, Harold B. Lee, Spencer W. Kimball, Mark E, Petersen, LeGrand Richards, Adam 5S. Bennion, and Richard L. Evans), by Superintendent Elbert R. Curtis of the YMMIA, and W. Cleon Skousen of Brigham Young University. $2.00 3. From the Crossroads the newest book of sermonettes by RICHARD L, EVANS Each sermonette in this new book by Richard L. Evans is a literary gem, taken from recent Sunday morning Tabernacle Choir Broadcasts. Each one offers a profound religious experience in reading. $3.00 DESERET BOOK CO. 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah Enclosed you will find ( ) check ( ) money order ( ) charge to my account the following amount $ cootoct for the encircled (numbered) books: I | | | | | | Se erie ereseteteetesseceecccececeoeses es. Zone........ State... Gentlemen: | UNI-S 13-38-2841 AFR 5G Tifty Beneficial Years as Many said, "It'll never fly," as the Wright Brothers turned their frail bi-plane into the strong wind at Kitty Hawk. But the plane did fly, fulfilling a dream almost as old as man himself. Where the Wright piane flew a few feet in 1903, great air liners now span the oceans every few hours. Men and planes soar to the upper reaches of the earth's atmosphere — and aspire even beyond. There are many opportunities in aviation today — yet, like most professions and trades, these jobs require intensive preparation. A Beneficial '"Planned Futures" program can provide the funds for any educaional ll. Om" BENEFICIAL LIFE puuunee Company David O. McKay, Pres Salt Lake City, Utah SNS yA Sy 1905 - 55,6 3 y Sikes give delicious, old-fashioned FRUIT CAKE for yuletide cheer Baked from a treasured old pioneer recipe in our own Sunlit Bakery. Bursting with the very finest fruits and crunchy nuts. A welcome holiday gift. 25 2 Ib. Cake in gift tin Mail orders to: MARGOT MANNERS, ZCMI Salt Lake City 10, Utah — Please send the following Fruit Cake: Quan. Size Price Tb. Loaf, 1.39; 1 lb. In gift tin, 1.84 3 Ib. Cake, 3.95; 3 Ib. In gift tin, 460 Cash (1 Charge (J c.0.0. O Name.... Ccccssccscccsccssvcrsecrsrsceccasesceccooccs cecmes one Address 0..... Ccescscseessecrecerecccnsseassssesesararseees City. Oo. Cccceccessesesccnee ZOMG... SHALE ss seceeeeee Utah residents add 2% State Sales Tax. _— ae — Street hoor Include 29¢ postage for first pound and 10¢ for each additional pound ordered. From Near and Sar Because of a new baby in the house, we were having a particularly trying time with our two-year-old, when the July issue of the Magazine came, with Christie Lund Coles' article "Kneel to Your Child." I do sincerely thank you... And her... For this marvelous article. It certainly aided me in developing more patience and a positive attitude toward the situation. As she concluded her article, we do thank God for the goodness and sweetness that have been entrusted to our care. —LaVerle M. Nielsen Eureka, California I send these few lines to thank you all so much for your wonderful Magazine. I have had it sent through my niece Miss Kathleen Davies of Fillmore, Utah. I enjoy the Magazine, and so do my grandchildren. We are members of the Baptist Church.... May God bless the readers of your Magazine and all who help with your Church. —May E. Boddy Hoole, Chester, England Six of the Christmas presents I gave were subscriptions to The Relief Society Magazine, going to two daughters-in-law, one daughter, and three sisters, who have written letters of gratitude for "a Christmas present lasting all through the year." Thanks for a year's companionship with inspiring material. The Magazine not only blessed our home, but I pass it on to shut-ins who are very grateful. —Mrs. Etta Robbins Benicia, California I have been taking The Relief Society Magazine for about a year and a half and do enjoy it very much. I can't get to Relief Society meetings, as I have to work, but I can keep up with the lessons and feel more a part of it through the Magazine. —Margaret Kearney Idaho Falls, Idaho Congratulations to The Relief Society Magazine on its September issue. It has outdone its usually excellent self. Congratulations to Alberta H. Christensen also on her splendid poems. I was pleased to read them and they made me feel proud that we have such fine craftsmen among our Utah poets. I am simply devouring the Magazine's contents. —Gene Romolo Provo, Utah I cannot refrain from expressing my delight in the beautiful poem "Would You Find Peace?" by Gene Romolo in the August Magazine. All her poetry is inspiring and touching. Thank you for a lovely Magazine. I have taken it since 1926, soon after I arrived in Zion, and have thoroughly enjoyed every copy. —Helen McQuarrie Salt Lake City, Utah How much I enjoyed the story "Forever Orchid" by Frances C. Yost (May 1955)! One dozen red roses were delivered to me the morning of Mother's Day from my son who is right here at home. I always read The Relief Society Magazine from cover to cover. It never fails to put my spirit in tune to read the truly inspired messages from those brothers and sisters who are holding positions of honor in our great Church. —Ruth Louise Olson Santa Rosa, California Each month I enjoy so much the articles, features, stories, and poetry in the Magazine. Especially do I enjoy the lesson department. I am social science class leader in the West Jordan Second Ward Relief Society, and, using the material outlined in the Magazine as a basic guide, it is no difficult matter to present a lesson of interest to every Relief Society member. —Joanne B. Rose -~<_- West Jordan, Utah The Cover: "Yosemite Valley, California in Winter," Photograph by Josef Muench Frontispiece Photograph: '""The Grand 'Tetons, Wyoming," Photograph by Willard Luce Cover Design by Evan Jensen Page 714 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - - - - - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - First Counselor Velma N. Simonsen - - - - - Second Counselor Margaret C. Pickering - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Mary G. Judd Evon W. Peterson Alberta H. Christensen Winniefred S. Anna B. Hart Leone O. Jacobs Mildred B. Eyring Manwaring Edith S. Elliott Louise W. Madsen Helen W. Anderson Elna P. Haymond Florence J. Madsen Aleine M. Young Gladys S. Boyer Annie M. Ellsworth Leone G. Layton Josie B. Bay Charlotte A. Larsen Mary R. Young Blanche B. Stoddard Christine H. Robinson Edith P. Backman RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager = - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Vol. 42 NOVEMBER 1955 No. 11 Cor tents SPECIAL FEATURES Dedication of the Temple at Bern, Switzerland o ere 717 The Rewards of Service in Relief Society 2......... Ec-c-cecseecsscceecceceneeceeeeceeecceseeeeseeeecereesBelle S. Spafford 718 Examples of the Believers -.....0.22..0.2..:-ccoe-- coco eco re oo Marianne C. Sharp 723 "Be Thou Humble; and the Lord Thy God Shall Lead Thee by the Hand'' 2 eee) eS elma N. Simonsen 726 Report and Official Instructions: Belle S. Spafford 729 FICTION Covers for Four srdeccecrecceosn ss eeeSarah O. Moss 735 Hermanas — Chapter 9 ooinccccccsisccncelesececeecesescesecceescceesecsssceeseensssessseoscecesnsusnssseseseeseeecereneeteceecenecesFay Tarlock 748 GENERAL FEATURES From Near and Far...... = re. 714 Sixty Years Ago oo. E. Cecceccccecccececseeseceesnesscecseceseecesesseeeececenerseceveceneeee cone eee 742 Ao seXo te MRS) ©) eX) eeRamona W. Cannon 743 Editorial: Thankfulness for the Gospel Heritage 22...... CccccccccccscceeeceeeeceeeeeeeeesMarianne C. Sharp 744 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities 0200...... C. CcccccsecceeseeeeeeeeesMargaret C. Pickering 759 FEATURES FOR THE HOME Tools for Your Child on. Cteceececseececeecseseeeseecevseeceseseseeeseseceececeescesseecensesees... Helen B. Morris 739 To Meet the Bride — -. IRHelen S. Williams 746 The Watermelon Rug.... Elizabeth Williamson 754 Meat for Thrifty Meals 0.00000... A... Ee... Ee... Rhea H. Gardner 755 Mary Elizabeth Forman Calkins Makes Afghan in ''Thunderbird'' Pattern; 757 Making Original Christmas Cards oo. C. IccccccecseecccecccesessccocsescacececacsesecesesesssivessstessnesseseseersnseeseesGene Romolo 758 Theology: Samuel the Lamanite oo...... EcccccccccececesccocccsecceseecesceeeeeseesteescesecesesesueeeveveeesLeland H. Monson 766 Visiting Teacher Messages: ''Yea, We Can See that the Lord in His Great Infinite Goodness Doth Bless and Prosper Those Who Put Their Trust in Him') oo. Cece eeeceeeeeeceeeeeeceeceeee woe cees isEdith S. Elliott 769 Work Meeting: Meat Selection and Preparation o.0...... CecescsssecseecesseccvececeecoessesoeeeeeRhea H. Gardner 770 Literature: Rudyard Kipling, the Man Who Was = 22... Briant S. Jacobs 772 Social Science: The Organization and Powers of the Government Of the United States one. IeeceecsccsesssssecnssesscseeesceceeceseesssseeesssnenesveseseenesessnssesaeseseseesacesAlbert R. Bowen 778 POETRY "Ye Shall Have Peace,'' by Gertrude T. Kovan, 722; 'Universal Language,'' by Mabel Law Atkinson, 728; 'Wagon City,"' by Roxana Farnsworth Hase, 734; 'The Sparrows' Thanksgiving Feast,'' by Thelma J. Lund, 738; 'Prayer Preface,'' by Dorothy J. Roberts, 738; 'Doll Clothes," by Margaret Hyatt, 741; "Immutable," by Iris W. Schow, 745; ''Autumn," by Zara Sabin, 753; Newness,"' by Elsie. McKinnon Strachan, 754; ''Winter Promise,'' by Zera Wilde Earl, 756; "The Constant Heart, " by Ethel Jacobson, 758; ''Fulfillment,'' by Ethelyn M. Kincher, 777; Indian Giver,'' Pansye H. Powell, 784; ''A Priceless Collection," by Francelia Goddard, 784. PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 40 North Main, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Page 715 THE TEMPLE AT BERN, SWITZERLAND Courtesy The Deseret News bbpobiockitee beac htt BERS RHE ER RRO E RR Oe AMARC ODRESSCHOR CTE CORES; oF eS Oe 6 BE deeb eaceaes aes: Dedication of the Temple at Bern, Switzerland Sunday, September 11, 1955 In the beautiful country of Switzerland, "girt round with rugged mountains," the ninth temple in use today of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was dedicated by President David O. McKay, on Sunday, September 11, 1955. The sacred edifice lifts its white spire heavenward as a symbol of eternal truth and the glad tidings of the restored gospel. The site is the village of Zollikofen, some seven miles north of Bern, Switzerland, with the long ranges of the Jura Mountains rising westward and the high turrets of the Alps to the east and south. On the day of the dedication, bright sunshine broke through the clouds, and the white stone walls of the temple glowed against the dark green mountains. Visitors thronged the grounds, and more than twelve hundred people, including the Salt Lake Tabernacle Choir, attended the services. Four members of the Council of the Twelve were present: Elders Spencer W. Kimball, Ezra Taft Benson, Henry D. Moyle, and Richard L. Evans. The Choir sang two great hymns: "Let the Mountains Shout for Joy" and "Holiness Becometh the House of the Lord," as well as the majestic "Hosannah Anthem." Ewan Harbrecht, soloist with the Choir, sang, with much emotion and great purity of tone, the song long endeared to Latter-day Saints, "Bless This House." Elder Benson, representing the Council of the Twelve, spoke of the temple dedication as the culmination of the hopes of thousands who had prayed for a temple in Europe, referring to its completion as "probably the greatest event that has occurred in Europe since the gospel was brought here 118 years ago." President McKay, in his dedicatory prayer, asked the blessings of the Lord upon the saints, "as one in singleness of purpose, in love of Thee, of one another, and of all sincere people in the world." Thus, the words of the prayer were not for the European saints alone, but for the believers all over the world: "Now, O God, our Heavenly Eternal Father, the faithful membership of thy Church, through love for Thee and thy children, have erected to thee by tithes and offerings this Holy House in which shall be performed ordinances and ceremonies pertaining to the happiness and salvation of thy children living in mortality and in the Spirit World...." The women of Relief Society, in all the stakes and missions of the Church, join with their European sisters in this time of rejoicing, and pray that all of us may be blessed with the spiritual richness which our spired temples and the eternal gospel bring to us forever. Page 717 The Rewards of Service in Relief Society President Belle S. Spafford [Address Delivered at the Annual General Relief Society Conference, Thursday, September 29, 1955] HE Prophet Micah, in speakTT ing to the people of Jerusalem and Samaria, rebuked the princes and prophets of the House of Israel who loved war instead of peace. He then spoke of peace in the last days and defined what the Lord requires of the people who follow him. In words impregnated with deep meaning, he said: He hath shewed thee, O man, what is good; and what doth the Lord require of thee, but to do justly, and to love mercy, and to walk humbly with thy God? (Micah 6:8). These words might well be the motto of Relief Society, and they might very appropriately be applied to Relief Society women, for Relief Society women, as I know them, are, by and large, women who do justly, who love mercy, and who walk humbly with. Their God. I pay tribute to Relief Society women the world over. I am persuaded that they are among the choicest of our Father's daughters. They are women of spiritual grace, womanly charm, poise, uprightness, and stability of character. 'They are women who are working together to build for themselves and others a life of glorious fulfillment. Just as I admire and love the women of Relief Society, so I love the work of Relief Society which dePage 718 velops in women ennobling_§attributes and makes possible so much worthy accomplishment. Relief Society was organized at an eventful period in the history of the Church, the year 1842. The Prophet in his writings of Thursday, January 6, 1842, as recorded in the Documentary History of the Church, made this significant statement: The new year has been ushered in and continued thus far under the most favorable auspices, and the Saints seem to be influenced by a most kind and indulgent Providence in their dispositions and [blessed with] means to rear the Temple of the Most High God, anxiously looking forward to the completion thereof, as an event of the greatest importance to the Church and to the world, making the Saints in Zion to rejoice.... Truly this is a day long to be remembered by the Saints of the last days,—a day in which the God of heaven has begun to restore the ancient order of His kingdom unto His servants and His people,—a day in which all things are concurring to bring about the completion of the fullness of the Gospel, a fullness of the dispensation of dispensations, even the fullness of times (D. H. C. IV, page 492). At the time the saints were located in Nauvoo, a city known as "Nauvoo the Beautiful." It was only three years old, yet it was a thriving city, well-planned, wellbuilt, with sturdy two-story houses of brick and frame, with meeting- houses and stores, with blacksmith shops and shoe shops, and a busy harbor at the river's bend where boats from down the river came to anchor, bringing hundreds of converts from the Old World, for missionaries in large numbers had already gone forth to foreign shores, carrying the message of the restored gospel, and the Lord had abundantly blessed their labors. It was early in 1842 that the Prophet commenced publishing his translation of the Book of Abraham in The Times and Seasons. It was in March of this year that the Prophet penned the now famous Wentworth Letter, the concluding part of which is known to us as "The Articles of Faith," and referred to in Church history as "The most classic document in Church literature." Additional revelations containing further instructions on baptism for the dead were given the Prophet; and it was a day of rejoicing for the saints as they saw the shining walls of the temple rising from Mulholland Street. Upon this scene came the organization of Relief Society. The sisters, imbued with a testimony of the gospel, recognizing the great import of the doctrine of salvation for the dead as taught by their Prophet, earnestly desired to do their part in the erection of the temple. As individuals, they rendered such services as they could; as individuals, the women had earlier made an appreciable contribution to the erection of the temple at Kirtland. The spirit with which their service was rendered in Kirtland has been graphically described in the writings of Heber C. Kimball. 'The same spirit characterized their efforts in Nauvoo. Says Brother Kimball: At this time the brethren were laboring night and day building the house of the Lord. Our women were engaged in spinning and knitting in order to clothe those who were laboring at the building, and the Lord only knows the scenes of poverty, tribulation, and distress which we passed through in order to accomplish this thing. My wife toiled all summer in lending her aid toward its accomplishment. She had a hundred pounds of wool, which, with the assistance of the girls, she spun in order to furnish clothing for those engaged in the building of the temple, and although she had the privilege of keeping half the quantity of wool for herself, as a recompense for her labor, she did not reserve even so much as would make her a pair of stockings; but gave it for those who were laboring at the House of the Lord. She spun and wove and got the cloth dressed, and cut and made up into garments, and gave them to those men who labored on the temple; almost all the sisters in Kirtland labored in knitting, sewing, spinning, etc. For the purpose of forwarding the work of the Lord (Temples of the Most High, N. B. Lundwall, page 14). HE desire to forward the work of the Lord became so strong in the hearts of the women as the Nauvoo Temple progressed, that they felt to increase and make more effective their individual efforts by organizing themselves. With this intent they sought their Prophet for counsel and direction. His response to their petition and the story of the birth of Relief Society are familiar to all of us. The Lord, through his Prophet, gave to the women on March 17, 1842, an organization designed for service under the direction of his Priesthood. Thus the sisters became joined together in love and service as the "handmaids of the Priesthood." THE REWARDS OF SERVICE IN RELIEF SOCIETY 719 Their labors in Nauvoo were characterized not only by service for the temple, but also by care of the poor. The members brought to the Society provisions, clothing, thread, yarn, household commodities, even treasured pieces of jewelry to help provide for those less fortunate than themselves. But their days in the beautiful city of Nauvoo soon came to an end, and life in a western wilderness became their lot. But regardless of circumstances, the spirit of* benevolence, solicitude for the well-being of one another, unselfish sharing, and effective service in forwarding the work of the Lord lived on in the hearts and actions of the westward women as they built their homes and established their Relief Societies. It is a stimulating and moving experience to read the minutes of some of the early-day Relief Societies in the West. 'They reveal full well that the ideals and the spirit of service and devotion to the Church exemplified in the sisters in Nauvoo remained strong in_ the women transplanted to a desert land. To illustrate, let me read from minutes of the St. George Relief Society, April 20, 1869: President Erastus Snow asked for 25 yards of carpet for a prayer circle room for the brethren, [visiting] teachers went out and got enough rags to make 50 yards. There were present at our meeting go women, sewing the rags in answer to President Snow's call. It was one of the most pleasant meetings ever held, though the sisters worked until their bodies were tired and their fingers ached from winding the balls, a happier group would be hard to find. Relief Society, however, was not designed for the early days alone, nor was it designed only for women of eras that are past. It calls to women today who wish to develop themselves, to serve their fellows, and forward the work of the Lord. It is heartwarming to contemplate the faithfulness and devotion of Relief Society women today the world over, and to review the records of their accomplishments. The sisters are devotedly contributing toward the erection of temples and meetinghouses, toward welfare projects and other Church programs. They are ministering to the sick and homebound. (Last year more than 235,475 such visits were made.) They are teaching one another the precepts and doctrines of the Church. (Last year approximately 13,000 women were engaged in teaching the courses of study. Under the direction of Relief Society, more than 63,949 women read the special assignments from the Book of Mormon.) 'The sisters are training one another to walk in the paths of righteousness — all to the end that they may build for themselves and for others beautiful, useful, purposeful lives, and that they may do woman's part in building the kingdom of God. The spirit with which the work is carried forward today does not differ from the spirit of the past. The increased number of Relief Society members (now over 156,000) make their contribution to the work of the Church a sizeable one. Let me read you a typical statement from a 1954 annual report of a small ward Relief Society with an average attendance of twenty women. I am happy to give this report of our 720 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1955 Relief Society. We are fully organized. We have had a very good year in all of our activities and meetings. On March 17 we held our birthday party in the form of a luncheon.... In April we served a dinner for the ward. In May during a Sunday night program we presented the bishop with a check for $500 for the stake building fund. In July we had a social and luncheon. In August we participated in a stake dinner lawn party. On August 13 and 14 we held a Tummage sale.... On August 16 we gave the bishop a check for $100 to be applied to the ward building fund. This makes a total of $900 given from our Society besides the $go00 earned by us at the stake dinner we served for the stake building fund. In October we had our opening social with fifty-two persons attending. On November 7 the Relief Society conference was held. Our class leaders are some of the best, and they give wonderful lessons. We have very good attendance at the sewing meetings and have had some very good homemaking demonstrations. We have done much compassionate service, far more in comparison to other years. The Relief Society sisters of our ward are a congenial group and we have plans for a busy 1955. We hope and pray that we will have the blessings of our Heavenly Father to help us all and to work together in forwarding the work of the Lord. We wish to thank the stake board and our bishopric for the help that they have given us. There are times when special assignments make heavy demands upon the time and energy of our already busy mothers, but rarely, if ever, does the work become dull or so tedious and uninteresting as to become drudgery. "Work becomes drudgery only so long as what is done is done only because of the letter of the law and without the spirit." Service performed in the spirit of conversion to and love for the Master's cause and in obedience to eternal and _ righteous _ principles brings to one a fullness of joy — the joy referred to by the great prophet Nephi when he wrote: "Men are that they might have joy." Such joy is not the reward of superficial, spare-time, begrudgingly given performance; such joy is reserved for those who enter into the work with full purpose of heart. Testimony of the worth of service in Relief Society finds echo in the hearts of tens of thousands of members and in the hearts of their husbands and children. Countless numbers of children of Relief Society mothers have grown strong in the faith and performed valiantly themselves for the Church because of the example of their mothers. It has even proved to be the road back for some children. Only a few days ago I met the son of a faithful Relief Society sister. He was eminently successful in his chosen _profession, but had gone afield in his religious thinking. Several years ago his mother was called to teach theology in Relief Society. She felt inadequate for such an important assignment, yet she wished to be obedient to her Relief Society call and to serve to the best of her ability. This she did with a high degree of success, teaching the sisters the doctrines of the Church with clarity and conviction until the time of her death. The son, returning to her home for the funeral, picked up her Book of Mormon as it lay on the table with its passages carefully marked. This he has since studied, reading THE REWARDS OF SERVICE IN RELIEF SOCIETY 72) the book from cover to cover. 'The other day when I met him he said to me, "The Church must have had great confidence in my mother to call her to teach the theological doctrines. It is evident that she knew and understood them. I have read and re-read the passages she had marked in her Book of Mormon. It has had a tremendous influence upon me. In fact, I now know that if I am to have peace of mind I must return to activity in the Church." What a precious reward for the hours of study and faithful service of that mother! To the woman who serves in Relief Society there comes understanding, enlightenment, and a truer evaluation of her own problems and a wish to solve them in all righteousness. Service in Relief Society gives to a woman competence in the management of her home, and wisdom in guiding and directing her children. It blesses her with an understanding heart and develops within her a testimony that becomes a deep and abiding comfort and sustaining influence as long as life lasts. It makes of her a woman who does justly, who loves mercy, and who walks humbly with the Lord. These are rewards of the highest order. In Galations we read: "As we have therefore opportunity, let us do good to all men, especially unto them who are of the household of faith" (Gal. 6:10). In Romans we read: "We then that are strong ought to bear the infirmities of the weak" (Romans 15:1). Through the medium of Relief Society, opportunity is afforded Latter-day Saint women for such service. Relief Society work, as the Prophet declared, "is according to the natures of women," and is a sphere in which they find satisfaction. As we share the labors of Relief Society, so most certainly we will share in the triumphs of this great Society, and so we will share in the eternal blessings which the Lord will give to his faithful daughters. <> "Ve Shall Have Peace - Gertrude T. Kovan Man prays eternally for peace, sublime; Then searches endlessly uncharted skies, Or reaches into seas where depths and time Hold secret wealth long hidden from the eyes. Man seeks the armor of hope, forever bright; He would find the constant stars that glow Beyond the circumference of shadowed night— The luminous gleam the faithful know. For peace lies only in the humble heart, Surviving all the turmoils of the sphere, And each one holds aloft his part Of that great beacon, casting out all fear! 722 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1955 Examples of the Believers Counselor Marianne C. Sharp [Address Delivered at the Annual General Relief Society Conference, Thursday, September 29, 1955] HIS past summer it was our great pleasure to be taken on a trip to the Church historic landmarks, beginning with Vermont, the birthplace of the Prophet Joseph Smith, and ending at Independence, Jackson County, Missouri, on our way back West. We traveled quickly, in ease and comfort, but our thoughts plodded along with the teams and wagons of our ancestors, as they went from Pennsylvania to Ohio and then to Nauvoo the Beautiful, there to meet their Prophet and cast in their lot with the saints. In spite of the contrast in our modes of travel, in highways and surrounding landscapes, we knew that in our hearts, as in theirs, burned the same testimony of the divinity of the gospel, and the sure knowledge that Joseph Smith was the Prophet of the Lord through whom the gospel was restored. Traveling rapidly from one historic place to another, the events of the restoration fell into their proper places in the complete pattern. Not by chance, we felt, did the father of the Prophet experience misfortunes which resulted in his leaving behind New England and settling on a farm in New York near the Hill Cumorah where the gold plates, in the providence of God, were to be handed over to: the boy Prophet. We saw the small schoolhouse where Oliver Cowdery taught, near the Smith farm where he boarded. We visited the nearby homestead of Martin Harris and climbed up the stairs of the shop in Palmyra to where The Book of Mormon was printed. We rode down to Harmony near the shores of the beautiful Susquehanna River — then back to Fayette to the Whitmer home where the Church was organized with six young men members, the Prophet and his brothers Hyrum and Samuel, and Oliver Cowdery David Whitmer, and Peter Whitmer, Jr. We commented on the plan for the bringing forth of the gospel, how the men who were foreordained for their particular parts were sent to earth at the proper time and in places where they could accomplish their appointed work. On our trip we next visited the Kirtland Temple, built in the midst of the saints' poverty, a beautiful structure wherein the Savior himself appeared. But its sacredness, to us, had been lost. _ The marks of the burnings, plunderings, and persecutions experienced by the saints in Missouri have been obliterated by time. But the lands remain to be redeemed. 'The cornerstones for temples were laid as directed by the Lord, but the temples are not yet erected. Back to Illinois fled the saints for refuge. Today the beautiful locaPage 723 724 tion of Nauvoo remains on a bend of the majestic Mississippi River. Many of its lovely old homes still stand, sacrificed at the call of the new leader Brigham Young. With the abandonment of the city by the saints, however, there also seemed to leave the spirit of progress. There were two historic landmarks which to us still retained the spirit of events which transpired therein. One was Carthage Jail—some miles south of Nauvoo, where the Prophet Joseph Smith and his brother Hytum, divided neither in life nor death, were martyred. An oppressive heaviness of guilt still seemed to hang over Carthage. On beholding the window of the jail from which the Prophet fell dead, and the curbstone of the well underneath where the mob propped his body and pumped bullets into it, and seeing within the rooms and cells, awakened in our soul a weight of grief. As we contemplated the events that transpired there, we recalled the words of the Doctrine and Covenants, which say that Joseph did '".. More, save Jesus only, for the salvation of men in this world, than any other man that ever lived in it...." We were also reminded of the further words "... That The Book of Mormon, and this book of Doctrine and Covenants of the Church, cost the best blood of the nineteenth century to bring them forth for the salvation of a ruined world..." (D. & C. 135:3, 6). Never before, to us, had the debt which we owe to the Prophet Joseph loomed so great. Finally we mention last, the Sacred Grove. There still seemed to linger there an ineffable spirit which RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1955 caught at the heartstrings and brought joy and peace. We were filled with an overpowering realization of the love of our Father and Savior for each one of us. It was an unforgettable experience to be cherished forever. Throughout our journey historical memories took on reality and substance, as we left behind the beauty of New England, the fertility of New York, the rolling verdure of Ohio, the lush growth of Missouri, the grandness of the sweeping waters of the great Mississippi, to turn westward to the destination of the saints, a parched, desert land set amid loneliness. GOME of us today live in this land which they made to blossom as the rose, many others of us live in other lands flowing with milk and honey; few live where persecution has not died down. It is not so easy to designate the trials and troubles which we experience today, but the Lord will have a tried and tested people. We, also, are subject to the temptations of Satan and heir to the cares and sorrows of the world. Many of our temptations parallel those of the saints of the earlier days of the restoration. Many have always been called to serve but few chosen. Then as now, apostasy began over disagreements as to the way, perhaps, the Authorities were conducting the affairs of the Church, or members took exception to some ruling or instruction. And when we saw a temple that had been desecrated, we were reminded that our bodies are the temples of our spirits and that neith- EXAMPLES OF THE BELIEVERS er will the spirit of the Lord dwell in our temples, if we defile them. The saints were obedient to counsel. 'They sowed where they were not permitted to reap. I heard a sister say recently, "What is the use of storing commodities, if the Government is just going to take them away from us?" Following the example of our forebears, the sole concern for us today is also to follow counsel and leave the outcome to the Lord. One great lesson which was borne in upon us as the result of this trip was the realization of the great requirements which will be made of us, if we gain eternal life. You will recall the rich young ruler who ran and knelt at the Savior's feet and asked, "Good Master, what shall I do that I may inherit eternal life?" Jesus reminded him of some commandments and he replied, "... All these have I observed from my youth" (Mark 10:20). Then, we are told, Jesus beheld him and loved him and said "... One thing thou lackest: go thy way, sell whatsoever thou hast, and give to the poor and thou shalt have treasure in heaven: and come, take up the cross, and follow me" (Mark 10:21). We read "And he was sad at that saying, and went away grieved: for he had great possessions" (Mark 10:22). The early-day saints of the restoration kept the commandments, time and again they left behind their ma- 725 terial possessions, and they fulfilled the third requirement of taking the cross and following in the footsteps of the Master. The thousands of us assembled here today and tens of thousands throughout the world testify as the fruit of their labors. Today it is easy to live some of the commandments, harder to give away our possessions, and hardest of all to give ourselves. Yet the Lord makes it possible for his children to gain eternal life, if they will only serve him. To help perfect the sisters and at the same time to assist others, the Prophet Joseph himself was inspired to organize the Relief Society. Relief Society assists women to obey the injunction which Paul gave to Timothy "... Be thou an example of the believers, in word, in conversation, in charity, in spirit, in faith, in purity" (1 Timothy 4:12). Our great goal is to gain eternal life. Great examples of believers are found in the way those who established the Church gave of themselves, some even to the death. It is good to remember the heritage which is ours either by lineage or adoption, and it is wise to take advantage of the means which the Lord has given for our perfection. That each of us may gain or strengthen our knowledge that Jesus is the Christ and that Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God, and live righteously to earn eternal life, is my ptayer. & "Be Thou Humble: and the Lord Thy God Shall Lead Thee by the Hand" Counselor Velma N. Simonsen [Address Delivered at the Annual General Relief Society Conference, Thursday, September 29, 1955] today. I sincerely pray that I am humble in the way the Lord would have me humble, for as I have studied the scriptures, in preparation for this talk, I became more thoroughly convinced than ever before that only through true humility may we receive the inspiration and guidance of the Holy Spirit. The Lord has blessed this universe with immeasurable abundance. We, as a Church, have been profoundly blessed, and if we were to attempt to recount all our individual blessings, I am sure we would find them beyond computation. If, in the luxury of such magnanimous abundance, we were to get a feeling of self-sufficiency and fail to acknowledge God as the Giver of all goodness, we not only would be unpardonably stupid, but we would be guilty of gross ingratitude, a grievous sin; and we would incur the deep displeasure of the Lord, for he has said "And in nothing doth man offend God, or against none is his wrath kindled, save those who confess not his hand in all things, and obey his commandments" (D. & C. 59:21). By the light, knowledge, and intelligence that flows from heaven, | feel very humble standing here, % ' ¥, Ye ' je a Care's man has gained control and put to his use many of the forces of nature. But not all of them, he still is not the absolute master of the universe. We see about us every day glaring examples of the combined inde- | pendence and helplessness of man. His will and his partial control of the forces about him make him virtually independent of most earthly conditions; while his natural limitations make him mutually dependent upon his fellow man and upon the natural forces around him. He can, now, do many great and marvelous things: build ships, fly in the air, speak around the earth, and daily he is adding to his use, unbelievably stupendous inventions and awesome discoveries either for our good or our destruction. Yet how helpless he is to create a living being or to prevent death or disaster, which can come to his amazing enterprises by the mere flick of an eyelash. War's destructfulness ought to make us very humble. We are no more capable of saving the world from disaster than we are of creating it. Of course, we are proud of our human accomplishments, and, as a people, we can justifiably point with pride to the accomplishments of "BE THOU HUMBLE" the Church, but we must rigidly guard against egotistical boastings and a feeling of brash self-sufficiency. 'he Lord has warned his people throughout all generations to beware of boasting and pride. 'The oftquoted proverb tells us that "Pride goeth before destruction, and an haughty spirit before a fall" (Proverbs 16:18). A family of crows lived in the field next to Farmer Brown's house. One day a white crow was born to this family. Now, in "birddom" a white crow is a very great rarity. So the family was very proud indeed of the white crow. They bragged and they boasted until they lost nearly all their friends. 'They showered so much attention and treated so differently the white crow that they made him very useless even for a crow. One day they decided to give a great banquet for him. So at the time of the first full moon they invited all the neighborhood crows to come to the feast. 'They set the white crow on a perch where the moon shone full upon him and where everyone might see and admire him. 'Then they began to sing his praises. 'The noise was so great Farmer Brown could scarcely stand it. He took his shotgun and went to the door. The black crows in the background he could not see, but the white crow sitting on the perch with the moon shining full upon him made a conspicuous target for the blast of Farmer Brown's shotgun. I am sure that throughout your reading of the Book of Mormon you have been conscious of how the rise and fall of the people, of that time, closely paralleled the absence 727 or the presence of pride. Helaman tells us that when pride entered into the hearts of the people they were puffed up and began to do great evil. But those who fasted and prayed became stronger: and stronger in their humility. In the Doctrine and Covenants the Lord repeatedly tells us of the dangers of pride and the blessings for those who are humble. He said, "Be thou humble; and the Lord thy God shall lead thee by the hand" (D. & C. 112:10). HE Savior, our example in all things, taught us the worth and power of humility. Never once did he enumerate his accomplishments, nor boast of his power. He had no need to do so, nor do we. It is unbecoming both as a people and as individuals. Jesus did not stand on the dignity of his position, but he came down and mingled with all classes, that he might understand and serve them. He exhibited no condescension, he never patronized. He repeatedly stated that he was meek and lowly of heart. He did not mean that he had a low estimate of his powers. By humility Jesus meant teachableness, willingness to learn and willingness to serve cheerfully. On one occasion, he said, "And whosoever will be chief among you, let him be your servant: Even as the Son of man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister" (Mt. 20:27-28). In all walks of life and in all ages, the truly great are always humble and approachable. They lack even the appearance of ostentation. The greater they are the more humble they become. 'They realize their own limitations and the immensity 728. Of the unknown. Like the noted eminent discoverer Sir Isaac C. Newton, they feel that they have gathered a few grains of sand from the seashore while the vast ocean lies unexplored before them. Cecil Rhodes, the great British empire builder of South Africa, after his wonderful: achievements, as he lay dying said, "So little done, so much to do." We can well apply this to our Church activity. The more we have, the greater our accomplishments, the more recognition the world accords us, the more humble we should become. True humility does not grovel; it is royal, and its possessors have mastered some of the forces that determine true character. They have learned self-control, one of the great lessons in life. 'They are not cowardly, they are not numbered with those who dare not resent an injury. They are not too spiritless to protest against injustice, they are not devoid of vigor, but they are not haughty, vain, resentful, arrogant, or proud. They have learned to yield graciously to the Father's will. They are not demanding. Recently I heard a Sunday School class let their discussion carry them into the subject of "What does God owe us?" Can you imagine that? I am sure they did not realize the position to which they were relegating the Father. They were brought RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1955 to this realization, however, by one of the members who said, "There is not a person living upon the earth who will not have to plead for mercy when he comes before the judgment seat of God." The Lord has given magnanimous promises of rewards and exaltation to those who "humble themselves before him, and keep his commandments,' but he will never be in our debt. Let us, as leaders in the Church and as mothers in Zion, set the example of reverence and humility in our positions, in our lives, and in our homes before our children. There seems to be a growing tendency, especially among our young people when praying to the Lord, asking for his favors and blessings, to address him with the familiar term of you and your instead of thee and thine and thou. Let us teach our children to approach the Lord in deep humility and with worshipful reverence. Help them to know that humility is power, for the Lord has said that he. Will take the weak things of the world to confound the mighty. May we, in our justifiable pride in the accomplishments of the Church and in our exquisite joy in being partakers of such blessings as the gospel brings to us, walk in true humility before the Lord I pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. > Unter! Language Mabel Law Atkinson Strangers From different lands May be companionable Yet understand no word, for all People smile in the same language. Report and Official Instructions President Belle S. Spafford [Digest of an Address Delivered at the Wednesday Morning Meeting of the Annual General Relief Society Conference, September 28, 1955] Organizations and Reorganizations E are happy to report that \\/ at the close of 1954 there was a total of 3,601 ward and branch Relief Societies, an increase Over 1953 Of 150 societies. Recognizing the importance of local Societies as the place at which the program reaches the women of the Church, we are gratified by so substantial an increase. At the close of 1954 there were 216 stake organizations, an increase of seven. 'There were forty-two mission organizations, the same number as the previous year. During 1954 there were thirty-seven reorganizations in the stakes with eight new stakes created and six reorganized in the missions. Missions Membership has increased slightly, 759, making a present total membership of 29,238. 'The increase in membership figures would have been much higher had not so many branch organizations become parts of stakes. Appreciation is expressed for the lessons provided by the general board, particularly the theology lessons. 'Typical is this statement by a mission president: "The Book of Mormon lessons are ideal. 'Testimonies of the gospel have increased tenfold since studying these lessons. I note that testimonies are now so strong that rarely do we find a sister making excuses when asked to assume Church responsibilities, _regardless of the nature of the assignment." Work meeting plays an important role in the missions and the program of the day is ever-widening to meet the homemaking needs of the sisters, home canning, plain cooking, and other household arts. Membership Relief Societies in the stakes show increasing strength and accomplishments. We are particularly gratified by membership increases. Stakes had a membership of 127,062 at the close of 1954, an increase of 7,447 over 1953. 'The total membership of the Society (stake and mission) as of December 31, 1954, was 156,300, or an increase of 8,206. This was 49.04 per cent of the potential membership. Visiting 'Teaching The visiting teaching figures for 1954 show an increase in family visits of more than 200,000 over the previous year. A total of 2,634,185 visits were made, or an average of 8.27 per cent to each Latter-day Saint family. The report shows there were 60,639 visiting teachers performing this service, an increase of over 4,000 women. We know that this fine record is due, in large measure, to the careful attention given the visiting teaching program Page 729 by stake and ward Relief Society presidents. At this time with so much strength and service centered in the visiting teaching program, I feel to remind you of the original purpose of visiting teaching. Relief Society records inform us that this program was instituted in the Society's second year with the appointment of a "necessity" committee of sixteen, "to search out the poor and suffering." While some changes have been made in the duties of visiting teachers through the years, I know of no instructions whereby the assignment to search out the poor and suffering has been rescinded. The Visiting Teachers Report book lists as a duty of visiting teachers, "To report confidentially to the president instances of need, illness or distress observed during their visits or otherwise brought to their attention." I am wondering if visiting teachers should not be made more aware of this important aspect of their work. We have received inquiries as to whether visiting teachers should offer a prayer in the home of the sister they visit, since some visiting teachers do so and others do not. Visiting teachers should make careful preparation for their work and should seek the guidance and inspiration of the Lord in performing their calling, individually and as a pair of teachers, before they visit their districts. However, the visit itself is a friendly call (not a meeting) primarily to observe cases of need, and to leave a spiritual message in the home. 'The general board does not expect visiting teachers to engage in prayer with the sister in the home. You will note The Visiting Teachers Report Book does not include prayer in the home as one of the duties of visiting teachers. Reports reaching us indicate that often the same sister gives the message in the home each month. We suggest that teachers be encouraged to take turns in leading out in the discussion. Both are entitled to this development and the sister in the home is entitled to the viewpoints, in turn, of both teachers. Educational Program The excellent courses of study and the good teaching procedures being followed by the 12,903 Relief Society class leaders are important factors in the growth of Relief Society. I will not go into the courses of study this morning, since considerable time will be devoted to them during the conference, except to say, the teaching of lessons in Relief Society is something more than a contribution to a Relief Society meeting; it is more than imparting information to members; it is something more than stimulating classroom activity. It is the extension of knowledge of truth and its application in the lives of Relief Society members. The Book of Mormon Reading Program The Book of Mormon reading program was specifically planned to build testimonies. There were 45.1 per cent of the members who read the part of The Book of Mormon assigned during the past year. 'This is 13.9 per cent higher than the average attendance for the year, and represents 63,949 women. 730 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1955 REPORT AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS Work Meeting We are delighted to report that your efforts in behalf of the work meeting have borne good fruits. 'The work meeting was the second best attended meeting in 1954, coming up from the poorest attended meeting in 1953. 'The activities of the day showed resourcefulness on the part of leaders and appeared more adequately to meet the needs of the members. The work meeting must be made far more than a quilting meeting or a meeting devoted to so-called "busy" work. It should be planned and conducted to help Latter-day Saint homes. In these days of general prosperity, there appears to be a spirit of free spending among women. It is a matter of anxiety to us to receive reports that many women are spending unwisely. We are troubled when we learn that women are going into debt, opening charge accounts without due consideration as to how these bills are to be met or the sacrifices and hardships entailed should the income be suddenly reduced or cut off entirely. Women should develop within themselves resistance to high pressure sales practices and the lure of sales and bargain advertising. It is the business of Relief Society to teach thrift practices, skilled buymanship, the value to a family of even a small cash reserve in the case of emergency. Sisters, will you give consideration to these matters in your work meeting planning? Not only should you teach your sisters thrift practices, but we appeal to you to engage in them yourselves in administering your Relief Society. 781 Magazine The Relief Society Magazine reports for December 31, 1954 showed a paid subscription list of more than 129,000. We highly congratulate stake and ward presidents and Magazine representatives on their excellent achievements. We appreciate the gift subscriptions sent in by a number of stakes, most of which are designated to be distributed in the missions. However, much as we need and appreciate gift subscriptions, we trust that in order to supply them, you will not engage in practices which run counter to rulings or policies of the general board. For example, we learned recently of a ward that placed a receptacle in the room at every work meeting into which the women were urged to place donations to be used for gift subscriptions for the Magazine. Official Instructions, Relief Society Magazine, December 1951, page 820 under "Selling and _ Soliciting," states: In line with this (continually soliciting contributions) we would also discourage regularly placing a receptacle on the table or desk into which members are invited to place cash contributions, be they ever so small. It is the general policy of Relief Society to keep regular meetings as free from cash solicitations or from selling activities as possible. Welfare Reports indicate Relief Society women are giving continued support to the Church Welfare Program: 8,648 women participated in welfate sewing at work meeting; 3,178 participated in sewing at sewing centers. 'There were 16,243 women who participated in welfare projects other than sewing. With regard to recording the participation of women in welfare activities, the general board has ruled as follows, effective January 1, 1956: Women who are assigned articles to make for welfare purposes by Relief Society and who sew them at home under the direction of Relief Society can be counted as participating in welfare sewing activities as recorded in the stake annual report, the same as are women who sew for welfare purposes at work meeting. Women who work on fund-raising projects, such as food sales and dinners, to raise money for welfare purposes in connection with the Church Welfare Program, can be counted as participants in welfare activities. In other words, women participating in any activity for the benefit of the officially approved Church Welfare Plan may be counted as participating in the welfare program. Family welfare service engaged the careful attention of ward Relief Society presidents, with 10,983 initial or first visits being made to families under the direction of the respective bishops and 26,874 follow-up visits being made. Records show increases in number of women assisted who gave service on welfare projects or welfare sewing. An increased number of these sisters sewed for themselves. The compassionate services, needed in all communities in all eras of time, and one of our most important assignments, showed a_ substantial increase on a Church-wide basis. 'The visits to the sick and homebound during 1954 increased by 17,651; a total of 235,457 visits were made. There was an increase of 1,761 days care of the sick, a total of 25,500. "Blanket Authorization" to Visit Sick A question has arisen in the minds of some ward Relief Society presidents as to whether "blanket authorization" should be given visiting teachers to visit the sick and homebound outside of regular monthly visits. While homebound people usually welcome visits, the frequency and nature of visits to the sick are delicate matters which should be determined by the ward president since this is her responsibility. Blanket authorization to visiting teachers to visit the sick would leave this important matter to their discretion. While we do not wish, in any way, to discourage visits to the sick, the wisdom and good judgment of the ward president should determine when, how, and by whom they should be made. Funds Relief Societies, generally, appear to be working on a sound financial basis. A few reminders with regard to money matters, however, appear to be in order at this time: The disbursements of funds should be authorized by the president, with the knowledge and approval of the counselors, and should be made by check signed by the secretary-treasurer and countersigned by the president. Money for operating the Society should be in the bank in a checking, not a savings, account. Money earned from the sale of "authorized pattern" garments becomes a part of general funds of the Society and should be as economically administered as are any other earnings. The same regulations 732 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1955 REPORT AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS which apply to expenditures of other earnings apply to earnings from garment sales. Stake Responsibility Toward Regulation of Ward Funds A question has arisen as to what is the responsibility of the stake Relief Society president in regulating expenditures of a ward Relief Society since the money is earned by and belongs to the ward. It is the duty of the stake Relief Society president to make sure that ward Relief Society presidents clearly understand the rulings, recommendations, and policies of the general board with regard to acquiring, handling, disbursing and recording of funds, as set forth in the Handbook of Instructions, "Official Instructions" given at general Relief Society conferences, in bulletins, and correspondence. The stake Relief Society president, with the approval of the stake president, may counsel the ward Relief Society president with regard to any unusual expenditures or any irregular fund-raising activities of the ward Societies under her direction, the same as she would counsel her with regard to irregularities in other aspects of the work. Counsel to Stake Boards Stake boards are aids to the general board and to the respective stake presidents in carrying forward the work of Relief Society. 'They function for the benefit and in the best interests of the ward Societies. I call to your attention the fact that ward Relief Societies are organized by the ward bishop and work, first, under his direction. In those 733 matters which are the prerogative of the stake board to regulate, it should be done by the stake Relief Society president, herself, under the direction of the stake president and not by a member of the stake board. She should use the utmost discretion in so doing, making sure her reasons are sound, important, and in the best interests of the work. We caution stake boards against engaging in too many activities on a stake basis, particularly those wherein the wards are called upon to support functions designed by the stake board largely to magnify and benefit the stake organization itself as a unit of the Society. We appeal to you to exercise watchcare over the time and energies of the women and over your own strengths. We find it is usually when excessive extra activities are engaged in that the sisters become overburdened. We are aware and deeply appreciative of your wise, sensitive, devoted, able leadership, as well as the excellent conduct of your personal lives. We love you for what you are and for all you are doing in righteousness. Relief Society is abundantly blessed by your efforts. You will note our beautiful building is nearing completion. We are sorry that you cannot go through it at this time, but we urge you to take time to look at it. We hope you will be as pleased with it as we are, and assure you that in the nottoo-distant future it will be ready for occupancy. May the Lord bless and preserve you for your good works, I sincerely pray. Wheat Fund Rulings Sisters, there is a matter of business which we would like to take care of, at this time. Due to the frequency with which new wards are being created from wards having an interest in the Relief Society wheat fund now held in trust by the Presiding Bishop, which causes considerable bookkeeping in making further divisions of the fund and reduces the small amount of interest now being paid to such a nominal amount in many instances as to create a problem, it is proposed that the following ruling be adopted: No more divisions of the wheat trust fund will be made. Ownership will remain in the ward in which the meetinghouse is located or, in the case of stakes, with the parent stake. The voting was unanimous in the affirmative. We also propose that: Effective July 1955, no wheat interest checks be issued when the amount is less than one dollar, and that these amounts shall remain in the wheat fund, under the jurisdiction of the general board, unidentified as to stakes or wards. The voting was unanimous in the affirmative. Wagon City Roxana Farnsworth Hase The brush of scraggy growth and mean Was hacked aside to make a trail, The mountain spur, a windbreak, screen, Scorned winter's lonely banshee wail. The weak anemic sun on east And south, gave frugally its gold To pioneering man and beast, All conscious of the bitter cold. Beneath the snow the sodden blade Of grass unearthed by shovel head, Was choice as grazing in the glade To cattle lean and underfed. The wheel-blocked wagons served as church, As home, as school and council room; All stilled now were the creak and lurch, And lantern light was soft in bloom. Through winter stark and still they stood Until spring smiled across the hull, Then each tied back a canvas hood As men sought likely soil to till; The saw and hammer, rock, and sod, All yielded to the touch of men, And grateful souls gave thanks to God That wagon wheels could roll again. 734 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1955 Covers for Four Sarah O. Moss LICE hung up the receiver, ready to cry of disappointment. How could Anne just take over and say, "We're having Ellen and Bob for Thanksgiving dinner tomorrow? I know you'll understand, Alice. Our house isn't large, and our table just seats four comfortably, or we'd have asked you all." Alice continued with her dusting. She polished the big table, added extra leaves, and spread the pad before laying the white cloth, resenting its cottony look, as she put the crystal bowl in the center. 'The Jamison bowl! Old, lovely, beautiful — the symbol of the courage and the hospitality of the Jamisons for generations. Every Thanksgiving it appeared on some Jamison table. Holidays it seemed to center the families in warmth and good will. It was the one thing that Anne wanted from the family treasures. She doesn't deserve it, thought Alice, standing back to get the full effect, then she filled it with purple grapes and a few red apples. 'Thanksgiving without Ellen, her youngest sister, and her husband's youngest brother Bob! 'The two brothers, Robert and Phil, had married the two sisters, Ellen and Alice; the third brother, Richard, lived a few miles distant, with his wife Anne. Alice sat down to think things out. Incidentally they were expecting Ellen and Bob on the two o'clock train tomorrow, from Portland, Oregon, where he taught school. The message had come from friends passing through the city. Alice had taken it for granted that she would share the holiday with her lovable young sister, Ellen, and her husband and including, of course, Richard and Anne. And then Anne had decided to set her table for four! It wasn't fair! Alice continued with her household tasks, every once in a while her eyes brimmed with tears. She was glad that the two babies slept, as her emotions engulfed her reasoning. She felt that Anne wanted Ellen and Robert to show off her beautiful home to them, her immaculate housekeeping, and her pertfect cookery. For four it could be so easy, so beautiful, thought Alice, but she had six youngsters! She gave the big turkey she was stuffing a fierce slap, as she set it in the roaster ready for the oven, then went on with her pie making. She was glad when the day wore on and the four children came home from school. Cathy and Jane bubbled with laughter and complaints about assignments due, and the big game coming on the week end. Young 'Tommy was hungry, and six-year-old Gary woke up the three-year-old Sharon and the sixmonths-old baby, Mike. 'The "brood," Anne had called the children when they'd all gone to call on her, and Alice had decided not to take the children there again. When Phil came in at six, Alice told him she was cross. "You should Page 735 be grateful,' Phil chided het. "Thanksgiving's tomorrow, and I'm home." Alice smiled up at him. Then she told him about the hurt in her heart. "Why can't they all come here?" asked Phil. Yes, why couldn't they? It was what Alice had wanted, what Phil wanted — all the families — all the Jamisons. "Just call Aunt Anne up and tell her we're having Aunt Ellen and Uncle Bob, no matter what," said Cathy stormily. "Thanksgiving without company? It won't be any fun," said Jane. Ie was midnight when Alice finally went to bed, and, as was her habit, she shook off all hate, resentment, and ill feelings she might have for anyone, before she went to sleep. Tonight it was Anne to whom she must send her thoughts of love, and strangely, the hurt which had loomed so large through the day, seemed small and the problem of little consequence, as she lay, watching the moonlight wash over the room. 'Thanksgiving, she thought. I have so much. A fine husband, a good clean home, six beautiful children. Alice smiled to herself. She'd been so silly, resenting Anne. She'd see Ellen sometime during the day. What matter if Anne got a thrill out of having just four? With peace in her heart, Alice fell instantly asleep. The morning dawned with the wind blowing fiercely. Gusts shook the windows and doors, and the feeling of winter was in the air. It was good to be in. It was good to be warm. They all went busily about the preparations for the day. Phil built the fire in the grate. The girls made the beds and straightened up. Phil later took over the feeding and the bathing of the smaller children. Alice was left to prepare the dinner. She lifted the turkey out of the big granite roaster, and set it on a platter to keep warm in the oven, while she took care of the drippings for the gravy. 'Then she went on with the table setting, when, suddenly, the door opened with a gust of wind filling the room, and there stood Ellen and Bob! Screams of glee rent the air as the children crowded round the newcomers. Phil hurried into the room with the baby wrapped in a large towel. "We thought you were coming on the train," he said, shaking Bob's hand. "We couldn't wait," said Ellen. "We came just ahead of a snowstorm." She hugged the open fire, as she sat close by with the gurgling baby on her lap. "Food," said Bob, sniffing the air. "We're starved, Alice. How > soon can we eat?" Alice looked at her husband's youngest brother with amused tolerance. "Sorry," she said. "Not a mouthful. You're due at Anne's and Dick's. The table's all set for four." Alice visioned the perfect setting in Anne's beautiful home— four of everything, the gold-etched china at each place setting, sparkling crystal on the white linen cloth, the fire glowing and formal serving procedure throughout the meal. 736 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1955 COVERS FOR FOUR "Dick's meeting the train, about now," she added. Ellen pouted. "But that's not what I came for," she said. "I want to stay here. You're my family— you, Phil, and the children." "We'll run down after a while and say hello," added Bob hopefully. LICE felt uneasy. After all, guests, whoever they were, had an obligation. Ellen and Bob, at least, should call Anne. Perhaps the blizzard, the long ride, might be a justification for their not going, but Anne might put the blame on Alice. She had Bob call his sisterin-law. "She sounded mad as a hornet," he said, a few minutes later. "I suppose we should have gone." He looked at Ellen, but Ellen was busy helping Alice with the table. They laughed at the conglomeration of china and pottery. 'There were only six matched plates, and the pottery didn't go so well with it, and there were but five best goblets. "What's the difference?" asked Ellen when Alice apologized, "just so we're together on Thanksgiving Day, is all that matters." "That is right," agreed Alice. They bantered, they laughed, and they talked about each side of the family. It was delightful, like this, with Ellen so close. It was just as Alice had dreamed and hoped, but she felt uneasy about Anne. She wished that Ellen and Bob had gone to Anne's and Dick's. Anne's little fussy ways, her quest for perfection, her immaturity, were things she would outgrow, with help. They 737 were traits that made Anne what she was. Alice was sorry things had turned out as they had. Alice made the gravy, and Ellen mashed the potatoes. 'The girls whipped cream for the pies, and Bob opened cans of fruit juice for the punch. Phil was laboriously getting the turkey onto the platter, when the telephone rang. "It's for you, Mother," reported Tommy, who had answered it. Alice felt sure it was Anne. It was. Anne was crying. "Alice, you ' must help me. Please help me!" "If you'll explain — of course I'll help you. What do you want me to do? Did the meat burn, or did the pudding boil over?" Alice tried to sound gay to the overwrought girl. "Just come to dinner," Anne said. "All of you. Please come." Between sobbing and explaining, Alice finally made out what her sister-in-law was saying. "Dick is angry — terribly angry. He said I should have invited all of you in the first place." Alice listened. "Well, I quite agree with him," she laughed. Anne hesitated. "You're so understanding," she cried. "Do you think you could come, even now, after my upsetting the whole day for you?" "Now?" Alice gasped. "Our dinner's on the table!" "Don't you see? Dick wanted his brothers. He wanted his family. Somehow, the three of them belong. Then, when Bob didn't want to come, either, well I can see now we have a house and nothing in it, even on Thanksgiving." Alice hesitated. "We'll come," she said, "sure you know what you're doing?" "Quite sure," said Anne gratefully. "In fact, I never was so sure of anything in my life. And thanks a million." To the consternation of everyone, Alice explained and _ organized as she talked. 'Then she began handing things to anyone closest at hand, leggings and warm coats for the little ones, heavy coats for the _ adults. They all rushed back and forth from the house to the station wagon. They carried out the big kettle of hot potatoes, the turkey, the pies. Alice took a tray and gathered up some of the good things from the table, red currant jelly, pickles, and a bowl of nuts. Finally, everyone was settled in the station wagon waiting for her. Anne's. Going to be floored, Alice thought to herself, as she visioned all of the Jamisons bulging Anne's small house. She stood by the door and looked at the wrecked table. Only the crystal bowl stood untouched, the purple grapes and the red apples shining through the rose design. She stepped to the table, took the bowl carefully in her hands, then hurried to the waiting car. Che Sparrows: Thanksgiving Seast Thelma J]. Lund I watched the fluttering sparrows eat their fill Of pyracantha berries when the chill Of winter held earth in its frozen grip, And felt a joyous thnill I did not clip The berried branches as a center spray For my Thanksgiving table that bleak day, —_> Prayer Preface Dorothy J. Roberts May bared branches utter the naked heart As unashamed as leafless limbs their lineage cry, Lettering in charcoal for the land to read, Their past, in parable, printed on the sky; On every lost and fallen leaf, its scar. As boughs have written their dark roots of prayer, Holding the shapes of harps upon the air To windy plucking and their twigs to star, Let me emerge revealed, as winter's tree, Written and drained, to be filled by thee. 738 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—-NOVEMBER 1955 Jools for Your Cl ld Helen B. Morris 66 HERE'S no use spending a | lot of money for toys," one mother complained. "The children never play with them anyway." Actually, from my experience as a mother and as a former teacher, | feel it is just as important to provide your child with proper play equipment as it is to buy his clothing and furnish him with a balanced diet. Play is the means by which the child expresses himself and the way he learns about the adult world into which he is growing. Proper self-expression feeds his soul and nurtures a radiant, well-adjusted personality. A busy child is happy. Play Equipment Should Include Toys Which Encourage Creativity Building blocks are, perhaps, the most important single toy a child can own. 'They provide him with countless hours of enjoyment from the time he begins to toddle about until he is eight or nine years old. Blocks become towers or trains. They may become corrals or highways. Later on, building becomes more complicated. But, at any stage, no other media provides such a diverse outlet for the imagination. It also provides excellent opportunity to learn muscular control. We are told that fancy-colored blocks are less desirable than uncolored ones of standard size. One standard building block on the market has a basic unit five and one-half inches long, two and three-fourths inches wide, and one and _threeeighths inches thick. In addition, there should be squares, triangles, columns, pillars, arches, diagonals, and oblongs in sizes that are either parts of, our multiples of, the basic unit. Such blocks can be purchased, or they might be cut and sanded at home. Clay is an essential creative material for the child's self-expression and emotional development. A satisfactory substitute can be made at home by combining one cup of flour or cornstarch with two cups of salt, and adding cold water to make a thin paste. After cooling, it is ready for the clay board. A board is essential if a child is to gain satisfaction in playing with clay. 'There must be a solid surface on which to pound, poke, and mold. A sanded board one inch thick and one foot square makes an ideal clay board. Finger painting allows the child "messiness" with sanction. 'The paint can be made at home by thickening water with cornstarch until it is the night consistency for the child to spread on paper with his fingers. Food coloring makes it more delightful. A child also likes paints that can be spread with a brush. An easel can be made at little or no cost to the family from scraps of wood. Cardboard makes a suitable backing for the paper. Poster paints in small jars may be used, or fresco paints can be purchased in powder form, at small cost, and mixed with water at home. It is important to furnish Page 739 a brush for each color so the colors won't be mixed. Brushes should be one-half inch wide. A young child should not be helped with his painting until he indicates a desire to learn technique. "No dear, do it this way," the anxious mother exclaims; but simply splashing a splendor of colors on a blank sheet is a delightful experience to the child. Often he loves to cover the entire page with solid, rich brown or radiant red. Adult interference and instruction destroy his spontaneity and the value of the experience. Exact duplication of objects is not yet important to the young child. A smock from an old shirt to cover the child's clothing, and a newspaper to cover the floor give him greater freedom. A child also needs an ample supply of paper for coloring with crayons, cutting, and pasting. Colored construction paper increases the possible combinations. Dramatic Play Is an Important Phase of the Child's Development This phase, so common to teachers of young children, does not refer to elaborate theatricals with printed lines and colored lights. It simply means acting out the role of someone or something. The tiniest toddler imitates the actions and sounds of those about him. Imitating behavior is the means by which children learn during their early years. It helps them to understand the complicated and bewildering world into which they have come. It clarifies their various experiences in their own minds. This imitative play can be stimulated by providing the child with proper materials. It is important to have housekeeping equipment comparable to mother's. It need not be expensive. Packing boxes might be the cupboards or the doll bed. 'Toy dishes, telephones, and irons are all available in inexpensive plastics. Some recommend _ that every child should own a doll and a small wardrobe to make it real fun. Making doll clothes will thrill most mothers as much as the child. Farm and circus animals are important in dramatic play. 'Transportation toys are indispensable to a child learning about this modern world. By considering your child's own experiences and watching his activities, you can determine what equipment he needs at any given time for his dramatic play. Equipment Is Also Essential For Outdoor Play The sandbox, with a shovel, sifter, take, and hoe, is a favorite of childhood. It will consume hours of the child's playing time in pleasant weather. There should also be something to climb—if not a tree, then a ladder, or steps. There should be something to slide down and jump on. A swing is an inexpensive toy the child will love. Large hollow blocks are excellent. A substitute might be several boxes of assorted sizes. Miscellaneous Materials Used for Play Aside from the materials used for creative, dramatic, and outdoor play, there are others not falling distinctly into a particular group. Balls are 740 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1955 TOOLS FOR YOUR CHILD loved by children of all ages. Push and pull toys and nests of boxes are delightful to toddlers. Peg boards and simple puzzles are often fascinating. 'T'ricycles are a favorite by the time the child is three. Music and literature for children are complete subjects in themselves. Whatever toys you choose for your child, there are certain tests they should meet. They should be thoroughly safe. They should be durable, with no breakable parts. And they should stimulate the child to some activity or self-expression. After you have provided your child with proper play equipment, it should be arranged so that it is within his reach and before his eyes. The easiest thing for a busy mother seems to be to heap everything into a drawer or box. But if Johnny needs a cow for his block milking barn and must rummage through a heap of unrelated items to find it, 741 chances are that if he ever does find it his enthusiasm for the project will be gone. It is most desirable to arrange related toys on open shelves in an orderly fashion so that they will be available when the need arises. 'They need not be elaborate. Orange crates serve the purpose very well. The time and expense involved in providing play equipment in your home may be your most important investment in the rearing of a welladjusted child. 'The easiest way to avoid problems is to keep his life filled with new experiences and materials to stimulate activity. Play is the child's work, and toys are his tools. Adults should regard them seriously. A busy child is a happy child. To keep him busy is worth the price, for there is not a more thrilling experience in this world than to watch a child's spirit grow and bloom. Doll Clothes Margaret Hyatt Today I start to cut and sew The miniature editions Of patchwork quilts and lovely clothes To carry on traditions. The velvet from a favorite dress Once clothed anticipation; The elfin blocks of flowered prints Best dressed a small relation. The tiny stitches, gladly wrought, Are not to hide a mystery; They bind together a condensed book, Whose pages tell my history. Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, November 1, and November 15, 1895 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomeEN OF ALL Nations" EUGENE FIELD: Eugene Field the beloved poet and man of letters, died suddenly and without warning, Nov. 4th, at day break; the news made not only Chicago sad but thousands throughout the country will mourn the loss of one of the brightest geniuses of the nineteenth century. —Selected THE VALUE OF TIME: Perhaps it is not too much to assert that the majority of women have very inadequate conceptions of the value and extent of time.... The woman who, in feminine parlance, ''accomplishes" much is the woman who has learned to use and save her minutes.... A very few misspent hours destroy a day's usefulness. Almost as deplorable as the waster of time in gossip is the woman who never has time for a pleasant chat with her friends and whose mind is so crowded with household or social cares that she inwardly begrudges the time given to a caller. —Ex. THANKSGIVING The year decays, November's blast Through leafless boughs pipes shrill and drear. With warmer love the home clasps fast The hands, the hearts, the friends most dear.... —New York Sun RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE IN SAN LUIS STAKE, COLORADO: Present and on the stand were President Mortenson and Counselors, Magdalene Funk and Jane Crowther, and many of the leading brethren and sisters of the stake. Meeting opened with singing and prayer. Cornelia Mortenson... Was pleased to meet with the saints on such a beautiful morning, prayed for the spirit of God to direct us. Verbal reports were then called for, which were responded to cheerfully. The spirit of the speakers in general was good, and the storing of grain was made the important subject... A letter from Zina D. H. Young was read..., Bishop S. C. Bethelsen made a motion that the brethren sustain the sisters with their means as well as by their faith.... —Laura J. M. Petersen, Sec. Pro-tem. ELIZABETH CADY STANTON: Mrs. Stanton with Lucretia Mott, the venerable Quaker, called the first ""Woman's Rights Convention" ever known; it met at Seneca Falls, New York, July igth and 2oth, 1848, a day which will be ever memorable in the history of the country.... Mrs. Stanton has ever been a model housekeeper, a devoted wife and mother.... Mrs. Stanton's whole life is a forcible argument in favor of equal suffrage.... —Fditorial by Emmeline B. Wells FROM A FAR COUNTRY — IN MEMORIAM: Sister Francis Crosby Brown died at her home in Nutrioso, Apache Co, Arizona, on October 12, 1895. Sister Brown was born in Yarmouth, Nova Scotia, Oct. 31st, 1817.... She received her blessings in the Nauvoo Temple in 1846... And reached Salt Lake Valley Sept 21st, 1848, and after a short stay in the old fort... She moved with her husband and family to St. George... And may really be called a pioneer in the settlements of Nauvoo, Salt Lake, and St. George..... She moved to Arizona in 1883..., She has acted as ward President of the Relief Society in Nutrioso.... She died firm in the faith of a glorious resurrection with the just.... —G. H. C. Page 742 OAN WEISSMAN, six feet tall, had difficulty buying clothes that fit her. So she and her husband, six feet five inches tall, set up a shop in Newark, New Jersey, to sell clothes for tall women. They have another shop in Philadelphia, and a third in Stamford, Connecticut. They employ no salesgirl under five feet ten inches tall, and mirrors, racks, and counters are extra high. PRINCESS DIANA ABDUL HaMID has become the bride of her distant cousin, King Hussein of Jordan, almost twenty years old. The Queen, twenty-six, has a master's degree from Cambridge, and has taught English literature at Cairo University, Egypt. They are channeling all wedding gifts of money into a fund for refugees and national guard. M*. HELEN MOODIE, a highly educated teacher of speech and personality development in Hollywood, California, __ writes: "Your speaking voice reveals... Your cultural and educational background; your locale (where you lived as a girl); your emotional development; the state of your health, and your present mood." [SABEL MAITLAND STEWART, Professor Emeritus, DivisWoman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon ion of Nursing Education, Teachers College, Columbia University, and Ruby G. Bradley, Lieutenant Colonel, Army Nurse Corps, Medical Section, Headquarters 'Third Army, Fort McPherson, Atlanta, Georgia, were recently awarded the Florence Nightingale Medal at the American National Red Cross Convention at Atlantic City "in honor of those who have given distinguished and devoted service to the sick and wounded in time of war and peace and in disasters, through service or education." IRTHDAY congratulations are extended to Mrs. Elzina Stringham Henrie, Ferron, Utah, ninetyeight; Mrs. Cynthia Richards Brewer, Salt Lake City, ninety-four; Mrs. Mary Olsen Petersen, Salt Lake City, ninety-three; Mrs. Annie Catherine Mortensen Ivie, Salina, Utah, ninety-three; Mrs. Nellie Parsons, Elgin, Oregon, ninety-one; and the following women who have recently celebrated their ninetieth birthdays: Mrs. Sarah Ketchum McKinley and Mrs. Mary Buckmiller Kraus Jenkins, Salt Lake City; Mrs. Nancy Day Ballard, Draper, Utah; Mrs. Aramina Johnson Chase, Springville, Utah; Mrs. Selena Ann Wall Shaw, Aurora, Utah. Page 743 CG—> EDITORIAL c~© VOL. 42 NOVEMBER 1955 NO. 11 Shankfulness for the Gospel Heritage WHILE expressing thanksgiving to the Lord for the bounties of the field and for all other living things which sustain and nourish life, not the least of the mercies for which one, as a Latter-day Saint, should express thanksgiving around the plenteous board at Thanksgiving time, is the thanks for family and friends. A great significance of the joy experienced comes as a result of the loving ties which encircle the feasting table. As a mother glances down at her husband in the place of honor, to whom she is sealed for time and all eternity and gazes on around at her children and, perhaps, grandchildren surrounding the board, peace and thanksgiving flow through her very being for the knowledge and assurrance she holds as to the continuing future of their family relationships. And, in addition to those who are sealed in mortality through lineage, there is, also, in the Church, the knowledge of a relationship extending back into the pre-existence toward one's fellows antedating present friendships. One acknowledges ties of brother and sisterhood when all were spirits in the kingdom of the Heavenly Father and the Savior was the elder Brother. How much closer one feels to all these brothers and sisters when he also recognizes this relationship and lives by the Page 744 words of the Lord, "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me" (Matt. 25:40). The dear friends who also may surround a 'Thanksgiving table, then, are not cherished merely as acquaintances of this world. 'There is the added expectation that someday one will remember the ties which bound friends together previous to birth into mortality, and they may look forward to continuing their friendship in the hereafter. Another bond which links one to another in the Church, is the gospel heritage. 'The world over, in a congregation of the saints when one sings, "We Thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet" universally the thoughts of the saints will unite in thankfulness for the guidance of the Church by the prophets of the Lord. Say the names of the First Presidency, the Quorum of the Twelve, or the names of others of the General Authorities in a congregation of the saints and, instantly, be it in South Africa, in Europe, or in the isles of the sea, there is a common understanding kindled among the members. 'This bond was used in World War I to gather together the missionaries from the warring countries to bring them back home. In a crowded terminal a whistling of that song so significant EDITORIAL in the Church heritage, "Come, Come, Ye Saints,"' drew the missionaries together, though unknown to each other previously. A pull and attraction stronger than life gathered them as one. One of the Authorities was sitting in a train station at Chicago. A young man sitting near kept looking at him. Finally he began to whistle softly, "Come, Come Ye Saints." When the Authority looked over toward the boy and smiled, he at once came over and, extending his hand, said, "I thought it was you, but I wasn't sure." Immediately there was a common understanding between them which set them apart from every other of the thousands of persons in the station. Often in the want advertisements in Salt Lake papers, one reads, "L. D. S. Person preferred." 'This insures, to a great degree, that the one responding to the advertisement will enjoy this common heritage, that her ideals and conduct will coincide with the one running the advertisement. Recently a sister said, "You know 745 the one who lives with me is a fine woman, and I didn't think it would matter that she wasn't a member of the Church, but the other day when I was trying to discuss some matters, I realized that nothing I said meant a thing to her. I don't believe I can keep on using her. We just don't have anything in common. Everyday relationships among young Latter-day Saints are built up and fostered by Church activities. If one desires, a satisfying social life is provided merely through Church affiliations. Our Father in heaven through his Church offers and bestows countless blessings on every member. Many of these blessings are oftimes taken for granted. Not the least of them, for which one should offer special thanksgiving, is the great common heritage of the children of Israel who have accepted the gospel in this great and last dispensation. The gospel heritage gives to life its full meaning and brings joy here and hereafter. —M. CS. Immutable Iris W. Schow The hands which took the knife from mine And made my crooked cutting straight Now yield the knife and loaf to me; Part of their skill is gone of late. The soul who taught me first of God But grows more certain of his care; A deathless current flows within Which time and use cannot impair. So Mleet the Bride Helen S. Williams qrake is something extra special about an invitation to meet a new "Bride-to-Be," and something extra special, too, about planning, decorating, and preparing for a bride's party. 'To decide on a novel idea that pertains to the bride or groom — something that has to do with their work, their new home, their schooling, future, or their particular romance, is the first step in the preparation of a party that will be distinctively their own. To carry this idea into beautiful table decor takes ingenuity, artistry, and work — much work. When the result is as lovely and as original as the table pictured across, and when the bidden guests and the sweet young bride exclaim sincerely and enthusiastically over the beauty and originality of the table, then the hostess, justifiably, can feel pleased and rewarded for all her efforts of time, work, and expense. The pictured table was used at an afternoon reception honoring a young bride who was to wed a naval officer attached to a carrier. The centerpiece for the exquisite table was a carrier ship with golden planes aboard. What a beautiful ship! It was made of white daisies, and was exact in every detail of shape and size and made in perfect proportion to the large table on which it was placed. The ship was made of plasta-foam, that comparatively new material that can be cut and built in all sorts of shapes and sizes. This foam can be purchased at most floral, lumber or novelty shops, and comes in either sheets or blocks. The carrier was made in three layers of the sheet foam. The top deck, or landing area, was about an inch thick and the other layers making the hull of the boat were all held together with strong wire. Thus the deck and hull which appear in the picture to be one solid piece were actually three sheets. It was all cut and fastened together in perfect proportion to create a replica of a naval carrier. The superstructure was cut from a separate piece and fastened to the deck. It took about four hundred large Esther Reed daisies to cover the carrier. The daisies were held in place with tooth picks which had been broken in two. The sharp end was stuck into the daisy and the broken end thrust into the foam. The daisies were artistically staggered to give an over-all lacy, yet realistic appearance. A more beautiful carrier never sailed the high seas than did this one made of daisies, with its five gilded planes which seemed to have just landed on the beflowered deck of daisies. The figurines of the bride and groom standing on the bow gave the feeling of romance and love. They were a delightful symbol of the lovely young couple who were being honored and who were about to embark upon the sea of matrimony— a young couple beginning the most important journey of life with hopeful anticipation that their voyage would be perfect. The carrier seemed to be plowing its way through the sea with the spray of waves splashing against its sides. The clever hostess had placed the ship in a mass of daisies and white baby's breath (Gypsophila). The daisies had been dyed with floral dye an ocean blue color. The blue daisies and the foamy, airy Gypsophila truly gave an illusion of waves breaking against the ship. It was a beautifully worked out unique centerpiece and so appropriate for the honored guests. A centerpiece must have a perfect setting if it is to be artistic and beautiful. This one centered a very large table which was covered with an exquisite point-de-Venice lace cloth over pink satin. The table was wide and long and the ship was in excellent proportion to the dimensions of the table. At each corner a large anchor was fastened to the cloth. The same plasta-foam covered with the white daisies made the anchors. 'They gave unity and a fecling of Page 746 TO MEET THE BRIDE 747 harmony and completeness to the entire picturesque table. 'These anchors had been drawn to pattern and carved out with a small saw. 'They were completely covered with the daisies, as was the ship. A large graceful bow of pink satin ribbon and airy maline was placed at the top of cach anchor on the table top. These bows matched exactly the satin which was used under the cloth and added femininity and softness to the picture. The table, with its beautiful cloth over pink satin, the white anchors and pink ribbon bows at the corners of the spacious table, made a perfect setting for the ocean blue and the large white centerpiece which was the focal point of the decoration. 'The effect as guests entered the dining room was one of beauty and romance, in excellent good taste, and the entire idea was specifically in honor of the young bride. The "Bride-to-Be" and all who had been invited to meet her felt that the afternoon and the reception had been truly an extra special occasion, one to be long remembered, enjoyed, and appreciated. Hal Rumel A CARRIER SHIP OF FLOWERS FOR A TABLE DECORATION Hermanas CHAPTER 5 Fay Tarlock Synopsis: The story "Hermanas" (sisters) is narrated by an American woman living temporarily in Mexico. She has befriended Lolita, a widow, and her lovely daughter Graciela. At Church, Graciela is introduced to Jim Flores, studying to be a doctor, and their friendship deepens into love. While dining with the Amenrican Senora and her husband in a fashionable restaurant, Graciela becomes acquainted with a wealthy older Mexican man, Senor Munoz. 'Through the aid of the American Senora, Graciela secures a secretarial position with Mr. Carson, a banker. Senor Munoz discreetly begins to court Graciela. T was September again, and the valley of Mexico City was one vast flower garden. Amporo brought me loads of pink and white cosmos, purchased for a few centavos in the market. The rains slackened, then took on new force. 'The white peaks of the twin mountains seemed forever obscured in clouds and mist, but the air was soft as a baby's cheek, and the grass and trees were a lush green. The cool freshness was exhilarating; yet I often caught myself standing in the patio, my errand forgotten. In more than a week Graciela had not been to the house. Pues, the telephone. Was still on the mantle in the living room. With quick fingers, I dialed Mr. Carson's bank. Only seconds and Graciela was there, her voice confident and poised as she announced Mr. Carson's office. When she recognized me her voice had a lilting gladness. At the same time she was evasive. With Page 748 little formal politeness I said that we had missed her, and would like to have her come to us on her way home that night. "I cannot come after work." All the sadness of the world was in her voice. "But," and I could tell she spoke with sudden decision, "I will come now, if you wish it." It was almost one o'clock. I called to Amporo to set an extra plate and hurried into the kitchen. John and Graciela met me at the gate and came in together. She wore the same clothes I had selected for her in the spring: the black skirt, the white blouse, and the American jacket. On her own she had added a black straw beanie and white gloves and a fresh flower. Anyone who looked at her proud, young head would know, at once, that she was a young person of importance, secretary to a banker, perhaps. When we had passed from the shadowed living room into the sunlit dining room, I was shocked. "Graciela," I said, drawing her face toward me with my hands, "tell me what is wrong. If you were twenty, instead of eighteen, I'd say those dark spots under your eyes were circles." "It is nothing." She took my hands away and pressed them to her cheek. "Just being indoors when I am used to romping with my twins." She stooped to hug Marita and Judy who were rushing towards her, all squeals of delight. HERMANAS The meal was merry but unsatisfactory. Every time my lips started to frame a question, Graciela had a funny story to tell about Mr. Carson and his indulgence of her mistakes. Only this morning she had made a mistake in a letter, so funny that Mr. Carson had exploded with laughter when he caught it. ' "It is a shame to correct such a mistake, he said to me, then he laughed harder. It is all so wonderful." Her dark eyes were soft. "And I owe it all to you two." John patted my arm, and picked up the twins for a last minute romp in the patio. Alone with Graciela, I twirled the dessert fork in my fingers, knowing at best I had only a half hour more with her. "You have not," I said, eyes on the fork, "explained why you have forsaken us so suddenly. The Saturday you were to meet Jim here, he was in a black mood waiting for you. I have not seen him since, have you?" "No." Her answer was a whisper. "T could not come, and I cannot see him again." Her words shocked me into silence. I could only look at her face, drained of all color and heavy with despair. 66 [' is Senor Munoz?" I asked at last. She nodded, her lips trembling. Well, I had suspected it, but his celerity and determination stunned me. "Senor Munoz went to your mother!" I said it as a fact, not an accusation. She nodded again, her tears falling on her listless fingers. "Will you tell me about it. I want to understand." 749 "T cannot tell you." I had to strain to hear her whisper. "My mother said I was to say nothing.. | promised her." There was finality in her words. When she stood up her shoulders were bent, her slight body shaking. "Now I will go, if you give me permission." I blazed with anger. How dared Lolita do this to her child? How dared she ignore my part in what had happened since she placed Graciela in my charge? I had not asked for the responsibility. Yet I said nothing, for I recognized the girl's misery. And I knew she must return to work. "Go upstairs and wash your face. Pll walk with you to the bus." She came back with her tears dried and her eyes swollen, 'There must be time for her to compose herself before Mr. Carson and the office girls saw her. "I'll send you in a taxi," I said, helping her with her jacket and hat. There was little chance for conversation on the street, but I managed to ask, "At work, before Mr. Carson and the others... Are you sad and distracted?" "Oh, no, believe me, I do not let him know. Being there, working and knowing that he approves of me, it is the only thing that keeps me sane." Her eyes begged me to believe she would not let me down. "You must be happy before him, be efficient in your work." [I looked deeply into her sad eyes. "It is necessary that you make Mr. Carson happy and keep this job. As long as you have it, you may be able to do something." "There is nothing I can do... or you. My mother has arranged everything. She is to have a dress made especially for her in New York for the wedding." She spoke with such bitterness that my feet stumbled on the pavement, and Graciela caught my arm. I felt the trembling of her body. A thousand protests ran through my head, but there was one thing I would ask. "Have you seen Jim, told him what has happened?" "T have promised my mother. I will not see or talk to him again." I threw caution in the street. "You mean that you are leaving him alone with no explanation, nothing?" "My mother says that in time... When...." Her mouth refused the words.... "She will explain to him." "Hasn't Jim called or tried to see you?" We were standing on the curb, and a cruising taxi pulled in near us. "He came twice to the house, but my mother had Ramon go to the gate and tell him we were not home. When he telephoned the office I had the girl say I was busy. Once he waited for me, but I worked late into the night, and when I came out he was gone." She made no effort to stop the flow of tears. Traffic whirred by us. The taxi driver had opened wide his door, his eyes dark with impatience. The first rain of the day fell as I guidea Graciela into the taxi. I watched it disappear down the Avenida, then ran towards home, darting from willow tree to willow tree to avoid the downpour. I wanted to call Jim so badly that I had to hold my hands tight to my sides. Since last Saturday he had not been to see us. I would wait for John's advice. LOUra was something else. I felt that I had a right to an explanation from her, and a right to tell her she was doing an unpardonable thing. When I telephoned Leela Beeson she said that Lolita had not worked for her for days. Lolita, she told me with some asperity, had told her that the work was too tiring. It was indeed later than I thought. I waited for a lull in the rain, then sent Amporo upstairs to watch the twins. Fortified with a raincoat and umbrella, I took the yellow bus to San Angel, my fury mounting with each lurch of the decrepit vehicle. There was a bus stop within a block of the Urbina place. Most of the iron shutters were still drawn over the shop windows. Hurrying along the street was a wet, sad vender of sweets and ices, his wagon proudly named "The Little Eagle of the North," covered with a piece of dripping canvas. A beggar was taking refuge from the stream in the outdoor telephone booth Lolita had used to call us. Time seemed endless in the wind and rain until I came to the familiar gate and found the hidden bell. Hours later, it seemed, old Ramon stumbled to the gate, his arm still in a sling. "Si esta, Senora," he said, beckoning me to follow. I stumbled with him along the dark entry, mouldy and damp with age, into a wide corridor. Here on 750 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1955 HERMANAS the right, close to the street, were the servant quarters, dark and dank with the odor of centuries. 'To the left was the main wing of the house with its long side gallery, its rotting floors, and its neglected garden ex tending to the wall that separated the house from the street. Lolita was in the laundry room, her back bent over the ancient cement tray. Somehow her bent back and the laundry tray made me feel better. She was not yet living on Munoz bounty. When she saw me she straightened herself. As I looked at her, she lowered her eyes, but not before I had seen a flash of fear in them—or was it shame? Wiping her hands on her black and white checked apron, she came towards me with the air of a person who would be happier fleeing, but was determined to hold ground. "Ay, Senora. It is a bad day for you to be out. Come with me and Pll take off your wet shoes." I followed her into her narrow room with its double cot and two stift-backed chairs under a_ lone, high window. I let her kneel at my feet and remove my damp pumps, thanking her as she covered my feet with a towel. That done, she stood above me anxiously waiting. "Sit with me." I indicated her other chair. Obedient as a child, she sat down opposite me, and while we could not hear the rain through the heavy tiled roof, we felt its chill presence. For a moment we faced each other in a silence that was neither hostile nor warm. "T think you know why I have come," I said, at a disadvantage be- 751 cause I must make the first overture. All her life she had been trained to avoid the displeasure of the people she served. Her face was an innocent blank. "I do not know why the Senora troubles herself to seek? Me. N that instant I recognized that Lolita had been my adversary since that first interview when she placed her daughter in my hands. A dark place in her mind grudged my doing the thing she could not do. All these months I had been serenely confident that we wanted the same thing for Graciela. Now I did not know. I could not match her in subtleness; my strength lay in directness. "You know why I have come." Her face was obscure, and I made the next plunge. "How did Senor Munoz find you, and when did he make his offer?" "How he found me I do not know, Senora." Her eyes were focused on her folded hands, her words darkly polite. "He is a man of wealth. It would be easy for him to trace you. But that," I dismissed the idea with a turn of my hand, "is of no consequence. He wasted no time in coming.' I leaned forward suddenly, my eyes trying to force Lolita to return my gaze. "Tell me his offer." I think she realized she would gain nothing by concealment. She told me Senor Munoz had come to see her and declared his intentions straightway. I fixed the date as the day after my telephone conversation with him, when I thought I had adroitly stopped him. The Senor wanted to marry Graciela. As long as Lolita lived she could sit on velvet chairs and eat the sweet bread of the rich. It was that simple. Once I unwound the trappings of her polite language I learned that the marriage date had already been set. Because I must not antagonize her, I moved more cautiously. Our first bout concerned Jim. "Do you realize what you are doing to him, Lolita?" I kept my voice calm. "Un joven." She shrugged. "In a short time one so young will have forgotten the whole affair and pay court to another girl." "You know there is a deep love between them." Her smile dismissed it as nothing, but I persisted. "You know they had declared their love and you did not oppose it." "It was a thing of the distant future, so of no consequence." "I do not think so. You knew their plans, for Graciela to work in her new position until she had grown up a little and until Jim was teady for his internship." Lolita said nothing to my accusations, and I went on. "You knew how they had planned to work together when Jim began his practice in a remote village. Graciela herself told me you would be housekeeper while she worked with Jim, that you would help rear their children." Then I changed my attack. "Why do you object to. Jim? Is he not far beyond anything you had hoped for Graciela?" Her delicate nostrils twitched scornfully. "What is he but a young man with years stretching before him in poverty?" She looked at me accusingly. "He does not care about the money that will mean comfort and security for his wife. He thinks only of research! At the best what he has to offer is precarious. And he is neither Mexican nor American." She tossed him aside with her worn brown hand. N defending Jim I forgot discretion. "If he is young, Graciela is younger," I almost shouted the words, then I calmed myself. "Both of them can wait awhile with profit. And have you forgotten her new position that will support you both in a splendor you have never known?" She had the grace to flush. "He has everything to offer Graciela," I said eloquently, pressing my advantage, "youth, a bright future, and he is all the better for being an American who has decided to return to his ancestral home. His strength and aggressiveness will give him success. You know that." I eyed her in stern righteousness. "That is all of the future. And is he not handicapped? Not even your army would take him." I rose from my chair, the towel slipping away, and walked across the narrow room to the foot of the double cot. "Are any of us without some imperfection?" I sat down on the hard cot. "Is Graciela so perfect that she has no scar of body or mind? No," I declaimed, striking the cot with my hand, "you cannot use Jim's foot as an excuse for your decision." It was almost dark in the room with the high window and crumbling plaster. I moved from cot to 752 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1955 HERMANAS chair, thinking to use my most telling argument. Before Lolita could stoop to help me, I slipped my cold feet in the welcome towel. "Our religion — the new religion you have found—does it mean nothing to you?" I pounded my arguments into her passive ears. "You told me that at last you had found a religion that satisfied the longings of your soul. You said it was a religion that would free you, enable you to be equal with all people." Before my onslaught, she lowered her eyes, and I saw her fingers quiver. Surely I was striking a responsive chord. "You will not destroy this hope, will you?" Slowly she lifted her eyes to mine and I saw in them a sadness that disarmed me.- "Senora," she said quietly, "you do not understand. You are not of Mexico, you have never eaten the food of the poor or slept on a straw mat. You have not known a tomorrow without hope." 753 For a long minute I did not answer her. My mind told me that she spoke the truth. I had not lived bereft of hope, and the future had once held no hope for her. "With Jim and Graciela you need not fear." I said it softly and she answered as one who does not hear. "Try to understand, Senora. You have not walked in the shadows as I have, nor slept in a dark room in the rear." She leaned forward, and her gnarled brown fingers touched the rough surface of my tweed jacket. "You, Senora, have always had a warm coat, you do not know what it is to wear a reboza to keep out the cold." Her fingers moved in a gesture of supplication, and her voice was hoarse with passion. "Think what it means to me, Senora, to have my daughter offered a high place in my country. Do you think under the same conditions you would refuse?" (To be continued) Autumn Zara Sabin A prescience of winter is felt these days— A knowledge from past years, not quite forgot; A hushed expectancy that lures our gaze To half-bare elms, or dim secluded spot Where blooms the hardy sweet-breathed violet, Or sheltered more, a clump of mignonette. Bare fields lie dreaming in the cooling breeze; Blackbirds wing higher, swifter than before, Or, holding convocation in the trees, They seem to teach their young new nature lore In preparation for their southward flight... I wonder, do they plan to go tonight? She Watermelon Rug Elizabeth Williamson 4 hooked watermelon rug grew out of sheer necessity. A small rug to stand on in front of the stove was badly needed. A watermelon inspired the colors, which harmonized with the old brick wall behind the stove and the deep green of the tiled tabletops. MATERIALS 1 hooked rug needle one half gunny (feed) sack tacked to a wood frame. One worn watermelon colored cotton skirt one worn, dark-green cotton blouse strips of black cotton for the seeds strips of discarded sheet (white) All strips for hooked rugs should be cut on the straight of the material, not on the bias. The rug was hooked in about two weeks during odd moments. The family joined in the effort, and occasionally contributed by working a small area. Now the rug takes its place in front of the kitchen stove, looking as if it always belonged there. Lie ness Elsie McKinnon Strachan Not a broken moon, aged and white, Nor a mumpy fellow Of September yellow, But a cherub-pink crescent lanterns the night; And this hospital window frames its wee light; While attuned to its glowing— With beginning of knowing— Infant sounds in the nursery of newness unite. Page 7/54 Meat for Thrifty Meals Rhea H. Gardner Extension Service Home Management and Furnishings Specialist Utah State Agricultural College mM! Is a food it pays to buy with thrift and cook with care. The cheaper grades and cuts of meat, though fairly lean and not so tender, if prepared right, are just as full of food value and are as tasty as the higher-priced cuts. The chief difference is they take more time in cooking and more skill in seasoning. Breer or VEAL Birps 2 pounds beef round or veal 4 tablespoons fat steak cut %-inch thick 2 cups soft bread crumbs Y% cup chopped celery and leaves salt and pepper to taste 1 onion, chopped herb seasoning, if desired Cut the steak into strips 2 to 3 inches wide and about 4 inches long. Pound the pieces to flatten them and help make the meat tender. For the stuffing cook the celery and onion in 2 tablespoons of the fat for a few minutes. Add the bread crumbs and seasonings, and mix thoroughly. Put stuffing on each strip of meat, roll, and skewer or tie in place. In the remaining 2 tablespoons of fat, brown the birds slowly on all sides, then cover and cook until tender in a moderate oven (350°F".) Allow about 1% hours. BRAISED STUFFED SHOULDER OF VEAL OR LAMB 4 to 6 pound shoulder of veal or lamb 4 cups soft bread crumbs % pound suet or mild salt pork % teaspoon thyme 1 small onion, chopped fine salt and pepper to taste Remove the bones from the shoulder. Save them for broth. For the stuffing, cut the suet or salt pork into very small pieces and fry crisp. Add the onion and cook for a few minutes, stir in the bread crumbs and seasonings. Mix well and continue cooking until hot. Sprinkle the inside of the meat with salt and pepper. Pile in the stuffing. Roll the stuffed shoulder compactly then sew or tie in place. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, and, if desired, with flour also. Place the roll on a rack in a roasting pan, and put several pieces of suet or salt pork on top. Cover the pan; cook in a moderately hot A oven (about 375°F') until the meat is browned and tender — about 2% hours. Make gravy with the pan drippings. Remove the strings before serving. Pork shoulder may be prepared in this same way. Because of the greater amount of fat in pork, roast it in an uncovered pan in a 325°F. Oven about 4 hours for a 5-pound roast. Page 7/55 756 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1955 Meat Loar 1% pounds ground beef or beef and veal 4 tablespoons flour % pound pork sausage, or 1% cups milk % pound mild salt pork, or 1 cup soft bread crumbs 3 tablespoons fat 1 teaspoon salt 2 or 3 stalks celery, chopped into very dash of pepper small pieces sprig of parsley, cut fine 1 small onion, minced One or 2 well-beaten eggs may also be added, if desired. If used, increase liquid to 2 cups of milk. Cut the suet or salt pork into small pieces and fry until crisp. Remove solid pieces. Cook the celery, parsley, and onion in the fat for a few minutes over low heat. Stir in the flour and, when well mixed, gradually add the milk, stirring constantly. Cook until thickened. Add to the meat in a mixing bowl. Combine all the ingredients and mix well with your hands. It is important that you work the mixture until all ingredients are thoroughly blended and the mixture has somewhat the consistency of a ball of bread dough. It will not be sticky if the right amount of moisture has been used. Pack the mixture into a lightly greased pan and bake in a moderately hot oven, 375° to goo°F. Allow about 1% hours for a loaf made of the above ingredients. Serve hot or cold. —--————. Win ter Promise Zera Wilde Earl Complaining wind and a gray November sky; One lingering aster peers out through a shield Of drifted leaves, and crows with raucous cry Circle, then light upon the frozen field. Beyond lurks winter, menacing and stark, And earth lies prostrate against the coming dark. But now beside the path I see it lying, A twig, wind-torn from the poplar tree and tossed, Its tight-furled buds, already green, denying That gentle summer is forever lost. How can I doubt when plainly here God weaves This glad assurance of next summer's leaves? Mlary Elizabeth Forman Calkins Makes Afghan in Shunderbird Pattern M®>- Mary Elizabeth F. Calkins, Sheridan, Wyoming, is ninety-eight years old, but still active and happy — still making beautiful gifts for her friends and relatives. She believes that there is no substitute for busy minds and hands, and, alternating with her housework, it has long been her custom to have a quilt on the frames, some crochet work handy, or some other handicraft to occupy herself "while resting." The beautiful and unique afghan shown in the picture, in the colorful ""Thunderbird" design, has won several awards at various county fairs and has been acclaimed a most unusual piece of work. Though not able to do handwork in intricate designs and with fine thread, as she did in her younger years, Mrs. Calkins still crochets, makes lace edges for towels, crochets doilies and potholders. She has made many quilts in both silk and cotton and has crocheted a large number of bedspreads and tablecloths. She reads extensively, particularly the books dealing with Church doctrine and history, and when living temporarily in Salt Lake City, she accomplished much genealogical and temple work. She often picks up a newspaper and starts to read without her glasses, until she is reminded to put them on. Mary Elizabeth Forman Calkins came West by prairie schooner in 1861 and martied Israel Calkins in 1878. She is the mother of three children, has twelve grandchildren, and twenty-three great-grandchildren, and has been a widow since 1915. Of late years she has not been able to attend Church services regularly, yet, since her ninetieth birthday, she has made several yearly one-hundred per cent record attendances at Relief Society meetings and Sunday School. Page 757 Making Original Christmas Cards Gene Romolo ia article is especially for those who have never tried to design and make their greeting cards at Christmas. The amount of pleasure that can be obtained at this season of the year from a pencil and a box of water colors is surprising. Not only does the one who paints find pleasure in the occupation, but the recipient of the card also takes pleasure in receiving a gift made for her personally. Paper for making booklets can be obtained from an art or stationery store. Single cards with stamped designs can also be obtained there. If one finds it difficult to do freehand drawing, these cards are convenient and, when painted, are very attractive. The use of sequins and glitter often increases the attractiveness of Christmas cards. If one has any writing ability, it makes the cards more desirable if the lines they contain are personal. When it is possible to use rhyme, follow that pattern; if not, a short message in prose is appropriate. At first, if you desire to make booklets, look at some cards you may have and note how they are folded. As you progress, you will be surprised at the number of original ideas which will present themselves. I started my card making by painting a sprig of holly on a booklet with an original verse written on the inside. Most people appreciate a specially prepared gift. The following is a sample of lines that might be used: For You at CHRISTMAS Christmas tapers burn for you On my tree. My window, too, Holds a friendly candle's flame, Christmas greetings to proclaim. I sometimes write my verse first and then paint the design, making it conform with the words. I at She Constant Heart Ethel Jacobson The rose is gone, the summer dead; No fragrance lingers since she fled. But after days of wind and snow, Another rose will bloom, I know. I tell my heart, a fairer one Will grace the bough when winter's done. O perverse heart, with longing haunted— And but one rose it ever wanted! Page 758 From The F ield _ Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for '"'Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1950, page 278, and the Handbook of Instructions, page 123. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Thelma G. Maloy MOUNT GRAHAM STAKE (ARIZONA), FRANKLIN WARD SINGING MOTHERS Front row, seated, left to nght: Eva Arran; Marie Goodman; Janet Goodman; Shirley Nasson; Effie Bass. Second row, seated, left to right: Josie Pugmire; Isabel Ellsworth; Ann Arnett; Mary Shipman; Isabel Nasson. Back row, standing, left to right: Careene O'Dell, President; Maudie O'Dell; Almeda Wilkins; Olive Lunt; Edna Burrell. Thelma G. Maioy, President, Mount Graham Stake Relief Society, reports the accomplishments of this enthusiastic group: "We are very proud of this group, even though they are small in number. They do splendid singing at all of their programs. The membership of this Relief Society is thirty-seven, so you see, they have followed the advice given and organized this group." Page 759 760 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1955 Photograph submitted by Pearle U. Winkler NORTH SANPETE STAKE (UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS FURNISH MUSIC FOR MANY OCCASIONS Opal Hermansen, chorister, stands second from the right on the first row; Rhoda Drage, pianist, stands at Sister Hermansen's right; and Ethel T. Ericksen, organist, stands at her left. Pearle U. Winkler, President, North Sanpete Stake Relief Society, reports the enthusiastic devotion of these Singing Mothers: "The group is made up of women from the nine wards in the stake. They give many hours of time for developing their talents, some of the sisters traveling twelve miles to and from rehearsals every week. The Singing Mothers furnish the music for all stake Relief Society functions and also for at least one session of each stake quarterly conference." Photograph submitted by Orah Van Wagoner PROVO STAKE (UTAH), PROVO FIRST WARD RELIEF SOCIETY CLOSING SOCIAL, May 23, 1955 Left to right: Hansena Burr, President; Mabel Bray, Secretary; Hope Hilton, social science class leader; Frances G. Callahan, visiting teacher message leader; Sarah E. F. Jones, chorister; Nettie D. Jenkins, First Counselor; Blanche H. Groneman, Second Counselor. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 761 The closing social in the Provo First Ward was observed as a surprise party for the members. Orah Van Wagoner, President, Provo Stake Relief Society, reports: "A new blackboard was placed on the wall, a new piano, and a large Book of Memories of the history of the Provo First Ward Relief Society for eighty-seven years (1868-1955) were presented to those assembled. This book recorded the highlights of the organization over this period, during which time twenty-two presidents have served, ranging in tenure of office from twenty-two years to a few months. At this writing there are seven living presidents of the Provo First Ward Relief Society. The first president, Maria Caroline Johnson, served twenty-two years.... She was the maternal grandmother of our general board member Florence Jepperson Madsen. This book is an outstanding gift to our organization, out of which one may gather much food for thought and history of the past. It was compiled by Frances G. Callahan, literature class leader, as an assignment from the presidency. 'The dimensions of the book are two feet by two and a half feet, and two inches thick. It is a loose-leaf book and can be added to from time to time, thus keeping a record in years to come." Photograph submitted by Cleona W. Hedenstrom OGDEN STAKE (UTAH), THIRTY-FIRST WARD ANNIVERSARY PARTY, March 17, 1955 Front row, left to right: Verna West; Hannah Knight, Secretary-Treasurer; Mary Perkins, President; Leah Taylor, First Counselor; Hattie Jones, Second Counselor; Edna Tribe, Second Counselor, Ogden Stake Relief Society; Cleona W. Hedenstrom, President, Ogden Stake Relief Society. Second row, standing, left to right: Ada Egginton; Elaine Yssel; Isabel Rhodes; Myrtle Malan; Nettie Cherry; Effie Alvord; Hulda Rippin; Edith Arnold. Sister Hedenstrom reports this unusual entertainment: "Special features of this most successful and outstanding anniversary party were the beautiful basket and the forty-three handkerchiefs with crocheted edges which it contained. The visiting teachers and officers were honored by being each one presented with one of these lovely gifts for their faithful service to Relief Society. The handkerchiefs were made by Sisters Mary Perkins, Hattie Jones, and Effie Hoskins." 762 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1955 Photograph submitted by Zettella W. Thurman EAST MILL CREEK STAKE (UTAH), WARD AND STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS Front row, seated, left to right: Ardella Vance; Carrie Howick; Erma Dixon; Alice Ottley; Zettella W. Thurman, President, East Mill Creek Stake Relief Society; Muriel Mallory; Lillus Wimmer; Ethel Cottrell; Wilma Carter. Second row, standing, left to right: Genevieve Baraclough; Mary Brain; Elsie Gillis; Annie Jensen; Elizabeth Larsen; Lucille Richins; Zina White; Winifred Johnson; Delsa Hale; Eileen Dunyon. Back row, standing, left to right: Mary Marlow; LaVern Cooms; Mildred Dahlberg; Ada Worthen; Thelma Dansie; Verna Mellville; Myrtle Rappleye; Marion Margetts; Lois Pugh; Ellen Silver; Mae Bond; Florence McMillan. Sister Thurman, in reporting some events in the history of the East Mill Creek Stake Relief Society, states: "East Mill Creek Stake was organized July 15, 1945. This July was its tenth anniversary. Sara E. Bateman was the first Relief Society president, and the following women have served since that time: Carrie Howick, Muriel Mallory, Erma Dixon, Alice Ottley, and the present President Zetella W. Thurman. In the fall of 1951, Alice Ottley was called, with her husband, to the New. Zealand Mission... At the present time there are nine wards in the stake, with 2,166 families. It is said that East Mill Creek is one of the fastest growing stakes in the Church. Only one former stake president of Relief Society is not in the picture — Sister Bateman, who has passed away." Photograph submitted by Ruby F. Olson NORTH IDAHO FALLS STAKE SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR OPENING SOCIAL, September 10, 1954 Stake organist Ina Rasmusson is seated at the piano, and stake chorister Margaret Jenkins is standing at the right end of the piano. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 763 During this delightful entertainment, which was held in the evening, the Singing Mothers choruses from the several wards presented numbers appropriate to the occasion, and then the combined choruses presented part of the program, including the beautiful "Slumber Song." The musical part of the entertainment was interspersed with the reading of criginal poems by Fannie Brunt, a dramatization "Unto Half My Kingdom," written by Nadine Miskin and conducted by Hester Davenport, and other features which added variety to a lovely evening. Ruby F. Olson is president of North Idaho Falls Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Edna S. Walker ALPINE STAKE (UTAH), AMERICAN FORK THIRD WARD "MUSIC TEAM" Seated at the left, Annie Slack Shipley; at the nght: LaDosia Mayberry Wagstaff. Edna S. Walker, President, Alpine Stake Relief Society, reports the lovely cooperation and service of these two sisters over a period of twenty-seven years: "These sisters have worked as a team in the music department of the American Fork Third Ward for twenty-seven years. In 1928 they were called to be the organist and chorister, and have worked together in this capacity continuously since that time. During this period they have served under seven ward presidents. 'They have conducted innumcrable Singing Mothers choruses. During these years they have been absent from meetings very few times. When their children were small, they took them to mectings. Sister Shipley is mother of two and grandmother of five. Sister Wagstaff is mother of four, grandmother of seven, and great-grandmother of one. Sister Shipley has been a Relief Society organist thirty-three years, and Sister Wagstaff has served in her capacity for thirty years. During these additional years, the two women did not work together as a team.": Since Sister Walker submitted the above report, she has had the sad duty of reporting the death of Sister Shipley on August 12, 1955, thus bringing to an end the earthly association of these two dear sisters in Relief Society service. 764. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1955 Photograph submitted by Fern Brockbank PALMYRA STAKE (UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS FURNISH MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE AND FOR THE STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY CLOSING SOCIAL, June 1955 Lois Rowe, chorister, is seated second from the left on the first row; Helen Hawkins, organist, is seated at the extreme left on the first row. Fern Brockbank, President, Palmyra Stake Relief Society, reports that all eleven wards of Palmyra Stake and one branch were represented in this chorus on both occasions. One hundred and twenty-five women participated. Sister Annie M. Ellsworth of the general board of Relief Society attended the closing social, and Sister Florence Jepperson Madsen of the general board was present at the conference and heard the chorus sing. Photograph submitted by Mae A. Evans WASHINGTON STAKE (WASHINGTON, D. C.) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FESTIVAL April 30, 1955 Front row, seated at the left: Leila Horne, chorister. Third row, standing at the left: Gertrude Storey, organist. Back row, seventh from the right: Mae A. Evans, President, Washington Stake Relief Society; sixth from the left: Counselor Pearl Goodsell; fourth from the left: Counselor Lorraine Ashdown. This effective musical featured the four seasons of the year, each one portrayed with appropriate selections. Special assistants for the occasion were Mildred Cramer and DeNiece McCulloch, and Virginia James acted as reader. The beautiful programs, which included detailed titles of the selections and their authors, were made even more worthwhile by the introductory inscription: "We, as a group, wish to give our thanks to our Father in heaven who has given us these talents and the opportunity to use them in his service." NOTES FROM THE FIELD 765 — Photograph submitted by Emily E. Ricks SOUTHERN STATES MISSION, GEORGIA DISTRICT, EMPIRE BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY Front row, seated, left to nght: Susie Bates, District President; Pauline Mullis; Abbie Parker; Vallie Bates; Cora Lister, Secretary, Empire Branch Relief Society. Second row, standing, left to right: Madgeline Bates; Ernestine Bellflowers; Betty Bates; Ellen Davis, President, Empire Branch Relief Society. Back row, standing, left to nght: Vodice Thompson; Elizabeth Davis; Maude Jackson, Work Director Counselor; Minnie Cook; Eva Davis; Myrtie Fardham, First Counselor. Emily E. Ricks, President, Southert States Mission Relief Society, reports the accomplishments of this small branch, which began with thirteen members, and now numbers nineteen: "They had a quilting project.... One of their favorite patterns was the Double Wedding Ring. They have made and sold 300 quilts, and are still making more." Photograph submitted by Mona H. Brown TWIN FALLS STAKE (IDAHO) SINGING MOTHERS FURNISH MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, May 8, 1955 Rachel Christensen, organist, stands at the left in the front row; Betty Birrell, chorister, stands at the right in the front row. Mona H. Brown, President, Twin Falls Stake Relief Society, reports this happy occasion: "The Singing Mothers chorus sang at the first stake quarterly conference held in the new Twin Fails Stake House on Mother's Day, May 8, 1955. The twelve wards in the stake were represented in the chorus.... The picture was not taken in the new building, as it was not completed until the day before the conference." LESS: N DEPARTMENT Sheology—Characters and Teachings of The Book of Mormon Lesson 37—Samuel the Lamanite Elder Leland H. Monson (Text: The Book of Mormon: Helaman, chapters 13-16) For Tuesday, February 7, 1956 Objective: To point out that signs of the Savior's birth and crucifixion were given to warn the people of impending destruction and call them to repentance. Samuel Warns the Nephites BOUT six 3. C. Samuel, the Lamanite, came into Zarahemla and began to preach to the Nephites. Because he called them to repentance, they cast him out. As he was leaving for his own country, the Lord spoke to him and told him to go back to Zarahemla and to prophesy to the people the things which he put into his heart. The people blocked his entrance into the city, so he climbed the wall:.. Stretched forth his hand and cried with a loud voice.... Behold, I, Samuel, a Lamanite, do speak the words of the Lord which he doth put into my heart; and behold he hath put it into my heart to say unto this people that the sword of justice hangeth over this people; and four hundred years pass not away save the sword of justice falleth upon this people (Helaman 13:4-5). Page 766 Continuing with his prophecy, he told of definite destruction unless the people repented and had faith on the Lord Jesus Christ who was coming to redeem all who had faith in him. Because of the wickedness of the people, he told them the Lord would take away his word from among them and his Spirit would also cease to strive with them. He further instructed them that there would be those among their enemies of the fourth generation who would live to see the destruction of the Nephites, except they repented. He warned the people in Zarahemla, in Gideon, and in the land roundabout. Samuel gave to the people a specific example of the trouble that would come to them. Because of the wickedness and abomination of the people, and for their sakes, the LESSON DEPARTMENT Lord would send a curse upon the land, even a curse of slippery treasures. And behold, the time cometh that he curseth your riches, that they become slippery, that ye cannot hold them; and in the days of your poverty ye cannot retain them (Helaman 13:31). He informed them the time would come, unless they repented, that they would weep and howl in sorrow, saying: Behold, we lay a tool here and on the morrow it is gone; and behold, our swords are taken from us in the day we have sought them for battle. Yea, we have hid up our treasures and they have slipped away from us, because of the curse of the land (Helaman 13:34-35). Signs of the Savior's Birth After calling the people to repentance and foretelling their destruction, if they did not cease seeking happiness in iniquity, Samuel gave to the people the signs of the Savior's birth and crucifixion. He said:... Five years more cometh, and behold, then cometh the Son of God to redeem all those who shall believe on his name. And behold, this will I give unto you for a sign at the time of his coming; for behold, there shall be great lights in heaven, insomuch that in the night before he cometh there shall be no darkness, insomuch that it shall appear unto man as if it was day. 'Therefore, there shall be one day and a night and a day, as if it were one day and there were no night; and this shall be unto you for a sign; for ye shall know of the rising of the sun and also of its setting; therefore they shall know of a surety that there shall be two days and a night; nevertheless the night shall not be darkened; and it shall be the night before he is born. And behold, there shall a new star arise, such an one as ye never have beheld; and this also shall be a sign unto you. And 767 behold this is not all, there shall be many signs and wonders in heaven (Helaman 14:2-6). Samuel made it clear to the people that he gave these signs of the Savior's coming for the purpose of persuading them to believe in Christ. Believing in him would cause them to repent and to receive a remission of their sins. Signs of the Savior's Crucifixion Having completed his enumeration and discussion of the signs which should precede the birth of the Savior in Bethlehem of Judea, Samuel gave them the signs of the crucifixion of Christ. Jesus Christ would be crucified, he told them, to bring to pass the resurrection from the dead, making it possible for all men to come back into the presence of God, redeeming them from their first death, which was spiritual, or banishment from the presence of God. The crucifixion, Samuel testified, would also make it possible for men to repent of their individual sins and receive a forgiveness of them. Those who would not repent would suffer a second spiritual death, banishment from God and from things which pertain to righteousness. Concerning the signs of the Savior's crucifixion, he said:. In that day that he shall suffer death the sun shall be darkened and refuse to give his light unto you; and also the moon and the stars; and there shall be no light upon the face of this land, even from the time that he shall suffer death, for the space of three days, to the time that he shall rise again from the dead, Yea, at the time that he shall yield up the ghost there shall be thunderings and lightnings for the space of many hours, and the carth shall shake and tremble; and the rocks which are upon the face of this earth, which are both above the earth and beneath, which ye know at this time are solid, or the more part of it is one solid mass, shall be broken up (Helaman 14:20-21). Samuel Declares Free Agency of the People Again Samuel told the people these signs were made known to them that "... There should be no cause for unbelief among the children of men" (Helaman 14:28). Following his announcement of the signs which would precede the birth and follow the crucifixion of the Master, Samuel pleaded with the people to repent saying:... Remember, remember, my brethren, that whosoever perisheth, perisheth unto himself; -and whosoever doeth iniquity, doeth it unto himself; for behold, ye are free; ye are permitted to act for yourselves; for behold, God hath given unto you a knowledge and he hath made you free (Helaman 14:30). As one ponders over these great signs of the Savior's birth and crucifixion, he is impressed by the significance of the symbols. God used a symbol of light to indicate the birth of the Savior, and a symbol of darkness and destruction for his crucifixion. There is something beautiful, something poetic, about these symbols because they represent so aptly the great events they were designed to explain. Samuel the Lamanite was not finished when he completed his discussion of the signs of the Savior's birth and crucifixion. He continued by foretelling additional troubles which they faced because of their wickedness. Except they repented, he told them, their houses would be left desolate, their women would suffer, for they would attempt to flee and there would be no place of refuge. God chastened his people during periods of wickedness, Samuel said, because he loved them. Lamanites to Be Preserved Samuel paid a tribute to his own people for their faithfulness after conversion, pointing out the fact that they had buried their weapons of war and had worked diligently to keep the commandments of God. Because of their steadfastness in Christ after conversion, the Lamanites would not be "utterly destroyed" even though they should dwindle in unbelief. He foretold:... The Lord shall prolong their days, until the time shall come which hath been spoken of by our fathers, and also by the prophet Zenos, and many other prophets, concerning the restoration of our brethten, the Lamanites, again to the knowledge of the truth... And notwithstanding the many afflictions which they shall have, and notwithstanding they shall be driven to and fro upon the face of the earth, and be hunted, and shall be smitten and scattered abroad, having no place for refuge, the Lord shall be merciful unto them. And this is according to the prophecy, that they shall be brought to the true knowledge, which is the knowledge of their Redeemer, and their great and true shepherd, and be numbered among his sheep (Helaman 15:11-13). Nephites Warned to Repent No such promise of perpetuity was given to the Nephites. On the contrary, they were warned that unless they repented from their wicked ways, the Lord would "utterly destroy them." As a result of the predictions and promises of Samuel, many Nephites believed on his words. They sought Nephi, repented, and confessed 768 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1955 LESSON DEPARTMENT their sins, and went into the waters of baptism. Those who disbelieved the words of Samuel, and they were in the majority, cast stones at him and even shot arrows "... But the Spirit of the Lord was with him, insomuch that they could not hit him with their stones neither with their arrows" (Helaman 16:2). When these people saw that they could not hit him, they started to climb after him, intending to bind and imprison him. Samuel, however:... Did cast himself down from the 769 wall, and did flee out of their lands, yea, even unto his own country, and began to preach and to prophesy among his own people. And behold, he was never heard of more among the Nephites; and thus were the affairs of the people (Helaman 16:7-8), Questions and Topics for Discussion 1. How was Samuel received by the Nephites? 2. What signs concerning the birth and crucifixion of the Savior did Samuel give to the Nephites? 3. What was the attitude of the people towards the message? 4. What was his attitude towards the principle of free agency? Visiting Seacher ITlessages Book of Mormon Gems of Truth Lesson 37—"... Yea, We Can See That the Lord in His Great Infinite Goodness Doth Bless and Prosper Those Who Put Their Trust in Him" (Helaman 12:1). Edith S. Elliott For Tuesday, February 7, 1956 Objective: To show that trust in the Lord brings blessings. FTEN we hear or use the trite phrase: "history repeats itself." Nephi the son of Helaman was aware of this fact, as experienced in the history of the Nephites, when he reminded his people that the Lord would prosper them when they put their trust in him. He reviewed for them how blessed they were in their fields, flocks, and herds and how they had become wealthy in "... Gold, and in silver, and in all manner of precious things of every kind and art; sparing their lives, and delivering them out of the hands of their enemies..." (Helaman 12:2). Then Nephi recalled to them that during this period of prosperity the people had hardened their hearts and forgotten the Lord who, in turn, had to chasten them to repentance. Other examples in history showing the reward for trusting in the Lord are the staying of the waves when the children of Israel crossed through the Red Sea, and the crumbling of. The walls of Jericho, when the city was circled seven times as bidden by their Heavenly Father. Crossing the plains in our latter day is also an example of the saints trusting in God wherein he blessed and prospered them. Complete trust in our Heavenly Father brings rewards beyond our fondest hopes. He tells us in Matthew 25:21 "... Thou hast been faithful over a few things, I will make thee ruler over many things...." He has always blessed his children when they have proved themselves faithful. Everything he asks us to do is for our own good. He is anxious for us to follow his teachings with faith and trust. His words are both direct and simple. We don't need to waste time with trial and error, but can go quickly to our destination through trusting obedience in his word and_ being obedient to his commandments. Our Heavenly Father is so anxious for us and appreciative of our every effort. Note his promise found in 3 Nephi 9:14: Yea, verily I say unto you, if ye will come unto me ye shall have eternal life. Behold, mine arm of mercy is extended towards you, and whosoever will come, him will I receive; and blessed are those who come unto me. Work Neeting—Food Preparation and Service (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 5—Meat Selection and Preparation Rhea H. Gardner For Tuesday, February 14, 1956 F all the basic foods, shoppers usually know least about meat. Yet in a recent survey made by the United States Department of Agriculture of family food consumption in sixty-eight urban communities, twenty-four cents out of every food dollar was spent for meat. Ignorance is not bliss when it concerns neatly twenty-five per cent of the food budget. Study and experience are necessary before one can be a successful meat shopper. Customers often complain about the high prices which they helped to push up. 'That is just what we do whenever we continue to demand the comparatively small per cent of choice cuts and ignore the others. In beef, the cuts most people know best are steaks and rib roasts. 'They come from about twenty-six per cent of the weight of a side of beef, yet they often sell for as much as the other seventy-four per cent. The Government demands that all meat be inspected and stamped. A high percentage of it is also graded. Government grades are: First grade, U. S. Prime; Second grade, U. S. Choice; Third grade, U. S. Good; Fourth grade, U. S. Commercial; United States Choice and U. S. Good are the highest grades usually found in retail markets, since beef from only about one per cent of all cattle is prime. 'The round, purplish blue stamp that appears on meat is not an indication of grade. It means merely that the meat was Government inspected and that it came from a healthy animal. Many shoppers buy more costly cuts of meat than are required for 770 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1955 LESSON DEPARTMENT the cooking method used. Roast lamb need not always be leg of lamb. Shoulder of lamb makes a good roast and is more economical. Even breast of lamb, one of the least expensive lamb cuts can be roasted successfully. Tender and less tender cuts are about equal in food value, and may be equally palatable, if each is prepared in a way that will bring out its best qualities. The basic rule of meat cookery is: always cook meat at low heat. Literally, pounds of meat are lost by cooking it at temperatures that are too high. Low temperatures set the muscle proteins without toughening them. A low to moderate temperature for the entire cooking period of a roast results in less shrinkage and better flavor, and the meat cooks more uniformly throughout. Low temperature cooking has the added advantage of saving fuel, even though the time is longer. Recommended temperature for beef and veal roasts is 300°, for pork it is 350°. Broiling Even for broiling steaks, a lower temperature than was formerly recommended is now used. A temperature of 350°F at the top of the meat is recommended. Preheat the broiler and place the meat so that the top is about three inches below the source of heat. Turn the meat only once. Broiled meat is transferred to a hot platter and salted when done. Roasting Open-pan roasting is favored above covered roasting. Evaporation of water is greater in the open 771 pan, but nutrients and flavor substances are retained better. As water evaporates, mineral extractives are deposited on the surface of the roast. 'This fact accounts for the high flavor of the outer brown layer. Basting is unnecessary, because the meat does not become dry, if roasted at a low temperature. If meats are placed in the roasting pan with the fat layer on top, the fat, as it melts, flows down over the surface of the lean. If the color is not as deep a brown as you like, the temperature may be raised slightly the last thirty minutes without harm. Cook lamb and pork to the welldone stage regardless of the cooking method used. When roasting leg of lamb, do not remove the thin outer covering, since the meat cooks in less time and holds it shape better when it is left on. Always remove the outer-covering from steaks and chops. Serve lamb either hot or cold, never just warm. Since salt penetrates into roasts only one-half inch, the wisdom of salting before cooking is questionable. Braising Many of the less tender cuts of meat demand a method of cooking known as braising, to make them tender and delicious. Braising is slow cooking in moist heat in a covered skillet. 'The moist heat softens the connective tissue to make the meat juicy and_ tender. The meat is first browned in its own or added fat, then it is placed on a rack and liquid is added to form steam. Add just enough liquid to cover the bottom of the pan. The meat is then cooked very slowly in moist heat until thoroughly tender. Add more liquid later, if necessary, to prevent it from burning. Keep the heat low enough so that the liquid does not boil. This slow cooking may be done either on top of the stove or in the oven, whichever best suits the rest of the meal. If you plan to heat the oven for other foods, it would be more convenient and fuel saving to braise the meat in the oven. In either instance, keep the pan tightly covered. Some cuts are braised to bring out their flavor and preserve their tenderness. Veal is such a meat. Certain pork cuts are best braised because higher heat dries the meat before it can be thoroughly cooked. Dipping the meat in flour before cooking helps to give it a deeper brown. If vegetables are added to either stew or pot roast, do so when the meat is practically done so they will be just tender, not mushy, when served. Panfrying Panfry meat in a heavy frying pan. 'The meat will cook more uniformly if a heavy pan is used. Cook at a moderate temperature until done, turning occasionally. Salt meat after it is browned. Activity for Class Leader Help the sisters to know the different cuts of meat. Meat charts are easily obtainable. Note the supplementary material to this lesson in the article "Meat for Thrifty Meals," by Rhea H. Gardner, on page 755 of this issue of The Relief Society Magazine. Of iterature—The Literature of England Lesson 53—Rudyard Kipling, the Man Who Was (1865-1936) Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: The Literature of England, II, Woods, Watt, Anderson, pp. 951-959) For Tuesday, February 21, 1956 Objective: To relate Kipling's prose to his life pattern. HEN Kipling died in January 1936, his death was kept from King George V, himself so near death that he followed Kipling shortly thereafter. It was entirely fitting that these two men's lives, double symbols of the glory that was England, should end almost together, for each symbolized a segment of England's past greatness which complemented the other. Both men had been born in the same year, 1865, yet, in 1910, when George's reign of more than a quarter-century began, Kipling was already being referred to as a writer prominent in England's past. And in 1910 so he was, and had been for almost a decade. Thus Kipling survived himself by more than thirty-five—some would say forty-five years. Feeling himself "a stranger of an unloved race," he had dodged interviews for decades, and almost never permitted himself or his wife to be photographed. His 772 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1955 LESSON DEPARTMENT death at age seventy caught for a moment the attention of two generations who had grown up since he was at his greatest, generations whom he did not love, generations who had built England into a pattern by which he was not comforted. Kipling Triumphant Kipling had been the fair-haired trumpeter for the world-circling British Empire, and his shiny brass trumpet blared forth the deeppitched, jingling rhythms which gave to the wealthy, powerful, and aggressive England of the nineties her voice, yes, her very identity. "There was Rudyard Kipling, with' the gorgeous East and the British Empire rattling like loose change in his trouser pockets." In 1907 Kipling was the first Einglishman to receive the Nobel Prize for literature. Surely he deserved it, just as he eminently deserved to be appointed Poet Laureate (though why he never was we can only conjecture). The Nobel Prize award was given to a man whose writings— short stories and poetry—share so many values and techniques as to be inseparable. To discuss one without the other is but to blur even more darkly whatever sense of unity exists in a man whose personal life, at best, was one of mystery and withdrawal, and who, in his writings, somehow kept his essential self separate and concealed apart from his subject. Particularly is this true in his prose. Kipling's Style To call Kipling journalistic is no term of dispraise; it is merely to point out that his mind and his prose style were of a certain stamp: 773 terse, clean-cut, tight-knit, and loaded with a vast richness of observational detail. The writer Kipling was ever the careful craftsman working with words, the most slippery and difficult of tools. But few have cared more for the exact word than he, and probably no one had as much influence in shaping the clean, clipped style of writing of the twentieth century newspaper and news magazine. After all, his style was consciously envied and aped and parodied for more than a decade. This dominating influence on western-world journalism might well be his most substantial contribution, difficult though it might be to pin down and identify. Kipling's Philosophy As our last lesson stated, Kipling was a talented, industrious, middleclass journalist who redefined the term, "By Jingo" ["Jingoism"— blind, unreasoning patriotism with an element of agression against foreign countries], who loved above all else British authority and British soil, and who spent almost the last half of his life running away from himself in a fruitless attempt to find the meaning behind an existence which increasingly he found to be cruel, painful, and bitter. The first phase of his life might well be represented by a statement he made when he was so far past middle age (and hence should have known better) that it becomes almost ridiculous: God has arranged that a cleancut youth of the British middle classes shall, in the matter of backbone, brains, and bowels, surpass all other youths. Yet he clung to his belief des- perately while emerging England repudiated it. The second phase of his life might be summed up in his "Hymn of Breaking Strain," written in 1935 at the age of sixty-nine, the year before his death. Now, at last, we are ready to trace Kipling's over-all _ pattern. Starting with poems and _ stories which praised courage, strength, discipline, and self-sacrifice in the common man, and which championed the underdog, whether he be white or black or brown, Kipling next praised man for being an efficient administrator (as in_ his poems of the South African campaigns), and then in such poems as "The Mary Gloster" (text, page go3) and in his novel Captains Courageous, he scorned intelligence and wealth as corruptions, again praised common-sense practicality. In the years following 1900 he wrote less and less of man at all, and more of animal-heroes versus man (as seen in Mowgli, his most famous character). He wrote also whimsy stories for children, dealing with animals and nature, and then with the historical past of his beloved England. 'Even before the first world war, his writings scorned the unvirtues of present-day England and were dominated by fear and hate toward other nations (as in the story "Edge of Evening"). His trend toward non-human subjects continued as he wrote of the engine (not the engineer) as hero; the ship, the bridgebuilder, the machine, not fallible man, approached the ideal. His writing was often mystical. He accented the occult and supernatural, as seen in his early story "The Phantom Rickshaw" and the moving "They." He wrote "Wireless," in which a radio operator becomes possessed by the spirit of the poet Keats. Ironically, this final description of moral and spiritual chaos which he saw everywhere about him contains some of his most moving writing. Thus withdrawing more and more into his own tiny world of stresses, machinery, and animosity towards those who differed with him, Kipling exemplified the theme of his poem "L'Envoi." Tommy Atkins in India Ever since Tommy Atkins' name was used as the name in the 1815 edition of the British Army Regulations, it has been the British equivalent of our "G. I. Joe." The British "Tommy" had thus worn his nickname long before Kipling, but it was Kipling who gave the name its full, rich, present-day meaning in his early stories dealing with army life in India. It is upon these stories that his fame as a master story-teller rests. The secret of their success was Kipling's determination to depict the typical British soldier neither as better nor worse than he was, but to make him actual and real. And he succeeded so well that, according to the Kipling myth, soldiers throughout the British empire soon were reading Soldiers Three to find out how they should act if they were to act really real. In the preface to "In the Matter of a Private," Kipling neatly defined "Tommy Atkins" as he knew him. Thus it was Kipling who gave all British middle-class people an in- 774 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1955 LESSON DEPARTMENT ner self-knowledge which they could not have stated for themselves. Kipling spoke for and to these people; he was their prophet in a very real sense, and thus spoke for the entire British Empire. His Best Stories It is both disconcerting and interesting to note the varying stories chosen by different editors and anthologists to represent Kipling at his best; almost without exception he is represented by a different story in each collection. Yet each editor acknowledges the story at hand as one of the great short stories. Such diversity forces us to the conclusion that few writers have equaled Kipling in writing many, many stories of first-rate quality. We can begin by naming "Baa, Baa, Black Sheep," probably his most personal revelation, concerned with the pains of being reared by a mgid aunt. "The Courting of Dinah Shadd," "The Three Musketeers," "In the Matter of a Private," "The Phantom Rickshaw," "The Man Who Would Be King," "Love-O'- Women," "They," "Mowsgli's Brothers," "Kaa's Hunting," "Without Benefit of Clergy,' (which Somerset Maughan feels is "the best story Kipling ever wrote") are other good selections. If you have no favorite Kipling story, then read "The Man Who Was" (text, pp. 951-960), and he'll be nearer to you than ever before. From the first sentence, "Let it be clearly understood that the Russian is a delightful person till he tucks his shirt in," you will be bound by Kipling's magic. Here is Kipling at his best. And, of course, he is to be read that he might be enjoyed. 775 While sometimes his stories seem too slick and contrived, and, while he sometimes overwrites into sentimentality, and raw, even brutal, detail, still he created about his characters an aura of glamor, romance, and excitement which makes them unforgettable in their surging reality. And, after all, what tougher test of greatness is there? Kipling the Phrasemaker As Kipling wrote in his sixtyninth year, "I revelled in profligate abundance of detail, not necessarily for publication but for the joy of it." When such joy in care and accuracy are wedded to an ear for the right phrase, "proper words in proper places" are sure to follow, such as "the sou'wester raged day and night until the silly windows jiggled their wedges loose," "out ran our moor chain, rippin' down through coral-trash," "the thresh of the deepsea rain," "buckin' beam-sea roll," "the scared whale flukes in flame," "sob of questing lead," "their hoofs drum up the dawn," "mule train coughin' up the dust," "the ebonylacquered avenue reflecting lamps as a pool shows goldfish," "the light suddenly emptied out of the young man's eyes." And his reality was in the language spoken too: "He lay in the cot, an' what there was in his mind had full swing at him night an' day an' ivry hour af the day an' the night, an ' he shriveled like beefrations in a hot sun, an' his eyes was like owl's eyes, and his hands was mutt'nous.... He was watchin' us an' his face was like the face av a divil that has been cooked too long." No wonder Henry James, the reigning czar of "high literature," praised Kipling as the "most brilliant and promising artist of the new generation." Kipling the Mythmaker Thus far we have discussed Kipling only within the bounds of time; perhaps in the most enduring Kipling time does not pertain. And time seems to have vanished in three books dealing with primitive times before modern man: The Jungle Book (1894), Just-So Stories (1902), and Puck of Pook's Hill (1906). Though in his declining years Kipling was repelled at the strong possibility that his enduring reputation might well rest on these writings for children, still he could not help himself, as he had written in his autobiography. How well Kipling listened to these deep, subconscious promptings the stories themselves prove. In the Puck books he re-created historical England so convincingly that he seems to have lived once before, and is now retelling what he knew at first hand in the days of Harold the Saxon or at the Romans' defense of "The Wall" against the savage Picts from the north. But it is the character of Mowgli, which has within it the primitive overtones of nature's law and code, which makes him an animal myth comparable to Reynard the Fox, Brer Rabbit, and the creations of Walt Disney. Just-So Stories Written during the happiest period of his life, when world-famous Kipling lived in the peace of his English estate at Rottingdean, these stories were written for his beloved daughter, Josephine. Kipling also illustrated the stories, and told them to her with the same love and charm and puckish humor with which they were written. The warmth of the father's love is found in every story, and the wonder and delight which children find in such fine stories as "How the Whale Got His Throat, the Camel His Hump, the Leopard His Spots," "How the Alphabet Was Made," "The Cat That Walked by Himself," and "The Butterfly That Stamped," cannot be far from Kipling's own delight in the telling. He gives us delightful characters and phrases: "The Parsee came by and smiled one smile that ran all round his face two times." "The Rhinoceros buttoned on his skin with three buttons, and_ it tickled like cake-crumbs in_ bed. Then he wanted to scratch...." "At each pull the Elephant's Child's nose grew longer and longer—and it hurt his higgus!... And before he thought what he was doing the Elephant's Child schlooped up a schloop of mud from the banks of the great grey-green, greasy Limpopo River, and slapped it on his head, where it made a cool scloopy-sloshy mud-cap all trickly behind his ears." Would that such a delightful sense of humor could have dominated Kipling's later writings! Such wonderful whimsy tales for children are hard to come by. The Jungle Books Based originally on Beast and Man in India, written by Kipling's father, The Jungle Books were written in the Bliss Cottage in Vermont in a room seven by eight feet square, 776 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1955 LESSON DEPARTMENT with snow up to the window sills No wonder Kipling's imagination escaped to the lush, untamed Indian jungle, where he found in Mowgli, the Wolf Boy, Shere Khan, the Tiger, Kaa, the Python, Akela, the Wolf, Bagheera, the Black Panther, Baloo, the Bear, and the Bandar-Log, the Monkey People, forces to illustrate his own conviction about good government: "Give the job to the man who can do it." In The Jungle Book poem "The Law of the Jungle," Kaa states the law: "as old and as true as the sky —Obey!" For all juveniles no force is stronger or more ruthless than the law of the pack, and obedience to a super-force or superman gives children a security and zeal not to be broken. All such powers predominate in such great stories as "Kaa's Hunting" and "Mowgli's Brothers." Under this Law of the Jungle, man is an enemy to be feared and hated, while the lore of nature protects and sustains all those who live by its wisdom. Here are all the boy-vir- 777 tues: courage, danger, discipline, victory, clash and combat and triumph in the will to eat and live. The craft and lore of the jungle, the primitive rules by which the creatures of nature, even Mowgli the Frog, survive, are strong in Kipling, even as they are in children; thus the two together answer each to each. Mowgli—silent, cunning, crafty— strong Mowgli is the hero, for he knows nature's lore and obeys to survive. He, too, has within him the qualities of myth; here, truly, Kipling's Daemon spoke in terms enduring and deep. If you doubt it, read of him aloud about your fireside to your family. Here again is the magic of Kipling's words, here his rigid belief in authority and law, here is his deep belief in the intuition as a way of knowing. Thoughts for Discussion 1. How did Kipling outlive himself? 2. Why is it important to recall that Kipling was a journalist? 3. Why are Kipling's stories of India his best? 4. Discuss Kipling as a mythmaker. <> Si ulfillment Ethelyn M. Kincher There is fulfillment in an autumn field, When golden grain awaits the reaper's hand. The sweat and toil that bought this golden yield Forgotten now; the dream, part of the land. The men who gambled with the wind and rain Stand silent for a moment in the sun, And feel the blend of simple acts attain Reality of cherished work well done. There is fulfillment here and peace, and more: Knowledge of kinship with the Power above, A faultless prayer that lifts from earth to soar In never-ending songs on wings of love. Social SGienee—S Tne Constitution of the United States Lesson 18—The Organization and Powers of the Government of the United States Elder Albert R. Bowen For Tuesday, February 28, 1956 ___ Objective: To show how the three departments of the Federal Government, though distinct in organization and power, are nevertheless integrated and function together to provide a workable Government under the Constitution. American Government in Action O study of the American Constitutional System should conclude without devoting some attention to Government in practice and operation under the Constitution. We shall therefore direct our attention briefly to a consideration of the American Government in action. It should be stated, in the beginning, that many governmental practices and procedures followed today, find no express and, sometimes, not even indirect sanction from the Constitution. The Constitution is only the framework providing the skeleton upon which is hung the many functions and practices which, in total, make the Government of the United States. To illustrate and to provide an example of what has become a very important part of the American Governmental system, reference is made to the function of party politics. It has already been pointed out that nowhere does the Constitution, even remotely, mention political parties. Nevertheless, they are entirely constitutional and are recognized as providing the Page 778 machinery through which the electorate expresses its will relating, not only to the officials who shall conduct the affairs of the Nation, but also in regard to the policies which shall be followed by those officials. Instances may be multiplied almost without end which illustrate the same point. We = shall be obliged, by the limitations of available space and time, to select and discuss only a few of those which might be mentioned. Three Primary Phases of Governmental Process Political writers have conceived three primary phases of the governmental process. They are, first, that of policy determination; second, policy execution; and third, policy interpretation. In a democracy the first of these must remain under popular control, if democracy shall survive. It is entirely possible to have a government without a legislature. In fact, we have many examples of such in the dictatorships in which the executive is almost exclusively dominant—but no democracy can survive which does not LESSON DEPARTMENT have a legislative branch through which national policy is dominated by the popular will. Functions of Congress— Policy Determination Such a body is the Congress of the United States. America has endured as a democracy because the policy-determining branch of our Government has remained close to the people. We have already learned that the American Government was organized upon the principle of the "separation of powers." (See lesson §, Relief Society Magazine, July 1954, page 489.) We have also discussed the reasons which prompted the founding fathers to adopt such a form of Government. 'This separation between departmental functions under the Constitution is a reality, and not just in name only. However, it is inevitable that there should be some overlapping in functions between the three great branches of government. The primary function of Congress is to legislate and, in this sphere, the great powers of the Legislative Branch are found. In addition to legislating, the Congress participates with the executive in many executive functions. An example is the making of treaties. Another is in the indispensable appropriation of funds without which the Executive would be helpless and impotent. Congress also participates in certain judicial functions. It is in that body that the impeaching powers of the Government are vested. In_ this same field Congress creates all of the courts which make up the Federal Judicial System, except the Supreme Court, and provides the sal- 779 aries of all judges, including those of the Supreme Court of the United States. Furthermore, that which Congress can create it can also destroy. It may abolish all the courts of the United States, except the Supreme Court. If it should, in a sudden expression of animosity, decide to do so it could refuse to appropriate any funds for either the Judiciary or the Executive, and there is no power which could compel its action to provide those funds. 'The power over the purse strings belongs to Congress alone. It is a potent and powerful weapon of control over the Government. Mechanics by Which Congress Functions With the foregoing in mind, let us turn our attention to a brief consideration of the mechanics by which Congress performs its functions. It should be borne in mind that the legislative process resides basically in Congress. Only a member. May introduce a bill and, though the Executive may and frequently does request legislation, he cannot introduce such legislation into Congress. The Congress, of course, is composed of two separate bodies, the House of Representatives and the Senate. Each body is separately organized, the House under the leadership of the Speaker, and the Senate presided over by the VicePresident. Each House has its own rules and procedures. 'These rules are so voluminous and complicated that only an expert can understand and interpret them. In the House, in particular, skilled —parliamentarians must always be on hand to aid the Speaker in the conduct of business. 'The Speaker of the House of Representatives must be an expert in its rules and procedures, and is, invariably, a member who has had long experience in_ that body. The work of Congress is accomplished in committees each of which has its chairman, aids, and assistants. The volume of business which faces Congress in each of its sessions has reached staggering proportions. There are usually ten to fifteen thousand bills which are tossed into the legislative hopper at the beginning of each session. 'The task of sifting this tremendous mass of proposed legislation is enough to lead to complete and utter frustration. It is, of course, impossible for any Congressman to be familiar with this mass of detail. The sifting committees must select the bills which will be given consideration by the whole assembly. Before closing this discussion upon the functions of Congress, it is of interest to note that custom and politics have assigned to its members peculiar and unenviable chores. In the United States the Congressman is looked upon by many of his constituents as their private representative. Very much of his time is consumed in answering mail or in going from one department of the Government to another in pursuit of some errand for a constituent back home. 'The Congressman is compelled to do these things lest, at the next election, his outraged constituent sees to it that he does not return to Congress. Within a framework of rules, customs, and usages having the force and effect of law, and constituting accepted and approved constitutional procedure, the Congress of the United States goes about its policy-making task. Under pressure. From lobbies, operating smoothly through time-honored custom _behind well-oiled party machinery, the compromises and adjustments are made between the demands of free democratic discussion and the limitation of time imposed by the vast amount of work which must be accomplished. Functions of the Executive Department — Policy Execution In the United States we do not have royalty, but we have the Presidency. In power and prestige the Presidency exceeds most of the royal heads of state in other lands. Besides performing many of the showy outward functions assigned to kings and monarchs under other systems, the President of the United States exercises power and influence which would be the envy of many crowned personages. The office of President is a constitutional office—the official designation of the American chief of state, the presiding head of the Executive Department. The work of the Executive Department is carried out by the departments, bureaus, and commissions which, together, make up a vast and complicated system and through which the policies adopted by the Government are carried out. While the Presidency is primarily an executive position, it, too, overlaps in its operation into some very 780 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1955 LESSON DEPARTMENT important legislative and judicial functions. An example of the judicial function of the Executive lies in the appointment of all judges of the courts of the United States. Another such example is in the functions of many of the bureaus, commissions, and departments, which have express authority to make decisions which have the force of court judgments and decrees. An example is the power vested in the Secretary of Agriculture to make allotments to farmers covering various types of crops and limiting the amount that each one may produce. Similarly, the executive infringes upon the legislative function in many ways. 'T'he same bureaus, departments, and commissions above mentioned make rules and regulations having the force of legislative enactments. There has developed a whole body of law which is known as Administrative Law which deals exclusively with the rule-making and judicial powers of these bodies. They have grown to such an extent that few, if any, of us are beyond their reach or influence in our daily living. In addition, the President is required to make periodic reports to Congress on the State of the Union and makes recommendations to Congress regarding laws necessary to the welfare of the country. Some concern has been expressed regarding the tendency of the Chief Executive, in recent years, to go beyond the duty of recommending legislation and to prepare it and present it to Congress with a demand that it be passed. Primarily, the Executive Branch is charged with the duty and responsibility of carrying out the policies 781 Christmas Cantatas for Two and Three Part Women's Choruses Carols of Christmas—Two Part— Lorenz,.= 2.2 =....90 Carols of Christmas—Three Part— Lorenz oon... Ecececeeeececeeeceeceeeeteeeeeeee.90 Christmas Messiah—Three Part— Handel......2..--...2..20--eeecseeeneceeeeeeeee -90 Child of Bethlehem—Two Part— Walter «2.2... Eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee -90 Dawn of Christmas—Three Part— DS) 90 Music of Bethlehem—Two Part— el) |.90 Music of Bethlehem—Three Part— Holton Song of the Holy Night—Three Part—Wilson.............--...0.0------------.90 This Is Noel—Three Part—Davis....1.25 Wondrous Story—Three Part— 1 | 5 ee.60 Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank: DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 15 East Ist South: Salt Lake City 1, Utah Name Address City & State Please send the music indicated above. LI On Approval 0 Charge [1] Money Enclosed errr rrr rrr rrr eee eee eee eee eee eee Daynes Mace TUITLTLATT gee Sal Lake 145 NORTH UNIVERSITY, PROVO «/ 2260 WASHINGTON rae Aa THE WORLD'S FINEST PIANOS Mason & Hamlin The Stradivari of Pianos EVERETT Finest Toned Spinet Piano Built Cable | Nelson Finest Low Priced Piano Built Vand All Obtainable At Beesley Music Co. Pioneer Piano People 70 S. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 9 e @ It's awaiting 8 You... Ys there is still a tremendous amount of outstanding instruction and use awaiting you in this and other copies of the Relief Society Magazine. Your editions may be handsomely bound at the West's finest bindery and printing plant for $2.50 cloth bound and $3.50 leather bound per volume plus postage for mail orders. All mail orders must be paid in advance. Follow these postage rates if you send your order by mail: Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles........2... Eeecceee ceeeceeee35 150 to 300 miles...........0..---0--- 39 300 to 600 miles <a d 600 to 1000 miles 1000 to 1400 miles 1400 to 1800 miles - Over 1800 miles 22... Eee eee.87 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-2581 31 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah adopted by the Legislative Branch as enacted into law. It is the President's function to provide for the safety and protection of the country and its citizens and for other branches of the Government where necessary. Besides being a great office in the Government, the Presidency is likewise a great political office. The President is not only the head of the Government, he is also the head of his party. 'This latter capacity lends great influence and power to his office. He exerts great influence upon the selection and election of Congressmen. His support and influence are eagerly sought by wouldbe candidates. In the matter of patronage, the office of President exerts a powerful influence upon Government. The executive and administrative staff of the Government now commands the appointment of millions of personnel. By adroitly using this tremendous appointive power, the President can and does exert effective pressure upon his party and upon members of Congress to secure support for his policies. Few Congressmen care to defy the presidential power and forego the political patronage which is the backbone of their political fortunes. In the field of foreign affairs and international relations the power of the Presidency is of almost transcendent importance. Presidents can and have involved us in war. 'They commit the Nation to treaties and foreign policy which are oftentimes irrevocable even if we later wish to withdraw from a given course of action. (This matter will be treated in lesson 20, Relief Society Mag- 782 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1955 LESSON DEPARTMENT azine, January 1956.) dency is an office which demands the utmost in wisdom, tact, and understanding. Functions of the Judiciary — Policy Interpretation The Judicial Department operates in some respects in a very unique and special way. Courts do not go out seeking cases to be brought before them. It is only in very special and narrow limits that courts will act in advance to prevent a violation or usurpation of constitutional or governmental power. Suits must be brought before courts by the parties desiring to be heard. Invariably, then, the Government or some private party must formally make application to a court for protection or redress. The judicial process usually becomes operative only after an event has occurred. The Federal Judiciary exerts its influence upon Government in the United States through the great principle of review which it exercises over the actions of both the Legislative and Executive. Thus the Judicial Department, though separate and distinct from the other departments, performs functions of vital importance and effect upon both the Legislative and Executive Branches. It has the last word upon the issue of constitutionality. Thus the three great branches of Government, though separate and divided, are co-ordinate and integrated. By the process of separation, limitation of power, and Federal organization, the great constitutional processes of America are preserved and perpetuated. It has The Presi- | 783 Electric WATER HEATING costs the average family only about 10¢ a day Buy From Your Deoler Or Plumber ® Be Modern Live Electrically UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. Now is the time to order PERSONALIZED CHRISTMAS. CARDS and it's not too early... SHOP FOR CHRISTMAS our collection of gifts is complete. We have a suggestion for every one on your list. Pembroke's 24 East Broadway Salt Lake City, Utah 784 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1955 been correctly stated that the framers of the Constitution were not theoreticians working in a vacuum, YOU GET THE BEST they were men dedicated to the blish f stable G ind fictnemeade ae Geanllind FOR THE LEAST freedom. The success of this Nation is elo- |) WHEN YOU TRAVEL WITH quent testimony to their great wisdom and divine inspiration, VIDA FOX CLAWSON Questions on the Lesson Write or Phone: 1. Name an institution of Government VIDA FOX CLAWSON which is not mentioned in the Constitu- 966 East South Temple tion but which plays a very important: part in Government under the ConstituSalt Lake City, Utah tion. Phone: EMpire 4-2017 2. What are the three main functions of the governmental process? 3. In which department of Government is policy determination vested under the Constitution? Should this power be expressed by another department? Why " Gi not? Yndian aver 4. In what respects do the functions of Pansye H. Powell the Legislative Department overlap the Executive and Julicial Departments? I'm very much ashamed of me— 5- How is the Legislative Department I tell it with a moan— organized and how does it function? I bought a gift to give away i 1 6. Why is the Presidency of the United And kept it for my own! States a powerful office? 7. How is the work of the Executive:: Department carried out? Wh Priceless Collection 8. Does the Judicial Department overlap the other departments? In what ways? Francelia Goddard g. What other function does the of-. Fice of the Presidency provide in addition | Some women cherish old glassware, to its governmental functions? Others prize pieces of lace. 10. By what means does the President | But mine's a collection of memories, influence Government? Filling no physical space. 11. What are the obligations of the - President relating to foreign affairs? I don't have to launder or dust them, 12. What is the greatest function of These treasures of laughter and tears. The Judicial Department so far as the Gov- | They sparkle from loving remembrance, ernment is concerned? As I recross the chasm of years, OPEN A CONVENIENT CHARGE ACCOUNT ifts that keep on gwing... NEW LDS. BOOKS Te TEN COMMANDMENTS Today { 1. Kingdom of God Restored CARTER E. GRANT This new book spans all the ages of existence, down to the administration of President David O. McKay, and offers new and interesting information concerning the establishment of the Church in the early days. Maps and illustrations included. $4.00 2. The ABC's of American Genealogical Research E. KAY KIRKHAM This new revised cloth edition treats in detail many of the necessary steps in genealogical research in America, including special consideration of some of the records of the Federal Government which are of genealogical value to the researcher. $1.75 3. The Ten Commandments Today The fundamental principles laid down at Mt. Sinai are clearly defined by members of the Council of the Twelve (Joseph Fielding Smith, Harold B. Lee, Spencer W. Kimball, Mark E. Petersen, LeGrand Richards, Adam S. Bennion, and Richard L. Evans), by Superintendent Elbert R. Curtis of the YMMIA and W. Cleon Skousen of Brigham Young University. Definitive answers on these divine laws are offered for more righteous living in this atomic age. $2.00 Deseret __ 44 East South Temple -- DESERET BOOK CO. ' 44 East South Temple | Salt Lake City, Utah | | | ee i | Gentlemen: Enclosed you will find ( ) check ( ) money order ( ) charge to my account the following amount $.................: ccccseeee for the encircled (numbered) books: 1 2 3 Name COC COS EEC CREEe Address ooo... Eecceecceeccecccececeseesceceecseeceecesenseeessesssseesanaescecacseeeeneesseeneeenaeeeeen one City nn ee ceceee cceetcteceeeeeeeeteeereeteee sce, LONG. Oe State... Cesceeeeeeeeeee Residents of Utah include 2% sales tax. OS ee ee ee Tifty Beneficial Years ene Office decor has changed somewhat, as have clothing styles, but to all outward appearances the practice of law has changed little in the past fifty years. However, the lawyer of today must have a far broader knowledge of his profession — as well as intensive training in his specialty. Insurance law is a good example. Every new Beneficial Life program — like our popular "Planned Futures" — is worked out carefully in consultation with our specially trained legal counselors. The two professions — insurance and law — have much in common, since they both depend upon high ethical standards, integrity, and professional knowledge in looking after your interests. BENEFICIAL LIFE David O. McKay, Pres. Salt Lake City, Utah Sy, 1905-1955 os Lake an. it Len hh Lessons for March =~ DECEMBER 1955 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spatford - - - - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - First Counselor Velma N. Simonsen - - - - - Second Counselor Margaret C. Pickering - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Mary G. Judd Evon W. Peterson Alberta H. Christensen Winnietred S. Nna B. Hart Leone O. Jacobs Mildred B. Eyring Manwaring Edith S. Elliott Louise W. Madsen Helen W. Anderson Elna P. Haymond Florence J. Madsen Aleine M. Young Gladys S. Boyer Annie M. Ellsworth Leone G. Layton Josie B. Bay Charlotte A. Larsen Mary R. Young Blanche B. Stoddard Christine H. Robinson Edith P. Backman RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor = = = = 3 = ~ < - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford eneral Manager - - - - = - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Vol. 42 DECEMBER 1955 No. 12 Contents SPECIAL FEATURES Children in the Scriptures J. Reuben Clark, Jr. 788 The Annual General Relief Society Conference—1955 777Margaret C. Pickering 802 Tae TOY OF GIVING ener en Meera G, Elsie Scott 820 The Scarlet Cloak of Love Lane Stanaway Christian 805 Fells of Christmas: mmnnmmnnnnnnn nn en bane §Pearl Montgomery 822 Hermanas — Chapter 60100 Fay Tarlock 828 Sixty Years Ago. Scccssscnesssceeeeeeec SOE rer pocrneeeren 814 ppm s SPHEPe renegeRamona W. Cannon 815 Editorial: The One Hundred Twenty-Sixth Semi-Annual OBISTERC oo. Marianne C. Sharp 816 The Words of Christmas 00000000! Vesta P. Crawford 819 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities Margaret C. Pickering 837 From Near and Far - celeee 864 FEATURES FOR THE HOME Johanna Petersen Bernhisel Makes Star Quilts for Her Relief Society Sisters 000 821 Vegetables — A Different Way Every Day — PartI... IRhea H. Gardner 826 Quick Little Presents Elizabeth Williamson 835 ateeensenneeesacserccentsnreesaccnsertceeeneecees-Ruth I. Devereaux 836 ceceLeone E. McCune 860 LESSONS FOR MARCH _ Theology: Conditions Among the Nephites in the Days of Nephi the Disciple Leland H. Monson 84] of Mine and Visiting Teacher Messages: "Therefore, Whoso He Doeth Them, I Will Liken Him Unto a Wise Man Edith S. Elliott 845 Work Meeting: Vegetable Cookery—Part TooneRhea H. Gardner 846 Literature: Post-Victorian Poets — Alfred Edward Housman, William Ernest Henley, rnd, Joh macs ete ee eeBriant S. Jacobs 848 Social Science: Citizenship and Suffrage Under the Constitution 0."Albert R. Bowen 853 POETRY When Earth Recalls — Frontispiece. Alice Morrey Bailey 787 "Christmas Hope," by Catherine E. Berry, 801; "The Western Sign,' by Elsie F. Parton, 804; "Christmas Night,'' by Eva Willes Wangsgaard, 813; "His Birthday,'' by Beatrice K. Ekman, 818; "Old Lullabies,"' by Maude Rubin, 827: "Carol,'' by Dorothy J. Roberts, 834; ''The Greater Part,' by Della Adams Leitner, 840. PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 40 North Main, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone EM 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 8, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1108, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. (M] Hallmark boxed christmas cards A. Old-fashioned Christmas A warming yuletide areeting from the goodold days in gay and colorful scenes 12 cards, 1.00 B. Holiday Holly Bright colored kodachrome cards with the true spirit of Christmas. Beautiful. 12 cards, 1.75 Cc. Slim Jims Hallmark cards for the more modern and contemporary person. Red, gold, white and green on black. 12 cards, 2.50 Have your cards personal. Ized, 95¢ and up. ZCMI CARDS Street Floor Mail orders to: MARGOT MANNERS, ZCMI Salt Lake City 10, Utah Please send the following Hallmark cards. Quan, Key No, Price Cash (1 Charge (J c.0.0. O Name... 2c.. Cccccesssscoescncrsssuceesversessaacsenensssceeasenere CX City. Cceeeeeccmesccsetecrceeere ZOMG vu... SHOTC. Ls Please include 15¢ postage for each box of cards ordered. Utah residents add 2% State Sales Tax, When &a rth Recalls Alice Morrey Bailey Beloved symbols grow across the years. A camel's silhouette against the night, A lighted pine tree's pungent, jeweled spears, Beribboned gifts, a yule-log burning bright, Are emblems hands can touch and eyes may see This night when joy transforms the hurried throngs, When earth recalls a Babe's nativity, And voices ring the world with treasured songs. Intangible, but real as global sod, Is brotherhood that binds men to their God, And power to save the soul with lifting grace Is-vast as light that sweeps through cosmic space. Deep, deep is love that floods the ages' length To gird the trembling spirit with its strength. * The Cover: "Mother and Child," From a Painting by Murillo (1617-1682) A Perry Picture, Copyright 1900 Frontispiece: "New England Winter," Ewing Galloway, New York, by Gustav Anderson Cover Design by Evan Jensen Page 787 Children in the Scriptures President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Of the First Presidency [Address Delivered at the Annual General Relief Society Conference, September 29, 1955] Y brethren (by courtesy), and my beloved sisters: It is a great pleasure to meet with you again, as much of a pleasure as it can be when I have to talk. I greet you as the greatest women's relief organization in the world, great in your ideals, great in your membership, great in proportion to the number of those who are active in your membership, greatest of all in that you were organized by a Prophet of the Lord pursuant to the inspiration which came to him from the Lord. I have been asked today to speak to you about our children, our grandchildren, our great-grandchildren, and those who are to come hereafter, down to the last generation. I have spoken to you before on these subjects, and today I have nothing new or startling to tell you, really no new field to enter. I am not sure that you will enjoy, particularly, the things that I may have to say or to read. But after thinking over the matter of the request, I concluded perhaps it might be well for me to read to you what the Scriptures say about the children and our relation to them. I found that these Scriptures treated the matter of children from several points of view: one of them was from the relationship of the parent to the child; another, the Page 788 relationship from the child to the parent; another, the relationship having to do with matters of discipline; another, the relationship of children to the Church; and, finally, a relationship of children to the kingdom of God. I thought perhaps it might be of value and interest to you if I were to take up a sort of history as disclosed in the more important passages of Scripture, a history of the Lord's instructions regarding children. I have tried to follow along with reasonable accuracy the history as we have it in the Scriptures from the beginning. I have treated of the Old Testament period, that is, I am reading from the Old Testament period. I am reading from the period in The Book of Mormon before the time of the Savior. I am reading something of the things which the Savior said in Palestine. I am_ reading more of what the Savior said when he visited the people on this continent after his resurrection. I am reading something of what was said by the prophets thereafter on this hemisphere. And, lastly, I am trying to bring together in some chronological order the things which the Lord has said in our day to the Prophet Joseph Smith. I hope you will bear with me. I shall not be able to give you a full background, time will not permit, CHILDREN IN THE SCRIPTURES for the various things about which I shall talk, and concerning which I shall read, but I will give some. OLD TESTAMENT TEACHINGS I will begin with the great commandment given on Mount Sinai, the earliest, so far as I know, of any direction and command relating generally to the relationship between child and parent: "Honour thy father and thy mother..." declared God on Sinai to Moses for the Children of Israel, ""... That thy days may be long upon the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee" (Ex. 20:12). Couched in such general terms, as I take it, it applies not only to the Children of Israel traveling in the wilderness, preparatory to going into the Promised Land, but a commandment and a promise that come to every people of God no matter where they are or in what time they lived. It comes to us as it went to ancient Israel. And in that connection I have in mind an application of this principle which the Savior made during his ministry in Palestine. He condemned the Jews because they had distorted this command, "Honour thy father and thy mother..." so that they had come to the point where they could, under the rabbinical rule, give to the parent a gift called Corban, and by that gift relieve themselves of the responsibility of that great commandment of Sinai which the Savior then interpreted to mean that they should care for their fathers and their mothers, in their material needs; and the Savior condemned their practice in terms that were most vigorous. 789 Now, there are some other expressions in the great Book, in the Old Testament, which relate to the treatment of children, and the attitude of ancient Israel towards children. I am going to read a few of those, taken primarily from Proyerbs. The Proverb of 22:6 says: Train up a child in the way he should go: and when he is old, he will not depart from it. That is a universal law, just as applicable today as it was the day it was written. Then another one is given which does not quite comport with later commandments from the Lord. It says: "Foolishness is bound in the heart of a child; but the rod of correction shall drive it far from him" (Prov. 22:15). Note, the rod. Proverbs 23:13: "Withhold not correction from the child: for if thou beatest him with the rod, he shall not die'—regarded perhaps as a comforting assurance. Finally, Proverbs 29:15: "The rod and reproof give wisdom: but a child left to himself bringeth his mother to shame." Those were the concepts of the Old Testament, in general. Perhaps I might finish out this narration by noting the incident of Elisha and the little children at Bethel. They followed him out of the city, mocking him and saying unto him, "Go up, thou bald head; go up, thou bald head," whereupon he turned back, looked at them, and "... Cursed them in the name of the Lord. And there came forth two she bears out of the wood, and tare forty and two children of them" (II Kings 2:23-24). Thus much for children in the Old Testament. BOOK OF MORMON TEACHINGS BEFORE THE TIME OF CHRIST In his great farewell address to his people, King Benjamin, on this continent in Old Testament times, gave some great instructions regarding children, that I particularly wish to read to you. 'They cover a considerable area and contain instructions and comment that are just as pertinent today as they were the day Benjamin pronounced them. The whole concept is different from that of the Old Testament. In his address to his sons Mosiah, Helorum, and Helaman, he said: "And ye will not suffer your children that they go hungry, or naked;" thus making a very clear declaration regarding the duty of these brethren and of the parents toward their children — "neither will ye suffer that they transgress the laws of God" — they were to see that they lived righteously — "and [not] fight and quarrel one with another" — there was to be peace in the home — "and [not] serve the devil, who is the master of sin, or who is the evil spirit which hath been spoken of by our fathers, he [the devil] being an enemy to all righteousness. "But ye will teach them to walk in the ways of truth and soberness; ye will teach them to love one another, and to serve one another" (Mosiah 4:14-15). The association of children together, the plane upon which that association should be placed and lived, the conduct, the whole realm of children's relationship in the family and with neighbors are given here. Abinadi, preaching to the depraved king Noah and his corrupt priests, declared, first: "And little children also have eternal life," which seems to be the first recorded expression, which was later enlarged, showing that children until they have reached the age of accountability, have no need for repentance ( Mosiah 15:25). Alma, preaching to the humbled, pov erty-stricken Zoramites, and declaring God is merciful to all who believe on his name, declared: And now, he imparteth his word by angels unto men, yea, not only men but women also. Now this is not all; little children do have words given unto them many times, which confound the wise and the learned (Alma 32:23). Those of us who have had children and grandchildren and greatgrandchildren know how frequently these little ones come to us with questions and comments which show a seeming profundity of reflection that makes us marvel. But the words there spoken had a more literal fulfilment, as we shall later point out. TEACHINGS OF THE SAVIOR IN PALESTINE Now, I come down to the time of the Savior, and, first, as to his comments in Palestine, I will refer to two well-known incidents. I shall not attempt to describe them, time will not permit. I may, if they should chance to want to print this when I have given it, fill in a little preliminary material. In the great Galilean ministry, at Capernaum, the disciples came to the Savior and said: 790 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1955 CHILDREN IN THE SCRIPTURES... Who is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven? (Mt. 18:1). And the Savior replied:... Verily I say unto you, Except ye be converted, and become as little children, ye shall not enter into the kingdom of heaven. Whosoever therefore shall humble himself as this little child, the same is greatest in the kingdom of heaven. And whoso shall receive one such little child in my name receiveth me. But whoso shall offend one of these little ones which believe in me, it were better for him that a millstone were hanged about his neck, and that he were drowned in the depth of the sea (Mt. 18:3-6). The care of children, the respect and consideration to be shown them, the position of those who illtreat children are here poignantly described. And here, for the first time in the Holy Writ of Palestine, we come into a larger view regarding the children. 'There is no suggestion here of the old adage, "Spare the rod and spoil the child." 'The spiritual position of children in the kingdom is declared. 'This is a message of love, of respect, of establishing an example of what all of us should be, if we would enter the kingdom. We must come even as a little child. Later, during the Perean ministry, the Savior, you will remember, traveling along the way, the multitude came to him and wanted to bring little children to him. The disciples wished to prevent it, but he reproved his disciples in these words: 791 "But when Jesus saw it, he was much displeased, and said unto them, Suffer the little children to come unto me, and forbid them not: for of such is the kingdom of God," beginning for the first time to give a place to children in the kingdom of God. Verily I say unto you, Whosoever shall not receive the kingdom of God as a little child, he shall not enter therein. And he took them up in his arms, put his hands upon them, and blessed them (Mark 10:14-16). TEACHINGS OF THE SAVIOR IN AMERICA These things happened and were spoken by the Savior regarding children in Palestine. I shall now come to the records of doings in America and point out some of the incidents that took place there. Christ ministered to the people of America after his resurrection, he having been introduced to the inhabitants here by the Father, on an occasion of divine simplicity and exquisite tenderness and beauty (3 Nephi 11). To appreciate the peace and calm of the account of Christ's visit to this continent, one should come to the record fresh from the reading of the record of the Gospels describing the Last Supper, the prayer in Gethsemane, the arrest, the trial and the crucifixion of Jesus, the Savior of the world; then the reading of the terrible destruction on this continent at the time of the crucifixion. And after this reading then turn to the record of Christ's work and ministry among those of this land who survived the awful days of the crucifixion, a record that is a holy benediction upon the mortal ministry of the Atoning Sactifice, Jesus Christ of Nazareth. We shall confine ourselves to repeating some of his sayings and doings about and concerning children. The record runs: And it came to pass that he commanded that their little children should be brought. So they brought their little children and set them down upon the ground round about him, and Jesus stood in the midst; and the multitude gave way till they had all been brought unto him... (3 Nephi 17:11-12). And when he had said these words, he wept, and the multitude bare record of it, and he took their little children, one by one, and blessed them, and prayed unto the Father for them (3 Nephi 17:21). Thus he was repeating here on this land the incident (already noted, above) which took place in Palestine while he was on his way back to Jerusalem from Perea for the crucifixion. The account goes on: And when he had done this he wept again; And he spake unto the multitude, and said unto them: Behold your little ones. And as they looked to behold they cast their eyes towards heaven, and they saw the heavens open, and they saw angels descending out of heaven as it were in the midst of fire; and they came down and encircled those little ones about, and they were encircled about with fire; and the angels did minister unto them. And the multitude did see and hear and bear record; and they know that their record is true for they all of them did see and hear... (3 Nephi 17:22-25). Not a few of them saw, not an isolated individual here and there saw, but the whole multitude assembled beheld—they all saw and... Did see and hear, every man for himself; and they were in number about two thousand and five hundred souls; and they did consist of men, women, and children (3 Nephi 17:25). This shows how precious in the sight of the Lord are the children which -we have. And may I remind you, these children did not come to you and ask you to give them bodies, they did not ask you sisters to become mothers and the men to become fathers of their earthly bodies. The Lord commanded, of course, that we should multiply and replenish the earth. But you, of your own volition, created the bodies for the spirits to take, and these little ones were gracious enough to come to the body you created. They are your guests. You, as hosts, owe to them all of the consideration, all of the love, all of the kindness, all of the patience and courtesy and all the other virtues that it is possible for you-to give. They are here because you invited them to come. Thank God for their presence. May I reread a few words: And he spake unto the multitude, and said unto them; Behold your little ones. 'And as they looked to behold they cast their eyes towards heaven, and they saw the heavens open, and they saw angels descending out of heaven.... And the multitude did see and hear and bear record; and they know that their record is true for they all of them did see and hear... (3 Nephi 17:23-25). 792 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1955 CHILDREN IN THE SCRIPTURES The record goes on: And it came to pass that he did teach and minister unto the children of the multitude of whom hath been spoken, and he did loose their tongues. (3 Nephi 26:14). Now I refer back to the earlier statement about the wisdom that comes from children:... He did loose their tongues, and they did speak unto their fathers great and marvelous things, even greater than he had revealed unto the people; and he loosed their tongues that they could utter. And it came to pass that after he had ascended into heaven — the second time that he showed himself unto them, and had gone unto the Father, after having healed all their sick, and their lame, and opened the eyes of their blind and unstopped the ears of the deaf, and even had done all manner of cures among them, and raised a man from the dead, and had shown forth his power unto them, and had ascended unto the Father— Behold, it came to pass on the morrow that the multitude gathered themselves together, and they both saw and heard these children; yea, even babes did open their mouths and utter marvelous things; and the things which they did utter were forbidden that there should not any man write them (3 Nephi 26:14-16). I am rather persuaded that one of the reasons for forbidding them to write the things that were uttered was that they had no language to express the things which came into their minds and into their hearts by reason of the blessings and ministrations of our Lord and Master, just as we oftentimes have feelings come into our hearts for our loved ones that are beyond our powers to express; or things that come to us under the inspiration of the spirit of the Lord. We have not the language, we have not the capacity 738 really to think out the precise meaning of what so comes to us, what we feel, but we know of the great joy and the great happiness that come when we have these: moments of high inspiration, even revelation. Then the Lord goes on here and talks about baptism for the dead and baptism for children, and that I will not read. I will close the recitation of what happened at the time that the Savior came here to the people of this land, precious above all other lands, by merely asking you to get your Book of Mormon when you get home and read the whole of Third Nephi. It is an incomparable record of the dealings of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ, with the children of our Father in heaven, of whom Christ is our Elder Brother. As I have indicated, I like to think of the Savior's mission here on this land after his crucifixion, as the benediction of his earthly life. I again ask you to read first the account in the New Testament of all the woe, of all the grief, of all the suffering, of all the anguish, the trial, and the tribulation that came to our Savior, and then pick up your Book of Mormon, turn to Third Nephi, and read what happened here. Read, first, of the marvelous introduction by which the Father introduced the Savior, how the voice came from heaven the first time and they did not understand it. It came the second time; again they could not understand it. It came the third time, and then they understood, for, finally they had brought themselves into that spiritual condition where they could understand. (3 Nephi 11:1-7.) I have always thought that there was a wonderful lesson here. I wonder how often the Savior and the Father would communicate with us if we but brought ourselves into the frame of mind and the spiritual condition where we could understand their words. TEACHINGS IN THE BOOK OF MORMON AFTER THE SAVIOR'S VISIT After the Savior's visit to this continent following his death and resurrection, Mormon wrote an epistle to Moroni, in the course of which he said a few words about children. He said: Behold I say unto you that this thing shall ye teach—repentance and baptism unto those who are accountable and capable of committing sin; yea, teach parents that they must repent and be baptized, and humble themselves as_ their little children, and they shall all be saved with their little children. And their little children need no repentance, neither baptism. Behold, baptism is unto repentance to the fulfilling the commandments unto the remission of sins. But little children are alive in Christ, even from the foundation of the world; if not so, God is a partial God, and also a changeable God, and a respecter to persons; for how many little children have died without baptism! Wherefore, if little children could not be saved without baptism, these must have gone to an endless hell (Moroni 8:10-13). Then Mormon goes on and talks about baptism, but I will not read all of that, but he comes to this expression: And I am filled with charity, which is everlasting love; wherefore, all children are alike unto me; wherefore, I love little children with a perfect love; and they are all alike and partakers of salvation. For I know that God is not a partial God, neither a changeable being; but he is unchangeable from all eternity to all eternity. Little children cannot repent; wherefore, it is awful wickedness to deny the pure mercies of God unto them, for they are all alive in him because of his mercy. And he that saith that little children need baptism denieth the mercies of Christ, and setteth at naught the atonement of him and the power of his redemption.... For behold that all little children are alive in Christ, and also all they that are without the law. For the power of redemption cometh on all them that have no law; wherefore, he that is not condemned, or he that is under no condemnation, cannot repent; and unto such baptism availeth nothing (Moroni 8:17-20; 22). These words give clearly the position of children in the kingdom of God. 'They cannot sin, they have no need of baptism, they go to our Heavenly Father, and unless we become as little children, we may not hope to come thus to our Father. Here is the first clear exposition that I have found in the Scriptures, of the spiritual status of children, and their place in the kingdom of God. TEACHINGS THROUGH THE PROPHET JOSEPH We come now to strictly modern revelation, not only brought forth in modern times, as in The Book of Mormon, but actually revealed from heaven in our day. The revelations given to the Prophet Joseph on the question of children began almost a year before the organization of the Church. 794 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1955 CHILDREN IN THE SCRIPTURES The first one noted was in June of 1829. A couple of months thereafter, according to Brother Kirkham's computation, the copy for The Book of Mormon went to the printers. I often think that these early revelations may have come to the Prophet to settle questions that had arisen in his mind because of the teachings of The Book of Mormon; we know that certain questions did so arise; he has told us so. But I think that many other things were revealed that were the result of questions raised by The Book of Mormon record, and among such thought-provoking questions, as | am inclined to believe, are these statements that I have read to you of King Benjamin and others and then from the Savior himself, and then from Mormon,—I say, I am inclined to think that these principles and doctrines recorded in 'The Book of Mormon, had raised questions in the Prophet's mind, and gradually the Lord answered them. I might say here, I am fully persuaded that the Lord never at any time in the whole history of his dealings with the human family, undertook to give all of his commandments and reveal the principles of the gospel for that particular dispensation all at one time, at the beginning of the dispensation. In all dispensations the words of the Lord have come gradually as they are needed, step by step, commandment upon commandment, direction upon direction, and that is the way the revelations have come in this Last Dispensation of the Fullness of 'Times. I am reading now from the 18th section, the 42nd verse, of the Doc- 795 trine and Covenants. It is very short: For all men must repent and be baptized, and not only men, but women, and children who have arrived at the years of accountability (D. & C. 18:42). We are not told what that age of accountability is. 'The Lord now begins to draw a distinction between the time when the child is not accountable and the time when the child is accountable. Just about the time of the organization of the Church, the revelation was received, printed now as the 2oth section, that great section in the Doctrine and Covenants which relates to the organization of the Church. The Lord then said this: Every member of the church of Christ having children is to bring them unto the elders before the church, who are to lay their hands upon them in the name of Jesus Christ, and bless them in his name. No one can be received into the church of Christ unless he has arrived unto the years of accountability before God, and is capable of repentance (D. & C. 20:70-71). Here is a very clear statement about eligibility for Church membership, and inferentially the purpose and efficacy of baptism. In September of that same year, five months later than the revelation I have just read, the Lord said this about little children: But, behold, I say unto you, that little children are redeemed from the foundation of the world through mine Only Begotten; Wherefore, they cannot sin, for power is not given unto Satan to tempt little children, until they begin to become accountable before me; For it is given unto them even as I will, according to mine own pleasure, that great things may be required at the hand of their fathers (D. & C. 29:46-48). The Lord is again declaring the status of children before and after their accountability. The next that I wish to read to you occurred a year after the organization of the Church. This is a very interesting revelation. It shows how early the Lord instructed the Church in our day to give attention to the children. He said (this came in June, 1831): "And again, you shall be ordained to assist my servant Oliver Cowdery" — this was given to William W. Phelps — "to do the work of printing, and of selecting and writing books for schools in this church, that little children also may receive instruction before me as is pleasing unto me" (D. & C. 55:4). Thus in June, 1831 — the Lord revealed his care and concern for the instruction, the education, of little children, the little ones, in order that they might grow up understanding the principles of the gospel. In January of 1832, the Lord again spoke. The fathers of Jewish children had been desirous that their children be circumcised, and the Lord, speaking of this as an unholy tradition, said: "But little children are holy, being sanctified through the atonement of Jesus Christ; and this is what the scriptures mean (D. & C. 74:7). Here is another statement regarding the spiritual status of children. Before that (in November of 1831), as he was sending Orson Hyde, Luke S. Johnson, Lyman E. Johnson, and William E. M'Lellin on missions, he gave a revelation to them and in that revelation he touched upon this question of children (D. & C. 68:25-28). He declared that the words of missionaries spoken as moved upon by the Holy Ghost should be Scripture; he sent them forth to baptize and to appoint more bishops, and declared the position in this relation of the literal descendants of Aaron. He then gave commandments concerning children that should be in our minds. The Lord first sets out the duties of parents to teach their children the principles of the gospel, and announces a penalty if the parents fail. He says: And again, inasmuch as parents have children in Zion, or in any of her stakes which are organized, that teach them not to understand the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ the Son of the living God, and of baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of the hands, when eight years old, the sin be upon the heads of the parents. For this shall be a law unto the inhabitants of Zion, or in any of her stakes which are organized (D. & C. 68:25-26). Thus this commandment is for the whole Church. The revelation continues: And their children shall be baptized for the remission of their sins when eight years old, and receive the laying on of the hands (D. & C. 68:27). Thus parents are charged with the responsibility to see that their 796 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1955 CHILDREN IN THE SCRIPTURES children shall become members of the Church at the time when they are eight years old; they are to be baptized. This is the first time observed in the revelations when the Lord fixes the age of accountability. Prior to this time, and speaking of the spiritual relationship of children to the kingdom, he spoke merely of the time while they were not accountable. Now he fixes the age. The revelation then says: And they shall also teach their children to pray, and to walk uprightly before the Lord (D. & C. 68:28). We seek our Heavenly Father through prayer. It seems that when the Lord was on the earth, he never approached a great event or a seeming crisis in his earth-life, without first going to his Father in prayer. You will recall that Amulek, in his great sermon to the multitude, told us the things about which we might pray (Alma 34:17 ff.). This great message is worth reading and rereading, and I would like to call your particular attention to the admonition which he gave to the multitude when he recounted how vain would be their prayers if they turned away the needy and the naked and visited not the sick and afflicted and imparted not of their substance (Alma 34:28). And, as to this matter of prayer, remember also that the Lord has told us that the Father knows what we need even before we ask for it (Mt. 6:8). He knows what would be wise for us to have with an infinite knowledge of us and of our characters, our failings, our virtues. It is not necessary, therefore, to give 797 long and repetitious prayers for the Father's sake or need. But yet he has commanded us to pray, and pray we should. Out of the many reasons and objects of prayer, there may be this great function: it helps to bring our minds upon ourselves; it helps us to make a sort of self-analysis of ourselves so that we come to a knowledge of our weaknesses and imperfections and of those matters concerning which we need the help of the Lord. We force ourselves to screen our petitions; it helps us not to ask the Lord for foolish, vain, or unnecessary things. The Lord is no wiser when we finish the prayer than he was before we began, but we, if we have prayed properly, have a better appreciation of ourselves and of our needs. The revelation goes on: "And the inhabitants of Zion shall also observe the Sabbath day to keep it holy" (D. & C. 68:29). This, of course, refers to the children also, for they are among the inhabitants of Zion. The great commandment of Sinai, "Remember the sabbath day, to keep it holy," was given to all Israel, ancient and modern, and to all the inhabitants of the earth, children as well as adults. The revelation next says: And the inhabitants of Zion also shall remember their labors, inasmuch as they are appointed to labor, in all faithfulness; for the idler shall be had in remembrance before the Lord. Now, I, the Lord, am not well pleased with the inhabitants of Zion, for there are idlers among them; and their children are also growing up in wickedness; they also seek not earnestly the riches of eternity, but their eyes are full of greediness (D. & C. 68:30-31). You will note that the Lord calls attention to the duties of the laborer to perform his appointed tasks and he calls attention to the idlers. I forego even citing to you the various commandments where the Lord in our day condemned idlers, but here, in this revelation, is one case in which he refers to the idleness of children, an idleness which quite obviously he regards as serious because he recognizes that the children of idlers are growing up in wickedness and intimates that they seek not earnestly the riches of eternity, but their eyes are full of greediness. It would not be amiss if you were to look up the references to idleness in the Doctrine and Covenants and learn just what the Lord has said about it. Idleness is one of the great contributing causes for the taking away from Zion of the great principle of the United Order. All of these commandments are just as pertinent now as they were the day they were uttered. We then come to the specific direction made to Oliver Cowdery, not specially mentioned earlier in the revelation. The Lord instructed him thusly: These things ought not to be, and must be done away from among them; wherefore, let my servant Oliver Cowdery carry these sayings unto the land of Zion (D. & C. 68:32). These doctrines were to be broadcast to the saints in Zion. The Lord then returns to the matter of prayer and declares: And a commandment I give unto them —that he that observeth not his prayers before the Lord in the season thereof, let him be had in remembrance before the judge of my people. These sayings are true and _ faithful; wherefore, transgress them not, neither take therefrom. Behold, I am Alpha and Omega, and I come quickly. Amen (D. & C. 68:33-35). Thus the Lord makes clear that the man who does not observe his prayers is to be taken before the judge, that is, before the bishop. Prayer is required. All these commandments and directions, these expressions of rewards and punishments, have to do with parents, and, of course, with children after they have reached the age of accountability. And it appears clear that children before they reach the age of accountability are to be trained as herein. Directed in order that when they do so reach that age and are baptized, they will not depart from the righteousness of life which they theretofore lived (D. & C. 68). Then, still later, the Lord gave that great revelation which deals with the conditions, in part, that we have today. 'This revelation dealt with the relationship of parent to child, child to parent, and of the Church to the widow and the orphan. I am reading Section 83: Verily, thus saith the Lord, in addition to the laws of the church concerning women and children, those who belong to the church, who have lost their husbands or fathers: Women have claim on their husbands for their maintenance, until their husbands are taken; and if they are not found transgressors they shall have fellowship in the church. 798 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1955 CHILDREN IN THE SCRIPTURES And if they are not faithful they shall not have fellowship in the church; yet they may remain upon their inheritances according to the laws of the land. All children have claim upon their parents for their maintenance until they are of age. And after that, they have claim upon the church, or in other words upon the Lord's storehouse, if their parents have not wherewith to give them inheritances. And the storehouse shall be kept by the consecrations of the church; and widows and orphans shall be provided for, as also the poor (D. & C. 83:1-6). That revelation was given April 30, 1832, during the time the United Order was in operation in Zion—that is, in Missouri. 'This was over two years before the revelation given at Fishing River, which suspended the operation of the United Order. The present great Welfare Plan measurably meets the requirements of this revelation. And then, finally, I come to the great revelation that was given on May 6, 1833. The First Presidency had recently been organized, and the Lord spoke to the First Presidency and to the bishop of Kirtland. I am going to read to you what he said to them: But I have commanded you to bring up your children in light and truth. But verily I say unto you, my servant Frederick G. Williams, you have continued under this condemnation; You have not taught your children light and truth, according to the commandments; and that wicked one hath power, as yet, over you, and this is the cause of your affliction (D. & C. 93:40-42). 799 I want you to note that declaration: failure to teach and bring up your family in the right way may lead to afflictions. It brought them to Frederick G. Williams. And now a commandment I give unto you—if you will be delivered you shall set in order your own house, for there are many things that are not right in your house (D. & C. 93:43). To deliver ourselves from affliction, we must set our houses in order. The Lord then speaks to Sidney Rigdon: Verily, I say unto my servant Sidney Rigdon, that in some things he hath not kept the commandments concerning his children; therefore, first set in order thy house (D. & C. 93:44). Again, is the command our houses must be set in order. Then the Lord speaks to the Prophet Joseph, himself. I have always felt that this revelation was one evidence of the integrity and truthfulness of Joseph; he does not hesitate to record a reproof to himself. "Verily, I say unto my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., or in other words, I will call you friends"— the Lord does not wish them to understand that he is chastizing too severely, he is pointing out the way to obtain blessings — "for you are my friends, and ye shall have an inheritance with me—I called you servants for the world's sake, and ye are their servants for my sake" (D. & C. 93:45-46). I call your attention to the lofty concept voiced in this sentence. The Lord continues: And now, verily I say unto Joseph Smith, Jun.—You have not kept the commandments, and must needs stand rebuked before the Lord; Your family must needs repent and forsake some things, and give more earnest heed unto your sayings, or be removed out of their place. What I say unto one I say unto all; pray always lest that wicked one have power in you, and remove you out of your place (D. & C. 93:47-49). If we do not live as the Lord commands, we shall be removed "out of our place." Finally, to the bishop of Kirtland, the Lord addresses words of reproof and counsel: My servant Newel K. Whitney also, a bishop of my church, hath need to be chastened, and set in order his family, and see that they are more diligent and concerned at home, and pray always, or they shall be removed out of their place (D. & C. 93:50). Once more, the command to set our homes in order. These, so far as I have seen, are among the essential commandments that have been given in our day regarding children. They clearly set forth the duties of parents to children, the position of children in the kingdom of God, and with equal clearness set forth that these children are ours to be cared for by us. Now, may I add just a word or two to what I have already said. Always remember the devil is not asleep, nor is he dead. I wonder if you have considered, I know you have, the problems, the new problems which you of this generation now meet. There comes into the home of every one of you, practically, by radio, or by television, or both, and in the movies, at the theaters, words and pictures whereby your children have presented to them all of the allurements of the idle life, the life of the idle rich. Pictured in the finest pictures that can be made are the so-called pleasures of that life. Your children see and hear all these things. Hour after hour they listen to or see, or both, the criminal side of our society. Do you appreciate that they are receiving an education in crime? Radio, television particularly, pictures out great criminal incidents happening in our daily lives. Small children today know far more about crime and the way it is committed and how it is planned and how the law may be evaded and the criminals escape, than most of us who are mature. I grant you that usually the end of the picture or radio story brings its moral, the guilty criminal meets his punishment, but in the meanwhile every child has seen what that criminal has done up to that point to commit his crime, escape punishment, and has seen how the criminal worked out his criminal, even murderous designs. And, lastly, your children see the psetrdo-attractiveness of vice, the pleasures which allegedly vice can bring, they see the wayward life, the life not in harmony with our standards, the life that leads down to perdition. All are shown with an alluring glamour, a seductive persuasiveness that charms the children, the youth, the grownups, so that sometimes almost unconsciously they seek the ways of such a life. 800 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1955 CHILDREN IN THE SCRIPTURES I appreciate the problems which Sunday brings you because of your television and your radio, I can only hope and pray that the Lord will bless you and help you to meet this new threat to the standards lived by your children, and their conduct among themselves. I am quite aware of the great blessings that the radio and television bring to us, and the great service they may be brought to render in the cause of truth. But now I am not dwelling on the blessings. I am thinking of the ills, the criminal instincts that are fostered and displayed in all these things. May the Lord bless you and help you to meet these things, help you to cope with them, give you wisdom of a different kind than has been called for in the past, wisdom as great as ever was bestowed upon any people to meet all these temptations. This I pray for you. Mothers of Israel, in your hands primarily lie the rearing and guiding of the future generation, the one that follows ours; seek to guide your children aright that they may righteously carry on. But you cannot do this by lodging your child in 801 some kind of a caretaking establishment while you go out to earn more money, perhaps to get a few more comforts or luxuries. Sometimes it may be necessary for a mother to leave her home and leave her children to a neighbor, to the older but immature brother or sister, or in sostyled nursery homes, but I beseech you mothers in Israel, make any of these courses your very last resort of necessity and be sure the reason for your action is one that would be recognized by our Heavenly Father as justifying your lack of care for the spirit which he has permitted to come to you at your invitation. God bless you in the great work you have done and are doing. I believe I appreciate how great this organization is, and I appreciate how you are worked by the brethren. If it were not for the work which you do for the brethren, we brethren would be a pretty sad lot. | I hope the brethren will try not to ruin your health and lives in doing the work which they ought to do. God bless you, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus. Amen. Christmas Hope Catherine E. Berry Though the dark may hover And winds increase, And we search in vain For the light of peace; The world is still trying For brotherhood, And hearts are seeking The true and the good, Though we may falter And lose our way, We still search the heavens, We still can pray; And a light still glows In a stable bare, For the hope of the world Is shining there. The Annual General Relief Society Conference - 1955 Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer HE annual general Relief SoT ciety conference was held in Salt Lake City Wednesday and Thursday, September 28 and 29. There were 221 stakes and twelve missions represented by 1,917 officers; 1,871 from the stakes and 46 from the missions. While mission presidents were not in attendance at the conference, several missions were represented by district officers. 'The general session held in the Tabernacle was crowded and many stood. Two Officers Meetings were held in the Tabernacle on Wednesday. The morning meeting was addressed by President Spafford who gave Official Instructions, by Elder Adam S. Bennion of the Council of the Twelve, and by Elizabeth W. Romney, former President of the Central American Mission Relief Society, who reported on that mission. 'The Berkeley (California) Stake Singing Mothers chorus of 100 voices, Emma C. Harmon, director, sang two beautiful numbers. At the afternoon meeting, Elder Mark E. Petersen of the Council of the Twelve, an advisor to Relief Society, gave an address. A symposium on Relief Society meetings was presented, followed by addresses by Counselor Marianne C. Sharp and Counselor Velma N. Simonsen. 'Iwo inspiring numbers were sung by the Sugar House (Utah). Stake Singing Mothers chorus of Page 802 121 voices under the direction of Ann T. Jones. The annual reception, attended by an unusually large number, was held Wednesday evening in the Lafayette Ballroom of the Hotel Utah. Featured this year, in order to give leaders more specific help, were the following departmental sessions held simultaneously Thursday afternoon in several nearby buildings: executive, music, Relief Society Magazine, theology, visiting teaching, work meeting, literature, and social science. The general session held Thursday afternoon included addresses by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., President Belle S. Spafford, Counselor Marianne C. Sharp, Counselor Velma N. Simonsen, and Josie B. Bay of the general board. The Singing Mothers chorus, of more than 550 voices from the American Falls, Bannock, Blackfoot, East Rigby, Idaho, Idaho Falls, Lost River, North Idaho Falls, North Pocatello, North Rexburg, Pocatello, Portneuf, Rexburg, Rigby, Shelley, South Blackfoot, South Idaho Falls, Star Valley, Teton, West Pocatello, and Yellowstone Stakes, furnished the music. The chorus was directed by Florence J. Madsen, who also directed the congregational singing. Elder Roy M. Darley was organist for the Officers Meetings, and Elder Frank W. Asper was organist PARTICIPANTS IN SOCIAL SCIENCE DEPARTMENTAL MEETING OF THE ANNUAL GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE September 29, 1955 Left to right: Elder Albert R. Bowen, author of the Social Science course of study; Elder G. Homer Durham, Vice-President, University of Utah; Alberta H. Christensen, member, General Board of Relief Society, and Chairman of the Social Science Committee. The charts here illustrated were prepared by the Park Stake Relief Society, Salt Lake City, Utah, and were among a series of similar visual aids prepared by the various stakes, for the general session. The large of the Church in the absence of Singing Mothers chorus also furnthe Tabernacle Choir, most memished the music at the Sunday sesbers of which had not returned sions of the semi-annual conference from the Choir's European tour. Page 803 The following addresses have already appeared in the November issue of the Magazine: "The Rewards of Service in Relief Society," by President Belle S. Spafford; "Examples of the Believers," by Counselor Marianne C. Sharp; "Be Thou Humble; and the Lord Thy God Shall Lead Thee by the Hand," by Counselor Velma N. Simonsen; "Report and Official Instructions," by President Belle S. Spafford. The address by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., appears in this issue of the Magazine. Other addresses will appear as follows: by Elder Mark E. Petersen in the January 1956 issue of the Magazine; by Elder Adam S. Bennion in February; by Josie B. Bay in March. Some additional instructions will also appear in later issues of the Magazine. She Western Sign Elsie F. Parton "... Know ye not that the testimony of two nations is a witness unto you that I am God, that I remember one nation like unto another?..." (2 Nephi 29:8). It was sunset in the western land, Yet light shone on the earth. It was the sign by Samuel told, To herald Jesus' birth. Six hundred years had passed and gone Since Lehi and his band Took journey from Jerusalem To seek the promised land. They traveled to the far unknown, By land and over "the wall," The light of faith to spur them on Wherever their God should call. A sign beheld, by prophets told, A night with glory bight— A witness to the western world Of Christ, the Life and Light. And far away in Bethlehem His star shone in the sky; The heavens were rent and angels sang Glory to God on high. 804 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1955 The Scarlet Cloak of Love Lane Stanaway Chustian ORA May Ainslee stood at C the ironing board in the cluttered dining room, a_ tall, slender figure in a blue house coat. A curtain of gleaming wheat-colored hair fell across her narrow pixie face as she inclined her head intently toward her work, and, with each stamp of the iron, she impressed her intense dislike of winter on the damp cloth that covered her old navy gabardine skirt. Her mind had swung round and round in circles that morning examining every possibility for a winter coat of some kind. The coats that had come in clothing boxes from more affluent relatives had long since been fashioned into warm outer garments for the smaller children. Some girls could borrow their mothers' coats, she thought, but I can't remember when Mom last had a new coat. If only I hadn't grown so this last year! True, the rp in her old coat where she'd caught it on the fence near the barn was mended so neatly that it scarcely showed at all, but — the coat was unfashionably short. And the sleeves left her slim wrists bare inches above the delicate knuckle bones. Yes, winter was a disappointment. Last summer when she'd begun to go around with Paul Woodland she'd been able to get by, and even until now she'd worn the old coat regally slung over her shoulders, and just let it drop onto the car seat before they went in to the movie, dance, or church meeting; hugging herself and laughing as though it were all a mad adventure. But today was different! Today she would go with Paul to his home for dinner, and, because the shabby, nondescript coat was uppermost in her mind, she was quite sure that Paul's folks would not think it any mad adventure, if she suddenly appeared coatless and shivering. It was more likely they would think her quite mad, period! Even label her a careless girl quite unsuited for their Paul. "Tm not really afraid of Paul's folks,' Cora May reminded herself sternly. ""They've been wonderful to me!" It buoyed her spirits to recall the holiday dinner that Paul's folks had shared with hers. Mr. Woodland had seemed to enjoy himself! He'd gone out of his way to play with the smaller children. Mrs. Woodland had seemed to enjoy herself, too, helping Cora May and Mom in the kitchen, stirring gravy, mashing potatoes, cutting vegetables for the salad. 'Their tongues had flown as fast as their fingers after dinner to make short work of the stacks of dishes. And, later, when Mom _ showed Mrs. Woodland how to make a crochet edging like the one on the bathroom towels, she'd seemed genuinely thrilled. Yet when Cora May went to the Woodland home, it all seemed different somehow. There wasn't the noisy confusion and laughter for one Page 805 thing. The older Woodland boys were married, Paul was the youngest, and he was away at school during the fall and winter months. There was an atmosphere, almost austere, about the Woodland's home; the thick, soft carpeting in the living room, mahogany furniture that always gleamed with a high polish; all were formidably immaculate, and Cora May stepped carefully for fear she might disarrange something. GHE kept telling herself that it was foolish of her, and yet she always managed to feel a little bit frowsy and unkempt in front of the Woodlands, and today she knew that the old coat was not going to add any to her assurance. She bit her lip gently to keep back the quick rush of tears. She did so want everything to be perfect today, because Paul had hinted very broadly in his last weekly letter from school that he had a surprise for her, and Cora May was quite sure that it was... The ring! "Look, Cory," Brandy interrupted her thoughts, holding up a pair of loafers so black and shining that their vamps gleamed like mirrors, "mutton tallow's best for shining. Didn't I polish them well this time?" Cora May grinned at her brother as she set the iron down long enough to slip her narrow bare feet into the shoes. "You're my darling!" she exclaimed. "Tl bet Santa will treat you well this year!" She ran her fingers lovingly through his tumbled hair and was rewarded with a grin that wriggled his mustache of breakfast cocoa rakishly. "Tell me again what we're going to do today, Cory," Brandy asked for the tenth time, eyes alight with anticipation, "Who's a_ pest?" Cora May teased, testing the iron against her finger. "Please, Cory." The pleading in his small voice was irresistible. "Well, after lunch Paul is coming for us," she began. "Tn his jalopy?" Brandy put in. "No!" Cora May's eyes twinkled, and her face wore its story-telling look. "He's coming in a pumpkin with six white rats and a liveried footman." "Aw! You're spoofing!" She could tell that Brandy was enjoying it, but truth was more fascinating to him nght now than stories. "Well, maybe he's coming in his jalopy this time, and we're going in to town. We'll drive right up to the park where all the children are waiting...." 'An' then we hear the bells and Sandy Claws comes and says hello and all the kids get a present!" Brandy finished triumphantly. Cory hugged him tight to her for a moment before she hung her skirt away carefully, and put the ironing board back into the big linen press. "Want your Christmas present a little early?" Mrs. Ainslee asked, coming into the room with a coat hanger wrapped and swaddled in newspapers. For a moment hope leaped in Cora May's heart, but no! The wrappings were too short to cover a coat, and besides, who knew better 806 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1955 THE SCARLET CLOAK OF LOVE than she that there hadn't been money from milk check, pigs, or eggs for a long time. Cora had earned the money herself last fall for a winter coat and had even picked it out. It seemed as though she'd crawled a million miles on her knees dragging a harness, picking up potatoes to earn the money. And then, right after that, while she still had the money tucked away in the bottom of an old chocolate box in her bureau drawer, Brandy had another of his throat infections. 'The worst he'd ever had this time. The doctor had said that he must have his tonsils out. The doctor would wait for his money, but the hospital wouldn't wait. So there went Cora May's coat! Strange, though, she hadn't felt one bit of regret at the time, and, even now, the thoughts of the change in Brandy could warm her heart more than any coat. Why, he hadn't had a sick day this winter! HE family gathered around to watch Cora May unwrap her Christmas present. Even father had been summoned from the barn. He came in stamping the snow from his feet in the back entry, swinging his long muscular arms to bring a glow back into his chilled body. Cora May noticed the way his eyes swung quickly to her mother. Ern and Bill crowded in after her father, trying to see over his tall stooped shoulders, then giving up to duck under his arms. They all made way for Pete and his crutches. With the dexterity of twelve years of practice, Pete swung his twisted lower limbs into a chair, and Phyllis, his able-bodied 807 twin, slid the crutches quickly out of sight under the dining table. "It's blue! It's blue!' Colleen shouted, shoving her jacks and ball into the pocket of her jeans. Bill's hand covered Colleen's mouth quickly. "Don't you dare tell!" He spoke in a voice that just recently had begun to slide up and down the scale without warning. Mom gave the already clean table one more wipe with the dish towel, and Cora May started to remove the sewing pins with eager fingers. She pulled the wrappings away carefully, and then, when the last covering was lifted, there was a moment of utter silence in the room, followed by a medley of indrawn gasps. It was blue! The sapphire blue of Cora May's enchanted, starry eyes—the most breathtakingly beautiful blouse she had ever seen. "Real silk!" She breathed, ''and Grete. Ol...1... Tm nearly speechless!" Tears stood in her eyes, and she straightened so they wouldn't fall on the blouse. One slim, trembling forefinger touched a ruffle, and a puzzled look crossed her face. 'There was something about the wonderful fabric... Something.... "Mom!" She sought her mothers eyes, caught the second's trembling of the older woman's mouth. "It's the wedding robe. 'The one Grandmother gave you, that she wore, and you wore.... Ohl! Mom!" "T don't care." Mom looked back defiantly. "It wasn't doing anyone any good in that trunk. Just a nuisance to shake out and air and rewrap every year. I was going to give it to you, anyway, when you and Paul...." She turned away, her hands lingering for a moment on a fold of the material, "But you're so tall, like your father. Gram and I were short. You couldn't have worn it like it was. You can wear it with a suit on your wedding trip." Gradually the excitement that had built up in the room died away, leaving a quiet happiness in its place. Colleen went back to her jacks and ball, and Pete and Phyllis took up their task of sewing rags for a rug they were braiding for Pete's room. Dad, Bill, and Ern went back to the chores. Cora May examined the blouse carefully, held it up to her for her mother's approval, laid it down again, slipping the muslin padded hanger carefully into the shoulders, while Mom explained, as women do, the details of design. There were four rows of dainty narrow ruffles on the tiny cap sleeves, and four more in a half circle on the bodice. "T never thought I'd ever own anything so beautiful in my life," Cora May exclaimed for the third time, "I can hardly wait for Paul to see it." She pressed her glowing face for a moment against her mother's cheek, love swelling her heart almost painfully, clogging her throat with a lump of grateful tears. "How can I ever thank you?" She watched as Mom _ turned away, blew her nose vigorously, and smoothed the apron across her thickened waist. "T think the water in the tank is hot enough for your bath. Best you get to it before someone else beats you to the bathroom," Mom tried to speak matter-of-factly. Paul arrived early, flatteringly early, as usual. Cora May was watching Mom shape the big pan of bread dough into loaves. "T feel lazy and useless, letting you do my job," she said, jumping off the stool, "let me grease the pans." "Don't even come near in all your best clothes." Mom's hands made quick work of the pans, and then she slapped a bubbly chunk of dough onto the board, twisted it expertly and slapped it into place. "Cora May, you do look pretty!" "He's here! He's here!" Brandy shouted, catapulting himself into the kitchen. ORA May laughed. The freckled tip of Brandy's nose was white where he'd kept it pressed against the parlor window watching for Paul. She could see Paul through the window over the sink, making giant strides through the deep snow of the lane, his boot buckles flapping at every step, his unzipped jacket floating out behind him. "Why didn't you come right in? You don't have to knock!" Cora May scolded, answering his summons at the back door. Her glance clung hungrily to his face, memorizing again after six weeks the way his auburn hair turned in smooth waves back from his wide brow, the deep brown eyes, the lean planes of his cheeks, wide tender mouth, and deeply cleft chin. Paul's look was equally hungry. He made a brief pantomime of staggering back at sight of her, wiping his eyes with the back of his hands, 808 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1955 THE SCARLET CLOAK OF LOVE while Mom laughed heartily at his antics. "How do you do it?" he asked in mock disbelief. "Honest, Mom Ainslee, isn't she prettier every time I come?" Brandy was struggling valiantly with the pants to his snowsuit. Mom finished the shaping of the last loaf of bread, and hurried to help him. Cora May tied a snowy white scart over her head, pulled on the long white rubber boots she'd scrubbed so carefully this morning, and threw the detested gray coat over her shoulders. She hated to cover the lovely blue blouse with the ugly coat. Then, reluctantly, she shoved her arms into the too-short sleeves. She wouldn't be able to leave the coat in the car today. It was too bitterly cold. The clock stood at one as they drove into the little park across from the railroad station. Snow glistened like diamonds under a pale sun. "Look," Cora May said, "it's only one o'clock. Santa doesn't make his appearance until two thirty." "How long is that, Cory? How long is that? Is it long?" Brandy's face was a study in disappointment. "It's pretty long yet, partner. What do you say if we go out and see my Mom for a while?" Paul's arm around Brandy's shoulders was affectionately sympathetic. "Mom's doing something you'll be interested in." Cora May's heart sank, and then, as quickly she chided herself. If she was going to marry Paul, it was time she got over this reluctance to visit his folks. She'd make herself get over it. 809 Paul parked the car in the driveway by the kitchen door. Cora May sat for a moment looking at the Woodland's house, a neat, imposing edifice of rose-colored brick, cream siding, and wide picture windows. She huddled into the shabby coat, and the back door was not closed behind them before she had shrugged out of it and hung it quickly over the back of one of the breakfast room chairs. HE usually spotless kitchen was a confusion of pots and pans and fragrant baking. 'The _ breakfast nook table was covered with row upon tow of cookies. 'There were bells, Santa Clauses, stars, and Christmas trees. Plain cookies and cookies iced with sugar frosting and colored sprinkles. Brandy circled the table delightedly. Mrs. Woodland's usually serene face was flushed. There was a streak of flour on one side of her chin, and a wisp of damp hair hung in a curl in the middle of her forehead. She shoved a pan of cookies quickly into the oven and started the hot water into the dishpan. "You two are the answer to a mother's prayer!" she exclaimed, measuring soap into the dish water. "I need more hands today. Dad set up the crib in the spare room, and brought the high chair up from the basement. He even helped frost the cookies, but he's given up. I've a meeting at two, and I must get this mess cleaned up." "Let me wash!" Cora May said eagerly, reaching for the dish cloth. "No, indeed." Mrs. Woodland eyed Cora May. "That's the most adorable blouse I ever saw, and, if you splash it, you'll ruin it." She bustled out of the room and came back with an apron for Cora May. "Vl wash, and you and Paul dry, and maybe I will get done today." Between the three of them, they made quick work of the dishes. Brandy was content at the breakfast room window with two cookies of his own choosing, and a delightful view of the cedar waxwings that cavorted with crumbs, and_ suet around the bird table in the back garden. Cora May spread long strips of wax paper and a thin white cloth over the cookies on the table while Paul swept the floor. Funny, she thought, I don't feel so awkward here today. It's more like home. "Go in and talk to Dad for a few minutes,' Mrs. Woodland suggested. "I'll hurry and I can ride over to the chapel with you." Cora May reached around to untie the sashes of the apron. She felt a warm hand close over hers, and then Paul's arms were around her, his lips tender against her temple. "Now I've got you!" He chuckled as he tied a series of knots in her apron strings, "All tied up in my kitchen where you belong!" Cora May raised her face to Paul, her eyes star-bright with happiness. And then—the kiss, different somehow from the goodnight kisses they had known before. <A _ kiss that asked a question. "Hey," Paul said, his mouth curved in a smile, and his eyes tender with love, "I got the cart before the horse. That was supposed to be our first engagement kiss." She saw the first exquisite flash of the small diamond as _ he opened a small box. Dreamily she watched as he fitted it on her engagement finger, and his lips sealed the vow. "How about the second engagement kiss?" Mutely, she offered her mouth again, her hands clinging against his wide shoulders. "Well!" Brandy's voice broke the spell, "you ought to be in the movies. 'That was just like...." "Not quite." Paul's arms let her go unwillingly. "If this were the. Movies I'd be on my knees and Cora May would say 'this is so sudden.' " Their laughter pealed through the kitchen. "What are you up to?" Mr. Woodland called from the living room. ORA May removed the apron after a brief tussle with the knots. Half shyly she went with Paul to his father. "Just getting engaged, is all," Paul answered his father's question. He pulled Cora May into the living room, holding her left hand out for his father to see. "Well! It's about time!" Cora May watched, startled, as Mr. Woodland jumped to his feet. "I'm sure, Cora May, that Paul inherits his good taste from me." A flush crept over Cora May's neck and face as Mr. Woodland gave her a kiss on the cheek. Mrs. Woodland came in to hear the news and add her congratulations. Cora May was almost breathless with excitement. "Now that you're practically in the family I can impose on you, 810 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1955 THE SCARLET CLOAK OF LOVE Cora May," Mrs. Woodland said, laughing. "I still have to finish packing this one box to give to a family in need. Will you help me, dear?" "Can Paul and I help?" Mr. Woodland called as they left the room. "You can help best by staying there," his wife teased. "Anyway, this is woman's work!" Cora May sat on a low slipper chair in the bedroom while Mrs. Woodland rummaged — through drawers and closets. At last the box was almost full. Mrs. Woodland spread a piece of newspaper across the top to protect the clothing underneath, and packed several pairs of. Shoes atop the paper. She stood a minute with the last pair cupped in her hand. There was a soft, tremulous look about her mouth as Cora May watched. "Somehow I always hate to part with a pair of shoes," she said softly, and then she giggled like a young gitl, "It reminds me of something that happened when Dad and I were courting. We went to a dance one night. My sister and a boy named Delbert Brown were with us. When we danced, Sis and Del sat in the car. When Sis and Del danced, we sat in the car. It was all part of a plan that Sis and I had worked out very carefully. And everything went fine until intermission when the boys wanted to go in for punch and cookies. Then we had to tell them that we were taking turns with one pair of shoes. I thought I'd die of shame, but Dad told me later that it was the first 811 time he realized how much he loved me." She wrinkled her nose, and she and Cora May laughed. 'Then she whirled to the closet for one last look. "T wonder," the older woman said with a thoughtful look on her face, "would I ever dare to wear this coat? I feel guilty every time I look at it. I couldn't resist it at the January coat sales last winter. Even though I knew that it was far too youthful for me, that tag marked down half price was too much temptation." Cora May looked at the coat, and her hand went out of its own volition to stroke the soft, silky nap of the wool. It was a lovely garment, bright scarlet with deep cuffs and a luxurious stand-up collar. It was almost more than Cora May could bear to think of it going into the box when she needed a coat so badly. ITH a wrench, Cora May tore her eyes away from the beautiful wrap. She mustn't just sit here looking so hungrily at it. 'To cover her longing and confusion she turned back and began to fold paper across the top of the box. Someone else would wear the coat. Someone who needed it as badly as she. "Cora May!" Mrs. Woodland sounded excited, and when Cora May looked up she saw the older woman measuring her with her eyes. "Stand up, dear, maybe you could wear the coat!" In a moment Cora May was enfolded in luxurious soft warmth. "It was made for you!" Mrs. Woodland exclaimed. "You must have it. Even if you don't need it. Then I won't feel so guilty about making such an unwise purchase." Remembering the story Mrs. Woodland had told her about the shoes, Cora May suddenly knew that she needn't ever pretend in front of her again. "Don't feel that I'm doing you a favor," she said with tears of gratitude in her eyes. "I've been just desperate for a coat." Mrs. Woodland laughed softly, "We've done each other a favor!" She called Paul to take the box out to the car, and when Paul looked at Cora May in the new coat, he whistled loud and long. "Sure glad I've got strings on you," he said, "or someone might steal you away." "You go along, now," his mother said, "and get the car warmed up. I just have to change my shoes and get my wraps. Oh, yes, and comb my hair a little." Brandy bounced on the front seat between Paul and Cora May, eager to see Santa. Paul looked over at Cora May with such an adoring expression on his face that she lowered her eyes in confusion. It was then that she noticed her feet. Her boots! "Forgot my boots. I'll be right back." She slipped out of the car and ran across the driveway. She let herself in quietly, picked up the boots, and leaned against the wall tugging them on. The soles of her loafers were slightly damp, and the heels caught stubbornly against the lining of the boots. Suddenly, poised like a stork on one leg, her busy hands halted in midair, Cora May found herself eavesdropping without meaning to. "T'm so happy for Paul. But I'm just as happy for me, too," Mrs. Woodland was saying. "Now I know why I bought that coat! I never had a daughter of my own to buy for. I knew that coat was too young and frivolous for me when I saw it, but I couldn't resist it. I must have bought it for my daughter, and now my daughter has it! Isn't she a darling?" She hurried into the kitchen, saw Cora May, and her face went pink. Cora May could feel the heat in her own face. "Now see what I've done!" Mrs. Woodland cried. "You've already caught me talking about you, but I don't care. It's no secret that I love you very much." They ran out to the car, laughing merrily, and as Paul backed out of the driveway Cora May heard Brandy say in a plaintive voice, "When are we going to see Sandy Clause?" Cora May patted his cheek and dropped a kiss on the tip of his freckled nose. She ran her slender fingers under the collar of the new coat and pressed it lovingly against her flushed cheeks. "We'll take you to see Santa right now, darling!" she exclaimed, as she and Mrs. Woodland exchanged significant winks. "I think I've already seen him." a 812 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1955 Photograph by Gustav Anderson From Ewing Galloway, New York BROOK IN WINTER Christmas Night Eva Willes Wangsgaard On wide, flamingo wings the day took flight And all the talk and laughter rode away In shining cars. The evening, blue and white, Sank into stillness where old snowbanks lay. I walked alone where trees were winter-bare. Cobwebbed against the sky each charcoal net, Pin-pointed bright with stars, hung twinkling there. Fach frozen drift and swale was diamond-set And lent my thoughts their magic. How like snow The lamb-white truth of Christ transforms the world! Falling impartially on all who go Companioned or in loneliness. Love-pearled, This Christmas night defined Infinity, And love's eternal charity warmed me. Page 813 Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, December 1, and December 15, 1895 "For THE RiGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomMeEN OF ALL Nations" CELEBRATING STATEHOOD: It is expected that the President of the United States will sign the Constitution admitting the new state of Utah into the Union... About the first of January 1896.... It is anticipated that the inaugural ceremonies will be observed in the Tabernacle.... The military display and parade will be an effective part of the program, the stars and stripes floating to the breeze, the martial music, the beating of drums.... A beacon fire on Ensign Peak... Heralding to the world that in the tops of the Rocky Mountains... A State has grown up unique in... Historical celebrity, the Queen of the West.... —KEditorial 4 ARE WE WORTHY? Yes, this is the question that often arises in my mind; now since we are called Latter-day Saints, are we worthy of this name?... I well remember that after I believed this Gospel to be the same that Jesus taught, and could see plainly it was the same in every respect, I was about to accept it with all my heart, I was asked if I could afford to be called a Saint. I replied "'No, indeed!" I would not dare to be called a Saint. That would imply one who was holy and had arrived at perfection.... Then I was told by accepting the Gospel and obeying its laws I would thereby arrive at that state, and become a Saint, just as the former day Saints did.... —M. E. KK. She Balance of Life I fear no more the coming years What they may bring. Days will be sunless, nights bereft of stars; Mayhap the brightest blossoms of the spring Shall first be bound with winter's icy bars. But still beyond the cloud is always light, The stars are in the sky all night, And deepest snows are they which hide the bright Green heart of spring.... —Selected RELIEF SOCIETY IN WILLARD, BOX ELDER COUNTY: Our Relief Society was organized on the 12th of August 1895, with our aged President, Sister M. A. Hubbard, (nearly eighty years of age) still acting as president, she has been our president from the first, and her trusty counselors and members feel to try and make her responsibilities as light as possible, and are trying to do all the good they can. There have been some severe cases of typhoid fever here this fall, and some of a lighter form, but all are getting better now.... Praying God to bless all who labor in the good cause. —Bethiah T. Wells, Sec. HELEN KELLER: Helen Keller is said to have the sense of touch so marvelously developed that she can recognize a person's emotions by simply placing her hand upon his or her face, even although the play of feeling is so subtle that the ordinary observer would not detect any change of expression. —Selected. Page 814 MB:: FLORA AMUSSEN BENSON was presented the award "Homemaker of the Year" in October by the National Home Fashions League. Mrs. Benson is the wife of Ezra Taft Benson, a member of the Council of the Twelve of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and Secretary of Agriculture in the Cabinet of President Eisenhower. Mrs. Benson, mother of six children, was presented the award by Mrs. Florence Friedlander, President of the League, at a special meeting in Washington, D. C. MBS. CALVIN COOLIDGE, a former teacher and president of the board of the Clarke School for the Deaf in Northampton, Massachusetts, was recently appointed director of the centennial fund-raising campaign for this institution. While she was a member of the faculty at the Clarke School, as Grace Goodhue, she met Calvin Coolidge, who was to become her husband, and, later, President of the United States. MB. ZADDIE R. BUNKER, of Palm Springs, California, a sixty-eight-year-old great-grandmother, recently passed brilliantly her Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon test to gain a license to pilot multiengined planes. ELIA LARSON LUCE, Provo, Utah, a contributor to The Relief Society Magazine, has collaborated with her husband Willard Luce in writing the book Utah — Past and Present, a geography and history of Utah for young people. Beautifully illustrated with scenic and historical photographs, the book portrays the achievements of a courageous people in their mountain home. BIRTHDAY congratulations are extended to: Mrs. Ann Catherine Milne, Murray, Utah, 107; Mrs. Ruth May Fox, Salt Lake City, 102; Mrs. Amanda Sanderson Jones Pritchett, Fairview, Utah, 101; Mrs. Hilda Erickson, Grantsville, Utah, ninety-six; Mrs. Lydia Snow Cluff, Salt Lake City, ninety-five; Miss Johanna H. Sprague, Salt Lake City, ninety-three; Mrs. Minerva Richards Young, Salt Lake City, ninetythree; Mrs. Martha Hardy McKaig, Oakland, California, ninety; Mrs. Christina Graham Ericson, Salt Lake City, ninety; Mrs. Phoebe Rodabeck Young, Tooele, Utah, ninety; Mrs. Emily Cooley Wells, Orem, Utah, ninety. Page 815 CQ-—>D EDITORIAL 9 VOL. 42 DECEMBER 1955 She One Hundred Twenty-Sixth Semi-Annual Church Conference T is a glorious privilege to be able to attend a general conference of the Church — a privilege for which hearts yearn in the lands and isles of the world where the gospel has been established in the souls of men. At the One Hundred TwentySixth Semi-Annual Conference of the Church which was held on September 30, October 1, and 2, 1955, these longings were especially significant as General Authorities reported on world-wide happenings of the Church among the far-away peoples whom they had visited since the last April conference. Another highlight of the conference was the report of the recent tour of the Salt Lake Tabernacle Choir to Great Britain and the Continent of Europe. Never up to now had the reality that the gospel will be preached to every nation, kindred, tongue, and people been more evidenced. Thousands in the western United States who were unable to attend the sessions personally, were able through broadcasts originating with station KSL to hear the conference proceedings, including the Saturday night Priesthood meeting, by special wires to fifty-seven centers where members of the Priesthood were assembled. The Sunday morning sesPage 816 sion of the conference was viewed by a great unnumbered audience by television stations outside of Utah, originating with KSL-TV. Each conference, the proceedings reach an increasing number of our Father's children. All the General Authorities of the Church were in attendance at the conference, although Elder Benson was absent from the early sessions, as he was called to Washington to attend a Cabinet Meeting convened as the result of the illness of President Dwight D. Eisenhower. It will be of interest to Relief Society members to know that, in the absence of the Tabernacle Chonr, the music for the two Sunday sessions was furnished by a combined Singing Mothers Chorus from some of the stakes in Idaho and Wyoming, with Sister Florence J. Madsen as conductor. In his opening and closing addresses, President McKay declared: I feel grateful and happy this morning for so many evidences of the goodness of the Lord, that I wish I could strike a note of optimism that would reverberate to the uttermost parts of the Church. There are so many things for which we should be thankful.. First, loyalty and devotion of the presiding Priesthood of the Church. Second, the vitality and EDITORIAL growth of the Church. Third, the success of the choir on its recent tour in Europe. Fourth, the dedication of the [Swiss] Temple. Fifth, the happiness we may secure by obedience to the restored gospel of Jesus Christ.... By example and precept, children should be impressed with the inappropriateness of confusion and disorder in a worshiping congregation. They should be impressed in childhood, and have it emphasized in youth, that it is disrespectful to talk or even to whisper during a sermon, and that it is the height of rudeness to leave a worshiping assembly before dismissal.... If there were more reverence in human hearts, there would be less room for sin and sorrow, and more increased capacity for joy and gladness. To make more cherished, more adaptable, more attractive, this gem among brilliant virtues is a project worthy of the most united and prayerful efforts of every officer, every parent, and every member of the Church.... Truly, it is fitting to give thanks to the Lord, and to talk of all his wondrous work; and in doing so, we must include the greatest of all of his blessings—the sending of his Only Begotten Son, to give to all our Father's children redemption, and to those who will listen and obey the Gospel, salvation and exaltation in the kingdom of our Father. Obedience to the principles of the Gospel brings happiness, and happiness is what all men seek.... Now, here is a final appeal at this conference for us to go home, to go back and set our homes in order. God bless you in so doing, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. N_ speaking of the missionary work, President Richards affirmed: The first specific item which I shall mention is the need for more people to serve in these missionary callings.... Young men are well adapted to missionary service. They have the physical 817 strength and stamina; they have the mental alertness; they have the adaptability and the buoyancy of youth, and when properly conditioned for the service, they have the spiritual receptiveness to bring them a firmness of conviction and testimony that becomes contagious to those whom they serve... We extend our appreciation for the good offices of this State's Representatives in Congress and their friends in_bringing about a Congressional Historical Record in the legislation extending the Draft Act, which clearly recognizes in the interpretation of the statute the exemptability of our missionaries as ministers of religion.... We can use young women of eligible age, health, and spiritual qualifications in the missionary service. They have performed an outstanding work in foreign and local missions.... We have need for married couples in the missions—men and women of maturity and experience whose families have been raised, who can go into the missions and not only proselyte but teach to branches of the mission the great principles of self-government.... In the stakes and wards of Zion the Lord has caused to be set up divisions of his kingdom. God grant that the Latter-day Saints in these divisions may have the courage, the vision, the devotion, and the strength of character to make these divisions of the kingdom effective and impressive background for the proclamation of this Gospel by his missionaries. RESIDENT Clark, in speaking on the need of Church members testifying on the divinity of Christ, asserted: Today, the great Christian world are retreating from their early and true belief in Jesus as the Christ. They are explaining him in different ways. They are taking away from him his divinity.... We of our faith know that Jesus of Nazareth is the Christ. This is our knowledge. We must proclaim it at all times and under all circumstances.. Jesus of Nazareth was the one who was chosen before the world was, the Only Begotten of the Father, to come to earth to perform this service, to conquer mortal death, which would atone for the fall, that the spirit of man could recover his body, so reuniting them.... We frequently are told and understand that not alone did Christ atone for the "original sin," so-called, but that he atones for our sins, generally. As I understand it, so far as the resurrection is concerned, the overcoming of mortal death, he did atone for our sins. That is to say, no matter what we do here on earth, even though we commit the unpardonable sin, yet the atonement of Christ will for that purpose and to that end atone for our sins, and so will bring about our resurrection. But after the resurrection, then we have to be judged according to the deeds of the flesh, good or bad. On the judgment day we will receive our rewards or punishments; we must pay for our own sins. So, as I conceive it, we must stand adamant for the doctrine of the atonement of Jesus the Christ, for the divinity of his conception, for his sinless life, and for, shall I say, the divinity of his death, his voluntary surrender of life. He was not killed; he gave up his life.... It is our mission, perhaps the most fundamental purpose of our work, to bear constant testimony of Jesus the Christ. Only those who have the light of the gospel to illumine their lives and their every action can appreciate the meaning to Latter-day Saints of the great privilege of partaking of the blessings accruing from a general conference of the Church, a blessing, moreover, which is available to saints through the printed word. The opening note sounded by President McKay of gratitude to the Lord for blessings touched a reverberating chord in the hearts of the saints to harmonize in their souls until the next conference, with the fervent prayer that each may live to be worthy of those blessings. —M. C. S. FAlis Birthda y Beatrice K. Ekman Twilight fades to dark. Blotting hills from sight, Fast falling snowflakes fill the winter skies, Robed in transient loveliness of white. The countryside in tranquil stillness lies; The city street lights gleam with jeweled glow, Shining windows frame festive candlelight, Glistening holly, pine, and mistletoe; The burning hearth log spreads warm firelight. Storm brewing clouds pass by; the moon appears; Tall, silver stars illume the roof of night, Gay carol singers walk in untracked snow; Their voices with the Christmas chimes unite. Through the long corridor of cherished years, Love keeps his birthday ever green and bright. 818 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1955 She Words of Christmas N our hurried ways of life and in the multiplicity of our duties, it is seldom that we find time for quiet contemplation, for the development of complete thoughts and satisfying spiritual growth. Even at Christmas time, when of all seasons, we should feel near to our Heavenly Father, and to Jesus, our Lord, we seem more than ever to be involved in many small affairs which perhaps cannot be resolved into a unified circle of understanding and enlightenment. We fail fully to comprehend the wonder and the glory of mortal life, and the treasures of eternity which are awaiting those who have received the words of Jesus and who have patterned their lives according to those eternal teachings. It is most satisfying each Christmas to read again the ancient Gospels, the precious words which have illuminated the centuries. It is well to become familiar with the treasured narratives of Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John—to learn of thei: everlasting messages, of their witness of the gospel, and their accounts of the earthly life of Jesus of Nazareth. Each narrator portrays in great simplicity, and with the shining words of truth, the Christmas story, and explains the significance of the birth in Bethlehem and the life of Jesus upon the earth. All the accounts should be read over and over again until they become a part of our lives. For, as Luke tells us: Forasmuch as many have taken in hand to set forth in order a declaration of those things which are most surely believed among us, Even as they delivered them unto us, which from the beginning were eyewitnesses, and ministers of the word (Luke 121-2). Thus, we have the sacred Gospels of the New Testament—the words of Christmas, which are for all people in all the eras of time. Matthew mentions the wise men and their star-illumined quest across the wilderness; the gifts of gold and frankincense and myrrh— precious commodities and treasures of the world; the flight into Egypt; and the return when Joseph and Mary and Jesus "... Turned aside into the parts of Galilee." Mark writes of the preparatory mission of John the Baptist and then proceeds directly to the ministry of Jesus and the calling of the disciples. Now as he walked by the sea of Galilee, he saw Simon and Andrew his brother casting a net into the sea: for they were fishers. And Jesus said unto them, Come ye after me, and I will make you to become fishers of men (Mark 1;16-17). Luke, in words that glow in beauty through the years, tells the story of Zacharias and Elisabeth, the parents of John the Baptist, and their relationship to Mary of Nazareth, for as Zacharias explained, the mission of John would be, "To give light to them that sit in darkness and in the shadow of death, to guide our feet into the way of peace" (Luke 1:79). Page 819 820 It is to Luke that we are indebted for the pastoral scene of the shepherds in the hill country, "keeping watch over their flock by night'— the precious story which should be read to all children as a part of the remembrance of Christmas. And to Luke, also, we are grateful for the words which have a deep and sacred meaning for mothers: "But Mary kept all these things, and pondered them in her heart." The final Gospel — the words of John — begins with the mission of John the Baptist who "came for a witness" and proclaimed: "I am the voice of one crying in the wilderness, Make straight the way of the Lord...." The meeting of John and Jesus is related in matchless simplicity: "... The next day John seeth Jesus coming unto him." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1955 Thus we have the Christmas words — the four great Gospels — the everlasting witnesses for the life of Jesus and his sacrifice for the world. 'The Christmas story is not ended with the wise men on the desert path, nor with the shepherds on the hills roundabout Bethlehem; it is not concluded with the manger scene and the gifts of gold and frankincense and myrrh; nor can the Christmas words be ended with the flight into Egypt, nor the return of the holy family to their native hills. The Christmas words are the words of the Gospels in their completeness, speaking in all sincerity and truth of the birth in Bethlehem, the sacred ministry, the sacrifice, and the gift of eternal life. —V. P. C. She Yoy of Giving Elsie Scott ¢66LJAPPINESS," I read, "is the joy of giving." But I have no worldly goods. I must go, then, to my spiritual treasure chest and seek something to give, for I would be happy. Ah, yes, here are a friendly smile and a cheery word. They will be just the right gifts for the lady at the corner of the road. She is lonely and appears to have no relatives or friends. What have we here? A helping hand for the crippled old man across the road. He, too, lives alone, and is very proud, so I must help him in such a way that his feelings will not be hurt. Perhaps a jar of jam and a batch of cakes and pies, would be accepted. Have I anything for the children left without a father? Why, of course, a picnic. All children love a picnic, and their mother must work so hard for their support, she seldom goes out, and never without them. So, if I take the children for a day, she will be able to rest. I will ask my friend by the sea to have her as a guest for a few days while I care for the children. She needs a holiday. My spiritual treasure chest is so filled with smiles, kind thoughts, and good deeds, there is enough for everyone I know. I am rich, and what happiness I gain just by giving! Johanna Petersen Bernhisel Mlakes Star Quilts for Her Relicf Society Sisters OHANNA Petersen Bernhisel, Los Angeles, California, has made over two hundred star quilts. Since April 1954, she has presented each member of the Relief Society presidency with a beautiful star quilt, and she plans to make a star for every member of the Vermont Ward Relief Society. The hooked rugs shown in the picture were made from scraps left over from the star quilts. Sister Bernhisel also made the crocheted bedspread and tablecloth pictured in the left and right background. Born in Huntsville, Utah, in 1878, Johanna is the daughter of Peter C. Geertsen, who baptized President David O. McKay. For ten years Johanna Bernhisel was chorister in the Sugar House and Emerson Wards, Salt Lake City. When the new chorister in Vermont Ward began her duties, Sister Bernhisel presented to her the beautiful baton which had been presented to Sister Bernhisel as a token of appreciation for her long years of service. The Vermont Ward chorister received the baton with tears in her eyes, for Sister Bernhisel is a lady of kindness and charity and is greatly loved by all who know her. Page 821 Bells of Christmas Pearl Montgomery desk after the other children had gone. He was still shy though school had been in session for two months. It was plain he wanted to say something. "Yes, Pete?" I said, hoping to help him. "Teacher," he asked quickly and breathlessly, "do you think Lily Belle is a pretty name?" "Yes, I do. Lilies are lovely flowers and Belle means pretty. Is there a new baby in the family?" "No, it's a burro. I'm going to buy him. 'That isn't his name now. They call him Jack, but I'm going to call him Lily Belle when he's mine. I'm saving up money from my paper route, and I'll have twenty dollars by Christmas so I can get him to ride in vacation. I'm buying him from Mr. Meyers." "Why, Pete, how nice." I smiled down into his flushed face. "A burro is a fine playmate. Will you ride him on your paper route?" "T don't think so. You see I can go faster on my bike. Burros are kinda slow sometimes, and sometimes they want to go where you aren't going. Well, I guess I'll be going," having told his happy secret. I sat for awhile musing over Pete and his brothers and sisters, children of a shiftless father often out of work, and a little drudge of a mother. She and Pete were far the best of the family... More sensitive spirits and so, more easily hurt, and I didn't want Pete hurt. Page 822 Pres Duncan hung around my I remembered the shamed hurt in his eyes when he had no money for Junior Red Cross at school after having made a proud pledge. His father had taken the money from the paper route for food, being once more out of work himself. I hoped nothing like that would happen again, and yet, I thought, it surely wasn't the most thrifty way in the world to spend twenty dollars when the family was in such need. I couldn't think of anything they needed less than a burro. Perhaps part of the money might be spent for a warm sweater for Pete, or shoes with good soles to replace the ones he wore to school which couldn't possibly keep his feet dry on rainy days. It evidently hadn't occurred to Pete but that Lily Belle was an entirely appropriate name for a shaggy little beast. Perhaps the little burro with the flowery name would be white hyacinths to feed his soul. As I walked home that afternoon with another teacher, I told her about Lily Belle. "Mr. Meyers has no children, has he?" I asked. "No, he never had any," she replied. "But Mrs. Meyers had children by a previous marriage, and grandchildren. Her daughter died and the little grandson came to live with them. I think Mr. Meyers grew really fond of him. It was for him that he bought the burro. But when his wife died, her relatives took the child away." "So that was why he soured on the world," I meditated. ° "He cer- BELLS OF CHRISTMAS tainly drives a hard bargain, and it was cruel to foreclose on old Mrs. Larsen." "He is a hard man to understand," she said, and we let the matter drop. OT long after that, as I drove past the dump, I saw Pete salvaging pieces of twisted bailing wire and smiled as I thought what queer and apparently worthless things were dear to the heart of a boy. A few days later I called to Pete after school. "Pete, I'm going by your house. Would you like to ride?" Oh, yes, he would. As we neared his home, Pete said with scarcely concealed pride, "Teacher, I've got Lily Belle's corral nearly done. Would you like to see it?" "Yes, indeed I would." I got out of the car and went with him. There, by a tiny old shed, stood, or perhaps I should say leaned, the result of two day's work. A piece of corrugated iron, an old railroad tie, a piece of cracked iron water pipe, and branches of trees leaning at all angles made the posts. 'These were strung together with pieces of rusty baling wire, and here and there, barbed wire. An old tub made the water trough and the rickety old shed would provide shade in summer and protection from most of the rain in winter. What more could a donkey. Want' in Southern California? "You see the hayfield over there?" Pete asked. "Mr. Wilson said I could tie Lily Belle over there to graze. And I'm going to lead him along the road to eat grass, and he likes turnip and carrot tops.. I'll find lots for him to eat." 823 Perhaps he will, I thought, remembering the burro my children had for awhile, who ate everything, including my prize roses, as he ambled down the driveway in spite of vigorous switching and _ yelling from the children. Pete's mother saw us from the window and came out. She laid her hand on my arm as she said appealingly, "It seems like an awful lot of money for Pete to spend when he needs so many things. He has gone without them and worked so hard to get the money because he wants this burro more than he has ever wanted anything else. Seems like he just has to have him." One day, in response to an urgent invitation from Pete, I went with him to see the matchless Lily Belle. He stood motionless in a field, but, at a whistle, he walked leisurely over to us, a half-size cowbell tinkling musically at his throat. He began sniffing at Pete's hands, his shirt pockets, and finally pulled a carrot from his pants pocket. 'This he crunched with gusto while the boy showed me points of excellence hitherto undetected by me. I suspect they would have been forever unknown, but it was clear that Pete loved this shaggy little beast, and, in return, Lily Belle gave him some measure of devotion. At least as long as a tidbit could be expected. 'When we left, Lily Belle stretched out his head and brayed a protest—"Aw-ee-Aw-ee-Aw-ww." "He's lonesome for us," Pete said, and so it seemed, or at least for-another carrot.: Hk ok As the Christmas vacation neared, I forgot Lily Belle in busy holi- day preparations. The air was full of the spicy smell of evergreens and the sound of whispered secrets. The last day of school, I noticed Pete's sober face in contrast to the happy faces of the other children. After school I asked him to wait. "Are you getting Lily Belle soon?" I asked. Two unwilling tears rolled down the boy's face. "No," he said. "I can't have him for awhile, and maybe not at all." "I thought you were going to have the money by now," I answered, hesitating to probe, but seeing that something was wrong. "You see my bike broke down, and I had to take the money to get it fixed. I have to ride it on my paper route. Mr. Meyers said he wouldn't wait much longer and perhaps he would sell Lily Belle to someone else and give me back my money." "Did you ask him if he would trust you for the rest until you got it?" "Yes, and he said poor people shouldn't get things till they had the money." _ Shouldn't. Shouldn't. I never did like that word. "How much was it?" "Six dollars." Why, the old skinflint. The miserable old Scrooge, I thought. He has money to burn. I'd like to ehoke him. Pete's unhappiness haunted me, and because I'm always sticking my neck out, I found myself driving slowly past the Meyers place the next day, looking for the man. Sure enough. He was coming out to his mailbox. I waited. _ "Good morning, Mr. Meyers." "Not bad," he conceded sourly, as if he would much rather have very bad weather indeed. "Place looks nice," I said. "Never saw a better orchard." He shot a suspicious look at me. "Not bad," he said again and started to turn toward the house. Oh, where were all the diplomatic phrases I had prepared? He mustn't get away. I wanted to talk with him, but he was going. I must hurry. I threw diplomacy overboard. "Mr. Meyers, when you were a boy, did you ever want anything so tremendously that it filled your whole life and then find you couldn't have it?" E looked at me in astonishment and then, as I watched, the hard grasping lines in his face slowly faded away and a thoughtful, meditative look replaced them as he reached way back in his memoty. "Why, yes, I did," he said slowly afteratime. "Yes, I did." He stood silent for a moment, then he said, "It was a pair of shoes." "A pair of shoes!" I exclaimed. "Yes, a pair of shoes. The boys in our country school went barefoot in summer, even to Sunday School. We were graduating from the eighth grade and not going an to high school, which was several miles away. I hoped to go. I was going to earn my way. Well, the boys were wearing shoes and I wanted them especially because we were invited to a party afterwards at a girl's house. I... Well... I guess I was sweet on that girl and she asked me to lead the grand march with her. "Of course I had to have shoes. Well, it was all right at first. Pa always made us work for our clothes, 824 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1955 BELLS OF CHRISTMAS and I planned to earn enough, but. I couldn't.". Another wait while he turned things over in his mind and then, defiantly, "It's all right for kids to earn their clothes." "Of course," I agreed, "if they can. "That was it," he admitted. "I hurt my hand... Bad... My right hand, and I couldn't work." "But surely your father advanced the money." "No, he didn't. He said we had to learn... The sooner, the better... To live on what we had and not go in debt." Mr. Meyers didn't say anything more, but I wanted to know if he went to the party anyway, so after awhile I asked, "Did you go to the party?" "No," he replied harshly. "Nor the exercises either. I learned all right. And I quit thinking I could earn my way through high school. It took a long time for my hand to heal, but I've earned my way ever since, and I haven't gone in debt." ANOTHER silence, and then I said, "I wish you could have had your shoes." And then, "I must go." But I didn't go. I had come, mad and belligerent and ready to fight for Pete, and Mr. Meyers had told me this pathetic story, and now I was sorry for him. I didn't know how to ask for Lily Belle. As I was pondering this, Mr. Meyers asked a sudden question, "How come you asked did I ever want something so bad?" and I had my chance. "Because right now, a little boy wants something as much as you 825 wanted shoes. He has doted on it a long time, and he's worked for it, too... Hard. It isn't his fault his bike broke down and he had to use the money he was going to pay for your burro. Now it will take some time before he can save enough to finish payment. Well, I must go." For as long as I could see him in my rear view window, Mr. Meyers stood still by the mailbox. The next afternoon I was tying up packages when I kept hearing a little tinkling sound, faintly at first, then louder as it came nearer. I looked out of the window and I think I never saw a happier face than Pete's as he sat astride his beloved Lily Belle. "Teacher, teacher," he cried jubilantly. "Mr. Meyers said to take Lily Belle and finish paying later. And he gave me this brand new rope to tie him. And something more, he said he wanted to give me a pair of new shoes! Nothing to do with Lily Belle at all... He just wanted to get me new shoes." Here Pete paused for breath and then rushed on. "And my mother says when someone does something nice for us, we must do something nice for them, so we asked Mr. Meyers to Christmas dinner. And, teacher, he acted real glad to come." As Lily Belle's tinkle receded down the street, I heard all the bells of Christmas joyously ringing in my heart. I knew they were ringing in Pete's heart, and in Mr. Meyers', too, and I'm sure he heard and understood for the first time the glorious song of the angels... "and on earth peace, good will to- 'ward men." Vegetables - A Different Way Svery Day Part I Rhea H. Gardner Extension Service Home Management and Furnishings Specialist Utah State Agricultural College — are so many different kinds of vegetables and so many different ways to serve each kind, there need never be any monotony in the vegetable part of the dinner or luncheon menu. Authorities in the field of health and nutrition recommend that we eat at least three vegetables each day. Variety in the kinds of vegetables selected and the methods for preparing them make the task of the cook more interesting and meals more appealing. Vegetable greens are available in most areas the year round. They are particularly abundant in the springtime, both at the fresh vegetable market and on the farm. Dandelion greens are among the first wild greens to pop through the ground in the spring. Gather them before buds or blossoms appear, if possible. When cutting them, extend the knife down into the ground almost to the root, before cutting through the plant. The white part below the soil line is the least bitter and most tender. If some buds have already formed, check the greens very carefully to remove each tiny bud for they are very bitter. Wash thoroughly in several waters, lifting the greens up out of the water after each washing. Kale, young turnip tops, beet tops, spinach, and chard are other greens that are delicious. Cook the greens quickly in an uncovered kettle in a small quantity of salted boiling water. As soon as the greens are tender, drain and chop. For each 2 cups of cooked greens add 1 cup dry bread crumbs that have been delicately browned in 2 tablespoons butter. Add one tablespoon vinegar or lemon juice, 1 tablespoon onion juice, or 2 tablespoons minced onion and salt and pepper to taste. Mix thoroughly and serve at once. Garnish with slices of hard-cooked eggs and strips of broiled bacon. Potatoes are truly an American food. Because they are a year-round vegetable and fairly inexpensive, good cooks will prepare them often and in a variety of ways. Here is just one of the many ways this good food may be prepared. ScALLOPED PoTATOES SUPREME 8 medium potatoes, or 8 cups of % teaspoon pepper sliced potatoes 1 cup mushroom soup % cup chopped green pepper: 1 cup milk % cup minced onion or parsley 2 teaspoons salt Alternate layers of potatoes, green pepper, and onion in a lightly greased baking dish. Season each layer with salt. And. Pepper. Mix the milk and the mushroom soup together over the potatoes. Cover and bake in a moderate oven (350°F) about 1% hours or until the potatoes are tender and the top is lightly browned. The flavor may be further improved by grating Swiss or cheddar cheese over the potatoes a few minutes before removing them from the oven. Yams and sweet potatoes make appetizing accompaniments with pork and poultry. Excess use of sweetness in the preparation of these vegetables can dwarf the good natural flavors. Here is a recipe that is slightly 'on the tart side 'in flavor. Page 826 Yams Wit ORANGE SAUCE 14 cup brown sugar 1 cup orange juice salt and pepper Cook, drain, and skin yams; slice in casserole. Combine remaining ingredients and pour over yams. Bake at 350°F for 30 minutes. Acorn squash is a comparatively new vegetable in some areas. It is delicious and available at vegetable markets all during the fall, winter, and early spring months. Get acquainted with the delicate flavor of this vegetable if you haven't already done so. STUFFED SQuasH Cut squashes in halves lengthwise. Remove seeds. Sprinkle with Accent, salt, and pepper. Place pieces cut side down in baking pan. Bake in hot oven (425°F) 30 minutes. Remove from oven. Reduce oven temperature to 375°F. Turn squash halves cut side up. Combine remaining ingredients and fill centers. Bake again about 30 minutes. (To be continued) Old Lullabies Maude Rubin I rock my little grandson In the same old rocking-chair I used to rock his mother in. The same old creak's still there, The same worn cushion. (I should make A new one of cretonne.) I rock and sing and dream a while Of olden days long gone. I hold him close, for one more song, Glad rocking babies isn't wrong; And somehow those old lullabies Still make me want to close my eyes... But dreams of those days I'll forsake— This blessed baby's wide awake! VEGETABLES 6 medium large yams 2 tablespoons cornstarch 3 acorn squashes salt and pepper % teaspoon Accent 1% cups chopped cooked ham or pork 827 1 teaspoon grated orange rind 2 tablespoons butter sausage that has been partially cooked 1 cup chopped tart apples 2 tablespoons chopped onion % teaspoon dry mustard Hermanas CHAPTER 6 Fay Tarlock Synopsis: The story "Hermanas" (sisters) is narrated by an American woman living temporarily in Mexico. She has befriended Lolita, a widow, and her lovely daughter Graciela. At Church, Graciela is introduced to Jim Flores, studying to be a doctor, and the two become deeply in love. Graciela, after attending secretarial school, is given a position with Mr. Carson, a banker. About this time a wealthy Mexican, Senor Munoz, begins discretely to court Graciela, and Jim is very much worried. The American Senora learns that Lolita has consented to the marriage of Graciela and Senor Munoz. She visits Lolita and asks for an explanation. N the darkness Lolita's eyes had | an intense gleam, and I was silent before her. I remembered my early days with Amporo when I urged her to eat bread instead of the stack of tortillas that looked like nothing to me but a grayish mass. Bread, I had told her, with foreign superiority, would be best for her. She had answered me by rubbing her stomach and saying, "Bread is good, Senora, but it does not satisfy the hunger." Could it be that the bread I was offering Lolita for her soul did not satisfy the hunger? No, I was not yet convinced; after an appropriate silence I tried again. "You know," I said to Lolita, as one woman of experience to another, "what the life. Of a Mexican woman is, even a wealthy woman. She lives forever in the shadow of her husband. Although she has servants and luxuries, her only diversions are kneeling in the church Page 828 and sewing for the poor, and what," here I raised my voice, "will kneeling in a dark, musty church mean to her after the new light she has seen? It will never mean truth to her again." I looked at Lolita, who heard me in stolid silence. "She will sew," I belittled the word, "and talk with other ladies with whom she has little in common. She will seldom appear with her husband in public. When her children are old enough they will be sent away to school. What a life that will be for a girl of Graciela's spirit and intelligence." "She will have children!" Lolita shot me the words triumphantly. "She will find ways, my Graciela. It will be the sunshine for her after the dark years." "Tt will be prison," I rebuked her. "Graciela knows the sweetness of finding herself, of making her own decisions. She is a whole person now. And you?" I was relentless. "What will your position be in the Munoz home? You do not know her, the Senora Valades, mother of the first wife, but I have seen her, and she is hard and domineering. She will never accept you as an equal in the household. You will belong neither in the parlor nor the kitchen." "T will have a soft bed to sleep on and food when I want it, not won by the sweat of my frail body." Her words were a whisper. "You may grow sleepless on your HERMANAS soft bed," I defied her, "when you see your child's spirit broken by the real mistress of the house. And there is the daughter. She is near Graciela's age, without half her beauty or charm. Poverty may seem desirable after that problem." "You, Senora, do not understand the women of Mexico." She rose, as if to end our battle, and I rose with her. "In Mexico, we do not desire so. Much independence for women as in your country, and we do not desire the separation of the family. We live together. One day," she shrugged her thin shoulders, "the mother will die and the daughter will marry." "T can only hope." I said it coldly and stooped for my shoes, drying them with the paper Lolita had stuffed in them. "No, Senora, I will do it." Humbly she took the shoes from my hands and pulled out the paper. Kneeling, she slipped my feet into the pumps, and I could not speak. After she had helped me with my raincoat, she handed the umbrella to me. "Con permisso," she said with firm politeness and opened the door for me. E, started down the dark corridor together. "IT will think of what you said, Lolita. I do not want to sit in judgment." The Senora is always kind," she murmured, steering me towards the entrance. "You have followed the dictum of common sense." I chose my words with utmost care. Soon I would be on the other side of the 829 wall. "But have you given heed to the dictates of the spirit?" Her eyes opened wide, and I knew I had her interest. "Security can never be the end of life." My hands had found the great iron knob, and the door opened, throwing a gray light on our intent faces. ""We are taught in our religion that security lies within ourselves. Each of us has the divine spark, and we are free to choose between good and evil. We can disregard the spark and kill it, or we can kindle it into a flame that will illumine our lives. Do you understand me, Lolita?" The door opened wider and the noises of the street came between us, and Lolita half shut the door, leaving space for my exit only. "You use many words, Senora," she rebuked me, "'but I understand. I have chosen and, as you say, it is not for you to judge." Under the high arched doorway, she looked thin and fragile, a little woman with graying hair and dressed in a worn black dress. "Ts there, Senora, any evil in my daughter possessing a house with servants to care for her? Is it wrong that I who have served all my lite will no longer need to serve?" Again she had obscured the lssue. I bowed and walked down the street, the massive door swinging behind me. It was already twilight and the vendors had set up their braziers and were calling the menu for the evening meal. The sounds and smells were stifled in the damp air. I saw a taxi moving toward me. I climbed in and sat upright on the seat, defeated. When I told John, who was wait- ing anxiously for me, he warned against any further action. "You know how these people are," he reminded me. "Remember, you are a foreigner. You can't interfere." "But it's so unfair to Jim," I protested. "And it will ruin Graciela's life." "Aren't you being overly dramatic?" John asked. "Here's a poor servant and her daughter with no prospects of anything better, when, like the bolt out of the blue, the daughter gets a chance to marry a wealthy man. She'll be mistress of the Cuernavaca estate. She'll have a mansion in the Lomas, a place at Acapulco, and I don't know how many other homes. It's not exactly a ruined life, is it?" He was teasing me, and I did not like it. "You know what I mean." I was angry. "IT do... In away." He rubbed my cold hands with his warm ones. "Call Amporo and get something warm inside you, and you'll feel better. Of course," he pacified me, "I feel sorry for Jim. It's a raw deal for him, but you can't carry his burden." A week went by and Jim did not come. Neither did I hear from Graciela. John left on a business trip to the ends of Michoacan. I got up early to see him off. The morning was dark, promising rain. Wandering about the still house, I picked up the twins' playthings. After that I baked a cake, with no one to eat it. When there was nothing more to be done, I wrote letters. I might have gone calling, but I was poor company, and I did not want to be caught in the afternoon downpour. After our one o'clock dinner, Amporo took the twins upstairs for their siesta. I stayed in the dining room to make a centerpiece of blue plumbago and red Pelargoniums, and I was still there when Amporo came down to ask if she might go on the street. "All right," I said reluctantly. The room was growing suddenly dark, and I did not want to be alone. "But don't stay long." Amporo had not been gone five minutes before the rain started. The bell clamored, and I hurried through the garden, the wind strong in my face. To my great relief, Jim stood under the sheltering arch. His face was haggard and white, his blue eyes bloodshot. "Hurry!" I shouted above the wind. 'Then I ran ahead. In the living room, with its dark walls, his face was a white blur. "Don't turn on the light." voice was sharp. We sat in the brown leather chairs, facing each other in the strange dusk. "T've been worried about you," I said, wiping the rain from my face with a handkerchief. His smile was bitter. "I've come to say goodbye. You and John deserve that from me." "Goodbye!" I echoed his word. "Last night Lolita came to the hospital and told me everything." His voice was that of a stranger. "Then the marriage is that close? I had a feeling she would not tell you until it was near at hand." "Oh, it's as good as done." He stood up, hurt and angry. "I tried His 830 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1955 HERMANAS to see Graciela. I went to the San Angel house three times. One night I waited at her office until I was late at the hospital." He looked at me, so young and full of misery. "I did everything but crawl, but still I haven't been able to see her." His hurt eyes looked down at me. "She's as bad as her mother." He sank into the chair again, his legs stretched long before him, a man alone in a bitter world. THROUGH the glass doors that led to the dining room, I could see the storm beating down with sudden violence. I moved to the dining room to watch, and Jim followed me, his mouth in harsh lines. The garden was lost beyond the furious sheets of water. "Tt's like standing behind a waterfall," I said, my voice lost in the roar of wind and water. From upstairs, I heard the frightened cries of the children, and we raced up the circular stairs to rescue them from a dark window. I dressed them and brought them to the living room to play with their toys. When I touched the light switch I got only darkness. Marita pressed against me, whimpering. "Tl light a candle," Jim spoke softly to the children and took Judy in his arms. We found two candles in the kitchen and placed them on a carved cabinet, above the _ toys. Somberly the two children started playing in the flickering light. Some of the tight lines were gone from Jim's face. When we were seated again, close to the children, I said, "You know Graciela had no part in this. She 831 is more miserable than you." I threw my hands in an expansive gesture. "She would come to you through the streets on her knees, if necessary." "There is nothing keeping her from me." "You should understand your people better than I. It is impossible for her to defy her mother. Unless you do something, it will end like this." His head was sunk between his hands and his voice came to me muffled, as from a distance. ""After what Lolita said last night, there is nothing I can do... Unless...." His voice rose hopefully, then dropped. "Unless what?" I asked it sharply. "Graciela is no child. She knows what she's doing. If I mean anything to her — if our religion means anything, and it should," he raised his head, his fists clenched on the chair arms," she would do something. We've talked of it enough this summer. I've told her the things I've never said before, how the Church is all to me." He leaned towards me, his face intense. "If she were sincere, and I'd have staked my life on her sincerity, she said it was giving her insight and confidence. If she meant it," he struck his hands together, "all she has to do is tell her mother she's going to become a member and marry me." His eyes begged me to believe that was all she had to do. I shook my head. "I'm not convinced she can do it by herself. All her life there's been only her mother — and back of her mother there are centuries of tradition. And you, what do you mean by coming here to say goodbye?" "Tm going home — as soon as I can get a plane North." "I thought this was your home." I said it gently. "That was only a dream. It has no meaning now." "It did have meaning and it will again." "Without her?" His laugh was derisive. "I could never stay here." "Be yourself!" I was irritated. "You aren't a king who can abdicate. You're just a common man who had a dream, a plan of life. You were alone when you made the plan. Surely you have the moral strength to carry it out... Alone if you have to. If you run away now, you'll regret it all your life." y™ ran his hands through his hair, already in disorder. "I never thought I'd put love before everything else in life, but right now I guess I do." "Only for the moment," I assured him. "Don't do anything decisive, Jim, not right now. You're the man who dedicated his life to an ideal. You can't desert it." "IT couldn't live in Mexico, knowing she was here, married to that man." He pulled himself out of the chair, a tall, young figure in the wavering light. The twins watched him, big-eyed. "When I get some place, I'll write. And don't worry, I've still got the Church. I'll get going in time." "You're feeling a bit sorry for yourself." I rose, too. "And that's not worthy of you. Anyway, let's be sensible." I looked around the room, dark as night, save for the two candles. "You can't go in this storm. Besides, I'm frightened to death." A deafening clap of thunder accented my words, and the twins clutched at my skirts. We saw the quick flashes of chain lightning, followed by thunder so fierce that it seemed to split the building. In renewed fury, the rain poured down. With fascinated eyes, we saw fierce rivulets rush under the corridor doors and across the wide hallway, then sweep across the polished boards of the living room floor. At the same time, the water poured into the dining room, on the opposite side. Through the dining room windows, I saw the kitchen door waver and the water burst in as over a broken dam. The menacing stream poured down the connecting hallway and spilled upon the shining floor. Jim whistled. ""Where's the ark?" he asked, lifting the children to the couch. I knew he was not altogether lost. When we got into the kitchen the water was above our ankles and rising. With a mighty heave we forced the door to and bolted it against the waterfall. But the water poured underneath the door and pressed higher against our legs. '"Wouldn't you know!" Jim sighed. "This pavement slopes towards the door." We treaded our way to the living room, left our shoes on the stairs, and came back with bundles of newspapers which we stuffed under the doors. I got out two buckets and we began emptying water 832 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1955 HERMANAS in the sink. When the water had receded, I lighted another candle and mopped while Jim poured. When the kitchen no longer spilled into the hallway, we went into the living room with pails and mops. There was a final crash of thunder, far down the street, and the rain stopped as abruptly as it had begun. "This is the living end." Jim looked admiringly at the havoc left by the storm. Then he bent to his mops. We were still at it when Amporo came rushing in, dry as a kitten. "Ay, Senora!" She took the mop from me. Soon she and Jim had the floors dried, and I brought the children into the kitchen for their supper. | ae refused my invitation to eat. But he made me a promise he would do nothing until he heard from me. He promised also to stay within reach of the telephone. When he walked through the front patio his head was up and some of the haggardness gone from his face. The storm, too, had swept through my mind and cleared the fuzzy edges. I think I was pouring the last glass of milk when the thing that had been struggling in my subconscious mind this past week slipped through. Under God no person is higher than any other person. If I believed that, and I had been born with that belief in my blood, then Lolita and Graciela were not just serving woman and daughter. I must do for them what I would do for any other women who claimed my help. Only an hour or so ago Jim had said that Graciela had the strength to free 833 herself, if only her devotion was sincere. 'This strength I doubted, but I would give her the chance. It must be Lolita who came to me this time. In my own home I would be a better match. Amporo did not question me when I told her to leave the dishes and get ready for the street; neither did she ask any reason when I told her to go to San Angel and return with Lolita and her daughter. If they were out, old Ramon would know where they were, and she was to wait. "And if,' I concluded, "they show an inclination not to come, you perhaps can think of a reason that will bring them." Amporo's dark eyes sparkled. I hoped her invented disaster would not be too violent, for there could be much imagination in her explanations for wanting an unscheduled night of freedom. Within two hours she was back, followed by an anxious looking pair. Mother and daughter were dressed in black, their heads covered with fragile shawls of black lace. "I had to wait until they returned from church," Amporo informed me with smug satisfaction as she surrendered my coin purse. "You are well, Senora, not hurt by the storm?" Lolita spoke from the doorway, where her eyes followed Amporo with a question mark. "Tt was a bad storm, but I survived it." With gratitude I saw the anxiety go from Graciela's pale face, and I waited for them to advance, thin and graceful in their long black skirts, their heads slightly bowed. Amporo bade me a soft goodnight and went discreetly to the kitchen. Neither of them would be seated. Graciela stood a distance from her mother, her eyes lowered and her face inscrutable. "You sent for us, Senora," Lolita said. Her tone implied, "And we are here." I stood, the three of us making a triangle in the circle of light, with the dark walls surrounding us. Wasting no time on informalities | said, "We discussed many things when I saw you last in San Angel." "Does the Senora know of anything we left undiscussed?" Lolita's voice was cold and polite. "Yes," I said boldly, answering her challenge. "There were two things we did not fully discuss. For instance, Graciela may have some rights as a person that we did not go into, and there are the rights of James Flores." Out of the corner of my eye I saw Graciela's hands clutch at the fringe of her black shawl. "Earlier today,' I looked Lolita squarely in the eyes, and hers did not waver, "he came to see me, and I think you have a responsibility towards him. You gave him all encouragement, did you not, in the courtship of your daughter?" This time her eyes fell, and she said in a low voice, "That was before. I have since told him of other plans." (To be continued) Car of Dorothy ]. Roberts Oh, how blessed to believe, Lambed among the fold, Where the blood is singing And the faith is gold. Yet to reach periphery Of the darkened night, Looking for the wandered, Swings the shepherd's light. Every spirit word is pent In the templed law For the whole of man to live And lose his flaw. Those who keep the lettered way Find the hill and move it; Those who fail and turn to God, Doubly prove it. 834 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1955 Quick ob itile Presents Elizabeth Williamson UICK little presents for your neighbor, your postman, your newsboy, and the little girl around the corner, will bring much pleasure in the Christmas season of remembrance. Try making some of these: Your own toasted almonds in a can lacquered shiny black. Toss on a few sequins before the lacquer is quite dry. A cookbook which includes only recipes for salads, breads, or deserts, which may be of your own selection, or they may be tecipes made up and tested by you in your own kitchen. A big fat Christmas candle, tied with a magenta bow and two sprigs of fir. A flower arrangement calendar, which you can make by decorating the borders of plain white cards and pasting on each a colorful arrangement clipped from a magazine, or of your own designing. Add a sprig of holly. Tiny guest soaps tied individually to a bough of fir. Make a gift of some of your special preserves. Cover the jar with bnght red felt and tie with silver tinsel. Page 835 She Price of a Hair-do Ruth I. Devereaux [ was a blustery afternoon and Neil seemed to carry part of the atmospheric condition in with him. Not only in the way he bounded into the house, but also in the way he blurted out, "Gee, Mom, do you think I could?" "Do I think you could, what?" his mother answered, "'and please close the door before the house is full of dust." "You remember," Neil continued hurriedly, "what we were discussing last night about my taking private trumpet lessons and you said, we'd see." He paused for an answer, but as none was forthcoming he anxiously tried another angle. "I found out that Mr. Mayes does teach privately, and he just lives through the block and he only charges $2.50 a lesson!" His enthusiasm had reached its peak, and he nervously viewed his mother's face. The answer was still pending, but now Mother was actually thinking.... And Neil continued, "I thought maybe if I had a few lessons I might be able to make first chair in the band this year." His voice drawled out into a pleading tone, and his forehead acquired that odd little wrinkle above one eye which was characteristic of trying to be grown up over a situation about which he wanted so much to burst into tears. And Mother was really thinking. She knew how much he had wanted to be first chair trumpet. She knew how he always wanted to be first in everything. She also knew that the teacher was a good one and was a neighbor, but what Mother was really weighing in her mind was the $2.50 item. How could she manage it? That much more out of the food budget and they'd be practically living on beans. It seemed that there had been so many things lately, the new roof had cost more than they had planned, school would soon be starting, and there were clothes to buy for all three children... And then it came to her! Oh, no, not that! For years she had dreamed of the time when she could go to the beauty parlor to have her hair done. This was an extravagance she had never afforded before, but she had finally convinced herself that she just couldn't do anything with her hair; that she owed it to herself; and so on.... Her weekly appointments had begun two months ago, and it had seemed like heaven to go and relax while someone else did the task she had dreaded each week. But as she weighed the item in question with the fervent plea of a son with music in his heart—gradually the scales favored the request and Mother graciously replied, "You may call Mr. Mayes and see if he has a time for you." "Gee, Mom, you're swell," Neil beamed. I'll call him right now, and I promise to practice hard." He gave his mother a quick squeeze and a kiss on the cheek before dashing into the other room to telephone. That all happened six months ago. School began, and just as Neil had promised, he practiced hard. In fact, he practiced so hard that occasionally it seemed that the walls of the house might give way under the volume, and, at times, his mother felt as if her ears could bear no more. However, she quietly concealed her feelings and gradually, day by day, the notes became softer and sweeter, and, before long, tuneful melodies filled each crevice of the house. At school, Neil had gained his coveted position in the band. But tonight, his being first chair trumpet seemed to have lost its significance. Discordant notes were long since forgotten. Here in the crowded chapel on Christmas Eve, Neil raised his gleaming trumpet to his lips. His father proudly played the organ interlude, and the majestic tones, "Hark, the herald angels sing, glory to the new-born King," were echoed throughout the building. Deep in Neil's mother's heart, nothing else seemed to matter now. No sacrifice could have been too great, least of all... The price of a hair-do. Page 836 From The F ield _ Note® Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1950, page 278, and the Handbook of Instructions, page 123. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Ada S. Van Dam NETHERLANDS MISSION HANDICRAFT DISPLAY — A MISSION-WIDE EVENT Standing at the left: Ada S. Van Dam, President, Netherlands Mission Relief Society. Standing at the right: Maria S$. Schippers, Secretary, Netherlands Mission Relief Society. In commenting upon this lovely display, Sister Van Dam reports: "Each Relief Society in the mission submitted a few of its choicest articles of handwork for this exhibit. The workmanship was of the finest, and the quality of material was excellent— resulting in each article bemg an outstanding item. We were extremely proud of these articles which were made by our Netherlands Relief Society sisters." Page 837 838 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1955 Photograph submitted by Myrle B. Johansen EMERY STAKE (UTAH) VISITING TEACHERS HONORED AT CONVENTION, April 21, 1955 Seated, second row, second from the right: Mary E. Allen, eighty-seven years old, who has been a visiting teacher for sixty-two years. Seated, fourth row, at the left: Surelda C. Ralphs, former president, Emery Stake Relief Society. Seated next to Sister Ralphs: Irene Zwahlen, literature class leader. Many of the teachers in this group have served fifty years. All the visiting teachers who had served twenty years or more were especially honored at the convention, each teacher receiving a ribbon telling the number of years of her service. Myrle B. Johansen, President, Emery Stake Relief Society reports: "The day this picture was taken, I looked over the audience during the program, and I am sure I have never seen a more beautiful group of sisters. 'Their faithfulness and sincerity are portrayed in the picture. I am sure Sister Ralphs loved them and felt their sustaining influence in her Relief Society work." Photograph submitted by Elsie B. North GRANITE STAKE (UTAH), WELLS WARD VISITING TEACHERS ACHIEVE A ONE HUNDRED PER CENT RECORD FOR ELEVEN YEARS Front row, seated, left to right: Eva Heiner; Florence Wright; Augusta Dietz; Edith James, First Counselor; Isabella Brooks, Second Counselor; Clara Richins, President; NOTES FROM THE FIELD 839 Florence Wallis; Emily Davey; Maud Child; Bertha Wagner; Gertrude Johnson; Margaret Borg. Second row, standing, left to nght: Mary McDonald; Eulalia Dorius; Stella Widdison; Marvel Peterson; Maize Roberts; Ina Grant; Eva Rotzler; Laura Thompson; Bada Hess; Charlotte 'lea; Lileth Smith; Alene Smith; Mary Millward; Lena Heagun; Betty J. Layton. Third row, standing, left to right: Esther Johnson; Ethel Foote; Fern Rasmusson. Back row, standing, left to right: Phyllis Thygerson, chorister; Thelma Brimley; Joy M. McDonald, Secretary; Maud Truman; Bessie McClelland, member, stake Relief Society board; Hazel Radley; Georgetta Pay; Leone Carstenson, member, stake Relief Society board; Joyce Timmerman, member, stake Relief Society board; Genure Yeates, organist; Stella Rhoads; Agnes Jones; Thel Sweat. Leone G. Layton, member of the General Board of Relief Society, stands in the center at the back. Elsie B. North, President, Granite Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Sister Stella Widdison was the visiting teacher supervisor at the time this record was begun. Mary McDonald, Maud Child, and Eulalia Dorius have followed her example. This picture was taken at a luncheon honoring the visiting teachers at a closing social, May 31, 1955. The Relief Society was especially honored on this occasion by a visit from Sister Leone G. Layton of the Relief Society General Board." Photograph submitted by Ruby M. Nielsen LEHI STAKE (UTAH), LEHI FIFTH WARD BAZAAR December 13, 1954 Left to right: Madeleine Robinson, Secretary-Treasurer; Leota Petersen, President; Mildred Christiansen, First Counselor; Etta Holdsworth, Second Counselor. Standing at the left, near the dress rack: Nettie Warenski, work supervisor. Ruby M. Nielsen, President, Lehi Stake Relief Society, reports the success of this bazaar: "It was a very fine affair, with a pleasing variety of handwork on display. Many novel gift items, including toaster covers, crocheted articles, pot holders, and other articles were on display, as well as aprons, pillowcases, dish towels, and the ever-popular rag rugs and beautiful quilts. Cooked foods were sold also. Over five hundred meat pies were baked and sold." 840 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1955 Photograph submitted by Drusilla B. Newman RIVERSIDE STAKE (UTAH), ROSE PARK SECOND AND ROSE PARK FOURTH WARDS PRESENT SINGING MOTHERS CANTATA Easter Sunday, April 10, 1955 Front row, seated, left to right: Berniece Shea, conductor; Beverly Joseph, organist; Dene Steenblik, Secretary, Rose Park Fourth Ward Relief Society; Alberta Hermansen, First Counselor, Rose Park Fourth Ward Relief Society; Julia Albrechtsen, President, Rose Park Fourth Ward Relief Society; Velma McKean, President, Rose Park Second Ward Relief Society; Helen Ayrton, First Counselor, Rose Park Second Ward Relief Society; Irene Johnson, pianist; Verda Mackay (in dark dress) who read a beautiful original poem and the commentary included in this cantata. There was a total of forty-eight women in the chorus. They are the mothers of 157 children under twelve years of age. Drusilla B. Newman is the former president of Riverside Stake Relief Society. The new president is Luella Buchi. She G. Reater Part _ Della Adams Leitner We put our gifts in packages The gift is but symbolical All gaily wrapped and tied, Of something deep and true But oh, the finest part of all Within ourselves that we would share, We do not place inside. Not possible to view; It is intangible but sure But, though the gift be large or small, And, though no eyes may see, The priceless unseen part The dear one who unwraps the gift That we extend — the loving thought Feels its reality. That speaks from heart to heart. — a Sheology—Characters and Teachings of The Book of Mormon Lesson 38—Conditions Among the Nephites in the Days of Nephi the Disciple Elder Leland H. Monson (Text: The Book of Mormon: 3 Nephi, chapters 1-5:8; 6-7) For Tuesday, March 6, 1956 Objective: To experience with Nephi the signs of the Savior's birth; to witness the partial fulfillment of early prophecy; and to have our faith in the power of the Priesthood increased. T was six hundred years after Lehi had left Jerusalem that Nephi, son of Helaman, gave to his son, Nephi, all the records and the sacred relics which had been preserved. Then the father, Nephi, departed out of Zarahemla, and no man knew where he went. Jesus Declares His Approaching Birth Those who believed began to look forward to the appearance of the signs of the Savior's birth. Those who did not believe began to rejoice, saying that the time had passed. 'The disbelievers finally set aside a day on which to kill all who believed in the signs unless the signs had been given to them. Nephi, exceedingly sorrowful over the wickedness of the people, ",.. Cried mightily..." (3 Nephi 1:11) to the Lord concerning this matter. 'The answer came: Lift up your head and be of good cheer; for behold, the time is at hand, and on this night shall the sign be given, and on the morrow come I into the world, to show unto the world that I will fulfil all that which I have caused to be spoken by the mouth of my holy prophets (3 Nephi 1:13). Signs of the Savior's Birth When the sun set that evening there was no darkness. No darkness came during the whole night, but it was as light as at midday. A new star also appeared in the heavens. The people were astonished, for they knew that the signs had been given. Many who had not bePage 841 lieved, "... Fell to the earth and became as if they were dead..." (3 Nephi 1:16). The wicked now knew that the Son of God was soon to be born, and they began to fear because of their iniquity and unbelief. As a result of the signs, however, the major part of the people were converted. Signs, nevertheless, did not effect a permanent conversion. It was not long until the Gadianton band won the support of many and Satan led away the hearts of the people. The Nephites and Lamanites, therefore, united to suppress them (3 Nephi 2:11). The war was intense by thirteen a. P., and the Nephites were threatened with utter destruction. Lamanites Become a White People The Lamanites who had been converted, and who had united with the Nephites, became a delightsome people for, "... Their skin became white like unto the Nephites" 3 Nephi 2:15). They no longer kept the name of Lamanites, but were numbered among and called the people of Nephi. Nephites Prepare for Battle Because of the wickedness of the Nephites in fifteen a. P., and their contentions and dissensions, the Gadianton robbers gained many advantages over them. So strong was the position of the Gadianton robbers that their leader Giddianhi wrote a letter to Lachoneus, chief judge of the Nephites, in which he demanded that Lachoneus give to him the Nephite cities, lands, and other possessions. Among other things, he wrote that it was difficult to restrain his armies any longer, for they had an unconquerable spirit, which had been proved in the field of battle, and that they knew of the many wrongs the Nephites had committed against them. Giddianhi said that he wanted them as brethren and not as slaves. He wrote: I swear unto you with an oath, that on the morrow month I will command that my armies shall come down against you, and they shall not stay their hand and shall spare not, but shall slay you, and shall let fall the sword upon you even until ye shall become extinct (3 Nephi Bic Although astonished by the boldness of the demand of Giddianhi, Lachoneus "... Did not hearken to the epistle..." (3 Nephi 3:12). He, however, began to prepare for the day when the robbers would come.... He did cause that his people should cry unto the Lord for strength against the time that the robbers should come down against them... He said unto them: As the Lord liveth, except ye repent of all your iniquities, and cry unto the Lord, ye will in nowise be delivered... (3 Nephi 3:12, 15). He commanded the people to gather with all movable possessions into two places, the land of Zarahemla and the land Bountiful. By seventeen A. D. This had been accomplished.... They had taken their horses, and their chariots, and their cattle, and all their flocks, and their herds, and their grain, and all their substance, and did march forth by thousands and by tens of thousands, until they had all gone forth to the place which had been appointed that they should gather themselves to- 842 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1955 LESSON DEPARTMENT gether, to defend themselves against their enemies (3 Nephi 3:22). They fortified — this.. In the land southward... (3 Nephi 3:24), the land of Zarahemla and the land of Bountiful. Gidgiddoni was made chief captain. "Now it was the custom among all the Nephites to appoint for their chief captains... Some one that had the spirit of revelation and also prophecy; therefore, this Gidgiddoni was a great prophet among them, as also was the chief judge" (3 Nephi 3:19). He had the people make all kinds of weapons of war, armor, shields, bucklers, etc. Territory Robbers Attack Nephites It was in the nineteenth year that Giddianhi led his soldiers against the Nephites. They wore a lambskin about their loins, were dyed in blood, and wore headplates for protection on their shorn heads. ",.. There never was known so great a slaughter among all the people of Lehi since he left Jerusalem" (3 Nephi 4:11). Despite their sense of security and their great boasting, the armies of Giddianhi were defeated and forced to flee. Exhausted by much fighting, Giddianhi was overtaken and slain. Zemnarihah was then made commander-in-chief of the robbers. He, in twenty-one a. P., tried another plan. He surrounded Nephite territory to lay a siege. But the Nephites had stored provisions enough to last them for seven years. Faced with failure because of intermittent attacks by the Nephites and because of lack of food, Zemnarihah withdrew his forces to the north. Many were slain; others were taken cap- 843 tive. Zemnarihah, himself, hanged on a tree. Was Nephites Thank God for Deliverance The Nephites rejoiced over their being preserved by the hand of God, and they acknowledged his goodness to them. Now they forsook their sins, their abominations and whoredoms, and served God with diligence and attention. And their hearts were swollen with joy, unto the gushing out of many tears, because of the great goodness of God in delivering them out of the hands of their enemies; and they knew it was because of their repentance and their humility that they had been delivered from an everlasting destruction (3 Nephi 4:33). To prevent future difficulty, they.. Condemned and punished according to the law" (3 Nephi 5:5) all prisoners who would not renounce their secret combination and enter into a covenant that they would murder no more. 'Thus they ended secret and abominable combinations among them. The Nephites felt that they could now have security. In twenty-six A. D., they moved back to the cities whence they had come, taking with them their flocks and herds, horses and cattle, and whatever belonged to them. Again they began to prosper. Old cities were rebuilt, and new ones arose. A system of highways connecting the cities was constructed. <é Nephites Again Turn Away From God "But it came to pass in the twenty and ninth year there began to be some disputings among the people; and some were lifted up unae? to pride and boastings because of their exceeding great riches, yea, even unto great persecutions; For there were many merchants in the land, and also many lawyers, and many officers. And the people began to be distinguished by ranks, according to their riches and their chances for learning; yea, some were ignorant because of their poverty, and others did receive great learning because of their riches" (3 Nephi 6:10-12). Such imequalities bred contention and hatred. These qualities disrupted the Church. By thirty a. P. The people "... Were in a state of awful wickedness" (3 Nephi 6:17). It was when the Nephites were in this state of iniquity that prophets appeared among them calling on them to repent and foretelling the rede-nption of the human race by means of the atoning sacrifice of Jesus Christ. Contrary to the laws of the land, some of these prophets were put to death secretly by the judges without the condemnation being signed by the governor of the land. Because of secret oaths among the judges and their kindred, the chief judge found it almost impossible to bring them to justice. That same year the chief judge was murdered. This caused division among the people and soon the complete overthrow of the government. Since wickedness had_become more prevalent and more powerful than goodness, the collapse of government was inevitable. This iniquity came because the people yielded to the power of Satan. The people now divided into tribes, each man going with his family, kindred, and friends. Each tribe appointed a chief or a leader. 'These tribes were a unit in hating those who had destroyed their government. The secret combination, however, united under the leadership of Jacob. 'They called him their king. He led his people northward. Nephi Preaches Repentance Nephi saw the tribes stone the prophets and cast them out. And it came to pass that Nephi—having been visited by angels and also the voice of the Lord, therefore having seen angels, and being eye-witness, and having had power given unto him that he might know concerning the ministry of Christ, and also being eye-witness to their quick return from righteousness unto their wickedness and abominations; Therefore, being grieved for the hardness of their hearts and the blindness of their minds—went forth among them in that same year, and began to testify, boldly, repentance and remission of sins through faith on the Lord Jesus Christ (3 Nephi 7:15-16). He ministered with great power and authority, and angels ministered to him daily. In the name of Jesus Christ he cast out devils and unclean spirits, and raised his brother from the dead. Many people were:. Baptized with water, and this as a witness and a testimony before God, and unto the people, that they had repented and received a remission of their sins (3 Nephi 7:25). Questions and Topics for Discussion 1. What were the signs given of the Savior's birth? 2. Did the signs produce permanent repentance? 3. What did Nephi preach to the people? 844 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1955 Uisiting Seacher ITlessages Book of Mormon Gems of Truth Lesson 38—"Therefore, Whoso Heareth These Sayings of Mine and Doeth Them, | Will Liken Him Unto a Wise Man, Who Built His House Upon a Rock—And the Rain Descended, and the Floods Came, and the Winds Blew, and Beat Upon That House; and It Fell Not, For It Was Founded Upon a Rock" (3 Nephi 14:24-25). Edith S. Elliott For Tuesday, March 6, 1956 Objective: To show the necessity of not only hearing the word of the Lord but in doing it also. HERE is wisdom in the old adage, "We learn to do by doing." We can listen to masterful teaching, but unless we study and actually participate in the learning processes ourselves, we cannot possibly attain a successful goal. 'This is true in any branch of edification whether it be in the field of art, science, or religion, and particularly is this true in our spiritual development which requires doing the word of God as well as hearing it. There are people who, for some reason, think that religious or spiritual knowledge will come to them without much effort on their part. Further, they seem to believe that it will suddenly be theirs and appear like magic, when and if they need it. But, like every other desired knowledge, a complete and continuous study is necessary for comprehension before it can become a part of our being. We may agree with teachings of the prophets of old and those of today. 'Their philosophy is majestic and uplifting to contemplate. We may go so far as to believe in the essentials required for our salvation. Yet, when it comes not only to hearing, but doing the word, some of us find that we are too weak in understanding and faith so todo. We tend to accept just parts of the gospel plan which suit us or are easy to embrace. However, if we want to journey to London, we must meet every requirement necessary to get us to that destination. A halfway ticket will take us only half of the way. So it is with eternal life as our goal; we must accept and live all our Heavenly Father's teachings to gain eternal life. To have been stirred with the story of the "Good Samaritan" is a rich experience. 'To be one in reality, is to obey the second great commandment. How many of us walk the extra mile to give personal service? How many of us make the time to brighten the life of a neighbor weighed down with seeming insurmountable burdens? How many of us prepare a meal or run an errand for the homebound? How Page 845 many of us repent, have faith in God, and live by his revealed word in this latter day? 'These are a few of the deeds we may perform to show that we have applied the hearing of the word into doing the word, which assures us a foundation built upon the rock of truth. Vork IN lecting—Food Preparation and Service (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 6—Vegetable Cookery Part I Rhea H. Gardner For Tuesday, March 13, 1956 EW foods contribute more to the eye appeal of a meal than do garden-fresh, properly cooked and attractively served vegetables. No meal need be lacking in color interest if vegetables are part of it. Cooking them the right way and for the minimum time intensifies the natural coloring of most vegetables, and even seems to improve the delicate flavor of many kinds. Cutting Vegetables Before Cooking If vegetables are left in such large pieces for cooking that the cooking time is prolonged, a loss of color, flavor, and nutrition value results. Vegetables cut into half-inch strips may be cooked quickly and with very little loss, in either a regular saucepan or a pressurized pan. Cutting vegetables too fine results in flavor, color, and nutritive loss, if they are overcooked. However, if they are cooked just until tender and served immediately they are superior in every way. Carrots, beets, and parsnips are delicious when, after peeling, they are shredded on a salad grater that makes shreds about the size of a pencil, then put in a heavy saucepan with a close fitting lid. One or two tablespoons of water is all that is needed if the heat is just high enough to keep steam forming. No more than about five minutes cooking time is needed. Stir at least once for evenness of cooking. Vegetables cut in this way also may be panfried. Add two tablespoons butter or meat drippings to the pan for each quart of vegetables. When the fat is melted, add the vegetables, cover the pan tightly, and cook about five minutes over heat just high enough to keep steam forming. Green beans cut into _ strips lengthwise shorten the cooking time and add variety and interest to this frequently served vegetable. The color is a bright green when they are cooked just until done. Removing the stems from spinach, and the stems and heavy rib sections from chard, cuts the cooking time almost in half. Stems of these vegetables are comparatively low in food and nutritive value. If you use them, cook them separately or until they are practically done before adding the leafy portion. 846 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1955 LESSON DEPARTMENT Amount of Water Onions, if cooked in a fairly large proportion of rapidly boiling water, are more palatable to the taste of many people than when cooked in a small amount of water. With some vegetables it may be worthwhile, for improved flavor, to sacrifice the loss of some _ nutrients, which results when a large amount of water is used. However, strong flavors in most vegetables come only after they are overcooked. Length of Cooking Time Overcooking is one of the worst destroyers of color, the sweet natural flavor, and the healthful nutrients. Some vegetables, when overcooked, become flat and insipid or, worse still, strong and unpleasant with an odor to match. The green pigment in vegetables is rapidly destroyed by heat and acid. Both of them have a chance to do their damage when vegetables are overcooked. The acid which causes the trouble comes from the vegetable itself, but it will do no damage if the vegetables are cooked just until tender. Most soft water is alkaline and is, therefore, good for vegetable cookery. Adding just the right amount of salt for flavor to the water in which vegetables are to be cooked, improves the color of green vegetables and helps to prevent vitamin loss. Utensils for Cooking Vegetables There are two general methods of cooking fresh vegetables. One is in a regular saucepan, and the other in a pressurized pan. When using a regular pan, select one that has a close-fitting lid. Add about one- 847 fourth inch water and the desired amount of salt. Experiment until you find a quantity of water that is needed so there will be not more than one-half cup of liquid in the pan when the vegetables are cooked. When the water boils, add the vegetables, then place the lid on the pan. Let it remain there except for a few seconds at the beginning of the boiling period. Lifting the lid at that time allows some of the volatile acids to escape in steam. If retained in the pan, they dull the fresh, bright color of green vegetables. Use only enough heat to keep the water boiling and cook the vegetables just until tender. The pressure saucepan is being used more and more for vegetable cookery. 'The temperature reached is sufficiently high to shorten cooking time enough so that the color remains good, in some cases even better than in the open kettle. Precautions must be taken not to use more than the prescribed amount of vegetables for a given size of saucepan. If the amount is too large, the cooking period is prolonged and some of the natural color is lost. When using a pressure saucepan, it is especially important to check cooking time; a minute or two more than is required, may defeat all advantages gained in the use of this kind of pan. Follow explicitly the prescribed instructions that come with your cooker as to the amount of water to use, cooking time, and releasing of pressure. Vegetables that are properly cooked need very little seasoning added to make them appetite appealing. However, seasoning does add interest and variety to frequent- of cooking vegetables as presented in the lesson. 2. Discuss using the liquid in which the vegetables have been cooked. 3. Discuss loss of vitamins through improper storage of fresh vegetables, peeling, delayed cooking, and serving. 4. Discuss frozen and canned vegetables. Ly prepared vegetables. Next month we will talk about more of the interesting ways vegetables may be prepared. Suggestions to Class Leader 1. Demonstrate the different methods Note the supplementary material to this lesson in the article "Vegetables — A Different Way Every Day," by Rhea H. Gardner, on page 826 of this issue of The Relief Society Magazine. Of sterature—The Literature of England Lesson 54—Post-Victorian Poets—Alfred Edward Housman (1859-1936), William Ernest Henley (1849-1903), and John Masefield (1874- ) Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook; The Literature of England, II, Woods, Watt, Anderson, Pp. 909-918, 863-869, 927-933 For Tuesday, March 20, 1956 Objective: To weigh and consider the personalities and poetry of three poets (Housman, Henley, and Masefield) that we might better appreciate and understand ourselves and our world. Permission for reprinting: Excerpts from the poems "With rue my heart is laden...." from a Shropshire Lad; and "I did not lose my heart in summert's even...." from More Poems, by Alfred Edward Housman, quoted from the text The Literature of England, volume II, by Woods, Watt, and Anderson, are reprinted in this lesson by the kind permission of Henry Holt & Company, Inc, New York. The general board of Relief Society is very grateful for this permission. A. E. Housman, 1859-1936 ('Text, PP. 909-918) [N 1859, Alfred Edward Housman was born at Focksbury, a scattered hamlet in western England not far from Shropshire and Wales where his father was a_ solicitor (lawyer). His love of rural England was always strong within him, as his best-loved book of poems The Shropshire Lad (1896) reveals with restrained power in such lines as: Clunton and Clunbury, Clungunford and Clun Are the quietest places Under the sun. Young Housman learned well the lessons of nature, for the qualities of silence, reserve, and pure unadorned understatement of truth, as he saw it, were characteristics both of his poetry and of his life as one of the most eminent Latin scholars of Europe. As Keats reminds us, "Heard melodies are 848 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1955 LESSON DEPARTMENT sweet, but those unheard are sweeter' ("Ode on a Grecian Urn'). Surely, one great reason why Housman's few poems tank high among the purest and most perfect lyrics ever written, was because of his exquisite ability to hear more between his most carefully chosen words than the words themselves say. Pure poetry has never been purer than in Housman. His Life The outward events of his life can be told in a paragraph, so sparse and few are they. At the age of seventeen, while attending the local school, the gift of a book in Latin inspired him to become a classical scholar, when he entered Oxford the next year. At college he referred to himself as an "exile" because of his country background. Later, he claimed that these years left little stamp upon him, and, in 1881, when he failed his final examinations, any chance of teaching in a university was denied him. 'The extremely sensitive Housman withdrew even more within himself. Days he worked in the British Patent Office; nights he spent reading and studying in the British Museum. Without any fanfare, he began publishing classical papers of such excellence that he could not be ignored when a vacancy occurred in the Classics Department of University College, London. He taught there for nineteen years until, in 1911, he accepted a better position at Trinity College, Cambridge. Here he lectured three times a week, had but a few select friends, and was cordial to the young students who dared approach him. Because of his keen intellect and biting tongue, with 849 which he attacked colleagues who were careless or pompous, he became the most widely feared scholar in his field, and the most highly respected. He dedicated his life to "building himself a monument" through his translations and commentaries on Manilius (d. 30 A. D.?). In every phase of his academic life truth and thoroughness were for him the supreme virtues. His fame as a poet rests on three thin books of poetry, one published in 1896, another in 1922, and the third More Poems issued by his brother the year he died. His will directed that after his death no collection of his writings or lectures be made of which he had not approved while alive. He lectured almost to the end, dying after a week's illness in 1936 during his seventy-seventh year. Housman's Poetry Strength, beauty, unadorned statement, the simplest diction, irony, and discipline are stamped upon his poems. He used a conventional stanza pattern, yet he so refined his words and compressed the emotion of his intent, that nobody can even imitate him. It is these qualities which helped make The Shropshire Lad so popular. His dark mood of life's painfulness — the tragedy of war, unfaithfulness, man's indifference, even cruelty to man, the futility of existence — all these proved subjects compatible to a disillusioned world. Yet, though to Housman nature is evil and man is a stranger to his world, he says that: Bear them we can, and if we can we must. Shoulder the sky, my lad, and drink your ale. Housman catches in his poems the same emotion of pure poetry which he adimired in Blake. After reading him we no longer wonder that he sometimes struggled more than a year for the exact word. Some of his poems are extremely cruel and futile, but others are very near our own world of experience: With rue my heart is laden For golden friends I had, For many a rose-lipped maiden And many a lightfoot lad. By brooks too broad for leaping The lightfoot boys are laid; The rose-lipped girls are sleeping In fields where roses fade. (Text, page 915, verse 54) (From The Collected Poems of A E. Housman, Copyright 1940 by Henry Holt and Company, Inc. Reprinted by permission of the publishers.) How superbly he creates in so small a compass the pure poetic emotion he would share. Many of his poems should be read slowly and aloud, among others such titles as "Loveliest of 'Trees, the Cherry Now" (page 910), "When I Was One-and-T'wenty" (page 912), "Oh, When I was in Love With You" (page 912), "To an Athlete Dying Young" (page 912), "Is My 'Team Plowing?" (page 913), "Into My Heart an Air That Kills" (page 914). A pure poem on the loneliness of maturity beginning: Far in a western brookland That bred me long ago The poplars stand and tremble By pools I used to know.... Contains power from the words spoken, as from the large emotion between the lines. Another poem, which in its restraint, ironic twist, and acknowledgment of a bewildering reality of our modern world, might well stand as a final representative of Housman, is the following: I did not lose my heart in summer's even When roses to the moonrise burst apart: When plumes were under heel and lead was flying, In blood and smoke and flame I lost my heart. I lost it to a soldier and a foeman, A chap that did not kill me, but he tried; That took the saber straight and took it striking, And laughed and kissed his hand to me and died. (Text, page 917) (From The Collected Poems of A. E. Housman, Copyright, 1940 by Henry Holt and Company, Inc. Reprinted by permission of the publishers. ) William Ernest Henley, 1849-1903 (Text, pp. 863-869) Henley loved best Robert Louis Stevenson. Both were delicate men, but, in contrasting natures of their weaknesses, lay all the difference. While Henley himself could write delicate, free-verse stanzas in the sensitive manner, in his poetry as in his life, as an influential editor and literary lion, he loved power, force, action, and courage. It is not by chance that Kipling's vigorous Barrack-Room Ballads first appeared in his magazine, National Observer, or that he was instrumental in encouraging Thomas Hardy, Stevenson, Kipling, Meredith, and H. G. Wells in choosing literary careers. Likewise, he made his magazine into one of the most aggressive of British imperialistic forces, as seen in "England, My England" (Text, page 868). 850 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1955 LESSON DEPARTMENT His Life Henley's childhood gave him a love of poetry. He was very early aware that the tuberculosis of the bone from which he suffered might kill him. His one foot was amputated early, and at the age of twentyfour he entered the Edinburgh Infirmary for almost two years, where Dr. Joseph Lister, the great founder of antiseptic surgery, saved his other foot. After leaving the hospital, he became so busy as one of the most powerful editors in England that, for more than ten years, he gave up poetry, but came to it again later. He married, in 1878, and had one daughter, but her death dealt him a blow which shadowed the last decade of his life. Henley's Poetry In addition to reading his poetry, the best device for us to employ in knowing Henley is to picture him as Long John Silver, for Stevenson used his vigorous, boisterous manner as model for this great fictional character. Lest the trade be onesided, bedridden Henley wrote the poem "Apparition," which creates the essential reality of Robert Louis Stevenson his best friend. (See text, pp. 865-866, lines 1-13.) Henley's first fame resulted from his book of poems, In Hospital, which contains many sights, smells, and emotions familiar to us all. In his poem barrenly titled "Before," he catches deftly the feeling of gloom before one enters the operating room. (See text, page 864, lines 1-4; 9-11.) Equally familiar, and more welcome, is his "Discharged," which 851 catches the exhilaration of release back into the world of the living. (See text, page 866, lines 1-7; 10-11; 24-27.) Because he was a life-long invalid, we are not surprised to find traces of his life-struggle in most of his works. But even in exceptions to this personal theme, such as "Margaritae Sorori," his over-all concern with death and his stoic resistance to suffering are present. Yet the poem gives us a delicate beauty in its first stanza, which is a product of no mean poetic skill. (See text, page 866, lines 1-7.) His most famous poem is foreshadowed in his "What Is to Come," page 867, which tells that it is "best of all to bear" whatever comes. In "Invictus" or "Unconquered" (page 866), we find the core of Henley's life and belief: individuality, courage, stoic resignation to fate and chance, and an unconquerable soul which can endure whatever unpredictable life may bring. John Mascfield, 1874- (Text, pp. 927-933) John Masefield was the son of a Herefordshire lawyer who died in Masefield's early youth, and so at fourteen, Maseficld was forced to go to sea to keep himself alive. In the next ten years he shipped aboard numerous tramp steamers, and bounced from one odd job to another, including bartender, and worker in a Yonkers, New York, carpet factory. No wonder that in Salt-Water Ballads, his first book of poetry, published in 1902, he consecrated himself as a poet to sing of the common people. (See text, page 928, lines 13-18.) Ewing Galloway JOHN MASEFIELD Poor, uneducated, Masefield had "discovered" Chaucer. It was because of the exaltation of this discovery that he resolved to dedicate his life to poetry and writing. His first verses reveal him as a rugged romantic, sometimes almost a crude realist. In 1911 he published The Everlasting Mercy, a long narrative poem dealing with faith and regeneration among villagers, which brought him fame. Through the years his output has been tremendous — more than seventy-five books of poems, novels, plays, essays, nautical histories of English glory, and books for boys, but, since the early twenties, his poetry has shown lessening force. Gradually it became clear that the original flavor of his earlier lines had been watered down by conventional, romantic views. When he was made Poet Laureate in 1930, few people rejoiced, yet he was the only contemporary poet to have expressed sentiments in poetry which even came near representing the national mind and heart of England. In justification of some of his early poems, which shocked some with their seeming over-concern with the low and ugly, Masefield often treated such subjects to prove that beauty can come from them. And that beauty is well within his power is shown by such lines as those in the text, page 931, lines 1-4. But his most direct statement of his love of beauty is found in his sonnets. (See text, page 933, lines 1-4; 11-14.) In 1922, Masefield wrote "On Growing Old," which catches the awareness of age, the release from more strident activities and _passions, and the serenity and emotional peace which are the natural reward of advancing years. (See text page 933, lines 1-8; 12-13.) Masefield deservedly is __ best known and best loved for his sea poems. "Cargoes'" (text, page 929) catches the versatility of the sea in the burdens men have had it bear. The first stanza, telling of opulent, lush treasures of Nineveh and Palestine, has a fitting imagery and rhythm scheme to accompany such a portrayal. Likewise, in the wealth of the Spanish treasure-galleons back from the New World, the words fit the thought. Here, from his poem "T'radeWinds," is a foretaste of his nostalgic, moving "Sea-Fever" which moves even confirmed landlubbers. In these lines note the hilt of the sea, the music and freshness of sea- 852 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1955 LESSON DEPARTMENT air and pure freedom. (See text page 928, lines 1-4.) Thoughts for Discussion 1. How might we know from the tone and style of Housman's poetry that he was a student of the classical languages? 853 2. Why is Henley's poem "Invictus" universally appreciated? 3. What effect does a study of Henley's life have upon your appreciation of his poetry? 4. What is the meaning of Poet Laureate in England? Why was Masefield selected for this honor? Oye Ocience— Ihe Constitution of the United States Lesson 19—Citizenship and Suffrage Under the Constitution Elder Albert R. Bowen For Tuesday, March 27, 1956 Objective: To point out the obligations of citizenship under the Constitution. Permission for Reprinting: Permission for reprinting the excerpts from the article by John Knox Jessup, from Life, for November 5, 1951, has been granted by the publishers of Life magazine, New York City, New York. Stability of Our Government N2 study of the Constitution of the United States is complete which neglects to give attention to the American political system. 'That system has been amazingly successful. Its success is demonstrated beyond all question in the fact that it has endured for a long time in comparison with other systems in other nations. Democracy is criticized in many quarters, but the fact remains to refute the critics that the governments of this world which are the most stable and which have endured the longest are the democracies. 'This is a fact which many people have not known nor understood, and should be kept in mind when we are being told that our Nation is decadent. All this is not intended to imply that our Government and the way it operates do not have any faults. It has many defects and it seems there is always some condition which, in the minds of the unthinking, lends substance to the claims that our democracy is a failure. In the course of this discussion some of the reasons for this apparent failure will be referred to, and, it is hoped, that the remedies will, at the same time, be pointed out. In spite of the many disheartening events which have occurred in our political history and which seem ever to recur, it is, nevertheless, equally true that never in the his- A Perry Picture FIRST READING OF THE EMANCIPATION PROCLAMATION From a Painting by Carpenter Copyright 1923 by Eugene A. Perry tory of the world have so many people over such a long period of time and within such a vast territorial expanse enjoyed so much justice and liberty as has been the good fortune of the American people, since the founding of our Government under the Constitution. The fact of stability has just been mentioned. Stability in nations and governments is just as important as it is in individuals. Indeed, may we not without fear of contradiction, say there is a direct relationship between stability in nations and governments and the stability of their citizens? Complete lack of stability in a government leads inevitably to chaos. Without it there is no security to personal liberty or to property rights, or any assurance that either may be enjoyed for any given period of time. 'The United States Government and political system is among the most stable, if not the most stable Government now in existence, and it has been such from the beginning. This is a tribute to the political maturity of Americans. Despite the stresses and strains put upon our system, it has met every test, including that of war, and remains strong and firm upon its constitutional foundations. Contrast this situation with other nations. Many of them have disappeared entirely during our history and many within our own memoty. In others, it is very questionable if they can endure. Also many stand upon the brink of chaos. 854 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1955 LESSON DEPARTMENT Reasons for Our Success in Government - Political Maturity Let us now proceed to a_ brief examination of the underlying reasons for the success of our political institutions, bearing in mind _ their many past mistakes and the causes thereof, and, finally, arrive at our responsibility for the success or failure which we may experience hereafter. Acceptance of Majority Rule by Minority There is no provision in the Constitution for political parties. Washington was aware of this and in his Farewell Address warns of the disunity flowing from the rivalry created by partisanship. His warnings are deserving of our respectful attention. To digress, consider for a moment an American election either local, state, or national. 'he passion and heat which this arouses are all too often frightening in their proportions. However, Americans have managed to forget all this after an election, and have uniformly accepted the mandate of the majority. Consequently, we have been spared from bloody revolution which has often followed in countries where the decision at the ballot box has not been accepted by a minority. This situation in America is still another evidence of political maturity. Provisions for Elections and Universal Suffrage Returning now to the Constitution, just what does it contain upon which may rest the foundations for our political structure? It provides for elections. It does not attempt 855 to spell out the qualifications of voters. 'That is specifically left to the states. Further, the Constitution provides for suffrage. 'This has been made universal upon all citizens and is guaranteed by the Fifteenth and Nineteenth Amendments. By providing for suffrage and for elections, political parties became inevitable. Such organizations follow such provisions as naturally as night follows day. 'Therein lies the basis for our political institution, the party. A_ political party may be defined as a group of voters having political beliefs in common, organized and _ seeking governmental control by public office. Some of the functions of political parties are: 1. To crystallize opinion, narrowing down the issues and compromising varying viewpoints until a compromise "platform" is formulated. 2. To furnish and promote candidates who (if elected) will endeavor to put into effect the policies defined in the platform. 3. A third service is that of educating, stimulating, and interesting the citizens in the affairs of Government. Necessity and Use for Political Parties It is true that there were no party organizations in existence during Washington's administrations, but, by the time of Jefferson's advent to the Presidency, they were an accomplished fact. Even during Washington's administrations, the foundations for political _ parties were laid. 'The rivalry between the political philosophy of Hamilton and Jefferson had its irresistible effect. 'Throughout the history of the United States, the political parties Don Knight MONTICELLO, HOME OF THOMAS JEFFERSON have continued to hold dissimilar views On many principles, but have been surprisingly in accord on many others. Can we agree with Washington that partisanship in national affairs is bad? To a certain extent we can and should. Never should partisanship be permitted to become dominant in our country. The welfare of the nation demands that partisan considerations be laid aside in the accomplishment of the overall national aims, which must ever be to promote the greatest well-being and security of the individual citizens. Opposition for the sake of opposing alone is shortsighted and frustrating to the national growth and development. We have examples before us of the stultifying effect of such a course of action. In many European countries the governments have been brought to almost utter frustration by such partisanship. We can, however, disagree with Washington and emphatically say that not only are political parties necessary to a workable democracy, but they also serve a very useful purpose. In no other way may the electorate express its view as effectively as through this device. This is the point at which citizenship enters the scene and becomes all important. Responsibility of the Individual Citizen "We the People of the United States... Do ordain and establish this Constitution for the United States of America." Because the people established this Government under the Constitution, it is they who have become responsible to protect and maintain it. In other nations not having and enjoying our kind of democratic Government, a citizen might, with reason, assume an attitude of disinterest and lack of concern for the way in which his 856 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1955 LESSON DEPARTMENT government functions. In such countries the main function of government is to protect its citizens or subjects from internal disturbance and external danger. Having done so it has discharged its major obligation. In such a situation the primary responsibility for governing rests upon those responsible for creating the government in question. In Ametica, on the other hand, the individual citizen can look nowhere but to himself for the discharge of this obligation. 'There is just no one else who can do the job. Unfortunately, there are far too many Americans who exhibit an alien indifference to their Government. The word "alien" is used advisedly, because it is an attitude of other peoples, who, having no power to influence their own governments, simply disregard them. In their impotence such indifference is at least understandable. Such an attitude in an American is nothing short of tragic. Our forefathers struggled for centuries to secure the right to control government. The inspired authors of the Constitution drafted a document under which such control was made possible, and, now, far too many people think so little of this privilege and opportunity that they refuse to exercise it. Active interest in government expressed in political action is absolutely indispensable to a democracy. In our country we cannot rely upon the enlightened to rescue us from the consequences of our refusal to be concerned with what goes on in Government. We are the Government and we must be enlightened ourselves. At stake are 857 A Perry Picture Copyright 1929 ALEXANDER HAMILTON the institutions of freedom and liberty themselves and the "American Way." Consequences of Political Indifference Let us consider briefly the consequences of political indifference. There is a saying that political power does not exist in a vacuum. That is to say that when a group which exercises such power ceases to exercise it, another group will immediately step in and exercise it. Therefore, in politics, influence and power never remain unused. 'They are always being exercised by someone. In our country when the bulk of the citizenry do not use their franchise to vote for the purpose of retaining control of Government, that control may fall into the hands of the politically ambitious minority who invariably then have the power to operate in a lawless and corrupt manner. If this does not happen, it may fall into the hands of the incompetent. The result of either incompetence or corruption is bad government. To avoid bad government is the duty and responsibility of every citizen. There is none too busy or important to be excused from doing his part. Influence on government in: a democracy is exerted in two principal ways. First, internally, and second, externally. (1) Internal influence is exerted through the various branches of the Government itself: (a) in the Legistlatures, by the enactment of laws; (b) by the Executive, in the execution and enforcement of the laws; and (c) by the Judiciary in the interpretation of the law. (2) The external influence is obtained through party activity and elections. Of course, the objective of all public-spirited citizens is to place in Government and its various subdivisions and departments the kind of men who are honest and qualified. Need for Activity in Politics We cannot all of us hold public office, so our best opportunity for influencing Government is through political activity and exercising the choice of the ballot. This activity demands the use of our best judgment formed after a careful study of issues and candidates. It is not an easy task to become informed, but it is a duty to do so and a responsibility we cannot afford to forego. Politics is the science of government. Some individuals seem to labor under the misconception that politics is only the science of getting elected to public office and staying in office once elected. Strength in Two-Party System In our country we have developed the two-party system of politics. This system is now traditional. It is a source of political strength and stability, and, again, evidences the political maturity of our citizenry. The two-party system is far more workable and practical than a multiparty system such as is common in most European countries. Under a two-party system, it is far easier to attain a clear majority and to insure continuity of policy. The multiparty system has brought some European countries to the point of impotency. Under the American system the majority and the minority have extremely important functions to perform. It is the duty, obligation, and the responsibility of the majority to govern. It is the duty of the minority and its responsibility to see to it that the majority governs well, does not become dictatorial or corrupt, and to keep the electorate informed of what is actually going on inside Government. Does One Vote Count? Through the medium of party activity and voting, the citizen fulfills his constitutional duty of citizenship. He cannot fulfill this duty in any other way. 'This responsibility cannot be delegated to another. It is the personal responsibility of every person of voting age and eligibility. Many people fall into the error of supposing that their contribution to 858 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1955 LESSON DEPARTMENT Government is unimportant or is ineffectual. Nothing could be further from the truth. Frequently we hear the comment, "When millions are voting, what difference will my one vote make?" For those who may doubt the power of the individual vote, the results of the elections in November 1954, should change their thinking. The following is from an editorial which appeared in The Deseret News and Salt Lake Telegram, November 10, 1954. And if any person ever doubted the importance of the individual vote, this election should have been convincing. Not only in Utah, where the statehouse representation of one county is tied up in an absolute deadlock and that of another county was decided by the margin of one vote, but also in the whole country. Take Oregon, for instance. Richard Neuberger won a Senate seat there by a margin of 2,099 votes—less than the total number of precincts in the state. Thus, if there had been just ONE more Republican vote in each precinct, the entire organization of the U. S. Senate and every committee chairmanship in the new Senate would have been different. In New Jersey, the Republican winner's percentage margin of victory was even less. Political control lies in the hands of the citizen. It does not belong to a party, a pressure group, or faction. Parties, groups, and factions do not vote. They merely serve as the convenient medium through which the citizen may effectively influence Government. It behooves all of us to remember these things and to discharge the obligations of citizenship which is outs. Constitutionalism Defined In words better than my own it 859 can be said: "By 'Constitutionalism' is meant not the Constitution itself, but the reasons why Americans revere it. One reason is that it contains a principle of self-limiting power and thus expresses the American's bias against all formal government." In speaking further to the point that nowhere else have justice and liberty attained the heights achieved in America, the same author says: If this is so, it is only because the people so governed are willing to pay the price of Constitutionalism. The price is that citizens must take continuous initiative, voluntarily doing chores and making decisions which elsewhere are considered Government chores and decisions. Despite the tremendous growth of Government, Americans still do this. It is the citizens whose moral sense discovers injustice and takes appropriate corrective action.... Constitutionalism is our substitute for a national community, or "sense of state," and also for public morals, a term we seldom use. We seldom use it, because only individuals have morals, not politics and certainly not states. Constitutionalism can last in America as long as the people have a strong moral sense... (John Knox Jessup in Life, November 5, 1951, copyright by "Time, Inc." in 1951). So long as the political processes of America remain in the hands of a majority imbued with a high moral and political purpose, democracy cannot fail. Questions on the Lesson 1. What is the oldest form of government in existence today? 2. What are the principal benefits which 860 Three Part Sacred Choruses For Women's Voices _— Peace | Leave With You— Roberts _........ Eee e eee eee eee eee 16 — © Lord Most Merciful—Wilson.....18 —_ Forth In Thy Name, O Lord, 1 Go—Madsen..0........2.. Cceceeceeceeeee.20 senses When Children Pray—Fenner.......18 — Recessional—Dekoven..................-..18 canis Lord, Hear Our Prayer— Aschenbrenner.........--...----.--00200--- 15 —_ How Happy All They— Mendelssohn................-...-20000---00--+ 15 ae, The Silent Sea—Neidlinger...........20 _ Unto Thee, | Lift Mine Eyes— Beethoven 18 a Still, Still With Thee—Madsen.......22 Musie Sent on Approval Use this advertisement as you: order blanl:: DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY: 15 E. Ist South: Salt Lake City 1, Utah: Please send the music indicated above. 0 On Approval OO Charge CL] Money Enclosed Address City & State | awe we nce cc tect ee ramen scence tes enn anne nan ncenceecensncenncnneccenes2 | Daynes Micke UUTTNTINITII Ts. 60: south 145 WORTH UNIVERSITY, PROVO «/ zeG0 WasHuNGTON BID CaDeN RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1955 citizens of the United States enjoy under the Constitution? 3. Why is stability in government important? 4. What provisions of the Constitution made political parties inevitable and necessary. 5. What was Washington's view of partisan politics? Wherein was he right? Where wrong? 6. Why are the people of the United States responsible for Government under the Constitution? 7. Why is political inactivity "'alien'"' to our philosophy? 8. Why is political activity by an enlightened citizenry indispensable to the "American Way''? G. How is Government influenced by party activity? 10. What is "politics"? Is it bad? 11. Is the two-party system good? If so, why? 12. In whose hands does political power lie in the United States? Why? We oe Ke Ok ok Mother Had a Way Leone E. McCune 66NAARY... EE, Alice, come see the flowers Jack Frost has painted on the windowpanes!"' Mother stood at the bottom of the stairs calling her children. It was a beautiful way to be awakened from our warm winter beds. In summer, she would call the names of the slow ones. 'Come, see the robin's nest in our apple tree."" Eventually, there were robin's eggs to see, and, later, the baby robins! Summers were wonderful when we were growing up. There were eight of us, and each carried responsibility according to his or her age. ': MOTHER HAD A WAY Order and cleanliness were the rule in our house, and "next to godliness," Mother firmly believed. On Friday after school, and on Saturday, we cleaned the house from cellar to attic, baked and cooked. We prepared our clothes and ourselves for the Sabbath day and Church. There were huge washings to turn out by the hand-machine method, and ironings to be done in the cool dining room while irons heated on the hot kitchen stove. In the cool of early mornings, there were vegetables and raspberries to gather and, later on, apples to pick. But the days were never days of drudgery. We sang as we worked. A daughter would start a song in one of the rooms, and, before long, it could be heard from every part of the house. Mother had us work in the mornings and clean up in the afternoons. But we did not waste time. We took our sewing machine out on the lawn under the shade of great trees. We read or studied. Sometimes we shelled peas, snapped beans, or peeled apples for dinner. And always Mother pointed out the beauty around us. The skies over our valley were glorious, a peaceful baby blue in June with little white-lamb clouds, Greek gods or goddesses, any number of interesting things. Flame and fire clouds at sunset became thunderous black preceding a storm, thrilling, exciting, as we raced for cover. The encircling vivid green hills that surrounded us comforted and protected us, even as Mother's infolding arms comforted us when we were ill and when we said goodnight. We loved to have our evening meal out on the lawn when the weather permitted. Often we would linger to watch the moon rise over the dark hills. We would guess the size, big as our washtub, golden as a twenty-dollar gold piece. To sing as we worked, to profit by our leisure hours, and to be aware of the beauty around us. It was wonderful growing up Mother's way. 861 DLL SO COSTUMES We will be able to supply any of the costumes for Relief Society plays and pageants. Mail orders will be promptly filled. American Flag We are also the headquarters for the American Flag. Please write or phone THE SALT LAKE COSTUME COMPANY 248 South Main Street Salt Lake City, Utah Phone: EM 3-1031 or EM 3-9842 It's awaiting You... E YES there is still a tremendous amount of outstanding instruction and use awaiting you in this and other copies of the Relief Society Magazine. Your editions may be handsomely bound at the West's finest bindery and printing plant for $2.50 cloth bound and $3.50 leather bound per volume plus postage for mail orders. All mail orders must be paid in advance. Follow these postage rates if you send your order by mail: Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles 2.2... Eeeeeeeseeeeeeeeen35 150 to 300 miles —.......202.02..2 eee 39 300 to 600 miles: 600 to 1000 miles....... 1000 to 1400 miles 1400 to 1800 miles 4 Over 1800 miles.............--.-.----.---2--.87 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-258] 31 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah There's a Reason— why BYU is the fastest-growing university in the West. Students have come from every state in the Union and from dozens of foreign countries to study under an outstanding faculty at the friendly Church school, now the largest university in the Intermountain area. GROW with BYU. Plan NOW to register for winter quarter. Winter Quarter Registration — January 3. BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY PROVO—UTAH Page 862 Superior Advantages Enroll now with an accredited college that offers you the personalized benefits of a small school. @ INDIVIDUAL ATTENTION. @ FRIENDSHIPS. ® PERSONALIZED COUNSELING AND GUIDANCE. @ SPIRITUAL CLASSES. @® WHOLESOME ENVIRONMENT. ® CONVENIENTLY LOCATED IN SALT LAKE CITY. WINTER QUARTER BEGINS JAN. 3, 1956 {D BUSINESS (PLLLG6E Salt Lake City It's Easy, Beautiful and Fascinating Learn This Beautiful Art... AFTER YEARS... This nearly forgotten ancient Art has been revived. The NELSON BOOK OF NETTING shows fifteen different beautiful designs of Doilies, Handerkchiefs, Baby Bonnets and other lovely items. The booklet gives pictured, easy to follow instructions for the student. No instructor necessary. The Kit, comprised of 5 different size plastic mesh sticks and_ steel needle with instruction book, comes to you for only— $3.50. 12 Beautiful New Nelson Netting Doily Patterns, all new designs for only $1.00— Supplement No. 1. 8 Beautiful Handkerchief Edges and other suggestions $1.00—Supplement No. 2. 8 advanced Doily Patterns $1.00— Supplement No. 3. THE ARTCRAFT PRESS We Are Headquarters For All Types of CHRISTMAS MUSIC! Here is a Special! 18¢ Book of Favorite 29 Christmas Carols Postpaid GLEN BROS. MUSIC CO. 74 South Main Salt Lake City, Utah YOU GET THE BEST FOR THE LEAST WHEN YOU TRAVEL WITH VIDA FOX CLAWSON Write or Phone: VIDA FOX CLAWSON 966 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah Phone: EMpire 4-2017 Page 863 Beason Bldg. Salt Lake City 11, Utah From lear and Sar Who is Pansye H. Powell? Her story "Just Like the Ones I Used to Know," (in the Magazine for October 1955) is a very fine Christmas story. So much human feeling and a good idea. —Charles V. Worthington Los Angeles, California The Magazine has been a great pleasure to me here in Germany. We had a small but active group last year, where I had the privilege of being the theology teacher. The lessons were a great source of pleasure to me personally, and I felt I at least learned a great deal more from The Book of Mormon. —Mrs. Maly G. Scriven A. P. O. 109 New York City, New York I became a Latter-day Saint on Easter Sunday of this year. It is the greatest thing that ever happened in my life. My wonderful mother-in-law had presented me with a subscription to The Relief Society Magazine for my birthday. I have never enjoyed anything as much as I have these issues that cheerfully greet me in the mailbox each month. From cover to cover the Magazine is read through several times. I read everything and do gain so much from the stories and lessons. —Mrs. Dorothy Crooks Shelley, Idaho I am so thankful for such a fine Magazine. Wish everyone could have the opportunity to read it. As I grow older, I learn to appreciate the Magazine more. It encourages a person to higher aims in life and has so many wonderful ideas. —Helen S. Pope Phoenix, Arizona One of the things I like most about The Relief Society Magazine is the poetry. There is something about reading the poetic efforts of other Relief Society sisters which seems to bring us all closer — as if we knew each other personally. —Rosemary S. Lee Hurricane, Utah Page 864 I have been a subscriber to the Magazine almost continuously for fifty years. I always look for the different styles of verse published. I enjoy them. The Magazine has been a great comfort to me through the years, especially when I left the city to be a farmer's wife, living on a large cattle ranch in Idaho. There I always kept the Magazine in sight, as my husband read it, too. Thanks for the pleasure it has afforded me. — Mrs. Nell Loosli Salt Lake City, Utah I enjoy the Magazine so much and wish you success and God's blessings in your work, —lIone S. Rigby Fairview, Utah This little poem was written out of love and appreciation for The Relief Society Magazine. I read it at our last meeting, and the ladies suggested that I send it to you. THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE I have a spirit, same as you, Have you not heard me sing to you? I have a heart as pure as gold, Made up of many hearts, including yours. My joys you feel, my tears you share— So much of me you put there. I'm a visiting teacher, same as you, I come once a month; I give as you do, Of comfort, of faith, hope and charity, too; I've much to offer — so look me through. From cover to cover, then over again, But slowly this time, to get all you can. Yes, my spirit is there. Seek and you shall find Joy in turning one page at a time. —Doris Holmes Boise, Idaho Everyone wants L. D. §: Books this For Teen-agers A new book by Dr. Rex Skidmore 3. Youth, Love and Marriage This is an ideal gift for all the teen-agers on your Christmas list. Dr. Skidmore is an authority and marriage, and offers excellen on how to form an ideal and lasting relationship with the sanctity that God intended this holy covenant to have. This outstanding book is written in easy-to-read, direct, interesting language. $2.75 HTS MA L Kingdom of God Restored Carter E. Grant New information concerning the establishment of the Church in the early days through the Utah War makes this new book an essential addition to the family library as well as to the libraries of schools, teachers, and leaders in the Church. It reads like a novel as it reveals the fascinating colorful story of 2 ABC' of American Genealogical Research E. Kay Kirkham New Revised Cloth Edition This newly revised edition is teeming with suggestions for the beginner in genealogical research as well as for the veteran researcher. It contains valuable information on where to look and how to search records, wills, vital statistics 0 find those living, pulsing beings who were our tenth or twelfth grandfathers © « « in the field of courtship t counseling and advice a! Ae <_= ~~ w iz— ee cee ee eee ee oe ie a oe 2 as EE CD DESERET BOOK CO. 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah Gentlemen: Enclosed you will find ( ) check ( ) money order charge to my account the following amount $..........0....:0sceeee-e-- for the encircled (numbered) books: the early pioneers. And grandmothers. $4.00 $1.75 ne Granulated, Uperfine Dessert, and Pow dered, 7. | "lg BY a hy + H by eri +a eh oh: at a a Se! A 7 My ts Ff Ave
