ELIEF _M AGA, Bs "fps a5 s ZN Aa.- VOL. 46 NO. 1 Lessons for April JANUARY 1959 THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Front row, left to right: Elsa T. Peterson; Hulda Parker, General Secretary-Treasurer; Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor; Belle S. Spafford, President; Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor; Evon W. Peterson; Josie B. Bay. Second row, left to right: Anna B. Hart; Wealtha S. Mendenhall; Mary V. Cameron; Winniefred S. Manwaring; Annie M. Ellsworth; Aleine M. Young; Afton W. Hunt. Third row, left to right: R. Young. Back row, left to right: Alberta H. Christensen; Blanche B. Stoddard; Edith P, Backman; Charlotte A. Larsen; Irene B. Woodford; Mary Florence J. Madsen; Pearle M. Olsen; Christine H. Robinson; Mildred B. Eyring; Leone G. Layton; Edith S. Elliott. A Hew Year s Greeting "HOW GREAT REASON WE HAVE TO REJOICE" (Alma 26:1) N the brief hour which heralds the beginning of a new year we stand on a vantage point which enables us to look backward to the year just passed and forward into the year to come. Joyously we say with the Prophet Ammon "How great reason we have to rejoice." Humbly we ask "Could we have supposed... That God would have granted unto us such great blessings?" In our hearts is the secure knowledge that we have been "encircled about in the matchless bounty of his love" (Alma 26:1-2). "What great blessings has he bestowed upon us?" 'The blessing of the gospel of Jesus Christ and membership in his Church is our great blessing. Relief Society membership and the opportunity to serve together as sisters is a blessing. We have been recipients of light and wisdom. Our hearts have been touched with compassion, and our minds have been given added knowledge. 'Testimonies have been nurtured and strengthened. Our prayerful efforts to be instruments in his hands to do the work he would have us do have been successful in a large measure. As individuals and as a society we have been blessed. The General Board extends love and warm appreciation to our sisters throughout the world. With you, gratitude to our Father in heaven is our foremost thought. Now, looking into a new year, we are one with you in the sincere desire to be worthy of his blessings; to merit their continuance is our prayer. May happiness and joy come to each of us. May peace come to the world. May we increase our efforts to live in nghteousness and observe the commandments of God. "Now have we not reason to rejoice? Yea, I say unto you, there never were men that had so great reason to rejoice as we, since the world began..." (Alma 26:35). > The Cover: The California Mission Home With the Los Angeles Temple in the Background, Reproduced from a Transparency by Harold Winn Submitted by Alta H. Taylor Cover Design by Evan Jensen Page | From Vlear and Sar As we were planning our trip through the Northwest, we were delighted to find that wonderful article about the Olympian Rain Forest (by Dorothy J. Roberts, July 1958). We read it over and wondered if we might stretch our time so we might also see the wonder of this place. We did, and enjoyed all the beauties that are so well written by one who also had seen nature with the loving look and the joy of God's great handiwork. We urge everyone to read about our Nation and enjoy the wonderful things we have placed here for our joy and remembrance. The Relief Society Magazine always has a place of honor in our home. —Louise J. Scott Salt Lake City, Utah The September Magazine was most enjoyable. As usual, I always read the poems, then the fiction, then the articles. —Maude Rubin Santa Ana, California I especially liked the poem "As Tangible As Grass," by Eva Willes Wangsgaard, in the November issue of The Relief Society Magazine. Mrs. Wangsgaard superbly depicts beauty in her lines. Like everything she writcs, this poem ls of high quality. She is a real poet. I have read and admired her poetry ever since she started to compose poems. Mrs. Cole's poem "On the Rim," (frontispiece in the same issue) is also an exquisite creation. It is graphic. I want to congratulate those who created the November Magazine cover design. All of the covers have been interesting and lovely, but this one ls especially beautiful. Having done some painting through the years, I appreciate the fine use of color. Thanks for this lovely Magazine. —Grace Ingles Frost Provo, Utah My prime interest has always been the Relief Society lesson material, because our classes are so glorious. But even without the lessons, the stories and poetry alone are worth the price of the Magazine. —Mary M. Smoot Salt Lake City, Utah Page 2 I have just finished reading the story "The Right Climate," by Vera H. Mayhew, in the November issue of the Magazine, and I found it most enlightening. I have not been able to attend Relief Society for the past three years, as I have been working to help put my husband through school at the University. I have kept up my subscription to the Magazine, though, and it has helped me to keep in touch with the women of the Church. Each month I find stories that seem to fit into my life, and to lift my spirits. Thank you very much for such a wonderful little Magazine. —Mrs. Elden Liechty Logan, Utah I couldn't resist the most colorful, attractive Magazine (November 1958) I have ever seen — that wonderful plaque inside the Relief Society Building. Also, it seems to me there were more poems in November. I always hunt out the poems.... I teach them to my grandchildren. The one "Like a Kernel," by Vesta Nickerson Lukei, is good. I love poctry, especially the poems that appeal to mothers and children. —Mrs. Laura R. Merrill Logan, Utah The Post and The Journal are publishing some more of my poems soon, and I have been thinking how much I owe to you cditors and to The Relief Society Magazine for helping me to reach this goal. So I just wanted to say thanks and best wishes.... I haven't had much time to write lately, with all the work of being a grandmother. —Margery S. Stewart Pacific Palisades California May I say that we enjoy our Magazine in Airdrie Branch very much. Almost all of the sisters take the Magazine. Lesson participation is much easier when we have a chance to study the material before class. —Marjorie G. Foote Glasgow, Scotland THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spattord - - - - - - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - - First Counselor Louise W. Madsen - - - - - - - = = Second Counselor Hulda Parker - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Aleine M. Young Edith P. Backman Mary V. Cameron Edith S. Elliott Josie B. Ba Winniefred S. Afton W. Hunt Florence J]. Madsen Christine H. Robinson Manwaring Wealtha S. Mendenhall Leone G. Layton Alberta H. Christensen Elna P. Haymond Pearle M. Olsen Blanche B. Stodderd Mildred B. Eyring Annie M. Ellsworth Elsa T. Peterson Evon W. Peterson Charlotte A. Larsen Mary R. Young Irene B. Woodford RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - 5 - = 5 - = S S Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford VOL. 46 JANUARY 1959 NO. 1 Contents SPECIAL FEATURES A New Year's Greeting oo. Ccccececcsscscecsseseceecccetsecesceeeneeseeeee 1 Relief Society—An Aid to the Priesthood.......... Joseph Fielding Smith 4 Award Winners—Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest oo... Cecceccceccsscceeseececceceeecseceeeeeceeseeeseeseeeseees 7 The Telling—First Prize Poem ou.... E. EecceescessceccscesececeneconsecescenecseceecesceseecesescsancecesseeseeceetecsLael Woolsey Hill 8 Portrait of Lincoln's Second Mother—Second Prize Poem o00........ EeeceeeeceeeeeeeMabe! Law Atkinson 10 Parting on the Prairie—Third Prize Poem.... Ceeeeeccsecececeeceseseeeeees Sylvia Probst Young 12 Award Winners—Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest. Ee 14 Good Bye and Good Luck, Mrs. Kelsey—First Prize Story Norma A. Wrathall 15 Exploring New Frontiers in Health. O....... Cecceescceceeseeceeeeteeseees Basil O'Connor 21 The California Mission _ Preston R. Nibley 22 No, Thank You! Once eee ce cccsceccseeececesces seccsenseceescecosecnesneneseoeeeees ese 35 The Rewarding Time ee, ee.... Elsie Sim Hansen 41 FICTION The Silver Leash—Chapter Jo occ ceccccccecccccccseeceses coceeesceeceneeceeceeseseeseesceeseeneesBeatrice Rordame Parsons 24 GENERAL FEATURES From Near ard Far ooiceeeecceceeccccccececceccecccceceeosesnsecececesecssssneecas sencesncennecesseeaecseesesececeseeesasseasecesenseeesacenceea: ceeeeeseesseeeees 2 Sixty Years Ago o.. Eececceecccccceeeeeceeceeceeeeeeeeeeees a cone.... 30 Woman's Sphere. Uw... 4... EeRamona W. Cannon 31 Editorial: Strengthening Community VATEMOS oo essscsseessssvsssessvvsvevsosvevevessssvsvessevaseesssssnseBelle S. Spafford 32 Four Color Covers—A New Feature for The Relief Society Magazine Sr 33 Notes to the Field: Relief Society Assigned Evening Meeting of Fast Sunday in March............ 34 Award Subscriptions Presented in April oo... Eee 34 Bound Volumes of 1958 Magazine....0..0....... C: cecceeecceeeeeeeeteeees 34 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities........ Birthday Congratulations 000.0... FEATURES FOR THE HOME Recipes From the California Mission............. Alta H. Taylor 36 You Can Sew—XI—Bound Buttonholes Jean R. Jennings 38 Celestia Chadwick Tracy's Quilts Have Made Many Homes Beautiful 40 LESSONS FOR APRIL Theology—The Sacrament Roy W. Doxey 49 Visiting Teacher Messages—''Pray Always, and I Will Pour Out My Spirit Upon (Ca aeraChristine H. Robinson 55 Work Meeting—Managerial "Aspects 'of Food Planning and Preparation aVesta Barnett 57 Literature—Young Jonathan Edwards......... Ecsescseneceeee Briant S. Jacobs 59 Social Science—'*A Principle With Promise''"'...... John Farr Larson 64 POETRY Every Good Gift oe, ee... Elsie McKinnon Strachan 6 Cloud Feathers ooecceceeccecsccsecee cceeseseesssececccenseecnsssecnensesessessesesenseseecseseeseeaeeeeeeseeseeesEva Willes Wangsgaard 21 QUISSCENCE ooeeea. Ec ececeeeseeeeece seeeneesceeneeees rr aeJune N. Ashton 29 Deserted Farm Yard oo. Ceccseccccsscce-cecssssssssncssseses ceseees ccectecsecesnacssseccesceeseneeeceeceseeseesenseeseeecsseeseeeneeeMaude Rubin 37 January = Christie Lund Coles 71 Song of Subsequence - Dorothy J. Roberts 71 Winter Tree -. _ Bernice Ames 72 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Copyright 1958 by the General Board of Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Editorial and Business Offices: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah: Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy; payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1108, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Mountain Peaks ooo ccecccccssesessesceseeccenscescocssenecoeestuecsessesessenecsceccesessessssenseeccesnessenscnees Celia Luce 6 Relief Society-An Aid to the Priesthood President Joseph Fielding Smith Of the Council of the Twelve (Address Delivered at the Officers Meeting, Relief Society General Conference, October 8, 1858) REGRET that other duties re- | quire that I depart before the close of this meeting, in fact when I get through speaking to you. It is a wonderful sight to look into the faces of you good sisters from all parts of the Church, then to realize the great and important duties that devolve upon you, and how perfectly and faithfully you are doing your part. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints would never have been finished without the organization known as the Relief Society which embraces the sisters of the Church. There is no other organization, as we have already heard in the prayer, like it. The world could not duplicate it. There are other organizations of women, I suppose, I've heard of such; but I am sure there is no organization that could assemble as you have assembled here with the same inspiration and hopes and aspiration and faith and love of truth as you sisters manifest in your lives. The Prophet was inspired. And, by revelation in March 1842 on the 17th day, he called the sisters together and organized the Relief Society. It has grown to be a power in the Church. Absolutely necessary—we speak of it as an auxiliary, which means a help, but the Relief Society is more than that. It is Page 4 needed. It has a place as an aid to the Priesthood of God. And while the sisters have not been given the Priesthood, it has not been conferred upon them, that does not mean that the Lord has not given unto them authority. Authority and Priesthood are two different things. A person may have authority given to him, or a sister to her, to do certain things in the Church that are binding and absolutely necessary for our salvation, such as the work that our sisters do in the House of the Lord. 'They have authority given unto them to do some great and wonderful things, sacred unto the Lord, and binding just as thoroughly as are the blessings that are given by the men who hold the Priesthood. And you sisters who labor in the House of the Lord can lay your hands upon your sisters, and with divine authority, because the Lord recognizes positions which you occupy. He honors you and blesses you in your labors in your various stakes, and you go forth with authority. You can speak with authority, because the Lord has placed authority upon you. Now, today, we live in a different age, a wonderful age in the restoration of the gospel. As far as I know, in former years or former dispensations of the gospel, our sisters were not called upon to do very much. Even in the days of Paul, they were counseled to be silent in churches and other restrictions were placed upon them. But that was not necessarily in accord with the plan of salvation. The plan of salvation had nothing to do with those restrictions. 'They were due to the prevailing conditions among the peoples, the customs of the times. Today, our sisters take part in the various organizations that are assigned to them. 'They give service in the training of our youth, our children, and what they do is done by authority. And when the Prophet Joseph Smith chose the sisters in 1842, he gave them authority. Authority to administer, even, if necessary, the laying on of hands in behalf of the sick. Not to seal and anoint, but by the prayer of faith to plead with the Lord for the healing of the sick. I have often thought in reading our scriptures, the old scriptures, of the restrictions, apparently, that were placed upon women which the Lord in his wisdom in the dispensation of the fulness of times removed. T isn't necessary today for our sisters to be silent. They can be called upon to teach the gospel of Jesus Christ, to bear their testimonies and bear witness of the truth in our sacrament meetings or other meetings of the Church. They have their own meetings, such as the Relief Society, in which they have been given power and authority to do a great many things. The work which they do is done by divine authority. The Lord through his wisdom has called upon our sisters to be aids to the Priesthood. Because of their sympathy, tenderness of heart, and kindness, the Lord looks upon them and gives unto them the duties and responsibilities of being ministers to the needy and to the afflicted. He has pointed out the path which they should follow, and he has given to them this great organization where they have authority to serve under the directions of the bishops of the wards and in harmony with the bishops of the wards, looking after the interest of our people both spiritually and temporally. And the Lord can call upon our sisters to go into the homes to comfort the needy, to aid and assist the afflicted, to kneel with them and pray with them, and the Lord will hearken to the sisters' prayers when they are offered sincerely in behalf of the sick, just as he will listen to the prayers of the elders of the Church. We could not get along without this organization. I don't know what some of our bishops would do, if a bishop could not call upon the president of the Relief Society of his ward in cases of need. Maybe sometimes a bishop finds it rather convenient to put something off onto the shoulders of the sisters of the Relief Society when maybe he ought to shoulder a few of the things himself, I don't know. (Laughter.) But you have been very helpful, and the Lord appreciates the work that you do. You, through your faithfulness and your obedience, will find your place in the kingdom of God when it is established in its fulness and righteousness. Think of it! It is within the privilege of the sisters of this Church to receive exaltation in the kingdom of God and receive authority and power as queens and RELIEF SOCIETY—AN AID TO THE PRIESTHOOD 5 6 priestesses, and I am sure if they have that power they have some power to rule and reign. Else why would they be priestesses? The Lord is pleased with your labors. You, through your service, have helped to build up and strengthen the kingdom of God. Just as necessary is the labor of the Relief Society in the Church as it is, shall I say? With the quorums of the Priesthood. Now some may feel that I am expressing this a little too strongly, but my own judgment is that the work that you, our good sisters, are doing, finds its place and is just as important in_ the building up of this kingdom, strengthening it, causing it to expand, laying a foundation upon RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1959 which we all may build, just as much as it is for the brethren who hold the Priesthood of God. We can't get along without you. Now I am sorry, but I have to leave. I hate to go, because I would like to stay with you and hear the remarks of Brother Petersen and the other exercises that are before you. But I leave my prayer and my blessing with you, and I want to say to you that I honor you and those who labor with you, who are not here, in your faithfulness and your integrity to the truth, the gospel of Jesus Christ. May the Lord continue to bless you with his Holy Spirit abundantly, [ pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen, &very Good Gift Elsie McKinnon Strachan Every good gift is a gift from our Father, All that we have and love and own, Is given by him: bird-song and weather, The silent dusk, the singing dawn. The bread of each day—life-building goodness, The hearth of evening, sun-seasoned wood, The circle of love in an hour of darkness— All are gifts from our Father, God. The home-glow of lamplight, children's sweet laughter, All that we have and hold and love, Family and friendship, freedom and shelter, Are gifts all gifts, from God above. Mountain Peaks Celia Luce Mest mountain peaks have to be climbed. If you want the breathtaking view, the heady feeling of being on top of the world, you have to work for it. Oh, there are smooth roads to the top of a few peaks, and roads part way up others. There are roads with lovely views that carry you into the mountains. But few roads lead to the mountain peaks. Life is like that. Some happiness seems to be handed to us with very little effort on our part. But most happiness, like the view from a mountain peak, has to be earned by hard work on our part. Award Whnners Sliza KR. Snow Poem Contest THE Relief Society General Board is pleased to announce the names of the three winners in the 1958 Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest. This contest was announced in the May 1958 issue of The Relief Society Magazine, and closed August 15, 1958. The first prize of forty dollars is awarded to Lael Woolsey Hill, Salt Lake City, Utah, for her poem "The Telling." The second prize of thirty dollars is awarded to Mabel Law Atkinson, Dayton, Idaho, for her poem "Portrait of Lincoln's Second Mother." The third prize of twenty dollars is awarded to Sylvia Probst Young, Midvale, Utah, for her poem "Parting on the Prairie." This poem contest has been conducted annually by the Relief Society General Board since 1924, in honor of Eliza R. Snow, second General President of Relief Society, a gifted poet and beloved leader. The contest is open to all Latterday Saint women, and is designed to encourage poetry writing, and to increase appreciation for creative writing and the beauty and value of poetry. Prize-winning pocms are the property of the Relief Society General Board, and may not be used for publication by others except upon written permission of the General Board. 'The General Board also reserves the right to publish any of the poems submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rate. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. Mrs. Hill appears for the second time as an award winner in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest; Mrs. Atkinson is a second-time winner; and 1956 marks the third time that Mrs. Young has placed in the contest. There were 156 poems submitted in this year's contest. Entries were received from thirty-one states, with the largest number coming, in order, from Utah, California, Idaho, Arizona, Colorado, Washington, Oregon, Wyoming, and 'Texas. Entries were received also from Canada, Mexico, Scotland, England, New Zealand, and Australia. The General Board congratulates the prize winners and expresses appreciation to all entrants for their interest in the contest. The General Board wishes, also, to thank the judges for their care and diligence in selecting the prize-winning poems. The services of the poetry committee of the General Board are very much appreciated. 'The prize-winning poems, together with photographs and brief highlights of the prize-winning contestants, are published in this issue of the Magazine. Page 7 PrizeWinning Pooms Eliza RSnow Poem Contest LAEL WOOLSEY HILL First Prize Poem She Selling Lael W. Hill "... She went and told them that had been with him.,." (Mark 16:10). How kingly to the rising day Where I had lowly come, he came Along the ferned, unfolding way Of morning golden as his name. Page 8 I felt the look he looked on me Like spring in willow-wanded green, I saw his smile begin to be, Like birds with sudden sky between. And how a breathless word was I— An almost fear, an almost flight But for those birds upon that sky Where he stood tall with light! He came to me in sun-up glow, As trees leaf out from dust and stone, As winds that orchards breathe and blow, Warm flesh on living bone. Time spun around me green and blue, The world was all a garden room, And when he spoke my name, I knew Why stone gives way, and lilies bloom. <_< Lael Woolsey Hill, Salt Lake City, Utah, was awarded second prize in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest last year, and has frequently contributed poems to the Magazine. She tells us that she would truly appreciate having this year's biographical sketch '"'make most mention of the original verse form (so far as I have been able to determine) in which my poem "The Telling' is written. I have called this form 'the Voweled Quintet. It is written in five stanzas, whose rhymes use the vowel sounds in alphabetical order: first stanza, all "A" rhymes; second stanza, all "E" rhymes, etc. Though all the poems I have tried in this form are in quatrains, in four-foot lines (tetrameter, usually iambic), I have set no rigid rules except for the order of the rhyme vowels. Even these can be varied by long and short vowels, different or same consonant endings, etc. The pattern seems naturally to progress to a lesser climax at line twelve, and to a greater final climax at line twenty. It would please me to have other poets try this form, as I find it makes a musically pleasant poem, and I feel it has good possibilities for development." PRIZE-WINNING POEMS 9 MABEL LAW ATKINSON Second Prize Poem (Portrait of cLineoltas Second Iilother (Sarah Johnson Lincoln) Mabel Law Atkinson December Planting Tall and strong she was, her gray-blue eyes Held steadiness and kindness, firmness, too. Before Tom Lincoln's cabin in surprise She noted how the wind could whistle through The chinks between the logs, and saw no door To close against December—just a hole Wide-gaping; moist, foot-printed earth, the floor. Why had she come? As panic touched her soul, She turned and saw young Abe: a wordless pleading Was in his face. His eyes, deep-set and gray, Hungry for mothering sought hers. Love-heeding, She sensed Divinity had marked her way. Holding him close, there on the frozen sod, She knew her task: to keep him close to God. Page 10 April Promise Abe lay in silvered quietude, the moon Of promise shining through the attic door, For love and willing work had wonder-strewn His world. Light footsteps on the new pine floor Below intoned the stillness. Reverently He touched the softness of his feather tick— '"'Not cornhusks, Ma," he whispered. "You should see Our cabin now, all whitewashed, with a thick, Smooth door from our own pines.... But best of all She loves us, Ma, and keeps us near to you. She says someday when I am strong and tall God has a work for me—Can this be true?" Asleep when Sarah came and smoothed his head, He dreamed of angels by his prayer-sweet bed. Golden Harvest Sarah was regal still, and Abe, full grown, Stood towering above her. Awed, in pride, She viewed the harvest from her seeds, love-sown: A Man of God! When Thomas Lincoln died And Abe, his arms about her, gently said, "Ma, I'll take care of you," in his embrace Again she felt his greatness; once more read The prophecy within his craggy face. Fulfillment came: 'The Nation's President! Her Abe! Once more as long ago—in tears— His eyes sought hers and found, with wonderment, The mother love that had enriched his years. Through her had God prepared him? Need she ask? Enough to know she had fulfilled her task. Mabel Law Atkinson, Dayton, Idaho, is a third-time winner in the Relief Society contests, having placed third in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest in 1951, and second in the Relief Society Short Story Contest last year. The author of three published volumes of poetry, she is a member of seven writers' organizations, among them the "American Poetry League," "Idaho Writers' League," and the "Gem State Authors' Guild." This last year she has added to her long list of winnings since 1950, several awards in regional, national, and international contests, the most outstanding being first prize in the Minnesota Statehood Centennial Poetry Contest in which 520 poets from thirty-six states and Hawaii and Canada participated. The wife of Earl J. Atkinson, she is the mother of five children and grandmother to five grandsons. She is a sister to Dr. Reuben D. Law, President of the Church College of Hawaii. During her long illness (since 1935), she has lived her philosophy that man, attuned to the Infinite, can rise above all handicaps and keep the mind and spirit inviolate; that life is beautiful, and earth can be heaven. PRIZE-WINNING POEMS Vl Page 12 ge. SYLVIA PROBST YOUNG Third Prize Poem Pa rling op DOG ae Sylvia Probst Young The clouds hang low above this fallow plain, How icy-fingered was the wind at dawn— Good Captain, snow will fall before the night, Yet wait a little while to say, "Move on." Apart she stands beside the new-made mound, Her eyes are burned with grief, she does not heed The strong man's gentle arm about her waist— Bowed by her sorrow as a storm-bent reed. The boy was life and laughter at her side, Finding the trail adventure day on day, How much the freckled face, the clear blue eyes Could give her courage on the toilsome way. This morn his singing lips are mute and cold— And she must leave him in this barren land, He who loved beauty—greening blade and tree— The feel of crystal water on his hand. Her cart will hold a torn brimmed hat, a knife, A wood-carved horse, a little treasure sack, These must she keep though each will tear her heart— And ever will her eyes be looking back. The winds of morn are threatening and chill, But let her stay a little longer there, She cannot come again to bring a flower, Or meditate beside his lonely bier. The handcart train will travel on its way, While here the lone wolves roam, the coyotes cry— She shall push on through long, heart-breaking days— But wait a little—let her say goodbye. Sylvia Probst Young, Midvale, Utah, has been several times an award winner in the Relief Society contests. She placed first in the Eliza R. Snow Contest in 1952, and second in 1953. In 1957, she placed first in the Relief Society Short Story Contest. Mrs. Young tells us: "To be a winner in this contest is always a thrill. My poem 'Parting on the Prairie' was inspired by the pathos depicted in Avard Fairbanks' "Tragedy at Winter Quarters." I have been a contributor to The Relief Society Magazine for twenty years, and have also written for all of the other Church magazines; The Salt Lake Tribune, Deseret News; a national magazine, and several anthologies. Being a homemaker and a schoolteacher is quite a full schedule, but I manage some time in between for writing, flower raising, and reading. I am married to Reid W. Young, bishop of the Midvale Fourth Ward, and we are the parents of four wonderful boys." PRIZE-WINNING POEMS 13 Award Winners Annual Reliof Society Short Story Contest THE Relief Society General Board is pleased to announce the award winners in the Annual Relief Socicty Short Story Contest, which was announced in the May 1958 issue of the Magazine, and which closed August 15, 1958. The first prize of seventy-five dollars is awarded to Norma A. Wrathall, Sunnyvale, California, for her story "Goodbye and Good Luck, Mrs. Kelsey." The second prize of sixty dollars is awarded to Dorothy S. Romney, Stockton, California, for her story "We Can't All Be Generals." The third prize of fifty dollars is awarded to Sarah O. Moss, Salt Lake City, for her story "The House on Cherry Lane Drive." Mrs. Wrathall is a third-time winner in the Relief Society Short Story Contest. Mrs. Romney and Mrs. Moss are first-time winners, although others of their stories have previously appeared in the Magazine. The Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest was first conducted by the Relief Society General Board in 1941, as a feature of the Relief Society centennial observance, and was made an annual contest in 1942. The contest is open only to Latterday Saint women who have had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication in a periodical of recognized merit. The three prize-winning § stories will be published consecutively in the first three issues of The Relief Society Magazine for 1959. FortyPage 14 five stories were entered in the contest for 1958. The contest was initiated to encourage Latter-day Saint women to express themselves in the field of fiction. 'The General Board feels that the response to this opportunity continues to increase the literary quality of The Relief Society Magazine, and will aid the women of the Church in the development of their gifts in creative writing. Women who are interested in entering the short story contest are reminded that each year, in the May or June issue of the Magazine, a helpful article on storywriting is published. Prize-winning stories are the property of the Relief Society General Board, and may not be used for publication by others except upon written permission from the General Board. 'The General Board also reserves the right to publish any of the stories submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rate. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait for two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. The General Board congratulates the prize-winning contestants, and expresses appreciation to all those who submitted stories. Sincere gratitude is extended to the judges for their discernment and skill in selecting the prize-winning stories. The General Board also acknowledges, with appreciation, the work of the short story committee in supervising the contest. Hirst PrizeWinning Sto ry Annual Relief Society Short Story Caniiest Good Bye and Good Luck, Mrs. Kelsey Norma A. Wrathall T was the summer after I, Alice Norris, had my_ gall bladder operation that the Kelseys moved into the old Forrester place adjoining my property. I hadn't been able to work as hard as usual that year, but my son-in-law had set out my tomato and pepper plants, and I planted the cucumbers myself. Between us, we put in the dahlia bulbs, with a tall stake beside each one. As president of the Linwood Flower Society, I just about had to get in a few new flowers, although my yard is already planted nicely to perennials and roses. And I had a secret hope of exhibiting my deep maroon dahlia, the Star of Persia, at the State Fair. Mine is a large corner lot, with old Mrs. Bates' home on the east and the Forrester place at the back. It was once one of the finer homes of Linwood, but the Forresters had moved away, and the old frame house had fallen into disrepair. Weeds were rampant in the dooryard, and the field beyond, once a pasture, had become a tangle of wild grass and morning glory. Verner Hals, owner of Linwood's Men's Clothing Store, had the renting of the house to a succession of families that moved in and out of town. NORMA A, WRATHALL I had told him, "You'd get a better class of renters, if you'd fix up the house a bit." He said he couldn't on the small commission he collected. As it was, I tried to be a good neighbor to the renters, friendly, but distant. However, it was soon apparent that the little Kelsey boys didn't know the meaning of distance. I was working in my back yard on the afternoon that the Kelseys drove their dilapidated car along the adjoining driveway. Through the Page 15 16 cloud of dust, I caught a glimpse of the top piled high with paraphernalia, the two little boys leaning out at the side, and the trailer bumping along behind, all but spilling bedsteads, bedding, pots and pans, and what-not. A few minutes later, as I knelt to fasten a tomato plant to its prop, a clod of dirt sailed over the fence and landed with a plump beside me. The very next morning, as I started toward the yard to turn on the sprinklers, I heard "--sss-sss-tt--" and the scampering of feet. A frowzled black top, which I learned later belonged to Benny, and a carroty thatch which proved to be Pete's, disappeared from view down behind my fence. I hurried to the garden, to find green and ripe tomatoes thrown about, vines uprooted, cucumbers stepped on and smashed. I looked over the fence in time to see them scuttling for home. As I cleaned up my garden, I got to wondering how they had climbed over my straight high fence, unless they were part demon and part fly. Mrs. Bates agreed that they were part demon, all right, on the day they pulled the wire from her henhouse, chased the setting hens from the nests, smashed the eggs, and pulled out the rooster's tail feathers. "THINGS went from bad to worse. Almost every day there was new mischief. We talked it over, and decided that something would have to be done. I wondered if it would be best to try kindness, coupled with a grim attitude, of course. 'hey immediately assigned me the task of making the complaint. I started out one afternoon with a loaf of fresh raisin bread. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1959 Mrs. Kelsey was on the sagging back porch, washing clothes in a large tin tub. She was a tall, largeboned woman, her face tanned and deeply lined. She pushed a strand of straight brown hair from her damp forehead, and greeted me. "Hot, isn't it?" After I had introduced myself, and she had thanked me for the bread, she pulled a backless chair from under a pile of boxes in a corner. I sat gingerly on the edge of it. "I... Suppose you're getting settled by now?" I ventured. She began sudsing some towels on the washboard. "Well, good as we ever will, I guess... I mean, Mr. Kelsey hasn't got work right now. 'Thought he had a job at the railroad yard when we came, but turned out they didn't need him.... Haven't seen anything of Benny and Pete, have you?" "T hope he gets some work soon," I said. "And I wanted to talk to you about Benny and Pete." I cleared my throat, and could feel my face getting red as she stopped washing, and turned suddenly to look at me. "Er... I wouldn't mind if the boys took some vegetables, Mrs. Kelsey. In fact, I'd be glad to give them some. But I don't want them to tear up the vines and destroy things." She said nothing. 'Several other neighbors have complained, too," I pushed on. "But maybe when they get better acquainted, they'll have more playmates, and not get into so much mischief?" She shrugged. "Taint likely. Seems like wherever we go, it's hard GOODBYE AND GOOD LUCK, MRS. KELSEY for them to get playmates. Have they done anything real bad?" "Well... Unless you count smashing eggs and tomatoes and pulling out rooster's tail feathers!"' Her gaze shifted to the sprawling apple tree which dropped its wizened crop to the yellowed tickle grass in the yard. "They're such lively little boys..." she said. Abruptly, she turned back to the tub. "Have to get on with my washing, if you'll excuse me... Nearly supper time,'' and she resumed her vigorous scrubbing. I understood that the visit, such as it was, had ended. As I walked home, I felt frustrated and more than a little vexed with myself. 1 was sure that old Mrs. Bates would take me to task for my failure. ONE day, at the end of the month, I saw Verner Hals driving away from the Forrester place, so [ hailed him as he came around the corner. "Well, did you collect any rent from them?" I asked him, smiling to soften the impertinent question. "Alice...." He sighed, and leaned back in the car seat. His round, firm face was more flushed than usual, his small straight mouth set resolutely into his cheeks, and his shrewd eyes, behind the thick lenses, had a harassed expression. "T will admit that I certainly made a mistake with them. I was down with the flu when they came — didn't take the time to check their references, if they had any. They paid their deposit — and since you asked, yes, she scraped up the rent money from various little places. Said he'd got a couple of weeks' work at the cemetery, but he isn't working now. So, I can't force them 7 to move. Anyway, I hate to evict people, except as a last resort. It makes such unpleasant publicity." "Maybe so, but those little boys are the scourge of the neighborhood. I should think you'd consider the rest of us!" I flared. "As far as that goes, they have broken two windows in the house and pulled the front gate loose," he said. But as he left, he said he'd see what he could do. Then came the morning that I found the Star of Persia uprooted, wilting in the blistering sun. "Oh, those wretched, wretched boys!" I muttered, kneeling beside my stricken beauty. My vegetables, maybe. But not my dahlia! I hurried to the house, the drums of battle beating in my ears, combed my hair, took off my apron, and _prepared to sally forth. I almost bumped into Mrs. Kelsey coming up the back walk. Apparently, she didn't notice my belligerent expression, although old Mrs. Bates says that I never look as fierce as I think I do. "Thought I''d come over and tell you the news," she began, not waiting for me to invite her in. I thought that her face was more relaxed than usual. "We got a letter from Pa's brother up in Oregon. Wants us to come up there. Says he has a steady job lined up. So... We'll be moving right away." It took me a moment to find words. "That's wonderful. For you, I mean. But — that's a long trip. Will your old car make it?" "Oh, very likely it will. Pa's out there working on it now. He's pretty good at fixing things, if you 18 can get him at it." She started away, then paused and lifted her head, a thin flush spreading up under her cheeks. "Guess the neighbors will be glad we're moving. Guess it might be the best news they've had!" "Oh... Why. Tome Je. Ja fumbled; but she was already halfway down the path. The news ran like quicksilver over the party lincs. A sort of glad relief surged over the neighborhood, and with it a trickling of belated good will. We had all snubbed the Kelseys, and as far as I know, no child had been allowed to play with Benny or Pete But guilty feelings bring out strange behavior sometimes. One after another of us took over some little friendly offering. Dorothy Driggs took some good cotton 'Tshirts which her boys had outgrown; old Mrs. Bates took a blanket she had stored away and never used. The wound still hurt when I thought of my dahlia. But, after some deliberation, I gave Mrs. Kelsey a new dress which my sister in Chicago had sent me the previous year. I had never worn it, because, as my sister should have known, I can't wear yellow. Ill never forget the look on her face when she held itup. "New," she breathed, "brand new.. Even Verner Hals stopped by to tell me that he had found four good retreads for their car at his brother's garage. ""Couldn't risk having the trip fall through for lack of transportation," he said. "That's a kind act, but it lacks a charitable motive!" I told him. He raised an eyebrow, "Who's calling the kettle black?" he said, and laughed. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1959 HEY were scheduled to leave on Saturday. On Friday morning, Mrs. Kelsey was again at my door. She's come to say goodbye, I thought, and resolved to send her away with a kind feeling. I asked her to come in and sit down, and passed a plate of oatmeal cookies. As she talked, her large, strong hands, usually still, pleated the side of her dress. "Mrs. Norris, if?''d had to tell you this a week ago... Well, I just couldn't have, that's all. I thought everyone was down on us then. But now... Everyone's changed. Or else, we're just getting acquainted better." Premonition struck me. Anything happened?" "Yes, I guess you might call it that. We got another letter from Pa's brother in Oregon. Air mail. Says the job fell through. Says to come on up, anyway, if we want to." Her wide mouth lifted in a smile. "But I guess he didn't want us very bad. And the neighbors here have turned out to be so nice. I said to Pa — 'Why leave? Just as we've got to liking it?'" I na that my mouth was hanging open, but I couldn't seem to get it shut. I must have said something, and, presently, she left. By midafternoon, this new development had spread like a pall over the neighborhood. For some reason, they all seemed to hold me responsible. As if 1 could help it! "Tt! S all your do-good ways, Alice!". If you'd been more firm in the first place... I should think you'd learn, at yout age.. By the time I turned on my lawn sprinklers, my ears were burning, and I was in no mood to be pleas- 'Nsee = GOODBYE AND GOOD LUCK, MRS. KELSEY ant when Verner Hals appeared at my front door. "I don't want to hear any more blame!" I snapped. "Now, simmer down, Alice. No one's blaming you." He put his hat on the floor by his chair, and mopped his balding head with his handkerchief. I gave him a glass of ice water, and he sipped it as he talked. "Alice, I realize that this new development is a blow to you, as it is to all of us — you, particularly, because of your proximity. And that's what I want to talk to you about." Tle pressed his mouth in carefully. "At last, after many letters back and forth, ve convinced the Forresters that they should sell their property. That way, there won't be this moving in and out. So, I've got to have it vacant, renovate, and put it up for sale. I was just getting to the point of asking them to move, when they announced that they were leaving. But now — think what a spot I'm in! How will I get them out? Short of eviction?" "Why ask me? I can't get them out, either!" He held up his hand. "Alice, you're probably better acquainted with them than any of us. And they view me in the somewhat dubious light of landlord. Some of our interviews have been — unpleasant. I would find it very difficult to...." "Now, see here, Verner. If you think that I'm going to tell them." "... To come to an understanding, Alice, I want you to go to them this evening. Before they get unpacked. Tell them the property has been put up for sale. They will have 19 to move to Oregon. I will not press for the rent they owe, nor damages to the windows. Just do it in a calm and dignified way. Wish her a goodbye and good luck, something of that sort...."" He picked up his hat. "Coward!" I choked. But there was no use arguing with him. N hour later, my feet dragged the short distance to the Kelseys. My arm was heavy as stone as my knock stilled the clamor within. Mrs. Kelsey opened the door, and I saw that they were just sitting down to supper. "Come right in, Mrs. Norris. It's nice of you to come over." "Good evening. I... Don't want to interrupt your meal. But if I could speak to you for just a minute or two...." "Why, sure. They can go ahead and eat without me. Let's go out on the porch. It's cooler." We sat on the slivery top step. "You'll have to excuse how the house looked," she began, before I could speak. "We haven't got everything unpacked yet." "That's just what I... That lS.. "It's real nice of you to come over, soon's I told you we're staying. Like I told Pa, 'All good neighbors; that's something you don't always find.' This is the first town where people have treated us decent. When you get kicked around from place to place, you get so you don't care. But now, we feel different. Even the boys do." She talked on, while I tried to get my tongue loose from the top of my mouth. "Tm ashamed to admit that we haven't been too good neighbors 20 ourselves. I'm right sorry about the way those kids have pestered you. Today, Pa whaled them good. 'Don't go into her yard again, understand?' he said. Benny yelled, 'Okay!' but Pete didn't say anything, so Pa whaled him again, until he yelled 'Okay!' too." Sudden anxiety creased her forehead. "Haven't been over there today, have they?" "Why, no. No, they haven't." I realized that in all the excitement, I hadn't missed the Kelseys. SHE was saying, ""Pa's promised to fix Mrs. Bates' hen-house. He was over there today. 'That's when she told him about your dahlia. I'm so sorry. I know how I'd feel. But things will be different now. You'll see, Mrs. Norris." She went on talking, saying that Pa had got his old job back as caretaker at the cemetery and that they'd promised him it would be permanent work, that she was going to pay all their bills up, and hoped the boys would be better. As she talked, her voice lifting and falling, I felt smaller and smaller. She had been in need of bread, and we had offered her a stone. When I got home, I called VerRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1959 ner Hals on the phone. I told him all that had happened, and that if he wanted them to leave, he could take care of it himself. Then I hurried over to visit old Mrs. Bates before she could ring me back. Verner stopped by next morning. Said he'd been thinking it over, and that things had probably turned out for the best. He'd decided to buy the old Forrester place himself; said he probably had intended to all the time but didn't realize it. 'The old house wasn't worth much, but he was buying it for the land at the back. Maybe it would be all right to have the Kelseys live there for awhile; maybe they'd clean up the place. He drew one of his deep sighs, and said that by some miracle, maybe Kelsey would even fix up the fences and look after the field. I looked at him, wondering if he didn't know that we'd already had a miracle, one that we wouldn't forget in awhile. He turned his head suddenly, and his eyes met mine. The straight mouth lifted and softened, and as he turned his gaze quickly aside again, I saw something glisten, and I knew that he had shared my thought. Norma A. Wrathall tells us that she appreciates The Relief Society Magazine and the opportunities it offers for writers. More than five years, having moved here from American Fork, Utah, in 1953. "We have lived in Sunnyvale, California, for Iam a native of Grantsville, Utah. During the past few years I have not done much writing until just recently I have tried to get started with it again. It makes me very happy and thankful to be published in The Relief Society Magazine once more. My husband is Morris Wrathall. We have four children, all of whom are quite grownup now. Don is serving in the Eastern States Mission; Carolyn is married and has two children; Camille and Robert are at home. I am employed as a secretary by the Sunnyvale School District, and, with my home, this keeps me quite busy. However, I plan to do as much writing as possible. I am interested chiefly in the short story."" Mrs. Wrathall placed first in the Relief Society Short Story Contest in 1943, second in 1950, and third in 1 &xploring Tew mie ars in Health Basil O'Connor President, 'The National Foundation ITH paralytic polio on the down grade because of the Salk vaccine, The National Foundation is moving forward into a challenging new program of vast significance to everyone concerned with the problem of human disability. The National Foundation, originally the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis, will now launch a broad scientific assault on some of the Nation's other major health problems.... Hope is bright that March of Dimes-supported research, which yielded the powerful polio prevention weapon, may some day soon remove the aura of mystery from other maladies that have long puzzled and pained mankind.. We have set our sights on full investigation of virus diseases, exploration of disorders of the central nervous system and, initially, on two specific new targets — arthritis and congenital malformations, or birth defects. These afflictions annually cripple millions of Americans. No prevention is known for either, nor is there a cure. This broad concept is a direct tribute to the American people, to the volunteers like yourselves who forged the victory over paralytic polio. It is an affirmation of belief that you will continue and increase your support of the bigger fight to score equally great victories in other health fields.... For the past twenty-one years, people of all ages, in all walks of life, have given voluntarily to the March of Dimes to speed the conquest of polio. Medical history undoubtedly will record the Salk vaccine as the first preventive measure ever achieved through the co-operation of science and the public and put into immediate, effective use through the efforts of a nation's medical and lay population,... The need for equally full understanding of the new program is one of the impelling reasons why the March of Dimes will continue to make its own annual appeal direct to the American public. Cloud Feathers Eva Willes Wangsgaard How cold These feathers are! Snow geese nest high on wind Which plucks their down to cover earth In white. Page 21 i hh e Ca lifo mH ta il Ls S LO nN Preston R. Nibley Assistant Church Historian HE first members of the Latter-day Saints Church to arrive in California were 230 men, women, and children who had sailed from New York City in the ship ' 'Brooklyn," on February 4, 1846, and who, after rounding Cape Horn, arrived in San Francisco Bay on July 31st. Six months later, in January 1847, the Sonn oe of the Mormon Battalion, consisting of about 300 men and a few women, arrived at San Diego, after an overland journey. In 1851 a large colony of Latter-day Saints, approximately 500 in number, settled at San Bernardino. 'Thus the Latter-day Saints were prominent in the early history of California. Missionary work was carried on by them to a considerable extent, under the leadership of Parley P. Pratt, Amasa M. Lyman, Charles C. Rich, George QO. Cannon, and other Authorities of the Church; however, in 1857, at the time of the coming of Johnston's Army, President Brigham Young counseled the members of the Church to return to Utah. The great majority of them responded to this call. Actual missionary work in California was not resumed again until 1892, when Elder John L. Dalton was called to labor in the San Francisco Bay region. He performed several baptisms and organized small branches = Photograph by Ted Richardson Submitted by Leo J. Speirs SCENE IN THE DESERT, NEAR TWENTY-NINE PALMS, CALIFORNIA Page 22 THE CALIFORNIA MISSION 23 os A ''Frashers''? Photo Submitted by Richard F. Oyler MT. WHITNEY, CALIFORNIA (14,496 feet high) Thighest summit in the United States, King of the Sierra Nevada Range in Oakland and San Francisco. He was followed by Elder Karl G. Maeser, who continued the work during 1894. Mission presidents who succeeded him were: Henry S. 'Tanner, 1894-96; Ephraim H. Nye, 1896-1901; Joseph E. Robinson, 1901-1919; Joseph W. McMunrin, 1919-32; Alonzo [inckley, 1932-35; Nicholas G. Smith, 1935-37; W. Aird Macdonald, 1937-41; Henry H. Blood, 1941-42; Elijah Allen, 1942-46; Oscar W. McConkic, 1946-50; David [. Stoddard, 1950-51; Bryan L. Bunker, 1951-55; Henry D. Taylor, 1955-55; Jesse A. Udall, 1958-. The California Mission, which included parts of Arizona and Nevada, was divided in January 1942. The dividing linc was established at the northern boundary lines of San Luis Obispo, Kern, and Inyo counties. The northern portion was designated as the Northern California Mission. The southern portion retains the name of the California Mission. On September 30, 1958, there were 3,777 members of the Church in the California Mission, located in eighteen branches. Converts baptized during the year numbered 1,557. Twenty-six Relief Society organizations, with 752 members, were reported in December 1957. Alta H. Taylor is former president of the California Mission Relief Society, and Lela Lee Udall is the present president. Note: The cover for this Magazine, "The California Mission Home, With the Los Angeles Temple in the Background," is reproduced from a photograph by Harold Winn, and was submitted by Sister Taylor. Sce also "Recipes From the California Missicn," by Sister Taylor, page 36. The Silver Leash CHAPTER 1 Beatrice Rordame Parsons HE bus rolled steadily along the dark strip of asphalt which seemed to unwind itself under the wheels. 'The desert was unending. LaRue Harding stared out of the window and shivered. I'm a stranger, she thought. Not only a stranger to this corner of Arizona, but a stranger to her brother-in-law, Herbert Vetterly. He had married LaRue's sister, Amelia, seventeen years ago. I don't even know their children, except as names, LaRue thought unhappily. Erma would be sixteen, now. Joel must be fourteen. Connie, only nine. "They are my nieces and nephew," LaRue spoke softly to herself, "yet they are as distant from me as those eroded peaks which unfold to let the bus go through." Her sister Amelia had written, year after year, asking LaRue to come to Arizona. Now it was too late. Amelia was dead! Her mind went back.... KR RX She had been five when their parents died. She and Amelia, ten years older, had left Arizona and gone to San Francisco to live with a distant relative, whom they called Aunt Mettie. Amelia had been homesick for their home in Fivelakes, for her friends and acquaintances. She had often talked about it to LaRue, even though LaRue was too small to understand. Page 24 "I remember the houses, the streets. I can still see the oldest house in the valley. Hillhigh House, they called it because it was built on a knoll overlooking the town. The hospital is named after our ereat-great-grandfather, Jonas Harding." LaRue was proud to know that Jonas Harding had driven his small, gray burro into the rugged mountains prospecting for gold. She talked about it to LaRue. But LaRue, being a child, saw the small gray burro more clearly than the man. She did not remember Fivelakes. As they grew older, Amelia teased Aunt Mettie to let them return to Arizona for a visit. But Aunt Mettie didn't have money enough to send them. It wasn't until Amelia was nineteen, and had saved enough money to make the trip, that she was able to visit old friends for an extended stay. She renewed acquaintances, and wrote about meeting a Herbert Vetterly. Love began to glow between the lines of her letters to LaRue and Aunt Mettie. "Herb's a wonderful man. He's good, honest. He's going to be an architect...."" A few months later, she wrote that they had fallen in love; that they were to be married in the Mesa Temple. She asked Aunt Mettie to let LaRue come for the wedding. But Aunt Mettie had been ill and LaRue, at nine, could not go alone. Later on, Amelia's letters were THE SILVER LEASH filled with longing to see her sister. "You are growing up, LaRue. We two are the last of the Hardings. I'd like my friends to know you." And as the years passed: "Herb and I would like you to know our children." But it had seemed impossible for LaRue ever to leave Aunt Mettie. Her duty seemed to be there. Even as a child going to school, she had things to do that Aunt Mettie could not do. As LaRue went through high school and on to the university, Aunt Mettie grew more and more feeble, but LaRue had managed to graduate. She found an excellent position in one of the large banks in San Francisco. By then Aunt Mettie was bedfast, and the money LaRue earned kept the dear old lady in comfort. When she died, LaRue, who had always had so much to do, found herself on the verge of a breakdown. It was soon after, that Amelia was killed in the accident which crippled her husband. Herbert Vetterly's letter, written six months after his wife's sudden death, was painfully compelling: I am of little use to myself or the children. I sit in my wheel chair in my room. The children are alone too much. People are kind. Mrs. Jonstone, a neighbor, assists with the housework, does the cooking. We manage, day by day. But the children and I are drifting apart. I worry about them a good deal.... LaRue immediately had written Herb that she would take three weeks leave from the bank, and come for a visit during the month of June. She assured her coworkers that she would return by the first week in July. Although there had been no answer from Herb, LaRue felt she 25 must go. She got several tourist folders and read about Arizona: Area 113,956 square miles. Water, 329 square miles. State Flower, the Saguaro.... The town of Fivelakes... In that corner of Arizona where so much of Western history began, is fast becoming a tourist center. The climate is ideal... The altitude contributing to not-too-warm days and desert-cooled nights... On the Lost Padre River... Where the Lost Padre Dam contributes acres of water for irrigation... A lush green valley... Four dry lakes and Blue Lake nearby gave the town its name.... He ok ok ok S the bus rolled along, LaRue strained her eyes for a glimpse of the valley. It was hard to believe that somewhere — behind the weird arrangement of pink and yellow cliffs, a lush, summertime land of blue lakes and fertile fields would appear. There were miles and miles of barren land to which gray tufts of grass clung stubbornly. She studied the wind-etched patterns in an ocean of sand, and wondered why Amelia had longed to go back to Arizona. As the bus crossed the miles of arid Indian Reservation country, she studied the rude hogans of the ancient peoples, and wondered that they could survive on sand and sun. LaRue was glad she did not have to stay in Arizona! Then, suddenly, the valley appeared, cupped between towering mountains. She could scarcely believe her eyes. She thought, amazedly: It's like those desert plants I've read about — lifting their heads to blossom when the rain has passed. No wonder Amelia had found it a good place to live! Yet, even as she made this small concession to her sister's judgment, LaRue could not accept the valley 26 as her own. The pastry-like contours of the hills made her think of a cake — baked eons before — to rise on one side and fall on the other, as if the oven had been imperfect. She saw yucca and Joshua trees that looked like odd-shaped Marsmen. There were saguaro and tall, straight cacti which looked like the pipes of an organ. In some places they were actually planted to form a sort of fence. There were small, spiny cacti crouched menacingly among gray boulders as if waiting to spring out upon the unwary. She saw tiny green lizards slithering into the sand to escape the turning wheels. She did not see, but her vivid imagination painted in_ her mind, pictures of tarantulas and Gila monsters. LaRue shivered again. Homesickness tugged at her like a leather thong. The beauty and fascination of San Francisco rose in her memory and she could almost smell the Pacific breezes, almost hear the roar of the skyscraper canyons. She knew with uneasy clarity that she could never make this oasis in Arizona her home! When the bus rolled into the station, she wanted to keep her seat and return to the Coast. But her baggage — one suitcase and an overnight bag — was being unloaded by a_ rough-looking, scragglybearded young man in a plaid shirt and Levis. He saw her staring at his face, and grinned, scratching his thin beard. "You'll see a lot of 'em, Lady. Every man around here is getting ready for the Founding Festival. By the time it rolls around, I'll have one of the best beards in the county!" He whistled as he set her bags inside the station. When her bus disappeared in RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1959 muted distance, LaRue followed her bags. 'The station was unpretentious. 'There was a_ cafe with green plastic-covered counter. There were Mexican and Indian dolls with intricately decorated costumes, ranged on shelves. Aztec gods glowered down at her from brass and tin masks, and she remembered that Fivelakes was close to the Mexican border. On the walls she saw murals of pink and orange cliffs which reminded her of castles and fortresses. As the one or two fellow passengers disappeared into waiting cars, LaRue realized that no one had come to meet her. Panic seized her. It had been almost two weeks since she'd written Herb that she would come. She had not heard from him. Could all of them be ill? Or moved away? Or... Something was surely wrong. HE looked out of the window at the road which ran like a gray artery into the town of Fivelakes. 'The highway was being widened. From where she stood it seemed that the town would surely be gobbled up by the machines which sent clouds of acrid dust into the air. The chugging of scoop-shovels, the pounding of rollers beat dully into the cafe. She gazed through the brilliance of the blazing sun, and her head ached. The man behind the counter — bearded, frightening almost, in his western garb — watched her quietly. When he spoke, she jumped. "Get you a cab, Lady?" At her nod he went to phone. "Be here in a minute," he assured her lazily, running his fingers through his dark beard. "Raising this beard for the Founding Festival," he explained smilingly. THE SILVER LEASH She thought it was awful, but she didn't say so. She wasn't really interested in the festival. She'd read about such things. 'There'd be a Kangaroo Court, of course, in the middle of town, where frontier justice would be handed out. Women would wear the traditional swirling skirts of their Mexican neighbors, or the traditional sunbonnets of the pioneers. It would be a fiesta! The taxi, which had been a spinning, orange fleck in the distance, arrived at last in a cloud of dust. The driver put LaRue's bags into the back. When she gave him Herbert Vetterly's address he stared at her in frank amazement. "Why, vouw're the sister Mrs. Vetterly talked about! You're not a bit like her. Your hair is red." He amended quickly, "I mean, auburn." LaRue laughed. Freckles," she said, and was glad that wide-spaced gray-blue eyes, dark brows, and long, dark lashes, compensated for the row of freckles across her nose. Amelia used to call them "sun-kisses." Oddly enough, she hadn't thought of the word for years! The taxi lurched back towards the town, the driver skillfully avoiding loose gravel and hot oil. He chatted easily. "Mrs. Vetterly was a very fine woman. She worked in the Church, in Relief Society. She belonged to the Genealogical Society. She was very proud of her family and of the fact she was a Harding." "I know very little about the Hardings," answered LaRue weakly. She thought, I know so little about my sister. Even her taxi driver knew more! "Red hair and 27 LaRue could remember Amelia, as she had been seventeen years before, when she left Aunt Mettie's to marry Herb. But all the years between were closed to LaRue. Trying to see Amelia's face as it had been during later years, was like looking at the wrong side of the negative, misty, blurred. I'm a Harding, she thought confusedly, yet not one of them at all! She tried to shake away the feeling that she was just a pinprick personality, with no beginning, n end, floating aimlessly into a aie called Fivelakes. 'The driver was explaining how the town had got its name. "Four of the lakes dry up during the summer." He pointed. "But Blue Lake is deep and clear, fine for swimming and fishing." It lay like a silver tureen in the distance. He advised LaRue, smilinglv: "Stay for the Founding Festival and see some fun!" LaRue smiled politely. But her mind refused to think of remaining so long. He driver was still giving her a tourist's glimpse of the valley. "Over there, just under the shadow of Coyote Peak is the Lawson Dairy Farm. Frank and Ellen Lawson are wonderful people. 'They've adopted five children. Now| they are expecting onc of their own.' ARUE looked at the neat, white buildings outlined against the gray of the mountain, and smiled. But again her mind turned down the possibility that the Lawson farm would ever — could ever — mean anything to her! On one side of the highway the land rose in a rolling knoll, topped by a very old, yet dignified house. LaRue had a queer feeling that she 28 had seen it before. 'Then she realized that she was probably remembering it because Amelia had talked about it. It was two stories high, with small attic windows. 'There were wide, comfortable porches, and so much gingerbread trim that LaRue thought of gingerbread cookies. The driver saw that she was interested and explained, "It's almost one hundred years old. The oldest house in the valley. It used to belong to one of the Hardings. But now it belongs to Clyde Rutherford. Everyone calls him 'Grandie,' because he's Dr. Alan Rutherford's grandfather. He does not live in the old house. It's for sale. Grandie lives with the aid of a day-housekeeper in that small red-brick cottage nearby." They had passed the old house, but LaRue could still see it raising its proud old head to look out over the valley. It had belonged to a Harding, and for that reason she promised herself that someday she would see it close up. The taxi turned abruptly into a tree-lined street and stopped before a neatly kept white bungalow with maroon trim. 'The driver took LaRue's bags from the car and put them on the porch. 'Then he touched his cap, and the taxi disappeared around a corner. LaRue stood there, _ feeling strange, awkward. Was no one expecting her? She put out her finger to reach the doorbell, but before she pushed it, a small girl with flying brown braids, came racing from the back yard, followed by a tan and white dog. She stood there, her hands loosely clasped behind her, her large, blue eyes wide open, curious. 'The dog sniffed at LaRue's red sandals. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1959 After a long, embarrassing scrutiny, the child spoke. "Are you my Aunt LaRue?" Then, as LaRue managed a smile and a nod, she added critically: "You don't look at all like my Mommy looked!" LaRue swallowed nervously, * must be Connie?" She held out her hand. But the child did not move to take it. She called to the dog. "Come here, Atlast."" At LaRue's frank look of puzzlement, she ex- 'You plained: "He was a stray. Daddy let me keep him. So I have a dog vat dae!" LaRue smiled. "Where is everyone?" Connie did not answer, just opened the screen and beckoned LaRue inside. "Daddy can't walk," she said simply. LaRue found the house neat, comfortable, with the bedrooms on one side of a long hall, the living rooms on the other. She looked around. So this is where my sister lived, she thought painfully, these are the things she touched. Her heart was heavy with questions. How many times did Amelia's hands polish this furniture?) How many times did her laughter ring through these quiet rooms? ONNIE was tugging at her sleeve. They went into the living room. At first LaRue thought it was empty. Then a man with wide shoulders, very dark, crisp hair, rolled his chair from the shadows, and she saw Herbert Vetterly for the first time. His dark eyes, sunken with pain and distress, surveyed her carefully. It was a moment be- THE SILVER LEASH fore he put out his hand. "Amelia would be glad to know that you have come." He tried to hide it, but LaRue caught a tense criticism in Herb's voice. She wanted to make him understand. Wanted to make him know those long, busy years with the aunt who had taken the place of her mother. But they were over. No need to speak of them now. Perhaps some other time.... ARUE was aware that someone else had entered the room. She turned. For an instant she thought it was Amelia. The same soft pale hair, the same lovely blue eyes.... "How are you Aunt LaRue?" asked the girl, and LaRue knew her to be Erma. She would have put out her arms, but Erma's blue eyes were unfriendly, her tone distant. LaRue kept her arms at her sides. Then Joel came in. He was tall, dark like his father. "Tl take your bags, Aunt LaRue," he said politely. His coolness chilled his aunt. He went out upon the porch, came back with her bags swinging easily from his large hands. He carried them to one of the bedrooms. LaRue stood there awkwardly. Herb pushed his chair back into the shadows. Erma moved out of the room. Joel left the bedroom door ajar. He tweaked one of Connie's <> 29 brown braids and she followed him out. "Perhaps you'd like to unpack," said Herb from the shadows. LaRue crossed the hall, feeling the temporary briefness of her unwelcome visit. I'll only stay a little while, she told herself, swallowing hurt, angry tears. Yet she did not blame any of them for not wanting her. She knew by the daintiness of the curtains and furniture that this had been Erma's room. She had moved, no doubt, into Connie's room. LaRue felt more than ever the intruder. She decided to unpack only the most necessary things. Almost surreptitiously she hung one or two of her cotton frocks in the empty clothes closet. Her hands shook as she put her handkerchiefs into an empty drawer and a small, amber cut-glass bottle, with a tiny golden cap. Her movements were unsteady as she unscrewed the cap. The fragrance of white carnations flooded the room. Amelia had given LaRue the pretty bottle the day she had left for Fivelakes. The words she had said, then, were engraved on LaRue's mind: "... So you'll never forget me, darling, and always remember that love is everlasting...." (To be continued) Quiescence June N. Ashton The wind? Sweeping, swirling, Raising dunes of powder Across lonely prairies of snow Ceases. Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, January 1, and January 15, 1899 "Por tHe Ricutrs or TuE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RiGHTS OF THE Women or ALL Nations" RELIEF SOCIETY IN OMAHA, NEBRASKA: | Sister Jane S. Richards expressed her joy and satisfaction in being present.. Referred to the time when the society was organized with but a few members, in the days of the Prophet Joseph Smith. Then they endured many hardships... Subsequently finding a peaceful home in the valleys of the mountains where the socicty was reorganized by President Brigham Young and has spread and grown until now a socicty is found in almost every branch and ward of the Church, numbering in all about thirty thousand. Sister Richards said Sister Zina D. Tf. Young who now presides over the society in all the world, would be pleased to hear of an organization in Omaha.... —J. L. Hatch SARAH] E. CARMICHAEL: As Jofty mountains whose crests ever glisten with eternal snow and hear strange and weird music... So with the poet who hears music in the floating wind whispers in the forest; to whom the sca tells its wonderful secrets, seeing glory in the sunsct, feeling peace in the moonlight, and intuitively understanding the melody of birds.... Such a beautiful mind was Sarah E. Carmichael's... To her inspired soul the Bible was an open book.... She need not to go to Switzerland to see the majesty of God displayed in her wondrous snowclad mountains, her wild scenery, her ravishing sunsets.... —Lydia D. Alder WORDS THAT BLESS. The world of hope in which you live, The words of comfort you often give, The kindly letters your hand has penned To son or brother or distant friend, Not only brighten the jeweled crown Which you in heaven will wear, But help to swell the throng who hope To meet and love you there. —Alofa HOME OWNERSHIP: Homes of their own for the common people was the sentiment Brigham Young tricd to inculcate and practically to demonstrate in these mountain vales during the period of early settlement here. Who does not know that the home is the center from which springs the best in life and in government?... The home which is our own is the ideal one, the children enshrine it in their memory.... —Editorial GRADUATION EXERCISES FOR A NURSES' CLASS: The nurses' class taught by Dr. Margaret C. Roberts... For the last six months or more, held its graduating cxercises on Tuesday, December 20th.... Dr. Roberts gave the instructions free in the interest and under the auspices of the Relief Society.. The members of the class acquitted themselves admirably, and the Dr. Herself read a very able and highly constructive paper. Counselor Annie T. Hyde on behalf of the Stake Board presented to Dr. Roberts in a neat and happy speech a handsome rocking chair in appreciation of her labors... And the class presented a silver cake dish filled with lovely flowers. —News Note Page 30 EST Germany has encouraged women (whose civil rights and opportunities were drastically curtailed during the war) to develop themselves to the highest degree possible. Many now fill top positions in the fields of law, medicine, education, journalism, industry, and the arts. In May and June of 1958 the Government acted as host to ten outstanding women from America, selected and invited by the German Parliament. They represented a wide cross section of American women's achievement. A mutually beneficial exchange of ideas and national understanding and friendship resulted. GALLY CARRIGHAR'S exciting travel book "Moonlight at Midday (Knopf, New York), describes Alaska as a land of "enormous invitation,' where the native people are the world's supreme example of co-operation and skill in mastering a difficult environment. Many thoughtful suggestions are offered for helping the Eskimos through a time of transition as they adjust to the ways of the Forty-ninth State. Miss MARGARET L. COIT is the author of Mr. Baruch, chosen by the National Council of Women as its Book of the Year for 1958. 'The author gave almost six years of work to this 784-page volume, fellowships from Brown UniWoman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon versity and some assistance from the publishers, Houghton Mifflin, aided with the problem of financing. Miss Coit had previously written John C. Calhoun: American Portrait, a Pulitzer prize winner in biography. Mr. Baruch is a portrait of a later period of American history. D*. LOIS HIGGINS, internationally recognized Director of the Illinois Crime Prevention Bureau, while completing a world-wide survey of crime and delinquency conditions, spent two hours with Queen Frederica in Greece. King Paul and the Queen give much attention to improving delinquency in their country. Both devote much time to a school for delinquent boys, which is under the personal supervision of the King. It has no barred doors or windows, but of 1200 boys placed there, only one has gone astray. RS. LOUISE W. ILSE, Associate Manager in charge of sales and communications for the Equitable Life Assurance Company, has been named "Business Woman of the Year," by the National Federation of Business and Professional Women's Clubs, Inc. She has a Doctor's Degree in history from Columbia University; she does oil paintings, plays the piano, and as a photographer she has won many trophies for her colored slides. Page 31 GD EDITORIAL c~O VOL. 46 Strengthening Community Ulrtues T the recent General Relief Society Conference, Elder Mark E. Petersen of the Council of the Twelve and one of the advisors from that Council to Relief Society, impressively called to the attention of Relief Society officers and members one of the original assignments given to Relief Society by the Prophet Joseph Smith, namely, "to assist by correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of the community." Elder Petersen declared that in his opinion the need for this service was greater at the present time than at any other time within his recollection. He said we are passing through the worst moral breakdown of our generation, and he admonished the sisters to be alert to evil conditions within their respective communities and to meet their responsibilities toward the important assignment given them by the Prophet. It is of interest that at the time the Prophet gave to the sisters of Relief Society the injunction to correct the morals and strengthen the virtues of the community, there was no particular wave of crime or delinquency in Nauvoo, such as we have in many communities today, to evoke such mandate. Nauvoo was a beautiful, prosperous city that had been reclaimed from the wilderness by an industrious people led by a Prophet of God. While, undoubtedly, there were some of the people whose conduct was at variPage 32 ance with the teachings of the Church, the community as a whole was one of highest moral rectitude. Nauvoo was a city of brotherly love, a righteous city, a city of the saints. It is of interest, also, that, at that same time, women were not generally identified with community life. Why, then, would the Prophet give such an assignment to the Relief Society? Certainly he knew the ways of men. He had prophetic insight into the evils that would thrust themselves upon the world. He had a divinely inspired comprehension of the influence of women and the place of Relief Society in helping them to make a better world. Now, with world problems creating an age of tensions and insecurity, with crime and delinquency on the rise, with the general breakdown of moral integrity in public, as well as in private life, it is well that Relief Society shall be reminded of its responsibilities in these matters. It is time that serious consideration be given to how best we are to meet our responsibilities. To achieve a virtuous community we must first develop virtuous citizens, for the community is but a body of individuals living together in one place. No community can be any stronger morally than the combined moral strength of the individuals who comprise it. 'Therefore, there is no sounder approach JANUARY 1959 NO. 1 EDITORIAL for Relicf Society in meeting its responsibilities toward good community life, than vigorously to function in the building of citizens of strong moral character. The place where good character is most effectively built is the home. This has always been true; it is true today. If attention is not conscientiously and continuously given to this important matter in the home, it is not to be expected that it will be accomplished elsewhere. Good character is developed through love, acceptance, and feclings of security. It is engendered in children through wise teachings and through discipline that leads toward self-discipline. It is tremendously influenced through parental attitudes and examples. A lack of restraint and_ self-discipline on the part of the parents can outweigh all their good precepts and adversely affect children throughout their entire lives. As Relief Society helps its members toward proper attitudes, as it 33 guides them in their homemaking, as it teaches them the doctrines of the Church particularly with regard to home and family life, as it awakens in them a sense of responsibility to maintain their homes and guide their children in harmony with Church teachings, as it helps them to see the relationship of what they do to what their children are most apt to do—to this extent the Society will help them to be individuals of strong moral character themselves, and it will also be an effective agent in helping them to rear children of strong moral character. Thus, Relief Socicty best meets its responsibilities to assist in correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of the community. Ours is not necessarily the role of the campaigner against one or another of the existing community evils; ours is the role of the steady, consistent builder of men and women of integrity and moral fortitude who will uphold and promote virtuous community life. —BSS. Ome lsoles Coven. New Ste for the Reliof Society Mlagazine HE General Board of Relief Society calls attention to the use of four colors on the covers of The Relief Socicty Magazine. This feature was initiated in November 1958, with the use of the plaque in the Relief Society Building, the same picture which was used for the program of the Relief Society General Conference. In December, a reproduction of the lovely painting "The Rest on the Flight Into Egypt," by Gerard David, was used as the cover for the Magazine. Beginning with this issue, January 1959, the missions of Continental United States will be represented by cover pictures in four colors. Following the plan commenced in January 1956, featuring the foreign missions, the Spanish-speaking missions, and the Southwest Indian Mission, each of the other missions of Continental United States will be represented by cover pictures in four colors. A brief history of each mission, with illustrations, will be presented, and recipes from each mission will be featured. Votes TO THE FIELD Relief Society Assigned &vening Meeting of Sast Sunday in larch HE Sunday night meeting to be held on Fast Day, March 1, 1959, has again been assigned by the First Presidency for use by the Rclief Society. A suggestive program for this meeting has been sent to the stakes in pamphlet form. It is suggested that ward Relief Society presidents confer with their bishops immediately to arrange for this mecting. Suggested songs for the Singing Mothers are: "I]ow Lovely Are Thy Dwellings," by Liddle; "Phe Lord's Prayer," by Gates, or "The Lord's Prayer," by Malotte. If music is not available in your local stores, it may be purchased from music dealers advertising in this issue of the Magazine. Scat. Subscrt tions Presented in Ay ril P P HE award subscriptions presented to Magazine representatives for having obtained 75 per cent or more subscriptions to the Magazine in relation to their enrolled Relief Society members, are not awarded until after the stake Magazine representatives' annual reports have been audited. Award cards for these subscriptions for the year 1958 will be mailed to ward and stake Magazine representatives about April 1, 1959. Bound Volume of 1958 Mlagazines ELIEF Society officers and members who wish to have their 1958 issues of The Relicf Society Magazine bound may do so through The Deseret News Press, 31 Richards Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah. (See advertisement on page 70.) The cost for binding the twelve issues in a permanent cloth binding is $2.50, leather $3.80, including the index. A limited number of the 1958 Magazines are available at the offices of the General Board of Relief Society, 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City 11, Utah, for $2 for twelve issues. It is recommended that wards and stakes have one volume of the 1958 Magazines bound for preservation in ward and stake Relief Society libraries. Page 34 lo, Shank You! Tue First ANnp Griear DECISION NO, THANK YOU! HEN once we have charted our course, and have decided on a lifetime goal, the results of which are even more far-reaching, even into the unlimited boundaries of eternity — then all the small decisions that must be made each day are but the unit building stones in the structure of our lives. Lach accessory decision becomes, with practice, almost automatic, and requires less and less weighing of alternate possibilities. It is the solving of the first problem, and the setting of our direction that is most important. 'The realization that our bodies are the temples of our spirits, and that they arc most precious to us, lcads us to a desire to keep them as beautiful and as healthy as may be within our power. It is true, as must be known to us, if we are observing, that all are not given equally strong bodies to begin with, but all of us can try to maintain the strength and vigor which is originally given to us, and in many cases we can greatlv increase that health and energy by obeying the laws of well-being — instructions which are simple and plain in their implications and in their purpose. The cultivated lands, and even the untilled earth, provide for us a great abundance of wholesome food and drink. Recall the gold expanse of wheatfields, reaching to far horizons; the orchards bending with a harvest of fruit; the garden rows in green splendor. Think of autumn and the squash and pumpkins heaped high, corn drying in the sunlight, apples ready for the frozen months of winter. Perhaps we should think more often of "Every herb in the season thereof, and every fruit in the season thereof; all these to be used with prudence and thanksgiving.... All grain is ordained for the use of man... To be the staff of life.... All grain is good for the food of man." (D & C 89: 11, 14). It is our privilege and our blessing to rejoice in the richness of the earth and to select the foods and the drinks that will make our bodies strong and beautiful. We should be able to say "No, thank you!" for it is not a characteristic of wisdom nor an attribute of happiness, to barter the lasting blessings, and the great rejoicing, for some temporary compliance with the offerings of those who do not know of the discipline and the promise. BE HONEST WITH YOURSELF! Page 35 Recipes From the California Mission Submitted by Alta H. Taylor HE Southland, comprising the California Mission, is truly a melting pot, with many nationalities living in the area. No matter where one's homeland may be, he can find his native foods being featured attractively in many restaurants. Because of this mingling of peoples, there are no dishes typical of the mission. In this land of sunshine, sca foods, fresh fruits, vegetables, and nuts abound in all seasons. Within the boundaries of the mission, are centers for the production of some of these foods. Indio is the date center of the world, with grapes and citrus fruits also being produced on a alrge scale. The area around Fallbrook, Vista, and Escondido is famous for avocados, fruits, and vegetables. The recipes we have selected as representative of the California Mission feature these foods we enjoy in such abundance. Fruit SALAD 2 c. Fresh pineapple (diced) 1 c, miniature marshmallows 1 c. Fresh orange sections 1 c. Commercial sour cream 1 c. Shredded coconut Prepare fruit, drain, and chill. Just before serving, combine quickly with soured cream. (Canned pineapple chunks and canned mandarin sections may be substituted for fresh fruit.) Prcan PIE 3 eggs "* ¢. Sugar (scant) " ¢. Pecans 1 c. White syrup 1 tsp. Vanilla Whisk eggs lightly, don't beat. Add vanilla, nuts, sugar, and syrup. Pour into unbaked crust. Bake 10 minutes at 450 degrees, reduce to 350 for 30 minutes. Frozen Lemon Dessert 1 c. Crushed vanilla wafers 2 tbsp. Butter (melted) 2 tbsp. Sugar Combine and press into refrigerator tray. Reserve some for the top. Filling: 1 15-ounce can of sweetened condensed milk "2 ¢. Lemon juice 7" tsp. Almond flavoring 1 tsp. Grated rind 2 eggs, separated Beat egg yolks until thick, add to milk, stir in lemon juice and rind, add flavoring. Beat egg whites until stiff. Fold into milk mixture. Pour into tray and freeze. BROILED AVOCADOS Choose medium-sized avocados, peel, and quarter them. Make a filling of diced ham, shrimp, or crab meet, combined with chopped celery and hard boiled eggs. Moisten with mayonnaise or white sauce. Sprinkle with buttered bread crumbs and broil 2 minutes, or until crumbs are browned. Spicep Nuts Mix together in saucepan: 1 c. Sugar 44 c. Diluted canned milk 7 tsp. Cinnamon Page 36 Boil until a soft ball forms in cold water. Remove from fire and add 1 c. Nuts (almonds, walnuts, or pecans), 1 tsp. Vanilla. Turn gently until well coated. Pour onto wax paper and break into pieces. OrancGeE Date Nut Breap % c. Orange juice % tsp. Salt 1 c. Chopped dates % tsp. Soda 2 tbsp. Melted shortening 1 Cc. Sugar 1 tsp. Vanilla c. Chopped nuts 1 beaten egg 1, tbsp. Grated orange peel 2 ¢. Sifted flour Pour orange juice in bowl and add hot water. Add beaten egg, melted shortening, dates, and vanilla. Then add the dry ingredients which have been sifted together. Beat well and stir in chopped nuts and orange peel. Bake in loaf tin at 350 degrees for one hour. Deserted Si arm Yard Maude Rubin Their red boards dulled by the brush of years, The barn doors idle on rusted hinges; The creek runs free through fallen weirs, The water-wheel stilled. When carmine tinges The western sky, six half-grown quail Follow their mother out of the grass— Their sheltered lee near the old fence rail— And pecking briskly while shadows mass, Finish their peaceful meal... No cock-crow wakes Next morning's hush. No lowering call; No milk-pail swings; on the cedar shakes White frost; empty the old corral.. Only the creak of the old red doors Reminds me again of morning chores. HANDY HINT Use a tail or wing feather of a chicken or waterfowl to clean lint from the sewing machine. — Mabel S. Cordon RECIPES FROM THE CALIFORNIA MISSION % c. Boiling water 37 1 tsp. Baking powder You Can Sew, l= Bound ('Buttonholes Jean R. Jeuuimgs O you always shy away from making bound _ buttonholes, even though you know they are the best kind of closing for the dress or suit you want to make? Many women do so, feeling that they are too hard to make or too much trouble. Bound buttonholes need not be a stumbling block in your dressmaking. With this new casy and sure method, it is possible to have professional buttonholes every time. Remember, though, that this is possible only when care is taken to have absolute accuracy at all times. Some garments lend themselves to the use of bound buttonholes more than others. They are hard to make successfully in fabrics that have a loose or open weave. Nor are they successful in dresses that are to be laundered repeatedly. The agitation of washing tends to cause the corners to fray out. Make them in fabrics that will not find their way to the washing machine. Practice making your buttonholes in a sample of material until you are sure of yourself and know how to do them right. Never try making them the first time on the garment itself, for you cannot do them over to correct any mistakes. The section of the garment in which the buttonholes are to be made should be reinforced. The interfacing on a jacket front is not always satisfactory for this purpose. Such interfacings as tailor's canvas and pelon are too stiff. It is better to use a strip of fine muslin or cotton wigan underneath the buttonholes to reinforce and support them. Page 38 INTERFACING ONT oN FR; of CENTER ee FIGURE 1 LOCATION LINES FOR BUTTONITOLES Tne First Strep After the backing has been basted in place, mark on it two parallel lines indicating the length of the buttonholes. 'Transfer these to the right side by stitching over them with machine basting in a contrasting thread. Cross the parallel lines with location lines as illustrated in Figure 1. Cut a lengthwise strip of fabric 1 1/2 inches wide and twice the YOU CAN SEW—X! I—BOUND BUTTONHOLES | | aoe length of the total length of buttonholes. For six onc-inch buttonholes, the strip for binding should be 12 inches long. Now fold the strip over 1/2 inch and stitch a tuck 1/8 inch from the fold. Repeat on the other side of the strip. You will now have two 1/8 inch tucks which are 1/4 inch apart. (See Figure 2.) Cut into sections twice as long as the marked buttonhole size. SeconD STEP Now shorten the machine stitch and stitch the right side of the binding to the right side of the garment by placing one fold of tuck on the location linc, marked by the machine basting. Stitch the marked length of the buttonhole on the original tuck stitching, fastening thread securely on cach end by retracing stitches (Figure 3). Repeat stitching on other tuck, making parallel lines. On the wrong side, cut between parallel lines of stitching to 3/8 inch from each and clip diagonally to each end of the stitching. (Figure 4.) Turn the binding strip to the wrong side. Pull ends to square corners. On the wrong side stitch back and forth over triangle (formed by cutting), and strip at end of buttonhole. Do not stitch through the body of the garment. Repeat at other end. (Figure 5.) Finish buttonholes off on the wrong side by slashing the facing and hemming edges down against stitching at the back of buttonholes. Truncs To REMEMBER Buttonholes should follow the grain line of the material. They should be placed so that they run back from the center front or center back line of the garment. Start 39 Oursipe | FIGURE 2 INSIDE | OUTSIDE FIGURE 3 { INSIDE | FIGURE 4 OUTSIDE tINS/IDE FIGURE 5 them % inch over toward the raw edge or to the left of the center line. This makes allowance for the space taken up in sewing on buttons. When the garment is fastened, the buttons and inside corner of buttonholes should mect on the center line. A very attractive variation of bound buttonholes can be made by inserting a small cord or drawing yarn through the tucks that form the binding. Pull the yarn through with a large blunt-end needle 40 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1959 after bindings have been sewed in place. To allow the button to slide through easThis treatment is especially uscful on maily. Measure the width of your button terials that are soft and press very flat. And add to it the measure of its thickIt helps to make the binding stand out ness. 'Thus, a one-inch button that is % firmly. Inch thick would require a buttonhole In planning the size of buttonholes, that measures 1% inches in length, remember that they must be long enough f Chestia Chadwick Tracy s Quilts Flave Made Mlany Homes Beauti ul ITH needle and thread as her most beloved tools, Celestia Chadwick Tracy, Brigham City, Utah, now eighty-seven years old, has made hundreds of quilts—for her children and grandchildren, for her friends and neighbors, for Relief Society, and for her own home. Her useful hobby, begun in girlhood, flowered in the early years of her marriage, when she lived in the isolated ranching country of Raft River Stake. She made her home beautiful by covering the beds with intricately pieced quilts, and the children's cots were decorated with quilts made in exquisite stitching designs. She learned that a true homemaker can create beauty in any place and under difficult circumstances. At the age of forty-five she was left a widow with eight children to support. She managed most of the affairs of the ranch, caring for livestock, making butter and cheese; she raised a large garden and cooked and sewed for her family—and in the evenings she pieced quilts, braided rugs, embroidered pillowslips, and crocheted many decorative articles. In 1896, she joined the Relief Society and has served since that time in executive and teaching capacities, and in the work mecting, giving freely of her time, her skill and knowledge; she has always manifested a neighborly concern for her sisters. She has been a visiting teacher for more than sixty years, and her gracious personality has been a blessing to hundreds of homes, where she has found her field of service enlarged by sharing her many blessings. She Rewarding Sime Elsie Sim Hansen HILE waiting impatiently for a bus one crisp autumn morning, a red and orange maple leaf came floating gently down from the maple tree across the street, and for a few brief seconds it paused on the brim of my brown felt hat. "What a delightful trimming," a pert, little, gray-haired lady standing beside me said, as she carefully removed the leaf and held it in her hand. I smiled and nodded briefly, and then again became absorbed in my thoughts. "It's beautiful isn't it?" "What?" I asked absent-mindedly. "This leaf I have in my hand. A person would never suspect that these rich autumn hues were present in this leaf all summer, but were so dominated by the green of the chlorophyll in the leaf that they could not be seen. Now for a short period of time we have been permitted to enjoy these gorgeous colors before the tree discarded the leaf," she remarked, glancing up into my face to see if I was listening. "How interesting, and also how depressing," I said, surprised into answering by the elderly lady's knowledge. Encouraged by my remark, she rejoiced. "It really isn't depressing at all. It is merely fulfilling the measure of its creation." "Yes, I suppose so, but I dislike to see the leaves and flowers turn brown and die every fall, as if nature no longer had any interest in the earth." "That is because you do not understand. Instead of nature losing interest, it is quietly preparing the earth for a newness of life. Instead of autumn being a period when some people feel sad, it should be a time of great rejoicing,' she said, her face lighting like a child's. "Perhaps you are right, but to me spring always has, and always will be the most refreshing and delightful time of the year," I stated emphatically. The woman smiled a warm, comforting smile, and then said, "That is because you are young. Spring is for youth. It is a period of beginnings. But to older people, the autumn may seem a rewarding time. With the coming of the fall, we receive just payment for all the efforts we have put forth. If we have made thorough preparation during the preceding months, our harvest is bountiful." "And what if we fail to make thorough preparation for the harvest, what then?" I asked the older woman. She looked at me quizzically for a moment, and then said, "There is always hope for a better year, if we do not lose faith. Nature is our most ardent and patient teacher. In the spring she gives us a time of planting. Summer is our time of application and cultivation. Autumn a time of recompense and adjustment, for autumn sends her promise long before fulfillment." Just then the bus came into view and, placing her hand on my arm, she said quietly, "Try and learn to love the autumn my dear, for it is autumn that tints the earth with colors from every season, and it is the promise and accumulation of the earth's treasures." Page 41 Hulda Parker, General Secretary-Treasurer All matcrial submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Relicf Socicty Handbook of Instructions. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Velma N. Simonsen SOUTH AUSTRALIAN MISSION, TASMANIAN DISTRICT, HOBART BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY Seated, center front: Elizabeth Allen; scated left to right: June Allen, Cecily Bell; Fay Docking, First Counselor; June King, President, Charlotte Sheffield, Miss U. S. A.; Mabel Prichard. Back row, standing, left to right: Olive Sellars, Nancy Mitchell; Muriel Woolley; Phyllis White, Second Counsclor; Gwendoline Spong, Secretary; Francis 'Travers; Mavis Hill. Velma N. Simonsen, President, South Australian Mission Relief Society, reports: "The Hobart Branch is probably located one of the farthest from Church headquarters of any Relief Society in the Church, yet they fecl a close sisterhood to all the sisters of the Church. This branch entertained Miss Charlotte Sheffield, Miss U. S. A., and Miss Sheffield was proud to be associated with these lovely sisters." Page 42 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 43 Photograph submitted by Edna J. Broadbent NORTH CARBON STAKE (UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, August 31, 1958 Front row, left to right: Vesta Morgan, organist; Geraldine Thomas, chorister; Edna J. Broadbent, President, North Carbon Stake Relief Society. Sister Broadbent reports: "Our enrollment of Singing Mothers is fifty-five members, but due to the holiday when this picture was taken, the number represented is fewer. We sang for thc August quarterly conference, and have presented the music for other conferences." Photograph submitted by Orah Van Wagoner PROVO STAKE (UTAH) RELIEF SOCIETY SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE ON THREE DIFFERENT OCCASIONS Mrs. Mary Day, chorister, stands in the center (in dark dress); Arnolene Snow, organist, stands at Sister Day's left (in light-colored dress). Orah H. Van Wagoner, President, Provo Stake Relief Society, reports: "Six wards comprise the Provo Stake. 'These Singing Mothers have been together for the past three years, singing for morning and afternoon sessions of stake conference on three different occasions, the last time being in June 1958. They also sing at many other Church meetings. Many of them have sung in the Tabernacle at general conferences under the direction of Florence J. Madsen." 44 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1959 Photograph submitted by Martha B. Richards FRESNO STAKE (CALIFORNIA) SINGING MOTHERS FURNISH MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE Martha B. Richards, President, I'resno Stake Relief Society, stands at the right on the front row; Jean H. Brink, First Counselor, is fourth from the left in the third row; Viorene Wardle, Second Counselor, fifth from the right in the second row; Marguerite Davis, Secretary-Treasurer, fifth from the left in the fourth row; Leida Anderson, chorister, third from the right in the front row; Mary Thompson, organist, second from the right in the front row. Photograph submitted by Afton Anderson WEISER STAKE (IDAHO) RELIEF SOCIETY ANNUAL BRANCH CONVENTION, NEW MEADOWS, IDAHO, August 26, 1958 Front row, seated, left to right: Clara McMurdie; LaVina Yardley, President, New Meadows Branch; Bertha Curry; Jeannette Hadley, Second Counselor, Weiser Stake Relief Society; Jessie 'Thomas, President, Cascade Branch Relief Society; Dora Thomas; Mary Larsen, stake visiting teacher message leader; Norma Engen, President, McCall Branch Relief Society. Second row, standing, left to right: Kate Hadley, stake literature class leader; Effa Campbell; Grace Burt; Gertrude Stephens; Afton Anderson, President, Weiser Stake Relief Society; Irene Winegar, stake Magazine representative; Mae Hulse; Lenora Piper, President, Council Branch Relief Society. Back row, standing, left to right: Violet Dewey; Martha Engen; Helen Manley; NOTES FROM THE FIELD 45 Bessie Blackburn; Jane Ellis; Lavenia Bybee; Veda Brown, stake theology class leader; Anona Burt, stake social science class leader; Helen Cannon, Secretary, Weiser Stake Relief Society; Olga Poro; Ruth Armstrong. Sister Anderson reports: "Each summer the Weiser Stake Relief Society Board holds a branch convention in the northern part of our stake for four branches which are located at least one hundred miles from our stake union mectings. Because of this great distance, and because of the icy roads in the wintertime, the sisters of these branches are seldom able to attend union meeting. The purpose of this convention is to become better acquainted with the sisters in the branches and to introduce them to the material for the coming year in all departments. We hold sessions both in the morning and afternoon, with a special program given on visiting teaching. This year there was an excellent display of the articles that had been made on work meeting day by the branches. The total attendance was forty-eight (some of the sisters had to leave before the picture was taken)." Photograph submitted by Winona U. Stevens LETHBRIDGE STAKE (CANADA), BARNWELL WARD ANNIVERSARY PARTY, March 17, 1958 Seated at the left, Mabel Howells, social science class leader; seated at the right, Francis Bullock, visiting teacher message leader. Standing, left to right: Lucille Pierson, Secretary-Treasurer; Myrl Jensen, work meeting leader; Hazel Jensen, Magazine representative; Ellen Johnson, Work Director Counselor; Ela Mercer, President; Erma Nielsen, Education Counselor; Merril Hough, literature class leader; Hazel Tanner, chorister. Sister Mercer reports: "The picture is of our officers and teachers taken with the table decorations for our 17th of March party. The flowers were yellow daffodils and blue iris. The dolls were dressed in foam rubber to represent each department. A miniature piano stood in front of the organist and a music stand in front of the chorister. The dolls were in yellow and blue. Not present when the picture was taken: Virginia Johnson, organist, and Ruth Anderson, theology class leader." Winona U. Stevens is president of Lethbridge Stake Relief Society. 46 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1959 SS Photograph submitted by Evyln Richardson UINTAH STAKE (UPAH) WOOD CRAFTS DISPLAY AT SEMIANNUAL WORKSHOP FOR WARD LEADERS Scated, left to right: Aleda Heiner, Secretary-Treasurer, Uintah Stake Relief Society; Doris Walker, First Counselor; Evyln Richardson, President; Mildia Jones, Second Counsclor; Mary Freeman, work meeting leader; LaVar Anderson and Josephine Taylor, who collected and decorated the articles. Standing in the back row are: Nancy Havin, who gave a demonstration on canning; Hazel Stevens, Utah State nutritionist; Jessie Eller, Home Demonstration Agent; Alta Rist and Helen Stevens, county nurses, who gave a demonstration on personal hygiene and beauty care. Photograph submitted by Della H. Teeter DENVER STAKE (COLORADO) PRESENTS DRAMATIZATION "SHAKESPEARE IN OUR LIVES" AT VISITING TEACHERS CONVENTION, May 22, 1958 Maralyn Hess, stake literature class leader, who was in charge of the dramatization, ls seated in the front row, second from the right; Madelyn Silver, Third Ward literature class leader, who directed the dramatization, is seated sixth from the right in the front row. Chorister, Reta Beck, stands fourth from the right on the second row; Manita Fowler, organist, first on the left in the back row; Della H. Teeter, President, Denver Stake Relief Society, stands third from the right on the second row, with her Counsclor Mollie E. Richardson standing at Sister Teeter's left, and Counselor Iah Smith, next to Sister Richardson. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 47 President 'I'ceter reports: "Phe dramatization "Shakespeare in Our Lives,' adapted from a play by Alberta H. Christensen of the General Board of Relief Society, was presented by stake literature class leader Maralyn Hess and directed by Madelyn Silver. The stake Singing Mothers furnished the music for the convention and the dramatization under the direction of stake chorister Reta Beck, accompanied by stake organist Manita Fowler. The summer messages were presented by stake visiting teacher class leader Gladys Rusk, and a message and instructions to the visiting teachers were given by Della H. Teeter. A social hour followed the convention, with refreshments served under the direction of Counselors Mollie E. Richardson and Tah Smith." Photograph submitted by Evelyn N. Binns RICHLAND STAKE (WASHINGTON) RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS AT VISITING TEACHERS CONVENTION, August 1958 Left to nght: Jeanette Bell, Education Counselor; Edna Reynolds, Work Director Counselor; Evelyn N. Binns, President; Dorothy Dyring, Secretary-Treasurer. Sister Binns reports: ""\We were very proud of the outcome of our evening, as we had two hundred visiting teachers in attendance. The program was very well received, and the reception was lovely. We felt that the convention was outstanding and a success. The theme for this year's visiting teaching was used as our theme for the evening—'Truths to Live By.' Grapes and wheat were used in our decorations. Posters were sent to the wards two wecks in advance of the convention, the heart on the poster signifying visiting teaching to be the heart of Relief Society. The one hundred per cent visiting teaching program was started in our stake four years ago, so this year we felt it important to recognize our one hundred per cent visiting teachers from each year of the wards by giving them ribbon awards, one color for each year. Next year an additional color will be added." 48 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1959 Photograph submitted by Elnora T. Loveland WEST BOISE STAKE (IDAHO) VISITING TEACHERS CONVENTION May 19, 1958 Elnora T. Loveland, President, West Boise Stake Relief Society, reports: "A lovely program was presented with the assistance of the stake visiting teacher message leader, Jane Naylor. Corsages were presented to all visiting teachers with twenty-five or more years of service, after which refreshments were served." Photograph submitted by Kathleen S. Farnsworth BEAVER STAKE (UTAH), BEAVER FIRST WARD VISITING TEACHERS HONORED AT CONVENTION AND SOCIAL, August 1958 Seated, left to right: Effie White; Emma Baldwin; Emma Limb; Maria Willeson; Nettie Stoney; Jane Gale. Standing, left to right: Hilma Sly; Ida Riley; Etta Atkin; Louise Willden; Mary Akin; Rose Bradshaw. Kathleen S. Farnsworth, President, Beaver Stake Relief Society, reports that these twelve visiting teachers, all of them over seventy years of age, were honored at a convention and social. Each was presented with a corsage. Most of these teachers have achieved a one hundred per cent visiting teaching record during all the years that they have served. The twelve have a total of 392 years of service as visiting teachers, ranging from ten to sixty-three years of service. Ward Relief Society officers are: President Zona Gillies; Hazel Baldwin and Mary Miller, Counselors; Leona Limb, Secretary. IN DEPARTMENT Sheology—The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 15—The Sacrament Elder Roy W. Doxey (Text: The Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 27:1-4; 20:75-79) For Tuesday, April 7, 1959 Objective: necessity to be worthy to receive it. Historical Background of Section 27 Under date of August 1830, the Prophet Joseph Smith recorded the following circumstance which resulted in his receiving the first four verses in Section 27. The remaining part of this revelation was written in the following month of September 1830. (See D. H. C. I:106). According to the history of the Church, Newel Knight and his wife came to visit the Prophet and his wife at Harmony 'Township, Pennsylvania. Inasmuch as neither Newel Kmight's wife nor Emma Smith had been confirmed members of the Church, it was deemed advisable that in the religious service where this confirmation would be performed, the sacrament of the Lord's supper would be administered. In order to prepare for this, the Prophet wrote that "I set out to procure some wine for the occasion, but had gone only a short distance when I was met by a_ heavenly To emphasize the reason for partaking of the sacrament, and of the messenger, and received the following revelation": Listen to the voice of Jesus Christ, your Lord, your God, and your Redeemer, whose word is quick and powerful. For, behold, I say unto you, that it mattereth not what ye shall eat or what ye shall drink when ye partake of the sacrament, if it so be that ye do it with an eye single to my glory—remembering unto the Father my body which was laid down for you, and my blood which was shed for the remission of your sins. Wherefore, a commandment I give unto you, that you shall not purchase wine neither strong drink of your enemies; Wherefore, you shall partake of none except it is made new among you; yea, in this my Father's kingdom which shall be built up on the earth (D & C 27:1-4). Obedient to this commandment, wine of their own making was prepared, and the confirmations attended to in the meeting. Of the occasion, the Prophet stated that: Page 49 50 The Spirit of the Lord was poured out upon us, we praised the Lord God, and rejoiced exceedingly (D. H. C. 1:108). Revelation to Explain Problems From the information provided in the above account, it is clear that the Prophet did not specifically make a request of the Lord concerning the sacrament. The heavenly being comununicated the message because of the circumstances which were present, principally that the enemies of the Prophet might well take opportunity to harm him. There are other revelations in The Doctrine and Covenants where there is no indication that the Prophet had made a specific request for enlightenment on the problem or information received. 'The idea suggested by this fact is that the Lord did not always wait, as it were, for his Prophet to make a request for guidance and the direction of the kingdom, but that revelations were given when the need was present. Some might suggest that the Prophet received revelations only because he was aware of a specific necd. 'his point of view does not seem to be consistent with the fact that the Church is literally the kingdom of God and the Law Giver of the kingdom knows the direction his kingdom should go. 'The Lord knows the end from the beginning. This truth is the basis of prophecy, as well as the fact that the Lord operates by law and, thereby, man may have security by faith in his word. An example of these thoughts is this verse from the "Lord's Preface" to The Doctrine and Covenants: Search these commandments, for they are true and faithful, and the prophecies and promises which are in them shall all be fulfilled. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1959 What I the Lord have spoken, I have spoken, and I excuse not myself; and though the heavens and the earth pass away, my word shall not pass away, but shall all be fulfilled, whether by mine own voice or by the voice of my servants, it is the same. For behold, and lo, the Lord is God, and the Spint bearcth record, and the record is true, and the truth abideth forever and ever. Amen (D & C 1:37-39). It certainly is true that the Prophet was a prayerful man and one who was constantly desirous of receiving divine help in his grave responsibilitics. Ile was an instrument through whom the Lord did work that his purposes would be accomplished in behalf of his children. (See 2 Nephi 3:6-15.) Problems in connection with the building up of the kingdom on the earth were many, and the Prophet did go before the Lord with these problems and questions; but the Lord does not leave his work to man who by reason alone would give direction to the Church. Sacramental Prayers Although Latter-day Saints may be present in two meetings of the Church cach Sunday when the sacrament is administered and they hear the sacramental prayers spoken, it is well to study them and _ benefit from that analysis. They are recorded in Moroni chapters 4 and s, as well as 'The Doctrine and Covenants as follows: O God, the Eternal Father, we ask thee in the name of thy Son, Jesus Christ, to bless and sanctify this bread to the souls of all those who partake of it, that they may cat in remembrance of the body of thy Son, and witness unto thee, O God, the Eternal Father, that they are willing to take upon them the name of thy Son, and always remember him and keep his commandments which he has LESSON DEPARTMENT given them; that they may always have his Spirit to be with them. Amen, O God, the Eternal Father, we ask thee in the name of thy Son, Jesus Christ, to bless and sanctify this wine to the souls of all those who drink of it, that they may do it in remembrance of the blood of thy Son, which was shed for them; that they may witness unto thee, O God, the Eternal Father, that they do always temember him, that they may have his Spirit to be with them. Amen (D & C 20:77, 79). Meaning of the Sacrament From both revelations—Sections 20 and 27—quoted above, one's attention is drawn to the fact that the sacrament serves the purpose of keeping the true follower of Jesus in remembrance of the atonement made by the Savior. His body and blood were offered voluntarily that mankind might be rescued from the power which Satan would have over all human beings in keeping them in misery forever. (See 2 Nephi 9:5-27.) As repeatedly stated, however, the cleansing, remitting of sins for entrance into the kingdom of God comes by strict obedience to the full gospel plan. (See 2 Nephi 9:18, 21; Alma 34:15, 16; D & C 29:17; 76:40-44, 50-53.) After all is said concerning the mission of Jesus on this earth, the fundamental reason for his mortal life was to become the Savior of men. All gospel principles and ordinances are related to the atonement of Jesus Christ. The sacrifices instituted in the very beginning were intended to be a memorial or type of sacrifice of Jesus, that the people of God might be kept in remembrance of what he would do for them in the meridian of time. 51 As President John Taylor wrote: As from the commencement of the world to the time when the Passover was instituted, sacrifices had been offered as a memorial or type of the sacrifice of the Son of God: so from the time of the Passover until that time when He came to offer up Himself, these sacrifices and types and shadows had been carefully observed by Prophets and Patriarchs; according to the command given to Moses and other followers of the Lord (The Mediation and Atonement, page 125). When Jesus met with his disciples to eat the Passover, he also ate the sacrament of the Lord's Supper; for, as President 'Taylor said:. The two ceremonies centered in Him, He was the embodiment of both.. In view of what was almost immediately to take place, He instituted the sacrament of the Lord's Supper in commemoration of this great crowning act of redemption... And now we, after the great sacrifice has been offered, partake of the Sacrament of the Lord's Supper in remembrance thereof. 'Thus this act was the great connecting link between the past and the future... (Ibid., pp. 124-125). The Sacrament, an Emblem The bread and wine (water) of the sacrament of the Lord's Supper are declared in scripture to be"... The emblems of the flesh and blood of Christ..." (D & C 20:40). Other Purposes of the Sacrament Unlike baptism — which is performed once for each person to remit sins and to enter the Church, the sacrament is to be taken often. (See D & C 20:75.) We can see in this commandment the wisdom of the Lord for the repetitive act of partaking of these sacred emblems, because it allows the member to reflect frequently upon what the Savior has done for him. We are reminded of covenants 52 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1959 AS Sea ie: SS Otto Done AERIAL VIEW OF THE HILL CUMORAH made when we entered the waters of baptism which put every sincere member of the Church on the way to becoming sanctified or God-like. It is for this purpose the Lord has provided an opportunity for his people to renew their covenants. What are these covenants? We have already considered one of them— that we will always remember the Savior. The remaining two covenants, as indicated in the sacramental prayers, are that we will take upon us the name of Jesus Christ, and that we will always keep his commandments which he has given us. 'These two covenants mean that we will be called by his name and never bring shame upon that name, and that we will obey all of his commandments. The Promised Blessing The sacramental prayers end with these words: "... That they may always have his Spirit to be with them" (D & C 20:77). But is it the partaking of the sacrament which brings this promised blessing? No, it is the keeping of the commandments, including the observance of the commandment to partake of the sacrament often. The Sacrament Meeting The importance of the commandment to meet together often to partake of the bread and water of the sacrament emphasizes the need for all Latter-day Saints to attend the sacrament meetings. The Lord has specifically stated that a proper observance of the Sabbath day includes attendance at this meeting. (See D & C 59:8-12.) Those who regularly absent themselves from partaking of the sacrament find it easier to commit sin, and to criticize the leadership of the Church. If this course is con- LESSON DEPARTMENT tinued they may lose the spirit of the Lord and depart from the faith. In keeping with the purpose of the sacrament meeting, the First Presidency, consisting of President George Albert Smith, J. Reuben Clark, Jr., and David O. McKay, under date of May 2, 1946, answered these two questions for presidents of stakes and bishops of wards: Should music be played during the administration of the sacrament? To whom should the sacrament first be given in a meeting? Their answers follow: There is no objection to having appropriate music during the preparation of the emblems, but after the prayer is offered, perfect silence should prevail until the bread and the water have been partaken of by the full congregation.... The sacrament should be first given to the presiding authority in the meeting. This may be the bishop, perhaps one of the stake presidency, or one of the visiting General Authorities.... When the sacrament ls given first to the presiding authority, those officiating may pass the sacrament consecutively to members of the Church who are sitting on the rostrum and in the audience. The importance of and the proper attitude to be maintained during the administration of the sacrament were emphasized by the First Presidency in this way:.. Careful consideration of the institution and purpose of the sacrament will lead to the conclusion that anything which detracts the partaker's thought from the covenants he or she is making is not in accordance with the ideal condition that should exist whenever this sacred, commemorative ordinance is administered to the members of the Church. Reverence for God and for sacred things is fundamental in pure religion. Let every boy and girl, every man and woman in the Church, manifest this principle by maintaining perfect order by self-communion whenever and wherever the sac- 53 rament is administered (The Church News, May 11, 1946.) Sacrament for Church Members It should be self-evident to all that since the sacrament is a covenant-renewal opportunity for the partaker, only those who have entered into a covenant relationship with the Lord are eligible to receive these sacred emblems. When the resurrected Savior met with his disciples upon the American Continent, he commanded that they partake of the sacrament. Upon their obedience to his command, Jesus said: And this shall ye always do to those who repent and are baptized in my name; and ye shall do it in remembrance of my blood, which I have shed for you, that ye may witness unto the Father that ye do always remember me. And if ye do always remember me ye shall have my Spirit to be with you. And now behold, this is the commandment which I give unto you, that ye shall not suffer any one knowingly to partake of my flesh and blood unworthily, when ye shall minister it; For whoso eateth and drinketh my flesh and blood unworthily eateth and drinketh damnation to his soul; therefore if ye know that a man is unworthy to eat and drink of my flesh and blood ye shall forbid him. Nevertheless, ye shall not cast him out from among you, but ye shall minister unto him and shall pray for him unto the Father, in my name; and if it so be that he repenteth and is baptized in my name, then shall ye receive him, and shall minister unto him of my flesh and blood (3 Nephi 18:11, 28-30). Children and the Sacrament The Lord has said that children are not accountable to him until they are eight years of age. (See D & C 68:25-28.) This means that 54 they are blameless before him, they are of the kingdom of heaven. (See Mt. 19:14.) Children are already members of the Lord's kingdom and therefore they are worthy to receive the sacrament. Worthiness and the Sacrament As indicated already, worthiness to partake of the sacramental emblems requires that one be a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Worthiness includes cleanliness in thought and action, absence of enmity toward fellow man and a desire to do the will of our Father and to keep all of his commandments. The Prophet in this dispensation as instructed by the Lord has admonished that those who partake of this ordinance should be worthy. (See D & C 46:4.) In verse 69 of Section 20, we learn that previous to the partaking of the sacrament, the members shall manifest before the Church, and also before the elders, by a godly walk and conversation, that they are worthy of it, that there may be works of faith agreeable to the holy scriptures— walking in holiness before the Lord. Forgiveness of Sins Mistakenly, some members of the Church seem to believe that by partaking of the sacrament one receives forgiveness of sins. On the contrary, forgiveness is received upon the principle of genuine repentance. A purpose of the sacrament is to allow the Church member to self-examine himself that he may strive diligently to overcome his failings and weaknesses. Partaking of the sacrament does not remit sins, but it will give spiritual strength to worthy members who are sincerely RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1959 endeavoring to live the commandments. Brigham Young said: It is one of the greatest blessings we could enjoy, to come before the Lord, and before the angels, and before each other, to witness that we remember that the Lord Jesus Christ has died for us. This proves to the Father that we remember our covenants, that we love his Gospel, that we love to keep his commandments, and to honor the name of the Lord Jesus upon the earth (Discourses of Brigham Young, 1941 Edition, page 172). Water or Wine? This lesson began with a quotation from Section 27:1-4. Wherein 'the Lord revealed by an angel that:. It mattereth not what ve shall eat or what ye shall drink when ye partake of the sacrament, if it so be that ye do it with an eye single to my glory... (D & C 27:2). To the saints of the latter days, the Lord has spoken authorizing the use of water in place of wine. This revelation is a good example of the functioning of continuous revelation in a divinely directed organization. Consistent with the principle is the following comment: The New Testament churches used wine diluted with water. In our day the Lord has commanded the use of pure water instead of adulterated wince. And this is by no means contrary to the Scriptures. In their accounts of the institution of the Sacrament, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and Paul—the latter having received his information of the Lord Himself (1 Cor. 11:23) make it clear that it is the cating of the broken bread and the partaking of the common Cup—the contents are not once mentioned — that constitute the essential elements of the sacrament. Compare I Cor. II:26 (Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, Revised Edition, page 134). Pertinent to the thinking of Latter-day Saints about alcoholic LESSON DEPARTMENT beverages because of the Word of Wisdom (D & C 89:5-6), this comment is appropriate: The Lord in His infinite wisdom, directed the Saints not to buy wine or any other strong drink, of enemies, and, consequently, not to use wine in the Sacrament, unless they themselves had made it; and then it should be "new wine." Dr. F. W. Farrar says that "new wine" (Luke 5:37) means unfermented wine, or "must" —a beverage which improves with age; it is "a rich and refreshing, but non-intoxicating beverage" (Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, Revised Edition, page 134). Questions for Discussion 1. Give some reasons why Doctrine and Covenants 27:1-4 contains information which is important to Latter-day Saints. 55 2. Name the three covenants contained in the sacramental prayers. 3. In what way does the sacrament keep the worthy partaker in remembrance of the atonement of Jesus? 4. What is meant by an "emblem" and what is its relationship to the sacrament? 5. The worthy partaker of the sacrament is promised the Lord's Spirit. Of what importance is this to a Latter-day Saint? 6. What reasons would you give for attendance at the sacrament mecting? 7. Why is silence admonished during the passing of the sacrament? 8. Why should the sacrament be given only to members of the Church? G. Justify the receiving of the sacrament by little children? 10. What constitutes worthiness to partake of the sacrament? 11. If partaking of the sacrament does not give remission of sins, what related purpose does it serve? Visiting Seacher ITlessages — Truths to Live By From The Doctrine and Covenants Message 15—'Pray Always, and | Will Pour Out My Spirit Upon You, and Great Shall Be Your Blessings... " (D. & C. 19:38). Christine H. Robinson For Tuesday, April 7, 1959 Objective: To emphasize the importance of constant, sincere prayer. OUR Father in heaven, in his deep, eternal love for his children, has given us a special, priceless blessing. 'This blessing is the right and privilege to communicate with him in prayer. 'Through prayer we have a constant opportunity of calling on him for guidance, inspiration, and wisdom. 'Through this divine communication we can strengthen our courage to meet, understand, and solve life's many problems. The Lord has invited us to partake of the spiritual strength which comes from constant, sincere communication with him. He has promised us: Ask and it shall be given you; seck, and ye shall find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you (Mt. 7:7). Many of us, however, go through life without taking full advantage of this wonderful invitation. Even 56 those of us who pray regularly, too often allow our prayers to develop into stereotyped rituals. We allow them to become repetitive and impersonal. We fall into the habit of going through the physical motions of prayer without really communicating with God. Such prayers, unfortunately, consist chiefly of meaningless words which lack the real spirit of divine communication. In "Hamlet," Shakespeare decries this tendency as follows: My words fly up, my thoughts remain below. Words without thoughts never to Heaven go. III. 3. 97-98 Another weakness some of us exhibit in our prayers consists in the habit of coming to the Lord only under urgent circumstances when we are in frantic need of his help. We tend to forget him when things move along pleasantly and successfully. In order for the Lord to pour out his spirit upon us, our prayers must be offered in faith and _ sincerity and must come from our hearts. We must approach our Heavenly Father with a contrite and humble spirit, feeling and expressing our complete dependency upon Him. Someone has said that when we feel the least like praying, that is when we should pray the most. President Heber J. Grant expressed the need for constant sincere prayer when he said: The minute a man stops supplicating God for His spirit and direction, just so soon he starts out to become a stranger to him and his work. When men stop ptaying for God's spirit, they place confidence in their own unaided reason, and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1959 they gradually lose the Spirit of God just the same as dear friends, by never writing to or visiting with each other, will become strangers... (The Improvement Era, Editor's Page, August 1944, page 481). The importance of constant prayer was vividly emphasized by the great Book of Mormon prophet Amulek who said: "Yea, humble yourselves, and continue in prayer unto him" (Alma 34:19); also, "Yea, and when you do not cry unto the Lord, let your hearts be full, drawn out in prayer unto him continually for your welfare, and also for the welfare of these who are around you" (Alma 34:27). (See Alma 34:19-29.) In a recent conference with missionaries in Great Britain, one of our present-day apostles remarked that he had observed that many of the missionaries had not learned the simple secret of carrying a prayer always in their hearts not only for their own welfare but for the welfare of those around them. Consequently, these missionaries were experiencing only a taste of the great blessings and rich guidance in store for them. The story is told of a man who had traveled extensively and had seen the beauties and wonders of the universe. He had met and made friends with influential and interesting people throughout the world and felt that his life was full. Then he embraced the gospel. For the first time in his life he learned to pray. Gradually he learned the meaning of true prayer, and the happiness which comes to those who, at all times, carry a prayer in their hearts. He said: In retrospect my life was dark and empty compared to the real beauty and LESSON DEPARTMENT meaning of life today. Now I have learned the joy which comes to those who keep in close communication with the Lord. My life before was like the flicker movies of the 1920's compared with the colorful cinemascope of today. Constant prayer results in rich and radiant living. It generates spiritual strength and courage which can be attained from no other 57 source. What greater blessing exists in this world than the choice opportunity of enjoying constant companionship with the Lord's spirit? This wonderful privilege is ours if we follow the simple admonition: Pray always, and I will pour out my Spirit upon you, and great shall be your blessing... (D. & C. 19:38). Work ITleeting—Managing a Home (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Discussion 7—Managerial Aspects of Food Planning and Preparation Vesta Barnett For Tuesday, April 14, 1959 Objective: To recognize the importance of good management in planning, purchasing, and preparing nutritious food for the family. TUDIES have shown that approximately one-third of the time devoted to homemaking duties goes into some phase of meal planning and preparation. Other studies have shown that, on the average, thirty cents out of every dollar in moderate and low-income families is used for food. Food management embraces all activities connected with planning, securing, preparing, and serving nutritious foods. Although America has the greatest abundance of food in the world, far too many of her people are starving nutritionally. <A daily diet of hamburgers, French fries, malted milks, and candy bars may give enough calories, but empty calories so far as good nutrition is concerned. Many of us are getting enough food —often too much—but not always the right kind. Good nutrition has been emphasized for so many years that most people have a basic background of information concerning the classification of foods and their functions. Stock of Foods on Hand Most Latter-day Saint families that have experienced the satisfactions of operating from a stockpile of stored foods would never go back to any other method. We have been counseled to keep a supply of foods on hand and replace foods as used. This method not only makes it possible to save money by purchasing in larger quantities, but it also makes it possible to do a better job of meal planning. Latter-day Saint women have always canned and dried fruits 58 and vegetables for future use, especially women on the farm where an abundance of food is raised by the family. Avoidance of Waste The homemaker who does a good job of planning her meals cuts waste to a minimum by cooking the amount of food she thinks her family will eat. When there are leftovers, she plans to use them in attractive and appetizing dishes. She utilizes dried pieces of bread in dressing, meat loaves, and other ways. Many women today have freezing units which help considerably in the avoidance of waste. LIST 1 Beef rib roast, 5-6 Ibs. Sweet potatoes, 4 lbs. Asparagus, 2 bunches Head lettuce, 2 heads Oranges, 1 doz. Pineapple, 1 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1959 Watching the Sales It is an accepted fact that all homemakers can stretch the food dollar by shopping once a week and by checking and buying the weekend specials. When one has some knowledge of the comparative nutritive values of foods, many substitutes to fit market conditions can be made when shopping. The flexible market list is especially helpful when shopping for perishable foods. An example of the use of a rigid versus a flexible list follows. Many savings can be made when list two is substituted for the more rigid list one. LIST 2 Roast, 5-6 Ibs. Potatoes, 4 Ibs. Green vegetables Salad vegetable Citrus fruit Other fruit PRICES OF FOOD AT MARKET Beef rib roast at goc Ib VS. Sweet potatoes at 19¢ Ib. Vs. Asparagus at 29¢ Ib. VS. Head lettuce at 21¢ Ib. VS. Navel oranges $1.05 per doz. Vs. Pineapples at 63c each Vs. Quantity buying can be economtcal if adequate storage is available. The amount purchased should be based on the quantity that can be stored without waste. Another factor in good management is learning to use cheaper grades of food when little sacrifice in the quality of the finished product will result. For example, dried milk can be substituted for whole milk in many cooking recipes. From a standpoint of nutrition, the Pork loin at 39¢ Ib. Irish potatoes at 49c for 10 lbs. Green beans, 2 lbs. For 25¢ New cabbage at 5c lb. Grapefruit—7 for 39¢ Rhubarb at 20c Ib. Cheeper cuts of meat provide the same food value as the more expensive ones. Time, Energy, and Work Habits An experienced food manager usually finds that time management and development of efficient work habits are her biggest worries. Planning ahead is the best help for this problem. The beginner may find a detailed plan, listing the order and time needed for preparation of foods LESSON DEPARTMENT for a single meal, helpful in enabling her to co-ordinate activities so that time is used effectively and all foods for the meal are ready at the same time. Knowledge and skills are needed in order to manage food successfully. Although one of the most time-consuming homemaking tasks, it may also be one of the most enjoyable 59 and satisfying. Time, patience, and study, combined with practice, help in meeting the challenge of three meals a day successfully. Discussion Thoughts 1. Discuss possible money saving substitutions on your shopping list. 2. Dicuss advantages and disadvantages of weekly shopping. Wyitonateue = America's Literature— Meet the New World Lesson 7—Young Jonathan Edwards Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: America's Literature by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes, Dryden Press, New York, pp. 83-84) For Tuesday, April 21, 1959 Objective: To understand Puritanism more fully as revealed in young Jonathan Edwards. ALTHOUGH scarcely into his teens, young Jonathan Edwards (1703-1758) was already writing down his reflections, that he might thereby study his inward self and become more worthy. Among other mixims for his self-guidance he penned the following, "To live with all my might while I do live." So eminently did he fulfill his resolve, that today's critics of American culture grant him unquestioned superiority as the greatest theological philosopher America has yet produced, one of our most original thinkers, among the top half-dozen of our greatest minds, and the intellectual and spiritual nucleus of his age, instrumental both in shaping and mirroring it for posterity. Both the last Puritan and the greatest, he retrenched the Calvinistic concepts of God and man into American soil with such a firm hand that their place in our tradition is still secure, even if not often dominant. His life was the embodiment of integrity, both intellectual and spiritual. If, unfortunately, he has become the caricature of the harsh, uncompromising "hell-fire and damnation" preacher (and not without substantial justification), in fairness to him, he must not be judged only by those of his beliefs and actions which are least congenial when compared with our own. In this introductory survey of his life and works, our purpose is to seek out good, regardless of where it is found. In his busy life and writings there is much. 60 Paul's Photos JONATHAN EDWARDS Edwards' Outward Life The real Jonathan Edwards is not to be found in the events shaping his physical existence but in his sermons and writings. 'Throughout his life he had but little interest in personality, particularly in his own, but, instead, an insatiable drive to illumine the human mind and spirit. He wanted to know men, not any individual man, and gave his considerable genius and the years of his maturity to the search. Edwards was entirely aware of this fact, for, throughout the twenty-six years of his ministry, he never spent his precious weekdays taking tea in the best rooms of his parishioners (though he gladly attended the sick whenever summoned); instead, he rode or walked alone into the woods to think and to commune, to make ready for what he considered his highest responsibilities: his Thursday evening lecture, his Sunday sermon, and his writings. If his contemporaries found him haughty and austere, probably they saw him truly, even though he was much RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1959 aware of these weaknesses and strove to overcome them. Yet so great a power was he in their lives, that he was the highest-paid minister in interior Massachusetts, and people regularly traveled from neighboring towns to pack his meetinghouse. Born in 1703 to a ministerial family living in the Connecticut Valley, Edwards was completely the product and the fulfillment of rural New England. Instead of attending Harvard, he entered The Collegiate School in Connecticut, a small rural establishment founded by a group of conservative ministers who feared Harvard's tendencies toward liberalism. This school was renamed Yale College while he was still an undergraduate student. Edwards' precociousness made him a legend in his own day. Asa child he had mastered Hebrew, Latin, and Greek, tutored by his father who delighted in guiding his son through difficult writers who required of readers the most exacting attention and _ self-discipline. He was only a lad when first he read John Locke's difficult Essay on the Human Understanding. From it he received a delight "greater than the most greedy miser finds when gathering up handfuls of silver and gold from some newly discovered treasure." He entered college soon after his twelfth birthday. Either that year or earlier he had written a lengthy essay which organized his observations of spiders. 'This, his first writing to be preserved, is equally astonishing both for his keen eye as for the beauty and clarity of his prose:... But I have seen that which is much more astonishing. In very calm and serene days in the forcmentioned time of year, LESSON DEPARTMENT standing at some distance behind the end of a house or some other opaque body, so as just to hide the disk of the sun and keep off his dazzling rays, and looking along close by the side of it, I have seen a vast multitude of little shining webs, and glistening strings, brightly reflecting the sunbeams, and some of them of great length, and of such a height that one would think they were tacked to the vault of the heavens, and would be burnt like tow in the sun.... But that which is most astonishing is, that very often appears at the end of these webs, spiders sailing in the air with them. He and his playmates built a "booth" near a swamp in a meadow. Here they discussed the mysteries of divinity, and prayed together. While still in college and still under Locke's influence, he arrived at one of his basic philosophic concepts: that truth or reality lies in the seeing, not in the thing seen. For Edwards, who so loved the mind and its mysteries, "all existence is mental," and mentality is ideal — that is, it exists only so far as it is an idea perceived in someone's mind. But the idea of the universe is so vast that it can exist only in the mind of God; therefore everything physical in the universe is God: "Space is necessary, eternal, infinite, and omnipresent. But I had as good speak plain. I have already said as much as that space is God." In another early essay, "The Place of Minds," he writes that we must not attempt to use dimensions or figures in an attempt to describe spiritual things; instead:... If we would get a right notion of what is spiritual, we must think of thought, or inclination, or delight. Ilow large is that thing in the mind which they call thought? Is love square, or round? Is the surface of hatred rough, or smooth? Is joy an inch, or a foot, in diameter? These are spiritual things; and why should 61 we then form such a ridiculous idea of spirits, as to think them so long, so thick, or so wide.... These ideas are basic in_ his essay "Existence" (text, page 92). Though we perceive things through the senses, he believed they exist only as an idea; thus "Colours are not really in the things, no more than pain is in the needle." Since from the beginning of existence the only reality of things, which is its idea, must have existed to give order to the universe, we "therefore learn the necessity of the Eternal Existence of All-comprehending Mind." And if we desire to know the workings of the physical world around us, we are "only to find out the proportion of God's acting." Interest in Science Thus we can understand this young Puritan's zeal in attempting to explain the mysteries of his physical environment: since the physical world is God, to learn its secrets is to know God more fully. Inspired by the beauty of nature, but awed by its mystery, he probed into many problems then unresolved. More nearly than any other American's his explanation of thunder and lightning predicted Franklin's in its accuracy; he predicted that water can be compressed (a fact not demonstrated until thirty years later), and that when it freezes it loses its specific gravity. He proved that fixed stars are suns, and studied evaporation, the growth of trees, the phenomena of sound, and the refraction of light. He thus paid the budding scientific spirit of his day more than its due. Yet, it is somewhat ironical that he who in our time is most generally be- 62 littled for preaching stern Calvinistic predestination with such fervor, died because he trusted in science. He received the injection which caused his premature death at age fifty-five after having been barely installed as president of Princeton College—in setting the example of having himself inoculated for smallpox. Influence of Locke's and Newton's Ideas To define basic changes in nontangible ideas is difficult, since never can we see an idea pulsate, feel its temperature, or count its corpuscles. Yet it is ideas and beliefs that ultimately men live by, then as now. Both Locke and Newton, the great influences on young Edwards' thinking, thought in patterns so revolutionary that as much as any they have made possible the ideas modern men live by. On first exposure, young Jonathan recognized their value, and incorporated them into his own thinking. Locke freed Edwards from thinking of things as bases for argument, or for their classification in the "mind of God" or the "ocean of being." Instead, said Locke, man achieves reason and_ knowledge through his own everyday experience. When Sir Isaac Newton published his Principia Mathematica in 1687, he laid the foundation of modern physics with his basic laws of motion, his law of gravity, and his mathematical proof that the universe is an ordered, perfect whole. He proved once and for all that no effect in nature happens without a cause, the principle which became central in Edwards' theology. LikeRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1959 wise Newton stated the theory of the atom, pointing out that throughout all substance the relation of the atom to itself and to others of its own kind is similar. These findings he proved by reason, mathematics, and observation of things as they are, by drawing upon experience. 'Thus we summarize hastily Newton, the scientist. From his college reading of Newton, and throughout his maturity, Edwards incorporated into his religious thinking the following Newtonian ideas: (1) that in nature every effect has a cause; (2) that God exercises absolute domination over his ordered universe, and that (3) the evidence to prove these facts is demonstrable to man through his experience of the world around him. When Edwards' readings of Locke and Newton are combined with those of Calvin and the Bible, the ingredients of his philosophic system are finally assembled. Edwards' Own Ideas and Beliefs During his years of greatest productivity, Edwards devoted his energies to writing his ideas and beliefs, and to fighting against various evils as they arose. Only in his younger years did he find time to analyze himself before God, and prescribe remedies for his own sinfulness. A glimpse into these private evaluations yields rewarding insight into the Puritan mind: its constant drive toward industry and _self-improvement, particularly in __ spiritual growth; its merciless probings to reveal its most intimate weaknesses; its dedication to noblest goals of personal and spiritual excellence. The first part of his self-discipline LESSON DEPARTMENT consisted of seventy "Resolutions," which were to be reviewed each week. The final resolution is dated in 1723, his twentieth year. Excerpts follow: 5. Resolved, Never to lose one moment of time, but to improve it in the most profitable way I can. 6. Resolved, Never to do any thing, which I should be afraid to do, if it were the last hour of my life. 10. Resolved, When I feel pain, to think of the pains of Martyrdom, and of Hell. 13. Resolved, Never to do any thing out of Revenge. 20. Resolved, To maintain the strictest temperance, in eating and drinking. 43. Resolved, Never, henceforward, till I die, to act as if I were any way my own, but entirely and altogether God's. 56. Resolved, Never to give over, nor in the least to slacken, my fight with my corruption, however unsuccessful I may be. 70. Let there be something of benevolence in all that I speak. Saturday night, June 6. This week has been a very remarkable week with me, with respect to despondencies, fears, perplexities, multitudes of cares, and distractions of mind: it being the week I came here to entrance upon the office of 'Tutor of the College. I have now, abundant reason to be convinced, of the troublesomeness and vexation of the world, and that it never will be another kind of world. Jan. 1728. I think Christ has recommended rising early in the morning, by his rising from the grave very carly. Jan. 22, 1734. I judge that it is best, when I am in a good frame for divine contemplation, or engaged in reading the Scriptures, or any study of divine subject that ordinarily, I will not be interrupted by going to dinner, but will forego my dinner, rather than be broke off. June 11. To set apart days of meditation on particular subjects: The Greatness of my Sins; to consider the Dreadfulness and Certainty, of the Future Misery 63 of Ungodly men; at another time, the Truth and Certainty of Religion; and so, of the great Future Things promised in the Scriptures. As we shall see in the following lesson, Edwards' definition of the highest virtue is to approach nearer to the divinity of God by seeing in the beauties of nature the shadow of its Creator, and, then, to cultivate within oneself the beauty yielded up by possessing the great religious affections. 'Through affection and sensation, believed Edwards, we can come nearest God, and when he found these qualities in Sarah Pierrepont, he wrote a hymn of praise for her godlike attributes. He was twenty, she was thirteen. They were married in 1827, four years later, and eleven children blessed their deep and affectionate marriage. After reading the following we can more nearly understand why. Certainly it is one of his most beautiful paragraphs, and quite justly his best known: They say there is a young lady in New Haven who is beloved of that Great Being, who made and rules the world, and that there are certain seasons in which this Great Being, in some way or other invisible, comes to her and fills her mind with exceeding sweet delight, and that she hardly cares for any thing, except to meditate on him — that she expects after a while to be received up where he is, to be raised up out of the world and caught up into heaven; being assured that he loves her too well to let her remain at a distance from him always. There to dwell with him, and to be ravished with his love and delight forever. 'Therefore, if you present all the world before her, with the richest of its treasures, she disregards it and cares not for it, and is unmindful of any pain of affliction. She has a strange sweetness in her mind, and singular purity in her affections; is most just and conscientious in all her conduct; and. 64 you could not persuade her to do any thing wrong or sinful, if you would give her all the world, lest she should offend this Great Being. She is of a wonderful sweetness, calmness and universal benevolence of mind; especially after this Great God has manifested himself to her mind. She will sometimes go about from place to place, singing sweetly; and seems to be always full of joy and pleasure; and no one knows for what. She loves to be alone, walking in the fields and groves, and seems to have some one invisible always conversing with her (Jonathan Edwards, by Perry Miller, pp. 201-202). As a student, as philosopher, as soul-searcher, and as poet, Jonathan RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1959 Edwards had found himself, and his spiritual, believing foundations were firmly in place for the momentous years ahead. Thoughts for Discussion 1. Do you believe Edwards' speculative powers which were revealed so early in life made him a better or a weaker person? 2. What is the great unifying idea in Edwards' life and thought? 3. Do you think Edwards came nearer his God in his resolutions and his diary entries or in his description of Sarah Pierrepont? Social Science—Latter-day Saint Family Life Lesson 20—"A Principle With Promise" Elder John Farr Larson For Tuesday, April 28, 1958 Objective: To illustrate the importance of health and recreation in finding "a fullness of joy." HE Latter-day Saint religious philosophy represents an unusual combination of the temporal and the spiritual. We believe that man's temporal life is a vital part of his spiritual progress; that the body, though mortal, will be eternally associated with the spirit in its resurrected state... Spirit and element, inseparably connected, receive a fulness of joy (D & C 93:33). The warmth and glow of the individual's personality are heightened with good health and satisfying recreation. In this lesson we shall consider how each of these contributes to the development of the individ- 'ual. Because the Lord is interested in our temporal welfare, he gave to us, his children, a "word of wisdom," one of the best prescriptions for good health ever written. (See D & C 8g.) Although this "principle with promise" was "adapted to the capacity of the weak and the weakest of all saints," many of us have never yet taken the time and trouble to have this prescription filled in its entirety. To the extent that we have used it, we are a healthier, happier people. Because of its wise provisions, we are more "health conscious" than we would otherwise be. To achieve and maintain good health we should have: 1. Proper food and nutrition 2. Regular health habits 3. Physical and moral cleanliness LESSON DEPARTMENT 4. Exercise—including work and play 5- Sufficient sleep and rest 6. Protection from evils (products or practices) which make us susceptible to disease and accident. 7. Good mental health — a peaceful mind 8. Regular medical and dental checkups. Prudence in Health Practices The Word of Wisdom admonishes us to follow its teachings with "prudence" (D & C 89:11). Prodence is the ability to regulate and discipline oneself through the exercise of reason. It contemplates the use of caution, circumspcction, knowledge, skill, and wisdom in discerning the most suitable course of action and in avoiding rash or illadvised decisions. With the specific "do" and "don't" aspects of the Word of Wisdom as a basis, the Lord expects that our prudence will guide us the rest of the way in planning a substantial health program for our families. If such is the case, we will seek and apply additional health truths. The scriptures often suggest rules of good health: Cease to be idle; cease to be unclean; cease to find fault one with another; cease to sleep longer than is needful; retire to thy bed early, that ye may not be weary; arise early, that your bodies and your minds may be invigorated (D & C 88:124). Do not run faster or labor more than you have strength... (D & C 10:4). (This advice was given to the Prophet while translating The Book of Mormon.) Knowledge and wisdom concerning good health practices will fortify our households against useless or harmful products offered by designing men for family consumption. The use of proved knowledge concerning food, its balance and preparation, in avoiding illness and de- 65 veloping strength and vigor, should be an integral part of family procedures. The wise use of rest should be a part of each person's health program. Growing Up With Ease A happy, normal life requires good health, which begins at home. Health of the parents lays the foundation for family health. If sickness curtails the routine, the household must adjust and work harder to build a health program. Generally speaking, if a "healthy attitude toward health" is developed early, our emphasis will be on staying well, not on being sick. If sound health habits are practiced from the beginning, family members are equipped to meet the strain of middle and later life more adequately. Too often as we grow from one stage of development to another, we have difficulty accepting physical changes as a part of the normal growing-up process. Some stages of growth and maturity can seriously warp the personality unless understandingly accepted as part of nature's plan. The toddler who ls ever moving during his waking hours must move for proper muscle growth and co-ordination. The awkwardness and distortions of adolescents will not become causes of youthful unhappiness or maladjustment, if parents and others deal with them wisely. The lovely prelude to motherhood, while often accompanied by discomfort and anxiety, can be a choice experience for all family members. 'The slowness of pace and the lessened resistance to bodily ills of the aged call for special family understanding. — Physical changes and differences should be accepted in a natural, comfortable 66 way, so no one fecls self-conscious, awkward, or embarrassed. When this is the case, people mature and age gracefully without dread of the future, but with an intelligent outlook and zest for living. Good health can mean lengthened years and useful old age. What is age? A perfectly well man of sixty has a body made up of tissues, organs, and cells that have seen many years of service. All these suffer bodily changes which, added together, result in "aging." A man ages as a whole and he ages in parts. Organs age unevenly. A _ sixtyyear-old man may have a_forty-year-old heart, fifty-year-old kidneys, and an eightyyear-old liver. And he may try to live a thirty-year old life (Public Affairs Pamphlet No. 130, page 6). A Part of Prudence The wise family will take preventive steps to lessen their chances for illness and accident, and to prepare for emergencies that may arise. The regular medical and dental checkups can curtail both sickness and expense by locating trouble at its outset. Choosing a family doctor who is competent and in whom the family has confidence is an important safeguard. Immunization and isolation against disease should become a routine procedure. A record should be kept of type and date of immunization of every family member. Hospital and medical insurance on a pre-payment plan is a wise investment for any family. Home safety is a part of family health, for to be healthy we must be relatively free from accidents. Many accidents occur at home because of poor management of "'time —space—and traffic." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1959 Special Health Problems Overweight and underweight problems of an extreme nature constitute special health problems. The body does not function best under these conditions. Most people are overweight because they overeat. This may be due to habit, family tradition, sociability reasons, convalescence, or emotional problems. If the overeating stems from loneliness, lack of love, worry over money, job, family relationships, or social standing, the emotional problem must be solved before the diet can be successfully controlled. Some unknown physical condition may need attention, as is often the case with underweight cases. In either situation, a physician should be consulted and the problem corrected under his prescribed diet and exercise. Family co-operation can greatly help in such projects. Food should be purchased and prepared with such needs in mind. The physically handicapped member of a family presents a singular problem. Such cases call for a skillful diagnosis and the best possible treatment. If the patient can remain in the home, he should be accepted wholeheartedly as part of the normal life of the household. If institutional care is required, close contact with family members should be maintained to give encouragement and incentive for recovery. Alcoholism is an increasing health problem which may touch most of us only indirectly, but as a community problem it affects everyone. It is estimated that 70,000,000 Americans drink — including 4,500,- 000 alcoholics. This does not include so-called "hidden alcoholics." The cost of wages lost, crime and LESSON DEPARTMENT accident involved, hospital and medical care, and jail maintenance cannot be estimated. Six men to one woman fall victims to this illness, and eighty-five per cent of those men are between thirty-five and fifty-five years of age, with children. Dnnkers become alcoholics when they lose their "choice" powers. 'This disease is not caused by a bug or germ, but by emotional or psychological factors. Alcohol's victims are now being approached as sick folk worth helping. Research, knowledge, and understanding have been combined in an effort to achieve complete recovery. Clinics are now available where medicines, psychotherapy, and _ psychiatry can assist and supplement the patient's own efforts in conquering this handicap. Mental illness is a health concern which is increasing much too rapidly, and we are well aware that if mind and body are to work well together, good mental health is a must. The Lord suggested the importance of good mental attitude in the Word of Wisdom when he cautioned us to guard our health and take proper nourishment with a spirit of "thanksgiving." 'The need for a cheerful, happy, grateful atmosphere in the home cannot be overemphasized in building good mental (and physical) health. When this is found, confusion is reduced to a minimum and children are free from worry and tension. Opportunity should be given for family members to talk problems through and "let off steam" through proper channels, rather than bottle up emotional tension and resentments. All of us need creative outlets, both physical and 67 Religious Music recommended for use by Relief Societies to accompany course on America's Literature = BEAUTIFUL SAVIOUR.........00.0000.....16 a. NOW THANK WE ALL OUR GOD.20 a O BREAD OF LIFE......00.0000000.........10 oe O SACRED HEAD NOW WOUNDED.__.... 15 oo PRAISE TO THE LORD.................16 oe | LOVE THY KINGDOM.............16 Use pele MUSIC COMPANY 1 Salt Lake City 11, Utah! Address ) City & State ALL MY HEART THIS NIGHT REJOICES ooo eee ceeceeeeeeeeeee 20 WE THANK THEE, JESUS, DEAREST FRIEND....0000 ee 16 LAMB OF GOD, PURE AND HOLY.18 GOD THE FATHER, BE OUR STAY.18 ONCE HE CAME IN BLESSING..... AND WITH SONGS, | WILL CELEBRATE W000... Ceceececceeeeeeeeeee 25 Music Sent on Approval this advertisement as your order blank E. Ist South C] On Approval C] Charge | \ ' Please send the music indicated above.: 1 C] Money Enclosed { j VA { Dayoos Mi, 15 E. Lst South (45 NORTH UNIVERSITY, proved Salt Lake City 11, Utah 68 mental, if we are to avoid emotional stress. Working with the hands is healthy for the mind, if the work is enjoyable. Actual mental illness is brought about by a number of factors. Only the experts should attempt the diagnosis, which should be made as early as possible to insure recovery. Emotional difficulties can generally be handled effectively before a complete breakdown occurs. We must recognize this health problem as an illness which is being treated more successfully all the time. Rehabilition of those cured and discharged depends on the co-operation of family, friends, neighbors, and associates. Family Recreation The family fun is another important part of its overall health program. Latter-day Saints are fortunate in having a complete spiritualized tecreational program offered by the Church. Parents are well repaid who make the effort to help their families take advantage of these wholesome activities. A choice bill of fare is found within the auxiliary programs for every age group. The M. I. A. Sport and social calendars should be a must for teen-agers. President Joseph F. Smith once suggested the following safeguards in planning amusements for our youth: We should know that the pleasures which we enjoy are such as have upon them the stamp of divine approval.... In the first place they four amusements] should not be excessive.... Too frequent dances are not only injurious to stability of character, but they are highly detrimental to good health.... Home parties, concerts that develop the talents of youth, and public amusements that bring togethRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1959 er both young and old, are preferable to the excessive practice of dancing. In the second place, our amusements should be consistent with our religious spirit of fraternity and religious devotion.... In the third place, our amusements should interfere as little as possible with the work of the school-room.... Lastly, it is to be feared that in many homes, parents abandon all regulation respecting the amusement of their children, and set them adrift to find their fun wherever and whenever they can. Parents should never lose control of the amusements of their children during their tender years, and should be scrupulously careful about the companionship of their young people in places of amusements (Joseph F. Smith: Gospel Doctrine, Ninth Edition, pp. 320-321). Family fun will vary from home to home, but the following basic suggestions are helpful in making recreational plans: 1. Good planning and preparation are as necessary for successful good times as for more serious endeavors. 2. Make sure all members of the family participate in planning fun. The democratic approach keeps interest high. 3. Make family home night a frequent habit. It need not be limited to one night a week! Watch current publications for new ideas to add variation and sparkle to these occasions. 4. Play with and take the family outof-doors. Nature jaunts, outings, picnics, and vacation trips are healthful and informative. 5. Look for points of excellence in family members and provide opportunities for them to develop their talents. Encourage hobbies. Remember creative outlets are wholesome and contribute to good mental health. 6. Make play out of working together. A bit of merriment and humor can often change drudgery into recreation. Strive for a balance of the artistic and practical tasks. 7. Create an atmosphere of hospitality by inviting guests into the home. Give each child a chance to "give" a party and assist others in doing so. LESSON DEPARTMENT 8. Don't overlook the art of conversation. Mealtime and evenings by the fire are excellent moments for this! They will be Jong cherished. G. Singing and playing together lessen emotional tensions. Join in family sings. 10. Allow some quiet time for individual relaxation and individual preferences. Reading, thinking, and _ reflection spell actual fun to many. Rewards Sound, well-balanced family health and recreation programs will bring rewards surprisingly similar to promises given by the Lord in the Word of Wisdom. 'They may be listed as strength and vigor of body; knowledge and clearness of mind; self-discipline; control of appetite; protection against disease; temporal salvation; spiritual power and wisdom; and family unity and solidarity. And all saints who remember to keep and do these sayings, walking in obedience to the commandments, shall receive health in their navel and marrow to their bones; And shall find wisdom and great treasures of knowledge, even hidden treasures; And shall ran and not be weary, and shall walk and not faint. And I, the Lord, give unto them a promise, that the destroying angel shall pass by them, as the children of Israel, and not slay them. Amen. (D & C 18-21). Questions for Discussion 1. Ilow does good health contribute to economic security in the home? 2. How can family confusion be eliminated at mealtime? 3. Discuss good health as a beauty aid. 4. Cite examples of family recreation which have been most successful m your home. 5. Suggest variations for Family Hour plans. Should guests be included on such occasions? Give reason for your answer. 69 "Getting there is half the fun." "Go by ship—it makes the trip." Hawaii Sail from San Francisco April 23, 1959. Be in Hawaii for their May Day Celebration when the Shower Trees are in bloom! Europe Sail from Montreal on June 12, 1959. Enjoy life on the Luxury Liner; relax and rest before beginning your fine European Tour. Historic Train The original Historic Train leaves Friday evening July 31, 1959, Salt Lake City at 5:00 p. M. See Nauvoo, Carthage, Kirtland, Sharon, Vermont, Etc., and witness the: Hill Cumorah Pageant For free folders write or phone: VIDA FOX CLAWSON 966 East South Temple Salt Lake City 2, Utah Phone: EM 4-2017 THE WORLD'S FINEST PIANOS Mason & Hamlin The Stradivari of Pianos EVERETT Finest Toned Spinet Piano Built Now on hand Music for the Relief Society Sunday Evening Program March 1959 HOW LOVELY ARE THY DWELLINGS (Liddle) 25c per copy THE LORD'S PRAYER (Gates) 20c per copy or THE LORD'S PRAYER (Malotte) S. S. A.............25¢ per copy or THE LORD'S PRAYER (Malotte) S. A,........-....2.25c per copy JUST RELEASED "Oh, Lovely Land, America'' (Christensen-Madsen) Featured at Relief Society General Conference in October Beesley Music Co. Pioneer Piano People 70 S. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 70 Hawaii Tours Leaving Salt Lake City February 11, 1959 and June 3, 1959 Transportation by Boat or Plane Fourteen-Day Tour Visiting Four Islands Temple Tour Temple Tour to Utah, Arizona and California. Leaves early in Spring. Write about our Mexican Tour, European Tour, and also for the Hill Cumorah Pageant Tour for 1959. For further details write or phone: MARGARET LUND TOURS 3021 South 23rd East Salt Lake City 9, Utah Phone: IN 6-2909, AM 2-2339, CR 7-6334 e BEAUTIFUL e HANDY e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover—$2.50 Leather Cover—$3.80 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles... 35 150 to 300 miles «WW... 39 300 to 600 miles d 600 to 1000 miles.. 1000 to 1400 miles.. 1400 to 1800 miles Over 1800 miles Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-2581 33 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1959 Supplementary References 1. Gospel Ideals, Davin O. McKay, chapter 27, page 360. 2. Latter-day Prophets Speak, Dantex H. Luptow, Bookcraft Publishing Company, chapter 31, page 310. 3. "A Fireside Chat on a Burning Question," The Relief Society Magazine, January 1958, page 35. 4. "Mental Illness a National Disaster," I'. Barry Ryan, The Relief Society Magazine, June 1957, page 373. 5. "Conquering New Frontiers in Child Health," James A. Suannon, M_D., National Parent-Teacher, March 1957, page 8. 6. "Those Physical Changes of Adolescence,' Harotp E. Jones, National Parent-Teacher, September 1957, page 8. 7. "What the Polio Vaccine Can Do," Tuomas M. Rivers, M. D., National Parent-Teacher, January 1957, page 7. 8. "Children Don't 'Just Outgrow' Al lergy," Justin M. Anprews, M. C., National Parent-Teacher, January 1958, page 7. G. "Live Long and Like It,' Public Affairs Pamphlet No. 139, 22 East 38th Street, New York 16, New York, 25 cents. 10. "Meeting the Costs of Medical Care," Cunningham, Public Affairs Pamphlet No. 218. 11. "Alcoholism, a Sickness That Can Be Beaten," Blakeslee, Public Affairs Pamphlet No. 118. (See above address.) 12. Your Children's Health, J. RoswELy GatitaGHER, M. D., Science Research Associates, Inc., 57 West Grand Avenue, Chicago 10, Illinois. Recreation 1. Gospel Doctrine, JosepH F. Smirn, chapter 17, pp. 320-336. 2. "Your Child Is a Music Lover," Helen Morris, The Relief Society Magazine, July 1957, page 452. 3. "Family Unity," Danrze, W. NELson, The Relief Society Magazine, February 1958, page 76. 4. "Sparkling Family Hour," Srirtey B. And Monroe J. Paxman, The Relief Society Magazine, October 1957, pp. 644-649. LEARN TO 5. "Learn to Play," The Improvement Era, July 1957, page 532. 6. Many good suggestions for the Family Hour are found in issues of The Children's Friend and The Improvement Era. 2 GYanuary Christie Lund Coles The earth lies cold now.... It is the brittle time Of bleak, gray landscapes, Or deep-crusted snow. The autumn's colors, The spring's return, December's crystal festivity, Are all past... Or lie ahead.... We wait. January, in its grim Austerity, plays host To time, plays keeper Of the frozen ground. Like a hard man, Bred to adversity, Who sees... And knows, Yet keeps his silence, Till in a sudden surge Of grief or tenderness, Knows tears; The ice breaks, the earth gives In a swift, January thaw. Promise is here, too, And hope, as the hard cold Yields to soft-fingered sun. A —<_- Song of Subsequence Dorothy J. Roberts Snow is fleece, and the dead And the living, one, Where the white sound Sings its eternity, Banked on the sea's bend And laid by the cloud— Swaddle, robe, and shroud. New Classes Begin Soon Adult classes for Relief Society and genealogy workers will teach beginning and advanced typing. Classes will run 6:30 to 8:00 p. M., Mondays and Thursdays. Individual help and instruction by professional teachers. Call for reservations and further information. LDS BUSINESS COLLEGE Phone EM 3-2765 All Music For Your March Relief Society Program and other occasions available from Geriro Music Co Idaho Falls, Ida. é "How Lovely Are Thy Dwellings' No. 1758 The Lord's Prayer—Gates No. 52 The Lord's Prayer—Malatte No. 7987 "Oh, Lovely Land America" (Christensen-Madsen) S. S. A. LESSON DEPARTMENT 70 North Main 71 Salt Lake City 11, Utah Relief Society Program For Sunday Evening In March —- How Lovely Are Thy Dwellings...............2.--: ccecseeeceeee.20 =. The Lord's Prayer—Malotte.....25 or as an alternate arrangement =. The Lord's Prayer—Gates.........20 NEW es Oh, Lovely Land, America No. 52, by Christensen-Madsen...........20 as used in October Conference Use this as your ORDER BLANK Name.... GLEN BROS. MUSIC CO. Salt Lake City 1, Utah 74 So. Main St. ELECTRIC COOKING costs the average family only about -— 9¢aday Gr Be Modern Live Electrically — UTAH POWER & LIGHT -CO. Page 72 Birthda y Ce ngra tulations Ninety-nine Mrs. Marcaret SarIAH McDonaLp ERICKSON Mountain View, Wyoming Ninety-five Mrs. Crara FIsHer SAMUELS San Lorenzo, California Mrs. Soruta Harscu Nauvoo, Illinois Mrs. EstuHer JANE Morris WuiTEHEAD St. George, Utah Ninety-two Mrs. Sara Lucretia Cox Stour St. George, Utah Mrs. Cora SnirF Hocan St. George, Utah Mrs. Exiza THomrson Mair Heber City, Utah Ninety-one Mrs. Annie M. Smitru Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety Mrs. Marcaret ELLen Biack Rowty Castle Dale, Utah Mrs. Anna MippLETON Cox St. George, Utah <—- Wi mtemuciirce Bernice Ames Stripped of enchantment, Ungilded and plain, The aspen shines More silver than rain. More fragile and lovely, Arrowed from roots, Than a thought predestined For multiple shoots. Potentials of strength In a year growing dark, The candor of limb, The glittering bark. mericas Literature anal EN | ae, LF as James D. Hart and Clarence Ghodes This is, without a doubt, one of the most comprehensive Rs ae E > and all-inclusive volumes ever published on representa-: A /. Tive American writers. It begins with select writings from ae the early days of the Pilgrims and extends through 1950.; $7.75 ) _— postage 25 iw Doctrine and Covenants Study Questions Roy W. Doxey Over 1250 questions in this outstanding study guide reveal the highlights of where scriptural answers can be found. $1.50 yonse' atl 3. Doctrine and Covenants Commentary Hyrum M. Smith and Janne M. Sjodahl This classic work contains the full Doctrine and Covenants. And, accompanying each page of scripture, are commentaries gathered from cross-references, from other standard LDS works, and from writings of Church leaders. $4.00 4 The Doctrine and Covenants and the Future 44 Egst South Temple - Deseret Book Company 44 East South Temple Roy W. Doxey Salt Lake City, Utah This is one of the best supGentlemen: It gives the history of the encircled (numbered) books: 1 2 3 4 to the Prophet Joseph Smith. $1.50 SSS SOS a i I ij | \ \! |!! } | \! | \ \ 1 1 \ I \ 1! 1 i ' { 1 \ \ } the Doctrine and Covenants. References to each question are given, indicating lished on Church scriptures. Doctrine and Covenants and the conditions under which these truths were revealed plementary books ever pubvere see an account. Please charge. Amount enclosed §...........:: e: ceeeeeee for Nome ooeeccesscecesssssssecessessccnsssecscesecoessessececeaeescenecesessessesnesaesssectcssnecoesseeneenscossopentes Address. O. Ssssssssssssscsccessessceecccesoessnnvessnnsensantsnnstnnnatunttenesnstesesssetsececenseeseneeseeceeeceneenene CityCL eee Zoneon deenn StatePe Peerrerrerrrrrrrrrrttee trots Enclosed you will find ( ) check ( } money order ( ) I have "'T've found a §reat new way 10 pay my life insurance Premium,.. It's Beneficial Life's new S are automatically deducted Srom my checking account. Now there s remember —~ nothing to mail in!" Payment plan through Jour bank. For more information, mail the coupon below, or consult the Beneficial man in your community, "The Check-0-matic Plan applies to Premiums of $10.00 or more per month, Beneficia} Life Insurance 'eneficial Build ing Salt Lake City 1, Utah Please send m Check-o-matic € more inform Company ation about Beneficial Life's new Plan of Premium Payments, Virgil H. Smith, Pres, Lt your aids Compa A Salt Lake City, Utah Life, Fe EILIIE « CHS IY MAGA@ZIN EE Flills Made Low Alice Morrey Bailey "Every valley shall be exalted, and every mountain and hill shall be made low..." (Isaiah 40:4). When the mountains are leveled And the valleys made high, I shall lose the ragged outlines Of summits on the sky. Lost will be the canyons Where the cataracts are made, With their sheer walls of granite And their cool, blue shade. Gone will be the rivers And the trenches of the deep, The jewelled tropic islands Where the trade winds sweep— Banished with the ocean With its great, walled waves, Its subterranean coral And its dark, green caves. Stilled will be the lilting Of the brook's bright treble, Over moss-velvet roots And trout-gray pebble, The whisper of the surf On the sand-white shore And the thundering diapason Of the breakers' roar. Lost the music of the mountains In the scarlet Gilia's bells, And the song of the ocean In its pink conch shells. Eclipse my eyes with time And still my heart's pain, Before the seas heave to surface And the hills yield to plain. The Cover: Sunset on the James River, Virginia, from the site of the Jamestown landing of 1607, showing William Couper's Statue of Captain John Smith Transparency by Frank Dementi, Colonial Studios, Richmond, Virginia, reprinted by permission of Virginia Cavalcade, published by Virginia State Library, submitted by Lovell W. Smith Frontispiece: Mount Shuksan in the Cascade Mountains, Washington, Luoma Studios Cover Design by Evan Jensen From Near and Sar For many years I have read the artistic and thoughtfully beautiful poems of Grace Ingles Frost. She has a sensitive portrayal of her thoughts and a keen and detailed observation and interpretation of our earth environment, as well as a perspective of the eternities to come. It gives me much pleasure to see Miss Frost's poetry appear so frequently in the Magazine. Her poem "A Song for Thanksgiving," (November 1958) expresses so well her lovely spirit. —Christie Lund Coles Provo, Utah I would like to compliment you on the beautiful color cover of the November Relief Society Magazine. I have been a member of the Church since September 1956 and look forward eagerly to every issue of the Magazine. I thought the poem "Young Mother," by Elsie McKinnon Strachan (November), was beautiful. I greatly enjoy all the poems in the Magazine. —Shirley Haylette Bristol, Vermont My wife takes The Relief Society Magazine, and, of course, I read it, too, and enjoy it. As I am interested in sewing, I read in the November issue concerning facings (by Jean R. Jennings). It is a very nice article. I make my _ wife's dresses, blouses, and skirts; for my grandchildren, I make shirts, trousers, pajamas, dresses, blouses, skirts, etc. —John R. Tracy Moline, Illinois I am here in Monterrey, Mexico, with my husband and three boys, my husband as supervisor of chapel construction. I worked with Sister Rhoda Taylor, and now with Sister Anna Bentley as First Counselor in the Northern Mexican Relief Society. I have really learned to appreciate The Relief Society Magazine, also the work the society is doing all over the world. —Mrs. Rula McClellan Monterrey, Mexico Page 74 The beautiful colored cover on the November issue of the Magazine surely added to it. The Relief Society Magazine continues to be wonderful, and I want to wish you success in your work. —Roma C. Esplin President St. George Stake Relief Society St. George, Utah Your new color 1958) is beautiful! The old one-color orange, blue or brown became pretty monotonous. Let's have more poetry and more articles from our Priesthood General Authorities. —Opal Burt Denver, Colorado cover (November Though I am only sixteen, I can't help considering The Relief Society Magazine as much my own as anybody else's. I love the stories, articles, and recipes. They are not like the ordinary material published in other magazines. I have read several editorials, and they are always written about important and impressive subjects. I admire the way you present a problem and develop it so realistically. I especially liked the editorial "Making Right Choices" (by Marianne C. Sharp, May 1958). The editorials seem to hit on the very most important problems our family has. —Dorothy Campbell Logan, Utah Mrs. Margaret James of San Fernando, California, who is one hundred years old, reads The Relief Society Magazine from cover to cover and enjoys the beautiful thoughts and stories very much. I also enjoy the Magazine. It gives me help and strength in so many ways. I love Relief Society work and have been associated with the program for many years, and enjoy the lessons so much. —Rose Calaway Anaheim, California THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford = - President Marianne C. Sharp -. - - S - - First Counselor Louise W. Madsen - - - - - - - - - Second Counselor Hulda Parker - - - - = - Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Aleine M. Young Edith P. Backman Mary V. Cameron Edith S. Elliott Josie B, Bay Winniefred S. Afton W. Hunt Florence J. Madsen Christine H. Robinson Manwaring Wealtha S. Mendenhall Leone G. Layton Alberta H. Christensen Elna P. Haymond Pearle M. Olsen Blanche B. Stodderd Mildred B. Eyring Annie M. Ellsworth Elsa T. Peterson Evon W. Peterson Charlotte A. Larsen Mary R. Young Irene B. Woodford RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - = = = - = Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford VOL. 46 FEBRUARY 1959 NO. 2 ONM eos SPECIAL FEATURES Our Homes—An Individual Responsibility Mark E. Petersen 76 The Central Atlantic States Mission Preston R. Nibley 88 A Fireside Chat on a Burning Question 99 FICTION We Can't All Be Generals--Second Prize Story...... Dorothy S. Romney 81 Contentment, Thou Art Priceless!.. Ccecccececeece: Leone O. Jacobs 90 The Silver Leash—Chapter 2 ee a Beatrice Rordame Parsons 109 GENERAL FEATURES From Near and Far 74 Sixty Years Ago 94 Woman's Sphere: Ramona W. Cannon 95 Editorial: Obligations of a Mother's Authority: Marianne C. Sharp 96; Birthday Congratulations to Amy Brown Lyman 97 Notes to the Field: Food at Funerals No Longer a Regular Service of Relief Society 00... 98 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities... Hulda Parker 116 Birthday Congratulations. 114 FEATURES FOR THE HOME Recipes From the Central Atlantic States Mission......... Lovell W. Smith 100 Cooking With Dry Milk i.. Marian Bennion 102 You Can Sew—XII—Plackets _ Jean R. Jennings 106 Chloe V. Hatch Daines Makes Rose Design Quilts...... C-cccccecssssssescssssesssesoessessceeesessesesstesesetecssesttesesescses 114 My Loveliest Valentine Mabel Law Atkinson 115 LESSONS FOR MAY Theology—The Revelation to Emma Hale Smith.. Roy W. Doxey 123 Visiting Teacher Messages—''Be Patient in Afflictions, for Thou Shalt Have Many.... Christine H. Robinson 128 Work Meeting—Managerial Aspects of Clothing the Family Vesta Barnett 130 Literature—Jonathan Edwards, Puritan.... Briant S. Jacobs 132 Social Science—How Do I Rate? Cocccccccccccsessscecseesseoee. John Farr Larson 138 POETRY Hills Made Low—Frontispiece. O.... Cccccccceesce.: ee ne Alice Morrey Bailey 73 Generosity ee Jane B. Wunderlich 80 Winter Comes to the Hills.......... A ne Elsie McKinnon Strachan 87 When Greatness Beckoned...... =. A... Iris W. Schow 93 Timitable ooo... Cceccececcecesessescssesescesesetoeseeeeeeeecoeeeeeceeccsee Grace Barker Wilson 97 The Leaven of Laughter........ = Maude Rubin 97 Reasons Manifold oooieeccceeccecccscssesesesesuessescseesesees Margaret B. Shomaker 98 An Untold Tale. Ccceccccccececcccsseccceccceecsssececsesscsesssessessaseeoess. June N. Ashton 108 The Pyracantha _ Christie Lund Coles 131 A Listening Face oii cccsccecssscscssesceeseesseesesseeeeeseseeees.. Alice R. Rich 142 Unseen by Camera am Cherry McKay 144 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Copyright 1958 by the General Board of Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Editorial and Business Offices: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah: Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy; payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1108, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Page 75 Our Homes—An Individual Responsibility Elder Mark E.. Petersen Of the Council of the Twelve (Address Delivered at the Officers Meeting, Relief Society General Conference, October 8, 1958). T surely is inspiring, my dear sisters of the Relief Society, to be with you here today. It is wonderful to catch the inspiration of this meeting. I have been so thankful for the contact I have had with Relief Society. I am sure that President Smith and I both feel that you have remarkable and extraordinary leadership in your General Presidency and in your General Board. We are grateful for these sisters, and for the remarkable cooperation given to them by the stake officers as represented by all of you here. It was really thrilling to see the wonderful response to the roll call, and as the sisters arose, as Sister Parker called for them, and they came from such widely scattered areas and were in such splendid numbers, it was a mark of great loyalty on their part. I am thankful for the music that we have had here. I am always very proud of the stake in which I live. This is the Bonneville Stake, and today is no exception as we listen to the beautiful music of these lovely ladies. I would like, for one, to thank them for their being here. As I visit the various stakes and listen to the Singing Mothers in so many of our stake conferences, my heart always swells with pride because of the remarkably good work being done by these sisters musically. Page 76 I was glad we sang as our opening song, "How Firm a Foundation, Ye Saints of the Lord." It is always good to look back to the foundation of things. It is always wonderful to refresh our minds concerning the basic fundamentals of our organization and the reasons for our existence. Every time I sing that song, I am reminded of many of these basics which are so important to us. May I quote to you briefly from the address of the Prophet Joseph Smith as he organized the Relief Society. We hear a great deal about his remark that the sisters were to provoke the brethren to good works. When the Prophet spoke about this, however, he said that the sisters were to provoke the brethren to good works in looking to the wants of the poor, searching after objects of charity, and in administering to their wants, as Sister Spafford has explained. But then there was an additional clause in that sentence. The Prophet said that the sisters are to assist "by correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of the community." It is that about which I would like to speak briefly with you today. I mention it to you as individual Latter-day Saint women to consider, not on an organization basis, but for individual consideration in your private family life. I believe there is a greater need for strengthening the virtues and correcting the morals of our communities, now, than at any other time in my recollection. I believe we are passing through the worst moral breakdown of our generation. This breakdown is striking into homes in all parts of the Nation. It is beginning to reach into the homes of the Latter-day Saints. In the spirit of the words of the Prophet Joseph Smith, are you willing as a homemaker to interest yourself in this problem,' and then do something to protect your own family? UPPOSE your child was involved in some great difficulty. Suppose it was the young married couple next door. If we bring these matters close to home, they become more real to us. Many of us live such sheltered lives so far as the evils of the world are concerned, that we do not realize what goes on about us. We read about some instances in the newspapers, and too frequently we feel that such things cannot happen to us. But now, in the midst of these new conditions, we must awaken to the facts, and we must meet them. When we talk about juvenile delinquency, we comfort ourselves with the thought that, after all, only about six to seven per cent of all the juveniles in the United States ever get arrested. But what about those whose sins are of a kind for which arrests are not made? For instance what about the intimacies that develop in the wake of young people dating too steadily at too early an age? What about the evergrowing menace of petting, a terrible perversion which is spreading among the young people of the Nation of the high school age and up? What of the rise of drinking and smoking among __ teenagers? What about the rise of the gang spirit among both boys and girls? What about the ever-increasing spirit of taking a dare which leads to the breaking of most of our standards, including the loss of virtue? There is the delinquency also among young married people, some of whom engage in drinking parties in their own homes and patronize public taverns, and there violate the standards of the Church. Some of these young married people organize into card clubs of various kinds, and it is not long until there is, at least, minor gambling going on. Betting and other forms of gambling in the bridge clubs, and canasta clubs, and other types of card clubs are prevalent in the United States. One of the great difficulties with this type of partying going on among young married couples is that it often leads to dating with each other's husbands or wives, leading to a breakdown of the sanctity of marriage. Then there is the problem of obscene literature. Some of the worst obscenity you can imagine is now being peddled to the young people throughout the Nation. In the United States there are 110 publications which are considered obscene, and yet they are all being widely distributed. About twentyfive of these, and they're some of the worst, are being distributed in the Mountain States. In Utah only three out of the twenty-five, thus far, have been banned from the newsstands. In one large eastern city where the women particularly worked on this problem as private citizens, 107 out of the 110 magaOUR HOMES—AN INDIVIDUAL RESPONSIBILITY 77 zines were banned from the newsstands. Then there is the problem of television programs and movies which have an evil influence. The condition is made worse by an unwillingness on the part of many parents to supervise what their children see. Then, too, there is the problem of the relationship of school activities to Church activities. At a recent stake conference which I attended, I was talking with some of the sisters about their problems in the MIA—the problem of getting participation on the part of the boys and girls of the teenages and the early twenties. The sisters said that some young people of that stake just did not have time for Church work any more, they were so busy in their sororities and fraternities. They were perfectly willing to accept the proposition that the sororities and fraternities took first place, and that the Church would have to fit in secondarily. And if it was a situation in which young people were so busy with sorority activities that they couldn't bother with the Church at all, then it was quite all right, they thought, for the young people to discontinue Church activities until they got out of school. And then we have the increasing problem of rural parents sending to the large cities their boys and girls of tender age, either to find jobs or to go to school. Some of these young people are sent to Salt Lake City and Ogden and other centers without any thought of supervision, and without any effort on the part of the parents to establish them in homes that are clean and suitable. Some of the young people, upon coming to the larger centers, obtain employment in places where they learn perversions of the worst kind. E could go on and list other modern problems, but, of course, time will not permit. What are some of the causes of these difficulties? May I mention a few? They all come directly to our homes. Among them are lack of parental restraint and discipline; lack of parental example; lack of interest on the part of parents in character building activities; lack of religious faith in the home with its attendant lack of obedience to the commandments. Then there is the absence of interest in the minds of parents with respect to such community evils as the obscene literature I have mentioned; the increasing patronage at taverns and nightclubs even by many of the parents themselves; and the rise of gambling, an acceptance for which is created in the minds of people who begin to learn to gamble and love it at their card clubs. As a result of this, when proposals are brought forth to be put on the ballots (as will be put on ballots in two of our states here in the Mountain West this year), there is less resistance to them. Parents fail to realize that what they do becomes a pattern for what their children will do, and especially is this the case if the examples are evil. Nearly every one of these difficulties is related in one way or another to the family circle. Each one contributes to a breakdown of the home. You, the mothers, are the homemakers. Our homes are pretty much what you make of them. I realize the part the father must take, but I realize too, that, in most cases, fathers want to please their 78 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1959 wives. I believe that with proper co-operation between husbands and wives, good home conditions may develop. Our communities are reflections of our homes. If all homes in our communities were good ones, we would have only good communitics. It has been said that the hand that rocks the cradle is the hand that rules the world. The hand that rocks the cradle also molds the community life of our towns. The hand that rocks the cradle is the hand that develops our home life. The hand that rocks the cradle is the hand which builds our defense against the infiltration of evil in our family circle. But what if the hand that rocks the cradle is lax and never disciplines and never trains? HAT are some of the things we can do in our own homes to correct the morals and strengthen the virtues of our communities? How can family life be rebuilt to achieve these ends? First and foremost, we must set our houses in order. There must be love and harmony in the home. There must be a conversion to the principles of the gospel on the part of the parents, to be followed by a conversion on the part of the children. There should be daily living of the gospel in the home, the establishment of Christian Latterday Saint habits in the home. We should endeavor to make the home a temple, and we should so live, and so train our children to live, that, when we are out of the home, we also will live the gospel as well as we do in the home, making consistent our life in the home and out of the home. We must develop a great willingness to stand for the right, a determination to uphold our standards regardless of social, business, political, or any other pressures. We must develop good character traits by our living the gospel, stressing cleanliness of life, honesty, loyalty, devotion. And we must build respect— self-respect, respect for each other, respect for the Church, its leaders, and its standards, respect for law and order. We must try to develop a closer family unity, a "togetherness" in family life. We must do all we possibly can to see to it that our outside activities do not divorce us from our children and our homes. We must preserve the daily habit, night and morning, of family prayer in the home. We should have a regular Family Hour, or home evening, as we used to call it. We should observe the Word of Wisdom in the home. Let none of us discount the Word of Wisdom. I want you to know that there are many who begin the moral breakdown of their own children by themselves setting an example in violating the Word of Wisdom. We should develop group attendance of the entire family at the meetings in the ward and at stake conferences. We should develop within the home a uniform understanding of family discipline. 'This is something which could well come out of our Family Hour where the children can participate in establishing the rules and the regulations of the home. When they help to make the rules, they will be more likely to live up to them. Sometimes we are horrified at instances of desertion where a man will desert his family, or occasionally OUR HOMES—AN INDIVIDUAL RESPONSIBILITY 79 80 where a mother, falling in love with some other man, will desert her husband and her children and go to live with the other man in another town. 'These instances do not happen often, and they shock us when we hear of them or read of them in the newspaper. But I would like to ask you, what is it that constitutes desertion of the family? Are there other means of desertion than walking out on them? For instance, is failure to uphold Church standards in the home a form of desertion? Is failure to teach our children properly a form of desertion? Is failure to set the proper example a form of desertion? Is lack of discipline? Is failure to give direction? What kind of person do we want our child to be? We must then be that kind of person ourselves. Your child's habits of living begin with you. Your child's attitude toward the home and the community begins with you. Your child's faith begins with you. Your child's love of God RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1959 begins with you. "Tis the set of the sail and not the gale that determines the way he goes." And we set the sail. The home itself is the foundation of morals and virtue. 'Therefore, if we are to correct the morals and strengthen the virtues of our communities, we must do something about the preservation of wonderful homes in our communities. If we build genuine Latter-day Saint homes, if, in our homes, we convert ourselves to the principles of the gospel and live those principles ourselves, if we convert our children to these same principles, if we teach them to love truly the Lord Jesus Christ and what he stands for, then our children will resist evil. They will grow up to be a righteous generation. They will build strength into the Church. They will lift the morals of our community. They will save their souls. And that we may do this is my humble prayer in Jesus' name, Amen. <ip~> es Generosity Jane B. Wunderlich Oh, let me give Freely, as a flowering tree Gives to all who wish to see When through years of growth, from searching root The joy of spring blooms triumphantly; Compassionately as a bearing shoot Bends low to lay the summer fruit In every hand reached up to take, Though growing wants and thanks be mute; Abundantly as boughs that shake And yield their leaves in autumn's wake, Golden gifts all scattered wide For someone's heart, for someone's rake; And humbly, remembering buds that hide, Rocked in silence, unespied In snow-draped limbs, must work and bide God's touch to live, God's time to give. Second Prize Story Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest We Can't All Be Generals Dorothy S. Romney DOROTHY SPANDE ROMNEY ALLIE Evans relaxed under the trained fingers of the beauty operator. She had come here at her sister Karin's suggestion. At exactly eight o'clock that morning the telephone bell had shrilled through her quiet house. "Hi! I'm glad you're up," Karin's voice held its usual authority. "Hello," Hallie had managed to squeeze in, before Karin's hurrying voice continued: "You're to come here for dinner tonight. ['m_ having the most stimulating group in— two of the new university staff, and — now that you have all that beautiful freedom," Karin sighed, "for goodness sake stop in and have something done with your hair. Be here at six, Hallie dear, so you can help me with the last minute preparations." "Thank you, Karin, Pll be there," Hallie assured her. "See you then. 'Bye," said Karin. "Goodbye," Hallie heard the click of the receiver. My baby sister, she mused, as though the idea were new to her, and she orders me around as if she were a four-star general. Well, why not? Her thoughts continued. I've always been handy when she needed me. Ever since they had lost their parents some years ago, Hallie, who was eight years her sister's senior, had cared for her, and she admitted, spoiled her. Karin had married young, and now had two handsome little sons, Tommy and Frank, Jr., while Hallie had passed up her chance to marry to maintain the family home until Karin grew up. After that she'd taken a job as town librarian, and never once in the past five years had she taken time off until now. "You're in a rut," Karin had told her. "Now that you have Mary Lou Lacey nicely trained to run the li Page 81 brary, you must take the whole summer off." It was a challenge, and Hallic had taken it, much to her own amazement. This was the first day of her "beautiful freedom," as Karin called it. |: My hair does need grooming, she had decided, as she washed up her breakfast dishes after the call from Karin. She felt herself growing drowsy to the hum of the drying machines outside her booth. "Let me give you a 'Hilite' rinse," the operator said. "You have lovely brown eyes — and your skin is really clear. A rinse is all you need." It sounded exciting, but a rinse, well, Hallie didn't know. The girl stood poised, waiting. "Oh, no, not today," Hallie finally decided. "Tl use a spray, that will bring out some lustre," the operator said, disappointed. Hallie was wide awake again. She began making plans for the summer. She would go out of town for a few weeks—get a new perspective. With this small decision out of the way, she felt better. Spring was definitely in the air, and as Hallie left the shop she decided to look for a suitable dress to wear tonight. Something bright and springlike. She found an inexpensive dress shop close by. She looked at prints, then wondered if something darker wouldn't be better after all. Oh, dear, she thought, why can't I be more like Karin, who never wavers on a decision? Hallie walked home, carrying her purchase, and as she let herself into the house, she thought, it's much too quiet and empty. I'll never get used to being here all day. Y five-thirty that evening she was dressed and ready to go to Karin's. As she drove toward her sister's house she wondered vaguely what these new co-workers of Frank's would be like. Of course, they would have wives, and Hallie would find herself feeling vastly unimportant again as she always did — a mere onlooker. Karin greeted her breathlessly. She was already dressed, and Hallie found herself thinking, she couldn't possibly crush that beautiful dress by tying on an apron. But she won't have to, she has me here. "I've the flower arrangements to do," Karin told her immediately, "would you mind finishing up in the kitchen?" "Not at all," Hallie answered, kissing Karin lightly on the cheek. "You look sweet." She really hated to cover up the new dress with the huge apron Karin always kept on the kitchen door for her. There were more details to be taken care of than she had expected. Karin had made a list — "make gravy, cook peas," etc. The time must have passed rapidly, as it seemed no time at all until the low murmur of voices from the front of the house told her Karin's guests had arrived. Karin came in. "If you'll dish things up, I'll carry them in," she said. Everything was ready. Hallie removed her apron and followed her sister into the dining room. 82 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1959 WE CAN'T ALL BE GENERALS "Professor and Mrs. Fuller," Karin said, "and Dr. Barton, I'd like you to meet my sister Hallie." Introductions over, the conversation immediately turned to the difficult problem of bringing up a family in these modern times. The Fullers, it was soon established, had an energetic foursome, while Dr. Barton was the father of six-year-old twin boys and a_ baby daughter of three. His wife had died two years ago, Hallie learned from the conversation, and he had a matronly housekeeper looking after his brood. Hallie listened, making no comment. She was beginning to wonder if they thought her completely tongue-tied, when Dr. Barton turned to her. "This must be a very dull conversation to you," he said. "Oh, no," she protested, "it's very enlightening. I've taught a Sunday School class for years, and even though I have no children of my own..." she hoped no one noticed the wistfulness that crept into her voice, "I welcome firsthand information on child psychology." Dr. Barton was thoughtful for a moment, then said, "I feel guilty not having more time to spend with my children." The conversation turned to literature and music, about which Hallie knew a great deal, and could discuss with full confidence of her own knowledge. She was thoroughly enjoying herself when the time came to serve the dessert. Karin looked in her direction. Hallie nodded and rose from the table. She cleared plates and served the dessert, one of Karin's masterpieces. She had made it earlier in the day from one of her 83 favorite Relief Society cookbook recipes. '¢EJOW can anyone cook a delicious meal like this," Professor Fuller asked Karin, "and _ still look as fresh as an unpicked tulip?" By having a sister named Hallie, Hallie thought, and was immediately sorry. She loved doing things for Karin. The company moved into the living room. Usually Hallie would slip away into the kitchen and wash up the dishes. But tonight there was no need to hurry with this task. She had forgotten how very pleasant it was to sit in a room full of people and enjoy good talk. The time passed swiftly. At about ten o'clock Professor Fuller arose, ""We really must be going," he said, "eight o'clock classes, you know." "It's a good thing you reminded me," Dr. Barton agreed, "I'm enjoying myself so much." He shook hands all around, and Hallie wondered if she only imagined he held her hand an extra long time. "T hope I see you again soon," he said. The door closed on the guests. Hallie sat down on a hassock. She watched as Karin almost danced around the room, her blond hair and yellow dress making a bright splash of color in the softly lamplit room. Like a golden butterfly looking for a place to light, she thought, and then smiled at her poetic frame of mind. She needn't have worried about too-bright a print, she reflected. Karin's glory would have outshone the very gayest. "I have papers to correct," Frank told them, "so I'll say goodnight to you now, Hallie." "Good night, Frank." He went into the den. Karin finally found a place to light. She looked at her sister. "Well, how do you like the new faculty members?" she asked, breathlessly. "They're all very nice," Hallie replied. "And now we'd better do those dishes, so I can get home and I've promised myself a little "A trip,' Karin repeated, as though somewhat amazed. "What kind of a trip?" Then, without waiting for an answer, "Frank and I had sort of planned a week end away from the children. He's been working awfully hard." Hallie opened her mouth to say that she could put off her trip until next week, and then closed it firmly. "Yes," she said, "I believe a trip will do me good." He OK OOK HE first week of Hallie's vacation passed pleasantly. She had taken along a volume of Keats and one of Browning, her favorite poets, and was reading "Ode to a Nightingale" one afternoon for the hundredth time. "Tis not through envy of thy happy lot But being too happy in thy happiness. She glanced up from her chair on the wide, shaded veranda and saw a car stop in front. Guests were few, and each one arriving afforded a small bit of excitement. She saw "Hey Boy," the Oriental houseboy rush down the steps to welcome the visitors, and to carry in their luggage. She was about to return to her poetry when her heart leaped. With quickened interest she saw that the visitor was Dr. Barton, and that he had his children with him. She not- - ed that the only luggage he had was a large picnic basket and some straw mats. 'The arrival of the Barton family must be a coincidence, not a visit to her, she reasoned. "Hallie," Dr. Barton greeted her, coming up the steps, "I hope we didn't take you too much by surprise." "You did," she answered, honestly. It was no coincidence, after all, her heart rejoiced. He sat down next to Hallie. The children stood politely quiet while their father introduced them. The twins — Don, with mischievouslooking blue eyes and blond curly hair, and Rohn, solemnly dark-eyed, dark-haired like his father. They shook hands with Hallie, then sat down on the steps. "A busy pair, when they're in their native habitat," their father remarked fondly. He drew his daughter onto his lap. "This is Julie," he said. "Say hello to Miss Evans." "Not Miss Evans, please," Hallie said. "Call me Hallie." "Hello, Hallie," Julie said. "We've come to take you on a picnic." "Hello, Julie," Hallie replied. "I'd love to go on a picnic with you." "T called Karin to find where you'd disappeared to, when your telephone didn't answer," Dr. Barton explained. "Had to threaten her before she'd tell me. Said you'd gone away to plan your future, and didn't want any intruders," he teased. He looked at her searchingly, suddenly serious. "And have you made your plans for the future?" he asked. "No, Dr. Barton," simply, "not a single plan." she replied It was 84 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1959 WE CAN'T ALL BE GENERALS strange how she could talk so honestly to this man whom she scarcely knew. "Must we be so formal?" he asked. "My name is David." THEY found just the right spot for the picnic, within walking distance of the lodge. 'There were trees and a sparkling brook, with enough level, grassy ground to make for comfort. David set the picnic basket down in front of Hallie. "Here you are — this is your department. Hope we didn't forget the salt." Hallie opened the basket and started spreading the tablecloth. She felt a warmth around her heart — what better way could David have found to make her feel an integral part of the little group? David spread the mats, all the while keeping an eye on his children, who had gone to the brook's edge, and were busily tossing small pebbles into the water. Hallie could hear their shouts and happy laughter over the faint tinkling of the brook. After lunch, as Hallie was clearing up, the boys asked their father to take them out exploring. "Go ahead," Hallie offered when she saw David hesitate, "Julie and I will stay here." "No, we'll wait,' David answered. "This family always does things together." The balance of the week passed slowly for Hallie. She received several notes from David. The last one, which arrived the day before her departure ended: "Hope we see you soon," and it was signed, "David, Don, Rohn, and Julie." The last three in childish scrawls. "The 85 family that does things together," Hallie thought, with quickened heartbeat. Early the next morning she boarded the bus for home. ARIN met her at the station. "Why, Hallie," she exclaimed, "you look different." "T have a slight sun-tan," she admitted. "No, it isn't that." Karin inspected her sister closely. Possibly that happy look that she isn't used to, Hallie told herself. She was only mildly surprised when Karin headed her car in the direction of her own home. "'Aren't you going the wrong way?" she asked. "I've loads of things to do at home." "Oh, but Hallie," Karin protested, "my appointment is at two, and there isn't time for you to stop off." As though Hallie knew all about her commitments and was responsible for the care of the children. Hallie looked at her sister. Poor child, she does look tired, she thought. "All right, dear," she said, "I can begin my work just as well tomorrow." It was five-thirty before Karin returned home. In the meantime Hallie had fed the boys their dinner and helped them get ready for bed. "Oh," Karin said, tossing her spotlessly white gloves and purse on the divan, "I forgot to tell you, Dr. Barton called this morning and left word for you to call him. 'Tickets for the concert tonight—or something." "Oh, Karin, Karin," Hallie lamented, "why didn't you tell me sooner?" "Tm sorry, it simply slipped my mind," Karin said, apologetically. She might still catch him at his office. What on earth shall I say? She thought — "This is Hallie, who isn't important enough to receive messages before it's too late — sorty." Then scolded herself, ''m being childish — Karin simply forgot. She reached for the telephone just as it rang. It was David. He greeted her warmly, then asked if he could pick her up for the concert. She would have to shower and dress right here, she decided quickly. "Tl be at Karin's," she told him. "Fine. About seven-thirty." David came, but instead of driving toward the concert hall, drove toward his home. He had bought the old Atherton place, Hallie knew. It was considered one of the most gracious dwellings the town afforded. "I promised the children we'd stop off so they could see you," he explained. "We've plenty of time. I hope you don't mind?" "Mind?" she said, "'I'd love it." The children came tumbling down the stairs, as soon as David showed her in. They were rosycheeked and scrubbed looking, and in their night clothes. "Hallie, Hallie," Julie cried, and ran into Hallie's arms. She caught her up and held her tight, feeling the warmth of the chubby arms around her neck. The boys were more formal. 'They shook hands and said "Hello." After a few moments, their father ordered: "Now off you go upstairs, all of you. Mrs. Busby will read you a story." "No, I want Hallie to read to me," Julie demanded. She tightened her hold around Hallie's neck. Her father came over and gently disentangled her grip. "Off you go," he repeated. "Hallie will read to you some other time. Perhaps we might even persuade her to go on another picnic with us— say this Saturday afternoon." He looked questioningly at Hallie over the top of his daughter's head. She nodded, then kissed Julie on the cheek. "Oh, goodie, a picnic!" Don and Rohn exclaimed in unison, and Hallie watched as the trio pattered up the stairs, Julie turning as she reached the top to throw them a goodnight kiss. Ig was several weeks after they had met at Karin's that David told her one evening — half apologetically — half hopefully—"We can't seem to get along without you a single day any more, Hallie." There had been picnics, dinners at which Hallie was asked to preside, storytime, and endless other good times together. It was wonderful to feel that she was needed, she thought. Then one evening after a happy afternoon spent at the zoo, with the children safely delivered into the capable hands of Mrs. Busby, David, driving her home, said: "I hope you are no longer making plans for the future — plans that don't include the Barton family, that is. We need you, Hallie, and want you." Hallie hadn't known there could be this much joy in the world. There would be no announcement as yet, but Karin and Frank should be told, they decided together. Early the next morning Hallie 86 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1959 WE CAN'T ALL BE GENERALS 87 drove to her sister's house. Karin someone else's — I hope I can think was already out weeding the flower of them as my own. Besides, simply beds. Having nothing to do isn't truly "Hi!" she looked up at Hallie, freedom — freedom is of the heart." and the sun made a circlet of gold Suddenly she and Karin were in through her bright curls. "I'm glad each other's arms. -_ aaa, There's work to be "Oh, Hallie, how selfish and blind Cae: I've been. David is a wonderful per- "I didn't intend to stay," Hallie ",; FEM (cidroppedlby £0 tell you son, and I know you'll be very hap. " py. Something. "ey? 2 Karin dropped her weeding fork Pm sure we will — all five of and sat back on the grass. Ee Jplalite agreed. "Oh, Hallie, you're not?" she Life was wonderful, she reflected, even though you were just a marching soldier. A life of service was up your wonderful freedom to take what her individual nature required, care of someone else's children?" She was sure of that. "Karin, dear,' Hallie began gentShe looked at Karin fondly. Ly, "try to understand. I don't inBless her stout little heart, she tend to think of David's children as thought, we can't all be generals. Cried, then without waiting for an answer — "you're not going to give > << Dorothy S. Romney, Stockton, California, has been represented in The Relief Society Magazine by two serials and a short story. "I attended the University of Utah," she tells us, "'and I have taken one six-weeks writing course since coming to California in 1936. I have sold over seventy short stories, a few plays, around twenty articles, and two serials. I belong to a small writing group here in Stockton, and have been invited to join the Sacramento Branch of the Pen Women, which I intend to do shortly. I have one son, Douglas, a high-schoo] student. He is an ardent science fan, a good athlete, and an all-around good student. My current Church position is that of historian for the Stockton Second Ward Primary Association, work that I thoroughly enjoy. I also act as a visiting teacher for the Relief Society organization." i Winter Comes to the Hills Elsie McKinnon Strachan This soundless dawn, the wind lies stil]— Like silence held to make a wish, And winter quiet cloaks each hill; The woods stand mute in silver hush. The new snow glistens, mile on mile; And none but my early footprints mar The hallowed whiteness of this aislek— For I, alone, am trespasser. She Central Atlantic States TTlission Preston R. Nibley Assistant Church Historian "THE Central Atlantic States Mission was formed on October 26, 1947, at Roanoke, Virginia, under the direction of Elders Albert E. Bowen and Henry D. Moyle, of the Council of the Twelve, by a division of the East Central States Mission. 'The new mission comprised the States of Virginia and North Carolina, except that part of Virginia that had been included in the Washington Stake. It also included the following coun-. Ties in West Virginia: McDowell, Mercer, Summers, Greenbrier, and Monroe. Elder James R. Price of Phoenix, Arizona, was chosen as the first president of the new mission. Headquarters was established at Roanoke, Virginia, where a mission home was purchased. During the month of November 1947, Elder Bowen and President Price made a tour of the mission and held meetings in Petersburg, Norfolk, Elizabeth City, Harker's Island, Wilmington, Goldsboro, Durham, and Colfax. During this visit Elder Bowen set apart David L. Hiatt of Mount Airy, North Carolina, as first counselor to President Price. Later in the month, Rudger G. Smith of Phoenix, Arizona, was set apart as second counselor. President Price presided over the Central Atlantic States Mission a little more than four years, during which time all phases of the missionary Photograph by Hugh Morton Submitted by Lovell W. Smith GREENFIELD GARDENS, WILMINGTON, NORTH CAROLINA Page 88 THE CENTRAL ATLANTIC STATES MISSION 89 So Courtesy Chamber of Commerce, Roanoke, Virginia Submitted by Lovell W. Smith MONTICELLO, HOME OF THOMAS JEFFERSON Charlottesville, Virginia work were greatly stimulated and increased. In January 1952, he was succeeded by Claude W. Nalder of San Francisco, California. President Nalder continued the work that had been initiated by President Price and labored with great diligence, until the second week of August 1955, when he was admitted to a hospital in Roanoke, following a severe chill. On August 18, 1955, he passed away. 'The cause of his death Was given as uremic poisoning. His passing brought great sorrow to the missionaries and saints of the Central Atlantic States Mission. Elder Henry A. Smith, former President of Pioneer Stake and for many years a member of the staff of the Deseret News in Salt Lake City, arrived in Roanoke during the latter part of September 1955, having been appointed to take charge of the mission. He is presiding at the present time. In September 1958 it was reported that there were 10,073 members of the Church in the Central Atlantic States Mission, located in fifty-seven branches. Sixty Relief Society organizations, with 1192 members, were reported in December 1957. Lovell W. Smith presides over the Central Atlantic States Mission Relief Society. Note: The cover for this Magazine, "Sunset on the James River, Virginia, from the site of Jamestown Landing of 1607, showing William Couper's statue of Captain John Smith," is from a transparency by Frank Dementi, and was submitted by Lovell W. Smith. See also ' 'Recipes from the Central Atlantic States Mission," page 101. Contentment, Thou Art Priceless! Leone O. Jacobs ~f{ ARIAN Cooper was - still M' irritated at herself for coming on this family excursion at all. After all, she had never been sentimental about her forebears; and there were many other things. She should have been doing. It 'was only because of her brother's insistence that she finally had been persuaded to make the trip to Wellsville to see the ancestral Bennett home. Here they were, all six of the grandchildren and their spouses, gathered on the lawn in front of the old rock house built by Grandfather Bennett. 'The house was still sturdy and in fairly good repair, after 101 years of occupancy. Marian marveled that Grandfather could have built such a well-preserved structure. She supposed his early life had given him experience in many types of work. An old couple named Olsen had bought the home several years ago and were still living there. Jess, Marian's brother, had written them and treceived permission to have this family outing at the old homestead. "A family reunion is long overdue," he had written, "and I think the old home would be a fine setting." Marian was not by nature a sentimentalist. Yes, she was proud of her pioneer heritage, but she was not one to live in the past. The present and future were her challenge, her interest. 'There was so much she wanted to do to improve their situation in life. True, she and George had a nice home and had reared three fine children to Page 90 maturity, but though Marian Cooper would never have admitted it to anyone, she was far from being a contented person. Twenty-eight years ago, when she married George Cooper, she had been confident they could realize every dream of their hearts. With her ambition and drive, and George's ability to make friends, the future seemed bright indeed. But George had been a disappointment in some ways. He made many friends, and received much enjoyment from life, but he was too easygoing, not aggressive enough to get ahead as she had hoped. His family, his Church, and his friends satisfied his desires completely. Marian was sure he could have been taken into the law firm as a partner if he had asserted himself more. And, if he had only campaigned more vigorously, he could easily have received the twenty additional votes he needed for election into the House of Representatives. He was just too content, that was all! After the bounteous luncheon had been served under the trees, the Bennett clan stretched and lounged and visited, and then Jess brought out the history of Grandfather and Grandmother Bennett, written by their mother. Jess explained that since he was the eldest of their family, he felt obligated to take the initiative in refreshing their memories concerning the lives of their grandparents. So he unfolded the manuscript and began to read. Marian was only slightly interested. The names and _ places sounded vaguely familiar, though CONTENTMENT, THOU ART PRICELESS! She surmised it must have been in her father's home before she was married, that she had last heard this history given. "Born Liberty Falls, Sullivan County, New York. Not far from the home there were maple groves, which lent beauty to the landscape as well as material support to the people of the neighborhood. Each spring they drained the trees and boiled down the sap into maple sugar. At nights attendants went from tree to tree with a torch to change the kettles when they were full... A beautiful lake, called the Neversink, was nearby.... 6é™RHEY heard the gospel preached by two Mormon missionaries, accepted it, and prepared to come West.... Margaret gave birth to a second daughter while in Council Bluffs, and two weeks later they started the long march westward. The baby, it was afterward said, cried for a thousand miles.... They settled in Wellsville, Utah, and built a two-story rock home.... To them were born ten children, four sons and six daughters." Jess's voice droned on and on, and Marian was beginning to feel drowsy, when, suddenly, her attention was roused. "During the winter of 1865 the dread disease, diphtheria, struck the home. Three of the children, Martha, fifteen, Alice, eleven, and little Jim, two years, were laid low. Terror struck the hearts of the parents, as there was at that time no known cure for the terrible affliction. But with all the faith and prayers at their command, they nursed them and applied the remedies of the day. But to no avail. "It was a sorrowful Christmas that 91 year of 1865. As the three lay critically ill, the elements combined to hold them in an icy grip. Snow piled up to the window sills, and the sharp north wind blew drifts over the fence posts. It was bitter cold December 26, as sweet little honey-haired Alice passed away out of mortality. The families were snowbound, so there could be no service nor burial in the cemetery, and little Jim and Martha were sinking slowly. With Alice laid out in the downstairs bedroom, the bereaved Mother continued her vigil and her kindly ministrations with the other two. But it was no use. Each day they lost strength, and outside the elements continued to rage— four feet of snow on the level, and so frigid that the snow made a crunching noise as one walked." MARIAN found herself gripping her hands tensely. She had not remembered the details of this sad story. She knew only that two children had died in childhood, but, oh, what a pitiful tale this was! Imagine a mother's feelings at being so helpless to stay the destroyer! Jess went on: "On New Year's day little Jim slipped quietly away, and the parents' grief knew no bounds. The storm had locked them in, as with a vise, and as the cemetery was over a mile away, the burial there was out of the question. So out into the orchard went Father and the two boys with picks and shovels, and after hours and hours, they had prepared a place for their loved ones. The rude pine boxes Father made from lumber he found around the place. And what of Martha? Was she to leave them also? On Jan. 2 a kind providence saw fit to turn the course of the disease and she began slowly to mend, though she was weak for months to come." Marian was surprised to feel two tears sliding down her cheeks, but she did not bother to brush them aside. "Imagine losing two loved ones between Christmas and New Years. Wasn't that enough to break the faith of Grandmother and Grandfather?" "Oh, no," replied Alice, her eldest sister, "I remember Mother saying it was very hard for them to bear, but it seemed to cement the family ties even more closely and give them determination to go on walking uprightly in the ways of the Lord. Bless the memory of those dear ones, our forebears! I wonder if we could go through such trials without becoming bitter?" "T doubt it," was Marian's whispered answer. "'Are the little graves still in evidence?" she asked, with a note of keen interest in her voice. "Why, of course they are," answered Jess. "You mean you haven't remembered them during all these years? I know you saw them as a child. It's only about half a block from here. [I'm sure I can remember the place." ND so the twelve Bennett adults, touched by the tender story of their predecessors, wandered out into the orchard. For, yes, it was still an orchard, though perhaps three or four plantings had taken place since Grandfather Bennett's trees were there, and since that sad winter of 1865. After searching a short time and pulling apart a tangle of wild rosebushes, they found a cement slab and the two wooden headstones, marked faintly: "Alice, 11 yrs." and "James, 2 yrs." "Yes, Grandfather stipulated in his will," said Jess, "that the graves were never to be molested, and so the Olsens, years ago, cemented them over and have plowed and harrowed and watered around them all these years." "See how the wild roses twine themselves around the place," said Alice. "They seem so very appropriate for children's graves, don't they?" Marian was deeply moved and she contemplated seriously the meaning of life. "What is true greatness, Jess?" she finally asked, voicing the thought that had come to her in that moment of contemplation. A long pause ensued, then her stalwart brother lifted his head and answered, "A good father and a good mother are great. I am sure Grandfather and Grandmother were great people. If a man and woman are honest and dependable, if they love others and are loved in return, if they sincerely try to keep the commandments of God, helping their neighbors, then I think they are great. If they rear a fine family that is a worthy contribution to society, they are great. And to be content with what the Lord in his mercy metes out to us is greatness." The grandchildren stood for some time in silence around the two graves, engaged in as solemn and important thoughts as they had had for many a day. "I'm so glad we came here today," said Marian at last. "I think I have been needing this for a long time." That night, as she and George prepared for bed, she turned to him, and out of the fulness of her heart, she said, "George, my dear, you are a truly great man. And I am content." 92 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1959 A Perry Picture WASHINGTON AT VALLEY FORGE al When Greatness Beckoned Iris W. Schow On Mount Vernon's long veranda one may turn His back to the estate, and dreamily Look out upon the river that leads down In gentle undulations to the sea. Once Washington, the boy, ignored the land, Adventure-drawn by waters rippling by, And dreamed a brave career called from the deck Of some tall ship, poised between sea and sky. Yet, mindful of a mother's fears, he turned Back from the sea, gave up his youthful schemes, To find adventure beckoned from the land, And greatness far beyond his boyhood dreams. Page 93 Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, February 1, and February 15, 1899 A WONDERFUL AGE: Women have in this present generation taken hold of some of the problems of the day and wrestled with them with the intuitive spiritual strength that seems to be a part of the feminine nature.... Combined efforts are multiplying, and necessarily must increase the power against tyranny and oppression of all kinds, and where men and women unite for high purposes, intelligently waging war against wrong-doing, the victory so long looked for must eventually be expected. —Editorial PERSEVERANCE AT CENTERVILLE: The Centerville Relief Society owned two lots of its own and desired to build, as they had no place of their own to meet in, but on inquiring the cost they found it would be more than they could afford, not wishing to go into debt too much. On the adjoining lot from theirs was a school house which they were advised to purchase if it could be bought on reasonable terms.... They found they could buy it for five hundred dollars. Through the perseverance of the committee, and prayers and help of the brethren and sisters who responded nobly to the cause, they bought it. So now we own two thirds of a block. The school house was cleared and repaired and... Was dedicated June 1, 1898.: —Mary Rockwood, Sec. Tho' clouds of disappointment May gather in life's sky, Do not despair, the sun is there, And soon will be so bright and fair, And then those dearest hopes of thine Like sunlight in thy path will shine.... —Nina Winslow Eckhart VIRGIN CITY, DIXIE: The past year has been a very dry one. In August we had. A very severe storm which did but little good and a great deal of harm. The health of the people as a rule is pretty good. Our Relief Society is doing a good work taking care of the sick and looking after the worthy poor and feeling after the aged. On the morning of January 11, the people awoke finding a happy surprise, the snow being about three inches deep, the first wet storm for the winter, which made everybody rejoice. —Fmily A. Stratton THE TRIENNIAL: The women of Utah who went to Washington in February to attend the Triennial sessions of the National Council of Women of the United States, have had an interesting experience to say the least, especially those who went as presidents, (proxies), delegates and members of the Resolution Committee. As everyone knows who has been connected with such great national bodies, the hard work and really the most important is done in committees. Speech making is comparatively easy, more especially so when prepared beforehand, which the addresses certainly should be on any given subject.... The papers for discussion were of very great interest, especially upon vital questions.... '""The Women of Hawaii," by Susa Young Gates, was a very ably written and exhaustive paper on the conditions, customs and ethics of the natives, and some expression of real life by Hannah Kaepapa, the pretty custom of the laie was given in an object lesson on the platform.... —Editorial Page 94 ELLE S. SPAFFORD, General President of Relief Society, has been named a member at large on the executive committee of the National Council of Women. She recently attended the annual meeting of the council in New York City, accompanied by Marianne C. Sharp, Second Counselor in the General Presidency. AULA COHEN, twenty-threeyear-old astronomer, who has a Master's Degree from the University of California at Los Angeles, is a member of the Douglas Aircraft Research Department, where she plots possible orbits for artificial satellites. MICHIKO SHODA, twenty-four,. Is betrothed to Crown Prince Akhihito of Japan. She is the first commoner to share the throne of Japan since the world's oldest dynasty took it over in 660 B. C. ARNER DODSON, wife of a geologist, has written a helpful and practical volume, Making the Most of Every Move, in which she offers advice on packing, the financial aspects of moving, selecting new homes and disposing of the old ones. The author, from her rich and varied experiences in moving, and from extensive research, believes that the psychological problems of moving require careful consideration. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon ELESTIA TERRY PETERSON, ninety-eight, of Fairview, Utah, has been married for eighty years. She and her husband Peter Peterson, ninety-eight, celebrated this important anniversary in December 1958. They are said to be the oldest married couple in the United States. ME:: HELEN DUPREY BULLOCK, Washington, D. C,, makes a specialty of planning "Dinners with the Presidents" at the famous Mayflower Hotel. The menus and the recipes are secured from the families of the Presidents, or from descendants of those deceased. This year the dinner honors go to James Monroe, and the menu consists of roast duckling, deviled eggs with anchovy on water cress, green pea soup with mint, grilled tomatoes, sweet potatoes, patty pan squash, purple plum jelly, and other delicacies. RS. GELSOMINA DEL VECCHIO, of Paterson, New Jersey, recently célebrated her 107th birthday by taking her two cats for a walk. She is hale, hearty, and happy. R. CHIEN SHIUNG WU, Columbia University physics professor, is the first woman to win the Research Corporation award. She received the 1958 prize for her outstanding research on the parity law. Page 95 QD EDITORIAL <2 VOL. 46 FEBRUARY 1959 NO. 2 Obligations of a Mothers Authority THE term General Authorities in the Church has a meaning peculiar to itself, and likewise the different degrees of authority exercised by stake, ward, branch, and mission officers. 'There is also the personal authority of a man bearing the Priesthood in his own home. Then there is the authority of a mother in the home. In her sphere of service she must assume its obligations and know the duties required of her before she can fulfill her obligations. | Church authorities constantly teach the obligations of parents, and in Section 69 of The Doctrine and Covenants, the Lord commands parents to teach their children, when eight years old, to understand the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ, of baptism, and the gift of the Holy Ghost, and to pray and to walk uprightly before the Lord. This law applies to mothers as well as fathers. Mothers must assume authority in this training, for the sin of not training will be upon the heads of parents, not their childrens', the Lord warns. The acceptance and exercise of this authority by a mother lays the foundation in her children of a love and respect for authority resulting in an obedience to authority. 'he children who are trained to see the blessed results of obedience to authority will not give mere lip service to it. A mother who wishes to exercise authority properly, may apply to the training in authority of her children many of the attributes set forth by Page 96 the Lord for the exercise of the authority of the Priesthood in Section 121 of The Doctrine and Covenants—to influence by persuasion, gentleness, and meekness, and by unfeigned love, reproving with sharpness betimes, then afterward showing forth an increase of love toward the one whom she has reproved, lest the child should consider his mother to be his enemy. The mother herself must set an example of obedience to authority, for there are two facets—the authority a mother wields and the authority to which she yields. Obeying that authority over her enlarges her soul and assists her in exercising her own authority. Nor will she ever criticize those over her. President Joseph F. Smith declared, "There never should be a day pass but all the people composing the Church should lift up their voices in prayer to the Lord to sustain his servants who are placed to preside over them." Teaching children in the home the absolute necessity of obeying gospel principles and the Authorities of the Church, and of the heavyen to be inherited eternally by those obedient to authority, will reward a mother for any sacrifice she may make in order to fulfill daily and hourly the obligations of authority which are inherent in her role of mother. In days to come she will realize the promise "Her children arise up, and call her blessed..." (Proverbs 31:28). —M. C. S$. Birthday Congratulations to Amy Brown Lyman Former General President of Relief Society February 7, 1959 T has been well said that life is enriched and fulfilled by the development of one's inherent abilities, and by a reaching out into the lives of others to uplift and comfort them. Sister Amy Brown Lyman, since her early youth, has exemplified in a wide field of service this spirit of dedication and devotion. As a young woman she became interested in Relief Society by observing the spiritual solace and practical ministrations given by the sisters who were joined together in love and service to each other and to their communities. Sister Lyman has long served Relief Society in many capacities — as General Secretary-Treasurer, as First Counselor in the General Presidency, and as General President. She continues to serve as a ward literature class leader. Relief Society women throughout the Church are grateful for the continuing influence of her inspiration and far-reaching leadership. 'The General Board and the members of the world-wide sisterhood extend birthday congratulations to a beloved leader and wish her much happiness. << GLimitable Grace Barker Wilson I cannot measure outer space, For it extends beyond the stars; And yet infinity must reach Beyond the farthest scimitars. I cannot fathom human minds, Nor bound the limits of a soul, But I can chart a steady course With heaven for its goal. > She Leaven of Laughter Maude Rubin Who drowns his laughter in a flood of fear Shall hear no bird at dawn— Nor see soft-footed dusk walk through the land— Nor smell the petaled snow of apple-bloom. Oh, may I keep that lifting leaven, Hoard it through the heavy hours.. Let not the nearing darkness blind my eyes To softness of gray clouds, the peace of night, Or day's recurring triumph! Page 97 WYotes. TO THE FIELD Sood at Funerals Vo Longer a Regular Service of Reliof Society E call to your attention the following statement with regard to the policy of Relief Society providing food at funerals which appeared in the November-December 1958 copy of The Messenger issued by the Presiding Bishop's office: There appears to be a need among bishops and Relief Society presidents for clarification of the responsibility of Relief Society with regard to providing food for families at time of funerals. In the early days of the Church, methods of transportation were slow, making it difficult for persons from out of town who attended funerals to return to their homes by mealtime; in many communities public eating places were not available or were inadequate. In view of this, the custom of Relief Society providing food at time of funerals developed into a regular practice in most Latter-day Saint communities. Today, however, conditions have changed to the extent that it is no longer considered necessary for Relief Society to provide this service as a regular practice. In those instances in which it is deemed necessary or advisable for the Society to give this service, it is given as a special service. The need for the service is determined by the ward Relief Society president in consultation with the bishop, taking into account the circumstances of the individual family, available community eating places to serve persons attending the funeral who may be unable to return to their homes by mealtime, and the desire of the family for the service. To give this service indiscriminately could be both burdensome to the Society and distasteful to the family. Bishops of wards in which the Relief Society as a regular practice is providing food at time of funerals, are requested to call to the attention of their respective Relief Society presidents the present policy as stated above. This does not mean that Relief Society shall withhold, in any measure, the customary loving, tender services given to families at time of death. To comfort the sorrowing and tenderly minister to families at time of death continue among the foremost of the compassionate services of Relief Society. > Reasons IMlanifold Margaret B. Shomaker Embers charred upon a hearth, Naked trees defying cold, Fertile land cloaked white with snow. A puff, and embers gleam Bright in their rebirth. Time and leaf-green trees A thousand songs will hold. Rest and barren land New harvest will bestow. Growth, fire, earth Hold reasons manifold; Life has its afterglow. Page 98 - A Fireside Chat on a Burning Question A Sabbath evening in a home where faith abides, with young friends gathered to engage in pleasant and prayerful discussion and song — this is "A Fireside." What beautiful images the word suggests: home, hospitality, friendship, security. Fire, the key word, has been man's friend or his foe through the ages. It is heat for his home, elemental source of light, refiner and purifier of coarse materials, energy for machines. The word "fire" has enriched our language: "fired with imagination", fired with enthusiasm'; "'the fire of faith." When God wanted to speak to Moses, he spoke with fire... "out of the burning bush." Page 99 100 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1959 Fire is man's friend — but it also can be his enemy. One of today's most destructive forms of fire is the tiny flame from the strike of a match or the flick of a lighter to start each year in America the slow burning of 400 billion cigarettes. Light up? Just a minute, young friends of our "Fireside." Let's not play with this fire. Beware of the burning tobacco leaf and its fickle promises which, like' one's "pipe dreams," can't come true. BE HONEST WITH YOURSELF Recipes From the Central Atlantic States Mission Submitted by Lovell W. Smith Butrer PECAN PIE Recipe from Wilmington, North Carolina 3 eggs, beaten 1 tsp. Vanilla % ce. Sugar % c. Butter, melted 1 c. Dark corn syrup 1 C. Pecan meats % tsp. Salt 1 unbaked 9g-inch pastry shell Put first six ingredients together in order listed. 'Then sprinkle one half the nut meats in the bottom of the unbaked pie shell. Pour in the pie mixture. Sprinkle remaining half of nut meats over top. Bake in 350° oven about 45 minutes, or until set. CRACKLING BREAD 1% c. Corn meal 1 tsp. Baking powder ¥% ¢. Flour 1% c. Ground pork cracklings 1 tsp. Salt Mix all ingredients together with just enough milk to make a very stiff batter (soft dough). Bake in square pan at 450° until brown. Cut in squares to serve. Husu Puppies 1 c. Corm meal 1 tsp. Sugar % c. Flour 1 egg 1 tsp. Salt enough milk to make dough like 2 tsp. Baking powder drop-biscuit Mix all ingredients together and drop by teaspoons into deep fat. Cook at 375° until golden brown. A little onion salt, added to above ingredients before baking, gives a delightful flavor. Serve hot with any food. Crusty Pounp CAKE When baked, a rich, crusty top forms on this cake. 1% c. Butter 4 ¢. Flour 8 eggs 2 c. Sugar % tsp. Salt 1 tsp. Baking powder 1 tsp. Vanilla extract 1 tsp. Lemon extract RECIPES FROM THE CENTRAL ATLANTIC STATES MISSION 101 Cream butter and work in flour until mixture is of a fine, mealy texture. Beat eggs until lemon-colored; combine with sugar. Add to flour mixture. Add salt, baking powder, and extracts. Beat 15 minutes with rotary beater, or five minutes with electric beater. Bake in greased tube pan in slow oven (250°) 4o minutes, then in moderate oven (325°) 40 minutes. Crust will form making frosting unnecessary. Cuerst APPLE CRISP 6-8 apples (or two cans) 1 tsp. Each, cinnamon, allspice, 1 Cc, sugar and. Nutmeg Pare apples and cut in pieces. Mix sugar and spices together, mix with apples. Put in pan without crust.. Topping for apples 1% to 2c. Flour 1 4-0z. Can American cheese % Ib. Butter (powdcred ) 1 Cc. Sugar about % c. Water Mix flour, butter, sugar, and cheese until it looks like meal. Put this on top of apples. This amount makes a thick topping. Sprinkle water over topping and bake about 45 minutes at 400°. Serve hot or cold. Serves 12. (This recipe from North Carolina has been handed down through several generations). VircintA Baxkep Ham Wash a Smithfield* ham in hot water with a stiff brush. Put in boiler of water large enough for ham to float. When it gets to boiling point, turn heat down, so it does not even bubble. Cook until bone on large end leaves ham (about 1 inch). Then take it out of fat. Sprinkle % cup or more of brown sugar over the ham and add spices, if desired. Put ham in hot oven, so it will brown in 10 minutes. *"Smithfield" hams come from animals fattened on peanuts. It is thought by the Virginians that the feeding of peanuts gives a very special flavor to the ham. SOUTHERN Spoon BreapD (Recipe from Roanoke, Virginia) 1% c. Corn meal 5 eggs % |b. Butter 2 c. Milk 1 tsp. Sugar 1% c. Boiling water 1% tsp. Salt 1 tbsp. Baking powder Mix corn meal, salt, and sugar together. Add boiling water. Add butter melted. Beat eggs and add milk to eggs. Put the two mixtures together. Add baking powder. Pour into dripper baking pan and bake 30 to 40 minutes in oven at 350°. SOUTHERN FRIED CHICKEN 1 medium-sized fryer, cut into "" ¢. Sweet milk desired pieces salt and pepper 1 egg flour as needed Beat egg lightly; add approximately % cup sweet milk, salt, and pepper to taste. Dip chicken into this mixture, then roll in flour. Cook in piping hot grease. Arrange chicken in wire frying basket, place in hot grease, and fry until golden brown. You may add French-fried potatoes to grease and cook along with chicken. Drain and serve. Cooking With Dry Milk Dr. Marian Bennion Chairman, Department of Food and Nutrition, Brigham Young University OU, as today's homemaker, find on your grocer's shelves many new products and also many old products in new forms. One such food which can be put to very good use in your kitchen is nonfat milk solids, often called dry milk. Most of the water is removed from fresh, liquid skim milk to obtain nonfat dry milk. 'This, then, is a mixture of protein, milk-sugar, minerals, and some of the water soluble vitamins, especially riboflavin. The use of dry milk in many dishes may be an excellent way of stepping up the nutritive value of your family's meals. Newer methods of processing have made it possible to preserve maximum fresh milk flavor, also, and to give you a product that is readily soluble and easy to use. Economy may be the keynote in your food budget. If so, dry milk will fit nicely into your plan. It is one of the most economical forms of milk you can buy, costing only about one half as much per quart as comparable fluid skim milk. Remember, however, that the fat has been removed from the dry milk solids, so the price cannot be strictly compared to fresh whole milk. These are the days of modern conveniences, and the use of dry milk in cooking blends in well with this theme. It is convenient to store since it does not require refrigeration and takes very little shelf space. It should be kept, however, in a tightly covered container, so that it is not left open to the air. Storage temperatures no higher than 75° F. Are preferable, also. It is unwise to keep dry milk over a period of more Page 102 than six months unless it is in an airtight glass, metal, foil, or polyethylene-lined container, as otherwise it may become offflavored and caked. If the dry milk is kept in air-tight containers at 4o° F., it will keep as long as two years. Use from your stored supply and add to it, so that none of it gets too old before it is used. Dry milk is convenient to use. It may be reconstituted with water and used as any liquid milk if it is a grade A product and clean utensils are used in the mixing process. It may also be used in many cases as the dry product. In recipes for breads, cakes, and other baked goods, the dry milk may simply be added to or sifted with the other dry ingredients in the recipe. Then, water ma be used for the required liquid. Other liquids, as stock, fruit juice, or even additional milk, may also be used, depending upon the recipe. You may adapt most of your favorite baking recipes for the use of dry milk in this way. A good general tule to follow in deciding how much dry milk to substitute is to use three to four tablespoons of dry milk and one cup of water as the liquid to replace each cup of milk called for in a recipe. You may like to add an additional amount of dry milk to many of your old favorite recipes or to new ones you are trying. Since dry milk is high in food value, you may markedly increase the nutritive value of a product in this way without seriously affecting the flavor or texture, in most cases. If you have a member of your family who does not like COOKING WITH DRY MILK to drink milk, this may be an excellent way of getting into his diet the valuable nutrients furnished by one of nature's most perfect foods—milk. Perhaps you have not yet tried adding dry milk to meat or fish loaves. As much as one-fourth cup for each pound of meat or fish should give satisfactory results in flavor and will, certainly, increase the nutritive value of the dish, as well as stretch that food dollar spent for meat. Other casserole dishes may also adapt themselves well to the addition of nonfat dry milk. T may be well to mention here that if the proportion of milk in a recipe is being increased very much, a few modifications may be necessary. A higher proportion of dry milk may make a product less tender, so the fat in the recipe may need to be increased a small amount. You may notice that extra dry milk solids seem to thicken as they absorb more moisture, so the liquid in a recipe may need to be increased or the flour decreased somewhat. Milk solids contain milk-sugar and may produce a product which is too sweet, unless the sugar in the recipe is slightly decreased. 'The additional milk-sugar from the nonfat milk solids may also cause the baked food to become too brown, unless the oven temperature is decreased a little. There will be differences in the compactness of packing of various types of nonfat dry milk, especially instant dry milk, and it is therefore best to follow package directions when mixing with water to reconstitute. Usually three-fourths cup of non-instant powder or one and one-eighth cup of instant powder to one quart of water is recom- 103 mended. When mixing, it is best to sprinkle the powder on top of the water and beat or mix thoroughly. The mixture may be shaken in a tightly covered jar. Water at room temperature or slightly warmer, will make it possible to mix the milk more easily and completely. If the milk is used for drinking, either alone or mixed with varying proportions of liquid whole milk, it will be improved by chilling in the refrigerator overnight. 'The newer processing methods have produced a very palatable instant product for drinking purposes, as well as for use in cooking. A light and airy product for topping may be made by whipping nonfat milk solids. Equal measures of dry milk and water are usually satisfactory for this purpose. Make sure that your bow] is the right size for the amount of mixture you are whipping so that thorough mixing can take place. The bowl, beaters, and water should be icy cold. Place the water in the bowl, sprinkle the milk solids over the top, and beat, first at low speed and then at high speed, until stiff. Scrape down the sides of the bowl occasionally. A little lemon juice may be added for stability. Sugar may be added after the mixture is stiffly beaten. The topping will not hold up for long periods of time, but makes a pleasant, economical product when used immediately. The use of dry milk, then, offers you nutrition, convenience, and economy. Make the most of it. You really need no special recipes. Often only a simple substitution is necessary. However, a few recipes are offered here to help you get started and to stimulate your spirit of adventure in trying new things. - 104 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1959 PINEAPPLE BREAKFAST CAKE % c. Sugar 1% c. All-purpose flour % c. Soft shortening 2 tbsp. Nonfat dried milk solids 1 egg 1% tsp. Baking powder % c. Water % tsp. Salt Mix sugar, shortening, and egg together thoroughly. Stir in gradually 4 c. Water. Sift dry ingredients together and stir into sugar and egg mixture—do not beat. Spread batter in greased g-inch square pan and sprinkle with pineapple topping. Bake at 375° for 25 to 30 minutes. PINEAPPLE TOPPING 3 tbsp. Softened margarine or butter % c. Drained crushed pineapple 3 tbsp. Brown sugar Mix together thoroughly and sprinkle on top of batter before baking. WHOLE-WHEAT BREAD 2% c. Warm water 1 tbsp. Salt % c. Brown sugar or molasses % c. Soft shortening or oil i pkg. Active dry yeast (1 cake com- 26 c. Nonfat dried milk solids pressed yeast may be used) 5%-6 c. Whole-wheat flour Measure water and sugar into large mixing bowl; add yeast and stir. Add salt and shortening. Mix milk solids and 2 c. Of the flour together; add to yeast mixture and stir. Add additional flour to form a soft dough. Turn dough onto lightly floured board and knead until smooth and elastic and dough does not stick to board. Return to clean mixing bow]; lightly grease top of dough to prevent drying, cover, put in a warm place, and allow dough to double in bulk—about 1—1% hours. Push dough down. Turn out on very lightly floured board and shape into two loaves. Place in greased standard size loaf pans, 7'2x3%2x2% inches. Let rise until doubled in bulk—about 45 minutes. Bake in preheated oven at 400° F. For 35 to 45 minutes. Yield: 2 loaves. Fiurry Lemon Cuirron Pie ' package lemon flavored gelatin % tsp. Grated lemon rind % c. Boiling water % c. Nonfat dried milk solids " c. Sugar % c. Water % c. Lemon juice Dissolve gelatin in boiling water. Add sugar, lemon juice, and lemon rind and stir until dissolved. Place in refrigerator until gelatin mixture begins to thicken. Have % c. Water, bowl, and beater very cold. Sprinkle dried milk on top of water and beat mixture until stiff. Beat gelatin mixture into whipped milk. Pour into 8-inch pie pan lined with baked pastry shell or graham cracker crust. Chill until firm. Yield: Filling for one 8-inch pie. Puppine Mix 1% c. Sugar 1 tsp. Salt 1% c. Corn starch 7 ¢. Dry milk Combine ingredients thoroughly and store in covered container. PuppInc % ¢. Pudding mix 1 egg yolk, beaten 1% c. Water % tsp. Vanilla COOKING WITH DRY MILK 105 Add water gradually to pudding mix, stirring until smooth. Bring to a boil over gentle heat. Then add egg yolk and vanilla. Cook an additional minute. This recipe makes three or four servings. PuppInGc VARIATIONS Use one of the following: 1 tbsp. Chocolate syrup or % square " c. Cinnamon drops or crushed bitter chocolate peppermint candies % tsp. Vanilla and 1 tsp. Butter % c. Chopped nuts % c. Chopped fruit, fresh, canned or % c. Toasted cake cubes dried % c. Toasted coconut If desired, pudding may be served with topping of chocolate or butterscotch sauce, honey, jam, or whipped cream. Or pudding may be used to fill pie or tart shells, or as filling between layers of cake. Consistency of pudding may be varied to taste by increasing or decreasing the amount of water added. Corn CHOWDER 4 c. Diced raw potatoes 1 c. Dry milk 2 c. Boiling water 1 ¢. Water 4 tbsp. Diced salt pork 1% tsp. Salt 1 onion, chopped dash pepper 2 c. Canned, creamed style or frozen 2 tbsp. Chopped parsley corn Cook potatoes in water for ten minutes. Saute salt pork and onion gently for five minutes or until pork is crisp; add to potatoes. Add corn and cook gently until potatoes are done. Mix dry milk to a smooth paste with water, add paste, salt, and pepper to soup. Heat thoroughly over boiling water, add chopped parsley and serve. Serves six to eight. Macaroni, CHEESE, AND E. Ccs '% ¢. Macaroni, broken into pieces 1% tbsp. Fat 1% c. Water or fluid milk 1% c¢. Grated cheese ¥ c. Dry milk, whole or nonfat 4 hard cooked eggs, sliced crumbs 2 tbsp. Flour mixed with melted fat "" tsp. Salt For added milk value, use 3% c. Dry milk and 1% tbsp. Flour, in place of amounts given above. Cook macaroni in boiling water until tender. Drain and discard cooking water. Put the water or fluid into a pan; add dry milk, flour, and salt. Beat until smooth. Add fat and cook over very low heat or boiling water until thickened, stirring as necessary to prevent sticking or lumping. Remove from heat and stir in cheese. Place macaroni in a greased dish, cover with the eggs, and add the cheese sauce. Sprinkle crumbs over top. Brown in modcrate oven 350° F. For about twenty minutes, Serves six servings. Upstream IP a turbulent stream, a fish must swim hard to stay in the same place. But only a little extra effort will take him upstream.—Celia Luce You Can Sew XIl —Plackets Jean R. Jennings OST dresses and skirts, many blouses, and various other articles of clothing require some type of neat and, usually, inconspicuous closing. Since the advent of zippers, not too many years ago, they have been by far the most popular means of finishing openings used to make our clothing easy to put on or take off. Not all articles of clothing lend themselves to the use of zippers. Some of the garments that do not are baby clothes and those used for very small children; night clothes of all kinds; undergarments such as petticoats and panties; and dresses made of such sheer and delicate fabrics that zippers would be too heavy and obvious. All clothing in these classifications, as well as some others, need special types of neat and inconspicuous closings. Here is where some form of sewed placket comes into use. There are several ways of making plackets for successful closings without zippers. One of these, the faced placket, was discussed previously in the article on fitted facings. Others commonly used include the continuous bound placket, the hemmed placket, and the faced underarm placket. Continuous Bound Placket This type of placket is especially useful for light weight and sheer materials, being used especially for lingerie. It is suitable for children's clothing as well as in straight gathered skirts. It is frequently used to finish a sleeve opening above a taiPage 106 CONTINUOUS PLACKET IN SLASH IN SEAM we oe OK OK OK lored, applied cuff; and can finish an open seam as well as a slash. 1. Cut a straight strip of material two inches wide and twice the length of the opening plus one inch. (On baby clothes and other dainty materials, make the strip narrower so the placket will be dainty. ) YOU CAN SEW—XII—PLACKETS a CI IN = 2. Baste and stitch strip to the opening, right sides together. If the opening occurs in a seam, clip the seam allowance at top and bottom. Hold the opening as straight as possible. Taper to a sharp point when applying to a slashed opening. Continue sewing all around the opening. 3. Turn in the free edge to enclose the seam, as on a binding, and hem to the line of stitching. 4. Finish by stitching the two free ends together and overcast raw edges. Sew on snaps with a hook and eye at the waistline. In baby clothes use buttons and buttonholes. In slacks, children's clothes, or pajamas, gripper fasteners are useul. Hemmed Placket This placket is used most frequently on baby dresses to finish the back neck opening. It is also a simple and practical type for gathered skirts. Slash the center back of dress or skirt on the grain of the material, to the desired length. For the under side of the placket, stitch a narrow hem, by hand or machine, on the raw edge, tapering off to nothing at 107 a ) eer HEMMED PLACKET the bottom. For the top side of the placket, make a hem from ¥% to 1 inch wide. This is lapped over the under side of the placket to form a pleat at the bottom. Stitch hem. At the end of the placket, stitch twice across the pleat to stay the opening. Faced Underarm Placket A faced or a faced and hemmed placket gives a flat, smooth closing with snaps or hooks. It may be used on light wools or silks in situations where zippers are not practical or not desired. It is also frequently used on the bottom of tight-fitting sleeves. In making this placket, both front and back edges are faced with a lengthwise strip of matching fabric. Stitch, press, and edge finish the side and waistline seams then: 1. Cut two strips on the lengthwise grain 14% inches wide and 2 inches longer than the opening. 2. Place the strips on the front and back placket edges with right sides together. Using a % inch seam allowance, and leaving one inch above and below placket ends, place the strip for the front edge so that it can be stitched on the seam line of the garment. 'The strip for the back edge can be stitched at least % inch from the side seam line. Stitch the strips to the garment, backstitching at the ends. 3. Steam press the placket scams open and trim allowances on facings to % inch. Allowances on a dress may be left wider for possible alteration. 'Turn facings to the wrong side and press well to insure thin edges along the opening. 4. Finish raw edges to prevent fraying. 5. Anchor seam tape behind front facing through which to sew snaps and hooks and eyes. Fasten front facing to dress with an invisible hemming stitch. 6. On the back edge, clip through seam allowance at top and bottom so they will turn forward under front edge. Hand stitch to front at top and bottom. Overcast raw edges. If seam allowances are wide enough, one or both raw edges may be hemmed back instead of faced. In this case edges must be reinforced with seam tape to prevent stretching. Remember always that every placket should be made to fit as smoothly as a seam in order to retain a perfect fit. ~_- An Untold Sale June N. Ashton These things Have a story To tell: tepee rock rings... Broken arrows without feathers... The Sioux. 108 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1959 The Silver Leash CIIAPTER 2 Beatrice Rordame Parsons Synopsis: LaRue Harding, an orphan, who has lived since childhood in California with an aunt, goes to Fivelakes, Arizona, after the death of lier sister Amelia. LaRue finds that her brother-in-law Herbert Vetterly is confined to a wheel chair and his children seem hostile towards LaRue. HE huge, silver-platter moon which rolled itself out from behind Coyote Peak during the night, found LaRue crying miserably into her pillow. She felt grief-stricken not to have seen Amelia before her death, and to know her children. But Aunt Mettie had needed her. There had been very little money for a nurse, even if Aunt Mettie had agreed to have one, and Aunt Mettie had been kind, thoughtful, seeing that LaRue went to school, to college. LaRue had repaid her aunt-mother by doing the hundreds of daily kindnesses which kept Aunt Mettie happy. Yet, LaRue's mind kept nagging, seventeen years is a long time. When dawn brought a turquoise sky with a great, yellow ball of sun to drench the chill from the desertcooled night, the icy coldness in LaRue's heart did not melt. Even though Aunt Mettie was no longer a prisoner of ill-health in the neat apartment in San Francisco, LaRue felt the tug of homesickness. She longed for familiar sights and odors —great steel bridges spanning miles of water; cloud banks running in from the Pacific to smell of fog. Erma put her questions into words later, when she and LaRue were alone. "Why didn't you come? Mother wanted to see you so badly. You were a Harding, and she was proud of that. She felt that you belonged here...."" Her voice shook and she left the room, not waiting to hear LaRue's explanations. Joel was youthful, inarticulate, but he broke out: "You didn't come." She tried to tell him her reasons. But he grunted rudely. "Seventeen years is a long time." "Too long," she cried painfully, but she was talking to his back as he went out. She tried to talk to Herb. But he had grown silent, morose. He ate the meals which Mrs. Johnstone prepared and said little to the children. He had closed his architect's office as Amelia's death had closed his life. He told her: "I have a small income. Enough. I used to build things. Now I build no more...." Watching the way he rolled his chair along the hall to his room, LaRue learned that the chair, and the bedroom door which he always closed tightly behind him, had become the only security he knew. LaRue found that the things he had written in his letter were true. He and his children were drifting apart. Once they had been a family, close, happy, loved and beloved. They were a family no longer. Just four hurt, bewildered people, separated by the bits of their shattered world! LaRue longed to help them. But she didn't know how, in the face Page 109 of their anger and resentment. Tears welling into her throat warned her that she was an outsider. That she had no place in their lives. She did try to coax Herb from the house. Paying no attention to the way his body tensed, the way his hands gripped the wheels of his chair, she spoke casually, "I'd like to drive your car, Herb. See the town. Come with me. We'll put your chair in the back and...." HE roughness of his refusal jarred her. "I never go anywhere. I don't like people staring at me...."' He was ashamed of his outburst, and said more quietly: "lve only been out of the house once or twice since the accident." His pale face was indrawn, frightened. "Dr. Alan Rutherford wanted to take some X-rays. He's never given up the idea that an operation might help." LaRue caught at a straw, saying eagerly: "It might, Herb. Why haven't you?" He brushed the matter away with a violent wave of his hand. "I could be a great deal worse off, if the operation failed." LaRue understood. He had suffered so much pain. He could not take a chance on more. He returned to the matter of the drive. "You are welcome to take my car. I'd like you to meet people. See Fivelakes. We're pretty proud of our town." He paused, then said pleasantly: "Erma can show you around." Erma's face was still as her eyes met LaRue's. She pleated a corner of her napkin and her voice was forced. "I'm sorry, Father. I'm very busy." Herb felt the rudeness of her refusal and turned to Joel. "You go with her...." But Joel was already shaking his dark head. "I'm going over to Eddie's." LaRue's expression must have told Connie how hurt she was, for the child spoke cheerfully. "TH go, Aunt LaRue. I know lots of people. I'll take you to see Harding Hospital. Introduce you to Dr. Alan Rutherford. Maybe we'll meet Gladys Drew. She's engaged to Dr. Alan. We could go up to Hillhigh House. Grandie would be there. He's terribly old. More than a hundred, I'll bet." Erma corrected her with unnecessary sharpness. "He's eighty-two, Connie. Do you always have to exaggerate?" Connie lifted her chin. "You don't have to scold me, Erma. You're not my mother." There were tears on her lashes. LaRue spoke hurriedly: "Where else could we go, Connie?" "To the Supermarket," cried Connie, with a sidelong glance in Erma's direction. '""Erma's boy friend, Bob Powers, works in the fresh vegetables." She found Erma scowling at her, and added: "T'll go change into my best dress." She ran to her room, and in a few minutes Erma and Joel drifted out of the house. Herb looked apologetic. "It wasn't this way when their. Mother... Was here." He paused, drew a deep, unsteady breath and went on. "They never used to bicker. Now the slightest thing brings harsh words." LaRue tried to reassure him. "Children often quarrel, Herb." 110 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1959 THE SILVER LEASH He shook his dark head, a worried line drawing tight about his mouth. "This is different, LaRue. I don't understand it. The children have changed. Erma and Joel have too much time on their hands now that school is out. Half the time they don't bother to tell me where they are going. I know very little about their companions." "Why not have Erma and Joel bring their friends home?" asked LaRue. "They could play records. Have barbecues." "T've suggested those things," said Herb tensely, "but they simply don't bring their friends home. Bob Powers takes Erma out. But I do not know him. Joel's friend, Eddie Parrat, has been in trouble about cars...." He was frankly at a loss. "T've told Jocl not to associate with Eddie and his crowd, but...." He lifted his hands helplessly from the wheels of his chair. He looked beaten, afraid. His voice trembled: "My sister lives in another part of the State. She'd be glad to take the children. They need someone who... Cares!" "You care," cried LaRue loudly. "Oh, Herb, they'd be miserable away from you and their home. If you'd only try...." E lifted his hands from the wheels of his chair and grated: "Look at me, LaRue. I'm a cripple! Physically and mentally! Without Amelia ''m... Nothing!" He turned his chair abruptly and swept out of the room. His door closed loudly. LaRue looked at the panel in pity and distress. If I could only help, she thought bitterly. But the children had shut 1 her out. All except Connie, who was coming along the hall, dressed in a fresh blue cotton dress, her long, brown braids tied with blue ribbons. She looked at LaRue in surprise. "T thought you'd be getting ready!" There was disappointment in her small face. ""Aren't we going, Aunt LaRue?" LaRue got quickly up from her chair. "I'll go and change," she said. But she wished she hadn't asked for the car. She felt moody, depressed by her conversation with Herb. Her hands were unsteady as she fastened a golden-linked belt about the waist of her becoming leaf-green cotton frock. "You're the official guide," she told Connie in forced merriment as she turned the car into the highway. "'Let's go see the old house, first." "Let's," cried Connie eagerly, "we're sure to see Grandie. He's always there...." But when they came to the place, huge machines blocked the road up the steep incline. "Never mind, Aunt LaRue," consoled Connie in her elderly manner, "someday, before you go home, you can walk up to the house." LaRue didn't know why she felt so disappointed. It couldn't possibly matter if she didn't visit the old house. She drove slowly along, seeing brown, auburn, gray, and black beards on most of the men who were growing them for the celebration. Connie giggled, saying: "It's lots of fun, Aunt LaRue. The carnival's at Blue Lake, but there's a parade in town, and a lot of other things. I'm going to have a new dress. So is Erma. Our dressmaker makes them. But Erma's going to sew lots of sequins on her skirt like a Mexican Senorita. She's going to wear pink, because Bob likes it. She likes Bob, awful much! He's only got the littlest beard, but she likes it." They drove into the part of the valley which had reminded LaRue of a prehistorically baked cake. Jutting boulders of pink and yellow sandstone had been left undisturbed, and houses, patios, and swimming pools had been built in their midst, giving the lovely ranchtype homes a look of the wilderness. "You have to be awful rich to live in Maple Park," explained Connie. ""That's why Grandie is giving Dr. Alan the money to build his house. Grandie is always telling people that Dr. Alan might as well have it now, as later!" She was very grave. "Grandie believes in giving things to people while he's here to see them enjoy them. So he can enjoy them, too. He asked Daddy to design a nice house, but Daddy...." Her face fell as her voice trailed away. Suddenly she motioned for LaRue to turn into the huge, black-topped parking lot at the Supermarket. "Tl introduce you to Bob Powers." S they walked across the lot with its hundreds of cars, Connie said: "It's bigger than the open-air pavilion at Blue Lake where they hold the square dancing." She looked expectantly into her aunt's face. "Will you be staying for the Festival?" LaRue shook her head. "I'll have to go back to the bank long before that!" She didn't know that her voice revealed her anxiety to get away. She followed Connie into the huge shopping center, and through the aisles to the fresh vegetable department. Bob Powers was cutting the tops from carrots and arranging them in a colorful triangle. Connie introduced them. "This is my Aunt LaRue, Bob. I've told her about you being Erma's friend. I told her how you're trying to raise a beard." There were a few wheat-blond strands of beard on his chin, and when LaRue shook hands he colored slightly. "If my hair was dark, they'd show up better." He was young, tall, and his wheat-blond hair was crew-cut. He said: "I think Erma's pretty swell!" LaRue smiled. She liked him for that. "The next time you come to take Erma out,' she suggested, "drop in and see her father. He would like to know you...." Her voice failed, remembering that Herb was shy before people. Yet she liked this young man very much. "Come for dinner some evening," she said. "Mrs. Johnstone is a good cook." She felt awkward, knowing that she had overstepped her privileges in her brother-in-law's home. He did not promise, as he turned back to his carrots. "Maybe, someday, if Erma asks me." He picked up his knife and whacked the top from a carrot with undue vigor, as if he was angry about something, thought LaRue. When they left the market, Connie and LaRue drove up a quict street. ""There's the hospital," cried Connie, excitedly. "We'll be sure to meet some of the patients that Dr, Alan brings out in the sunshine. 112 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1959 THE SILVER LEASH Gladys doesn't like to go inside. She says the smell of antiseptics makes her ill. But she comes each day to bring magazines and things." LaRue studied the three-story, benign old gray stone building. There was a name carved into ancient stone over the portal. She read it silently: Jonas Harding Hospital. Harding, she thought, feeling a tiny prick of pride. It looked nice, printed there. She thought of how little she knew of the Hardings. Jonas Harding seemed a figure out of a book or a movie. She thought: lve missed so much! Then wondered at the thought. The Hardings were of no importance to her. She had only known one, her sister, Amelia. She had almost forgotten her! Connie was bouncing up and down on the front seat. She opened the door. "Come on, Aunt LaRue. I told you we'd meet Dr. Alan and Gladys. There they are, over there on the lawn." She skipped quickly ahead of LaRue, smiling, and greeting some of the patients who sat in wheel chairs or on benches in the sun. She called their names. "Dr. Alan! Gladys! I want you to know my Aunt LaRue." A tall man in white turned and smiled down at LaRue. He had slightly irregular features, which gave him a distinguished look, and his dark eyes under his brown crewcut were friendly. "I'm pleased to meet you, Miss LaRue Harding," he said, shaking her hand. His fingers were firm, strong, the fingers of a surgeon. "T've heard a lot about you from your sister." He drew a beautiful, green-eyed 113 girl a little forward, saying: "My hancee, Miss Gladys Drew." She had very dark hair, green eyes, and she wore a white, sleeveless frock, which set off her deep tan. GHE touched LaRue's fingers, then looked at her with wide, interested eyes. "Are you going to make your home in Fivelakes, Miss Harding?" LaRue did not mean to be rude, but she said quickly: "Oh, no, ''m going back to San Francisco." Dr. Alan Rutherford smiled, said a little stiffly: "You don't like it here! Your sister loved it." LaRue was silent. She was glad that Connie was chattering in a lively tone. "How is Mrs. Lawson, Dr. Alan? When is she going to have her new baby?" She sounded so grown-up, so elderly. "She's fine," said Dr. Alan. "T've been keeping her in the hospital fora while. But she's going home." To LaRue he explained: "The baby seems determined to arrive before schedule." They talked for a little while longer. Then LaRue said they must be getting home for dinner. Back in the car, Connie sighed happily. "I just love Dr. Alan. You'll love him, too, Aunt LaRue, when you get to know him better." It was silly, but LaRue found her cheeks warm. She had liked Dr. Alan Rutherford very much. Connie asked eagerly: "Aunt LaRue, I just love babies. Can I tend yours when they come?" LaRue had to laugh. "I'm not even engaged, darling. But when I meet the might man and settle down, I'll send you a ticket to San Francisco...." 114 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1959 Connie was shaking her brown look from Connie's face, but she head. There was a wistful look in said firmly: "My vacation ends by her soft blue eyes. The first week in July. I've got to "IT don't want to come to San __ get back to the office." Francisco, Aunt LaRue! I want She was not aware of the relief you to stay in Fivelakes. 'Then I in her tone. Could tend your baby every day!" LaRue hated to dash that wistful (To be continued) Chloe V— Hatch Daines Mlakes Rose Design Quilts RS. Chloe V. Hatch Daines, Logan, Utah, specializes in making rose design quilts. These unusually beautiful quilts, stitched with superior artistry are made as special gifts for the grandchildren. Whenever a marriage approaches, she has her rose quilt ready. Mrs. Hatch's handwork hobbies began when she was a young girl, pioneering with her family in New Mexico, Arizona, and in the little community of Diaz, Mexico. The settlers in these communities made most of their clothes and household goods. Mrs. Hatch made straw hats for herself and family and was awarded prizes at the fairs for her handiwork. She wove cloth, designed and sewed dresses, cutting her own patterns. In later years she made crocheted bedspreads, tablecloths, and doilies, as well as many beautiful articles of hairpin lace. She is an excellent cook and loves all the homemaking arts. Now eighty-seven years old, she is still actively interested in her hobbies, in her family, and in Church activities. She has held many positions of responsibility in Relief Society and is well known and greatly loved for her many works of charity. My Loveliest Valentine Mabel Law Atkinson T was Valentine's Day. I sat in my city apartment and nostalgically recalled the groups of children I had taught in a country school, as they gathered with shining eyes and eager voices about the beautiful valentine box they had helped make bulging with valentines. Always, one of my own children was among this group at my desk before the bell rang for school to commence. I smiled as I remembered the knocking on our door Valentine nights, and the sound of running footsteps which told us the children had placed their valentines, "To Mother and Dad," on the porch and were scampering to hide behind the two large lilacs, one on each side of the house, to watch our delight as we received them. With mellowed tenderness, I recalled the time, years ago, when I tried to pick up the valentine left us by our firstborn son—only to find he had painted his heart on the porch with colored chalk. I smiled even more tenderly as I remembered his boyish laugh of triumph echoing through the bare lilac limbs at my repeated attempts to pick it up before I finally fathomed the reason I could not. "Valentine Day in the city can never be as delightful as in the country," I said to no one in particular, for I was alone. I was recalled from my memories by a gentle knock on my door. For a moment I even wondered if it could be someone leaving a valentine. My smile broadened as I said to myself, "Don't get foolish ideas, here in the loneliness of this city, and in an upstairs apartment at that." I walked across the room and leisurely opened the door, to find no one there, closed it again, and sat down to read. Was I dreaming or did I hear velvet footfalls in the hall? Again came a gentle knock, then soft, but quickened footsteps retreating. Eagerly I opened the door, this time to catch a glimpse of a bright skirt just disappearing around the corner of the hall leading to the stairway. 'The unmistakable fragtance of spring came to me. Then I saw them — a bouquet of a dozen yellow daffodils laughing up at me, thumb-tacked to the outside of my door, and hanging from them in their cellophane wrappings were two large chocolate hearts. Quickly I went to the head of the stairs, and there stood a radiant young girl much like a daffodil herself with her yellow curls and sunshiny smile. She was fairly bursting with the joy of her errand. Mine was the twelfth place she had quietly visited, leaving the cheery daffodil valentines, as gifts of a lovely, gracious lady in her eighties who had found, during her lifetime of service, that the sun she gave to others also warmed her own soul. Now, whenever I get a little homesick for country joys, I recall my loveliest valentine and know the delightful friendliness of city hearts. 11G\C8 UTE OF Kee BGR INSTITUTE REDWOOR RT ie 4602 » aK (ty, UTA Hulda Parker, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. Sce regulations governing the submittal of. Material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Relief Society Handbook of Instructions. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Margarct R. Jackson NEW ENGLAND MISSION, HARMON BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY, STEPHENVILLE, NEWFOUNDLAND, DISPLAYS QUILT Left to right: Rayola Keeler, Second Counselor; Johanne Griffith, Secretary-Treasurer; Ranee Mabry, organist; Kathy Odekirk, chorister; Mildred L. Anderson, President; Faye S. Munson, First Counselor; Pearl Spear. Margaret R. Jackson, President, New England Mission Relief Society, reports a communication from this small but active branch: "We are so proud of our little Relief Society here at Harmon, Newfoundland, as it is the first ever to be organized in this part of the Northland. We have made two welfare quilts, and anticipate one more for next year. Due to the large amount of snow we get here, we have questioned whether or not we would be able to meet every week, but our Heavenly Father has truly blessed us, for we hold Relief Society regularly. We are all here because our husbands are serving in the United States Air Force at this base. We are a big, happy family and enjoy and love the friendship with each member." Sister Jackson comments on this organization: "We, too, are very proud of this dauntless little group who so well exemplify what Relief Society can mean." Page 116 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 117 Sarees > 4. It hate vd 1.2% ae ea ie Pifoiaetapli submitted by Ada K. Sneddon RENO STAKE (NEVADA), RENO WARD RELIEF SOCIETY DISPLAYS EARLY AMERICAN HAND-BRAIDED RUG Front row, left to right: Gladys Jamieson, President; Beatrice Ditty, Second Counselor. Back row, fifth and sixth from the left: First Counselor Yerda Robertson; work meeting leader Doris 'Thornton. Ada K. Sneddon, President, Reno Stake Relief Society, reports: "Combining wool. And sentiment, with sixteen months of hard but pleasant work, members of Reno Ward Relief Society have created a masterpiece in an Early American designed rug. The scalloped oval measures more than thirteen by eighteen feet. Discarded all-wool clothing, and some souvenirs and heirlooms, were used. Every piece was ripped and thoroughly washed. Much of the wool was then dyed to work out the selected color scheme of shades of beige, brown, and green. This phase of the work required over ten dollars worth of dye. When dry, all the wool was pressed, then cut into measured. Two-inch strips. 'These were sewed together on the bias so that no seam bulges would appear in the braids. Braiders folded the strips to conceal all raw edges. More than twenty-five dollars worth of waxed linen and fiber threads was used in sewing the braids. Together. 'The very sharp three-sided leather needles required to penetrate the heavy fabrics also penctrated the fingers of the sewers occasionally. "By-products of the rug project are friendships sewed as firmly as the rug; several shut-ins became happy participants, thus exchanging lonely idleness for happy usefulness; ward newcomers and inactive members were drawn into the work circle; and many' burdens and worries were shared and thereby lightened." This unusually beautiful and serviceable rug was made especially for the Relief Society room in the Reno Ward chapel. "So with wool and work, a new room has been transformed into a homey abode already rich with love and memories." It ls. Estimated that, with normal use, the rug will wear seventy-five years. 118 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1959 Photograph subaiell = Ada J. Taylor FARR WEST STAKE (UTAH), LITTLE VALLEY BRANCH OPENING SOCIAL September 30, 1958 Second row, right to left: President Juanita Cooley; First Counselor Phyllis Anderson; Second Counselor Marilyn Zollinger. Ada J. Taylor, President, Farr West Stake Relief Society, reports that this branch was organized in February 1956 and is participating in Relief Society work in an outstanding manner. A complete organization is maintained despite the branch being composed entirely of construction workers and their families, which creates a problem in keeping the branch functioning when there are so many transient members. 'We are so thrilled with this Relief Society, and are pleased with the participation of so many young mothers." SSSSs5 Photograph submitted by Ruth Staple: PHOENIX STAKE (ARIZONA) VISITING TEACHERS CONVENTION September 26, 1958 Ruth Stapley, President, Phoenix Stake Relief Society, reports: "The theme 'Tonic for Visiting Teachers' was carried out in the invitations in a little booklet given to each visiting teacher and in the refreshment table. Each visiting teacher was presented with a booklet made in the form of a tonic bottle which contained inspirational NOTES FROM THE FIELD 119 messages and a letter from Elder Delbert L. Stapley of the Council of the Twelve, to the visiting teachers. On the back cover of the booklet were the words: 'Add years to your life! Add life to your years through Relief Society activities.' "Over 100 women, grandmothers, mothers, and great-grandmothers enjoyed the day renewing old acquaintances and meeting new friends. 'The inspirational talk entitled 'Pills for Precious People' and the beautiful music rendered by our sisters from Ajo, who came 125 miles to sing for us, made the day complete. "Delicious punch was served from a large cake of blue ice carved to resemble a tonic bottle and decorated with yellow chrysanthemums. The visiting teachers were honored through their presidents, as each president was presented a very lovely. Clear vase with blue stones inside and net on the outside." Es Photograph submitted by Rowena J. Warr CASSIA STAKE, GROUSE CREEK WARD (UTAH) VISITING TEACHERS ACHIEVE OUTSTANDING RECORD Front row, left to right: Counselor Rhea Toyn; President Ella Tanner; Counselor Martha Kimber. Second row, left to right: Bishop Hughie Thompson; Marjorie Thompson; Opal Kimber; Archie Toyn, Counselor in ward bishopric. Third row, left to right: Delbert Tanner, Counselor in ward bishopric; Winifred Paskett; Elmer Kimber, member of the stake high council; Annie Kimber; Amanda Paskett; Launa Richins. Back row, left to right: Vera Tanner; Lorna Tanner, visiting teacher message leader; Wilda Kimber; Naomi Kimber; Oreta Lee; Jenny Richins; Louisa Roberts. Rowena J. Warr, President, Cassia Stake Relief Society, reports that the Grouse Creek Ward Visiting Teachers have completed eight years of one hundred per cent visiting teaching. "One reason for their successful record is the support of their Priesthood authorities." 120 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1959 Photograph submitted by Fannie B. Hatch JUAREZ STAKE (MEXICO) VISITING TEACHERS CONVENTION July 3, 1958 Back row, standing, fourteenth and fifteenth from the left: Fannie B. Hatch, President, Juarez Stake Relief Society; Willa T.. Wagner, Counselor; seventh from the left: Louisa M. Wilson, visiting teacher message leader. Sister Hatch reports: "Our stake convention for visiting teachers was held July 3, 1958, m Colonia Dublan. The theme of the day was 'Visiting teachers, a beaconlight, sending out rays of wisdom, prudence, and sympathetic understanding.' We felt the occasion to be inspiring, in that it brought attention to the advancement made in the program and set up goals for the coming year. Better attendance at report meetings and sacrament meetings was stressed, and we are hoping for improvement in this respect. Those with outstanding records of achievement were honored. We are happy to report that we have real devotion to the cause of Relief Society in our stake."' Photograph submitted by Virgie Shuman ATLANTA STAKE (GEORGIA) VISITING TEACHER CONVENTION May 17, 1958 Front row, left to right, beginning with the fifth sister: Pauline Gilbert and Lucille K. Brown, stake board members; Virgie Shuman, President, Atlanta Stake Relief Socicty; Margaret Yarn, Second Counselor; Flossie Nicholls, First Counselor; William L. Nicholls, President, Atlanta Stake; Jane Noe and Ann Holloman, stake board members. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 121 Sister Shuman reports: "We were very proud of our visiting teachers convention. We have 121 visiting teachers in the stake, and ninety-two were present. We felt that the attendance was remarkably good, as the sisters had to travel from forty to 350 miles, the farthest branch being 175 miles one way. Forty-six of the visiting teachers achieved a one hundred per cent record for the year. We hope to do better this year. The stake board furnished a smorgasbord dinner for the sisters, which was followed by a meeting where President Nicholls and I spoke, encouraging the sisters to keep the work going, as the sisters of the stake needed their visits. The Singing Mothers supplied the music for the evening. Church books were presented to the teachers who made one hundred per cent records." Photograph submitted by Neilie Gleed MALAD STAKE (IDAHO) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, August 31, 1958 Front row, left to right: Caro] Eliason; Leora Brown; Thelma Gibbs; June Ward, chorister; Margaret Laws, organist. Second row, left to right: Carol Dawn Willie; June Crowther; Eliza Knudson; Ora Hoskins; Mary Crowther; Leah Waldron; Mary Gleed; Ruth Davis. Third row, left to right: Hazel Williams; Cora Williams; Mabel Dyring; Lizzie Edwards; Wanda Napier; 'Thelma Price; Margaret Richards; Verene John. Fourth row, left to right: Blanche Budge; Villa Facer; Esther Hall; May Richards; Hope Price; Roma Facer; Robbie Raymond; Eunice Tovey. Fifth row, left to right: Deloria Price; Mattie John; Maurine Gibbs; Marteal Hendricks; Nellie Gleed, President, Malad Stake Relief Society; Mary Alice Williams; Viola Thomas; Ada Smith. Sister Gleed reports: "These women are all active and successful workers in the Relief Societies. There are nine wards represented." 122 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1959 Photograph submitted by Lesslie Stubbs SACRAMENTO STAKE (CALIFORNIA) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, June 29, 1958 Director Julia Larson stands at the right; the accompanist Wilma Richardson stands in the first row at the right. The following selections were presented: "Come Unto Me," by Franz Liszt; "Beside Still Waters," by Bernard Hamblen; "Forth in Thy Name, O Lord, I Go," by Florence Jepperson Madsen; "The Lord's Prayer, " by B. Cecil Gates. Lesslie Stubbs is the former stake president. 'The new president is Emily Burr. Photograph submitted by Mary Stirk EAST OGDEN STAKE (UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, February 2, 1958 Front row: second from the left, Alice Thorsted, soloist; tenth from the left, Dorothy Koldewyn, chorister; thirteenth from the left, Mary Lund, Second Counselor; fourteenth from the left, Erma Platt, First Counselor. Mary Stirk is president of the East Ogden Stake Relief Society. LESS®@ N DEPARTMENT Sheology—The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 16—The Revelation to Emma Hale Smith Elder Roy W. Doxey (Text: The Doctrine and Covenants, Section 25) For Tuesday, May 5, 1959 Objective: "And verily I say unto thee that thou shalt lay aside the things of this world, and seek for the things of a better" (D & C 25:10). Emma Hale Smith Section 25 is the only revelation in The Doctrine and Covenants that is directed to a woman. The revelation is prophetic in calling Emma Hale Smith to a position of honor and responsibility. It also admonishes her to a life of consecrated devotion to duties demanded by reason of her position as the Prophet's wife. The first verse of the section points out that "... All those who receive my gospel are sons and daughters of my kingdom" (D & C 25:1). Although this fact is made known in many subsequent revelations (D & C 34:3; 35:2; 45:8), it is significant in this revelation because Emma had been baptized during the last week of June 1830, and confirmed a member of. The Church in August. In the meantime (July 1830) she was the subject of this revelation. Verse eight of Section 25 points out that Emma was yet to receive the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands. The latter circumstance forms a part of the background of Section 27. (See Lesson 15.) By reason of Emma's becoming a member of the kingdom of God and enjoying the blessings of the Holy Ghost, she would be prepared to fulfill some of the specific duties indicated in this revelation. Emma Hale (born July 10, 1804) became the wife of Joseph Smith on January 18, 1827. They were married for approximately seventeen and one-half years before the martyrdom of the Prophet. There followed three and one-half years of widowhood, when she married (Major) Lewis Crum Bidamon with whom she lived until her death on April 30, 1870. When the saints moved West under the direction of the Twelve Apostles with Brigham Young as Page 123 124 their President, Emma Smith did not acompany them. She did not continue in the faith for which her husband and his brother Hyrum gave their lives as martyrs. There were born to Joseph and Emma nine children. The first three, two of whom were twins, died at birth; one other child was born dead and another one died at the age of fourteen months. 'The other four grew to adulthood. Of these children eight were sons, and the only girl was one of the twins who died at birth. Their last child was born after the Prophet's martyrdom. After the death of their twins, they adopted the motherless twins of John Murdock, one of whom, a boy, died at one day less than eleven months of age, only a few days after the Prophet was tarred and feathered by a mob at Hiram, Ohio. (See D. H. C. 1:26s.) Emma has been described as a woman of exceptional intelligence, refinement, and culture. She was neat in appearance and an immaculate housekeeper. Into her home came such visitors as Stephen A. Douglas and Josiah Quincy, Mayor of Boston, not to mention the great many faithful Latter-day Saints who also came to visit the Prophet. As the wife of the Prophet, Emma was called upon to undergo many hardships due to the persecutions the Prophet underwent. 'There were times when the Prophet was imprisoned, in exile, on missions, and discharging his many duties in organizing and directing the Church. Persecution drove the Smith family from one place to another so that their children were born in four different states. It was during some of these trials and persecutions that RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—-FEBRUARY 1959 Section 25 was received. (I am indebted to the research of Raymond T. Bailey for much of the foregoing material.) The Lord's Counsel to Emma Her first duty, Emma was told in Section 25, was to be a comfort to her husband in his afflictions by giving "... Consoling words, in the | spirit of meekness" (D & C 25:5). Where the Prophet was to go she was to be with him, and in the absence of Oliver Cowdery to act as his secretary or scribe (D & C. 25:6). In the fourth verse the Lord admonishes Emma to murmur not concerning things which she had not scen. This counsel may arise out of the fact that she and also the "world" were not to see The Book of Mormon plates, which the Lord declared was his wisdom. Regardless of how people may feel about the ways of the Lord, if we accept him as an all-wise Being, we will recognize, as did Isaiah, that his ways are not always the ways of inan nor are his thoughts the thoughts of men. (Sce Isaiah 55:8-9.) This revelation sets forth a principle which is indicated in other scriptures; namely, that the Lord calls imperfect people into his service, although he does require that they show forth fruits of repentance. An Elect Lady Verse three states that Emma is. An elect lady, whom I have called." The way in which this honor was to come to her is indicated in verse seven: "se. And thou shalt be ordained under his hand to expound scriptures, and to exhort LESSON DEPARTMENT the church, according as it shall be given thee by my Spirit (D & C 25:7). When the Relief Society of the Church was organized on 'Thursday, March 17, 1842, Emma's call as an "... Elect lady..." was fulfilled. Of this expression, the Prophet Joseph Smith said on that occasion: I assisted in commencing the organization of "The Female Relief Society of Nauvoo" in the Lodge Room. Sister Emma Smith, President, and Sister Elizabeth Ann Whitney and Sarah M. Cleveland, Counselors. I gave much instruction, read in the New Testament, and Book of Doctrine and Covenants, concerning the Elect Lady, and showed that the elect meant to be elected to a certain work, &c., and that the revelation was then fulfilled by Sister Emma's election to the Presidency of the Society, she having previously been ordained to expound the Scriptures. Emma was blessed, and her counselors were ordained by Elder John Taylor (D. H. C. IV:552-553). (Italics, the Author's. ) In her capacity as President of the Relief Society, Emma certainly could expound the scriptures and exhort the women of the Society to good works by the inspiration of the Holy Ghost. The term "ordained" as used in this revelation and in the days of the Prophet was used synonymously with "set apart." Today, we "ordain" male members of the Church to an office in the Priesthood, and we "set apart" men and women to offices and callings in the Church. And so with Emma, she was, as we would say today, set apart to her callings by the Priesthood who rule in the kingdom of God. The Priesthood Rules The apostle Paul is reported in the New Testament to say that a woman is not to "speak" in the 125 Church. According to the Prophet Joseph Smith, as given in the inspired version of the Bible, Paul's counsel was that women should not "rule" in the Church, "but to be under obedience," that is, they are under the direction of the Priesthood authorities and receive their instructions from them. (See I Cor. 14:34-35.) This principle was stated by the Prophet to the members of the Relief Society the month following their organization: You will receive instructions through the order of the Priesthood which God has established, through the medium of those appointed to lead, guide and direct the affairs of the Church in this last dispensation; and I now turn the key in your behalf in the name of the Lord, and this Society shall rejoice, and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time henceforth; this is the beginning of better days to the poor and needy, who shall be made to rejoice and pour forth blessings on your heads (D. H. C. IV:607). We have an example of the Priesthood directing the affairs of the Church in the circumstances that led to the organization of the Society. Notwithstanding certain sisters had drawn up a constitution to organize a society, it is reported by Sarah M. Kimball: In the spring of 1842, a maiden lady (Miss Cook) was seamstress for me, and the subject of combining our efforts for assisting the Temple hands came up in conversation. She desired to be helpful, but had no means to furnish. I told her I would furnish material if she would make some shirts for the workmen. It was then suggested that some of the neighbors might wish to combine means and efforts with ours, and we decided to invite a few to come and consult with us on the subject of forming a Ladies' Society. The neighboring sisters met in my parlor and decided to organize. I was delegated to call on Sister Eliza R. Snow and ask her to write for us a constitution and by-laws and submit them to President Joseph Smith prior to our next Thursday's meeting. She cheerfully responded, and when she read them to him he replied that the constitution and by-laws were the best he had ever seen. "But," he said, "this is not what you want. 'Tell the sisters their offering is accepted of the Lord, and He has something better for them than a written constitution. Invite them all to meet me and a few of the brethren in the Masonic Hall over my store next Thursday afternoon, and I will organize the sisters under the priesthood after a pattern of the priesthood." He further said, "This Church was never perfectly organized until the women were thus organized" (The Relief Society Magazine, vol. VI., March 1919, page 129). | The Prophet's Counsel to the Relief Society Pertinent to the subject matter of this revelation and to the Relief Society is the counsel given by the Prophet in some of the later meetings of the Society he attended. In addition to the important truth that the sisters, with their officers presiding over them, were to be directed by the Priesthood authorities, the following counsel was given by Joseph Smith: He spoke of the disposition of many men to consider the lower offices in the Church dishonorable, and to look with jealous eyes upon the standing of others who are called to preside over them; that it was the folly and nonsense of the human heart for a person to be aspiring to other stations than those to which they are appointed of God for them to occupy; that it was better for individuals to magnify their respective callings, and wait patiently till God shall say to them, "Come up higher...." He exhorted the sisters always to concentrate their faith and prayers for, and place confidence in their husbands, whom God has appointed for them to honor, and in those faithful men whom God has placed at the head of the Church to lead His people; that we should arm and sustain them with our prayers....... You must put down iniquity, and by your good examples, stimulate the Elders to good works; if you do right, there is no danger of your going too fast. He said he did not care how fast we | run in the path of virtue; resist evil, and there is no danger.... This is a charitable Society, and according to your natures; it is natural for females to have feelings of charity and benevolence. You are now placed in a situation in which you can act according to those sympathies which God has planted in your bosom.... You must not be contracted, but you must be liberal in your feelings. Let this Society teach women how to behave towards their husbands, to treat them with mildness and affection. When a man is borne down with trouble, when he is perplexed with care and difficulty, if he can meet a smile instead of an argument or a murmur—if he can meet with mildness, it will calm down his soul and soothe his feelings; when the mind is going to despair, it needs a solace of affection and kindness (D. H. C. IV:603-607). (Italics, the Author's.)... Put a double watch over the tongue: no organized body can exist without this at all. All organized bodies have their peculiar evils, weaknesses and difficulties, the object is to make those not so good reform and return to the path of virtue that they may be numbered with the good, and even hold the keys of power, which will influence to virtue and goodness — should chasten and reprove, and keep it all in silence, not even mention them again; then you will be established in power, virtue, and holiness, and the wrath of God will be turned away.. Search yourselves — the tongue is an unruly member — hold your tongues about things of no moment.... I do not want to cloak iniquity — all things contrary to the will of God, should be cast from us, but don't do more hurt 126 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1959 LESSON DEPARTMENT than good, with your tongues — be pure in heart. Jesus designs to save the people out of their sins (Ibid., V:20). (Italics, the Author's.) The First Latter-day Saint Hymnal Another assignment given to Emma Smith was that of making a selection of sacred hymns for the Church. And it shall be given thee, also, to make a selection of sacred hymns, as it shall be given thee, which is pleasing unto me, to be had in my church. For my soul delighteth in the song of the heart; yea, the song of the rightcous is a prayer unto me, and it shall be answered with a blessing upon their heads (D & C 25:11-12). In accordance with this call, Emma made a selection of hymns which appeared in two volumes. W. W. Phelps was appointed to revise and arrange them for printing. The first hymnal was published in 1835, with ninety selections, and the second in 1841, with three hundred forty selections. The first hymnal classified the selections as morning hymns, evening hymns, farewell hymns, hymns on baptism, on the sacrament, on marriage, and miscellaneous. The authors of the words of many of these hymns were Latter-day Saints. The principal contributor was William W. Phelps who wrote many well-known Latter-day Saint hymns. Parley P. Pratt was another contributor to this volume. Among some of the songs included in Emma's compilation are favorites of many in the Church today. Some of these are: "The Spirit of God Like a Fire Is Burning"; "Redeemer Of Israel"; "Gently Raise the Sacred Strain"; "Earth With Her Ten Thousand Flowers'; 'How Firm a Foundation, Ye Saints of the Lord"; 127 "He Died! The Great Redeemer Died!"; and "I Know That My Redeemer Lives." The Lord revealed that the songs which would be pleasing unto him would be those that came from the heart. The song of the righteous is indeed a prayer unto the Lord, for those who live his laws are truly the righteous of the earth. Brother George D. Pyper once wrote concerning the hymns selected by Emma Smith: It is said that the character of a people may be judged by the songs they sing. If this be true then an examination of those selected by Emma Smith prove that the Latter-day Saints were a reverential, peaceloving, worshipful, God-fearing people. After a hundred years it is acknowledged that the songs selected for that first Latter-day Saint Hymn book are among the best of all Christian hymns (Stories of Latter-day Saint Hymns, by George D. Pyper, page 195). My Voice Is Unto All In closing the revelation to Emma Smith, the Lord stated a principle which has application to Emma and also to every person in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Keep my commandments continually, and a crown of righteousness thou shalt receive. And except thou do this, where I am you cannot come. And verily, verily, I say unto you, that this is my voice unto all. Amen (D & C 25:15-16). Questions for Discussion 1. In what way was Emma Smith an "elect lady''? 2. Why do you think the Priesthood should "rule" in the Church? 3. What do you personally find in some of the Prophet's teachings to women that are of profit to you? 4. Why was it necessary for a selection of hymns to be made for congregational singing in Latter-day Saint meetings? 5. Emphasis has been given in this lesson to duties and responsibilities of wives to their husbands. What counsel did Joseph Smith give to husbands concerning their wives? (Consult D. H. C. 2:264.) 6. In what way or ways do you think Emma's call to compile a hymnal was successful? 7. In what ways does The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints honor the women of the Church? Visiting leacher ITlessages— Truths to Live By From The Doctrine and Covenants Message 16—"Be Patient in Afflictions, for Thou Shalt Have Many; But Endure Them, for Lo, | Am With Thee, Even Unto the End of Thy Days" (D. & C. 24:8). Christine H. Robinson For Tuesday, May 5, 1959 Objective: To show that afflictions are a normal part of life's experiences and can be the basis of great blessings, if we trust in the Lord. F we keep his commandments, the Lord has promised that we will find much joy in this life. Yet, he has never implied that this joy may be earned without troubles and afflictions. In fact, without the bitter we cannot fully appreciate the sweet. Full enjoyment of our blessings cannot be realized without the contrast of adversity. Affliction, if we meet and bear it wisely, can bring us closer to the Lord. It has been said that "You are never at any time nearer to God than when under tribulation, which he permits for the purification and beautifying of your soul" (Golden Nuggets of Thought by Molinos, page 8). It is by our Father in heaven's own design, that, along with our joys and successes, we must meet failures, disappointments, and afflictions. In bearing these afflictions, it is important for us to tremember two basic facts. First, affliction is universal. It is the lot of all mankind. Although, undoubtedly some carry heavier burdens than others, none who trusts in the Lord is called upon to bear his burdens alone. There is a well-known legend about a traveler whose load of troubles and sorrows was so heavy that he complained he no longer could carry it. A certain wise man invited him to rest awhile and deposit his burden in a place where others had temporarily laid theirs aside. After his rest, the traveler was invited to take his choice of the burdens and to carry it away as his own. After lifting several of his neighbors' loads of cares and sorrows, he decided that, by comparison, his own burden was not so heavy after all. Another fact we must remember about our afflictions is that, actually, they can be the source of great blessings to us. Out of the crucible of adversity we can mold the great 128 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1959 LESSON DEPARTMENT character qualities of courage, fortitude, understanding, and obedience. In Hebrews 5:8-9, we read that even the Savior: Though he were a Son, yet learned he obedience by the things which he suffered; And being made perfect, he became the author of eternal salvation unto all them that obey him.... Many of the great accomplishments in the world have been made by people who have suffered heavy burdens and whose rising above their afflictions has been responsible, to a large extent, for their outstanding accomplishments. 'To name a few, Helen Keller is both deaf and blind. Beethoven was deaf much of his life, and Milton was blind. Lord Byron and Sir Walter Scott were lame. Someone has wisely said that afflictions are God's educators. It is not the afflictions themselves which count, but, rather, it is what they do to us. Our difficult experiences are often most profitable if:... Wwe regard every hardship, no matter how severe, as a stepping stone to something higher; every disappointment, no matter how keen, as a means of molding 129 courage; every adversity, no matter how bitter, as something to make us valiant; every sorrow, no matter how penetrating, every affliction, no matter how poignant, as something to sanctify and exalt the soul (Jesus of Nazareth, by Bryant S. Hinckley, page 75)- In this Doctrine and Covenants' message, we are exhorted to be patient in afflictions and endure them, for the Lord has promised that he will be with us unto the end of our days. What a marvelous promise! One of the greatest blessings we can enjoy in this life is to have the comforting assurance of the presence of the Lord's spirit. How wonderful it is to know that if we put our complete trust in the Lord, he will not forsake us, but will be ever near to uphold and sustain us. Surely this great promise will support us in our afflictions and give us courage and patience to endure them. Alma in The Book of Mormon expressed this thought beautifully when he said:. Remember, that as much as ye shall put your trust in God even so much ye shall be delivered out of your trials, and your troubles, and your afflictions, and ye shall be lifted up at the last day (Alma 38:5). She Measure of Our Greatness Wilma Boyle Bunker M'S is, and must be rated not by his hordes of gold, not by some temporary influence, but by his character and integrity, sweetened by consideration and understanding. The highest order of any man is distinguished by human goodness, by selfsacrifice, and self-forgetfulness. Greatness in any one of us is the power and will to serve others. And perhaps the truest greatness is that which is unseen and unknown. It is ever insensitive to popular clamor and accepts the good deed as its own reward. The true measure of our greatness depends on our invincible integrity, on what we give to others, and how we serve. Work ITleeting— Managing a Home (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Discussion 8—Managerial Aspects of Clothing the Family Vesta Barnett For Tuesday, May 12, 1959 Objective: To consider the management problems involved in providing adequate clothing for each family member. HERE is no norm or guide for choice in cloth as there is in nutritional needs of the body. Style, fashion, and fad need to be adapted to individual differences within the financial limits of the family. Being well dressed for the occasion and being aware of it can be of benefit to each member of the family psychologically, physically, and socially. For the majority of families, an adequate wardrobe for each member is possible only by intelligent management. Here are some practical suggestions for planning the family clothing needs: 1. Know the maximum amount of ey available for the family clothing. 'Analyze the characteristics of each ment ber of the family as applied to clothing needs. 3. Anticipate the clothing needs of the family two to three years in advance. 4. Select the best stores for values, and shop at the sales. 5. Use all available information concerning quality, workmanship, shrinkage, colorfastness, suitability, care, and upkeep of clothes. 6. Train children to take good care of their clothing. 7. Do as much home sewing as possible and practical. Read the Label New materials are constantly coming onto the market, and new finPage 130 ishes are given to old fabrics. Today, even the experts can be confused as to the type of material used in a garment. For most of us, our best help is to read the label and follow the manufacturer's suggestions for care of the fabric. A good label should give the type of fiber used in the garment, the probable shrinkage, the color fastness to various causes of fading, resistance to wrinkles, and best type of care for fabric. General Care of Clothing If clothes are to have that fresh, immaculate look, they should be cared for daily, weekly, and seasonally. Good clothes deserve good care. Here are some suggestions for general care: 1. Buy good, shaped hangers for suits and coats. 2. Remember nine.' 3. Mend before laundering. 4. Broken threads in sweaters and knit wear should be caught and crocheted in again. A hole in a sweater should be darned. 5. The life of a pair of shoes is lengthened with proper care and a rest between wearings. "a stitch in time saves Occasional Care of Clothing 1. Stains should be removed as soon as possible after they occur and always before laundering. LESSON DEPARTMENT 2. Follow directions on labels for Jaundering or dry cleaning. Seasonal Care of Clothing 1. Repair and clean all clothes before they are stored for the season. Cotton, linen, silk, and rayon clothing should be washed and put away unstarched, unblued, and unironed. Non-washable articles should be dry cleaned before being stored. Wool garments that are not mothproofed should be washed in soapsuds or dry cleaned, since all stages of moth life are killed by these processes. Good Buying Principles The first requirement for a satisfactory wardrobe is to take stock of what you have, then plan for those things you really need. One hundred well-planned dollars can bring more satisfaction than two hundred unplanned dollars. The following shopping principles can help all of us get more satisfaction from our purchases: 1. Compare values. Experienced professional comparative shoppers say it is advisable to stop at several stores before purchasing expensive clothing items, such as a coat, suit, or a good quality dress. 2. Select basic or classic styles. 3. Buy clothes that fit your needs. Nothing is a bargain unless it fits in with your clothing plans. 131 4. Purchase middle-priced items, 5. Know store brands. 6. Shop regular store sales, 7. Pay cash. Home Sewing Most homemakers know the satisfaction that can come from completing a home sewed article that turns out well. Skill in sewing can pay big dividends in the life of the average homemaker not only in dividends as far as money is concerned, but also dividends in terms of satisfaction and pride of accomplishment. Discussion Thoughts 1. Choose two or three new fabrics or new finishes for fabrics and show how each has simplified the care of clothing. Contrast the care necessary for these fabtics with those they have replaced. 2. Make a comparison of a garment purchased ready-made and one made at home (children's clothes, shirt, blouse or dress). Consider cost in time, energy, money, quality of fabric, enjoyment of garment. (Perhaps some of the women who sew could be asked in advance to bring some of their articles for study.) 3. Recall purchase of clothing you have made recently, one you feel was a good buy and another a poor buy. See if you can pinpoint the reasons why you consider one good and the other bad. She Pyracantha Christie Lund Coles There have been few poems Penned to you, and yet What shrubs more greenly grow, All through the summer, (Glossy — warm or wet —) Then flaunt red berries through the snow? SF oraiaie — America's Literature — Meet the New World Lesson 8—Jonathan Edwards, Puritan Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: America's Literature by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes, Dryden Press, New York, pp. 84-95) For Tuesday, May 19, 1959 Objective: To see in Jonathan Edwards a harmonizing of various phases of New England Puritanism. WHILE performing the office of tutor at Yale College for his second year, Jonathan was seized by an illness which kept him in bed for almost three months. Upon his recovery in 1726, at age twenty-three, he was offered the great opportunity of serving as a colleague of his distinguished grandfather, the Reverend Solomon Stoddard, who had been minister in the far western Massachusetts town of Northampton for fifty-four years, and soon to retire. Solomon Stoddard was loved and respected throughout the entire Connecticut Valley. So directly had he defied the wishes of the Boston clergy that he was known more familiarly as "Pope" Stoddard. Particularly during recent decades, as the influence of the Mothers declined, he had become the most powerful single force in New England Puritanism. And Jonathan Edwards was to be groomed as his replacement. The Half-Way Covenant In 1662, ten years before Solomon Stoddard had come to Northampton as a young man, violent dissension had arisen in New England churches over the Half-Way Covenant, a Page 132 compromise measure which no one liked, yet one which many felt necessary, if the churches were to perpetuate themselves. Within each community were three groups: those who came to New England for adventure, profit, and freedom, but were members of no church. Second, those who attended church but who had never been granted membership. Third, actual members of the church body, or "visible saints," who could partake of church sacraments and who could vote in church council which was also town council. To be eligible for church membership a person had to have received a personal spiritual manifestation. Few second-generation children had had such an experience, and even fewer grandchildren of the originai founders. While the churches were full, the number of actual members had become alarmingly small. The Half-Way Covenant of 1662 granted membership to secondand third-generation Putitans who attended regularly and who believed the basic creed, but who had not received spiritual illumination. Many fervent believers felt this liberalizing compromise to be the beginning of the end. LESSON DEPARTMENT Doctrine of Self-Reliance By contrast, Solomon Stoddard felt the Half-Way Covenant didn't go far enough. He established a policy, strongly opposed by his fellow churchmen in eastern Massachusetts, which did go far enough. He believed that all who desired membership should be admitted, regardless of whether their family had been church members or not. His liberalizing policy brought him a wider popularity and influence than any other minister of his day enjoyed. By sheer power of his personality and through his powerful belief in the basic Puritan doctrine of self-reliance, Stoddard freed his followers from complete domination by their ancestors: And it would be no humility but baseness of spirit for us to judge ourselves incapable to examine the principles that have been handed down to us.... If the practices of our fathers in any particulars were mistaken, it is fit they should be rejected; if they be not, they will bear examination. Among many other lessons taught him by his predecessor, Edwards learned this one well. Crusade Against "Surface-Religion" After Jonathan Edwards had served Stoddard as apprentice and co-worker for but two years, Solomon Stoddard died, in 1729, and Edwards began his more than twenty years of service to his Northampton congregation. Naturally, he was anxious to prove that he was following in "the Pope's footsteps." Despite such a normal desire, however, it was not too long until he began preaching views directly opposite those he inherited. Increasingly during the next decade, young Edwards found in 133 Northampton more and more evidence that to more and more of the wealthy, powerful, and smug townspeople, the true Christian religion meant less and less. Though never once did he mention anyone by name, he rebuked them for their lewd language and tavern-hunting, their rampant gossiping and quarrelling among families, economic factions, their bitter differences over common land to be divided amongst them, and, most of all, for their worshiping comfort and wealth rather than God. Alarmed at their complacency and "surface-religion," he accused them even more firmly of being unconscious Arminians. Stemming from the beliefs of the Dutch theologian Jacobus Arminius (1560-1609), the doctrines of Arminianism softened and liberalized the teachings of Calvin by offering atonement to all men, making predestination conditional rather than absolute, and enabling man to resist both sin and grace through freedom of the will. The special problem in Northampton was that many had come to feel God, not themselves, to be responsible for evil. The faction which most resented Edwards' constant attacks on local Arminianism was a group of merchants and landowners led by his own cousins whom he had early offended. He preached his concepts of God and man to them in sermons rarely less than two hours long, sometimes extending to five, yet so great was his insight into the hearts of his audience and so great was his skill in holding his audience that, rarely, did he lose a listener. He lectured each 'Thursday evening in an effort to meet the midweek demand for religious leadership. He spoke slowly but distinctly in a low voice, reading from sermon notes or Bible in his left hand, his elbow resting on the pulpit, and rarely moving his right hand except to turn the page, yet withal impressing his audience with his "habitual and great solemnity, looking and speaking as if in the presence of God." Central in Edwards' theology is the concept of a God-centered universe. For him, God is all, man nothing. Edwards believed thus not because tradition or authority dictated it to him, but because it was logically inescapable according to his thinking. According to Edwards' beliefs, mankind had erred into all forms of Covenant Theology because New England had forgotten the divinity of the Divine. For Edwards the most vital religious experiences, indeed the most vital of all experiences in life, were emotional rather than rational or intellectual. Or to put it in other words, the best logical means for proving God and worshiping him was through the emotions. The big problem which Edwards tried to resolve remained: what about sin? Because God permits it, and because his house is one of order, therefore sin must be good in the overall harmonious plan. And if evil is allowed by God, it will exist. Edwards defined evil as the "property of the species' and cited man's record of brutalities throughout history as irrefutable evidence. Therefore, when man sins, a just God can only punish. Rather than blaming God for defining sinful man as his eneiny, Edwards taught that we must only praise him for his justice and stand before his unknowable sublimity in even greater awe and fear. Nor should we ever seek to attempt to tell him whom he may save or damn. True love of God is to love him and not to judge him. Before man, God need not stoop to justify his ways. Finally, is man predestined to sin or has he freedom to choose, as the Arminians maintain? Edwards believed that if we accept God's sovereignty, we must also believe that all reality lies within the mind of God; therefore every event must have a cause. As our text points out (page 85), "We are able to do what we choose, but what we elect to choose is determined by God." This summary of Edwards' theological system includes ideas taken from his major writings. Condensed and partial though it is, once it is digested we can more fully understand his other writings, the unity of Edwards' life, and the Puritan movement as purified by him. For Edwards himself is the best definition of Puritanism. The Great Awakening At a time when religious indifference was at its height, the Great Awakening was the first movement which spread from colony to colony and, for the first time, bound them all together into a common cause. It was the American version of a similar contemporary movement known in Germany as Pietism and in England as Evangelicalism, and had its origin in Edwards' meetinghouse at Northampton. Seeing his congregation straying, Edwards' problem was one of communicating to them the experience by which they could return to true religion. Firmly convinced from, his reading of Locke that man can gain knowledge only through his: 134 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1959 LESSON DEPARTMENT senses, he felt that the people lacked the sensation of the hell toward which they were heading; if only he could create for them such a sensation through a word-experience, he might frighten them into repenting. Or, as he explained it: Some talk of it as an unreasonable thing to fright persons to heaven, but I think it is a reasonable thing to endeavor to fright persons away from hell. They stand upon its brink, and are just ready to fall into it, and are senseless of their danger. Is it not a reasonable thing to fright a person out of a house on fire? Quite conscious of what he was doing, he invited the English Evangelist George Whitefield to visit his congregation. Whitefield had proved to be a tremendous success in London where he wept and roared and screamed before crowds of twenty to thirty thousand sinners, all of them "affected and drenched in tears." Though Edwards disliked Whitefield personally, he brought about the effect Edwards desired. From 1740-43 the emotional enthusiasm was at its height. Edwards described Northampton's reaction, in 1743, to a fellow minister in one of the most widely circulated pamphlets in Protestantism, Some Thoughts Concerning The Present: Revival of Religion in New-England, from which the following is taken: About the middle of the summer of 1741 I called together the young people that were communicants, from sixteen to twenty-six years of age, to my house; which proved to be a most happy mecting: many seemed to be very greatly and most agreeably affected with those views, which excited humility, self-condemnation, _ selfabhorrence, love and joy: many fainted under these affections.... It was a very frequent thing, to see an house full of out-cries, fainting, convulsions, and such- 135 like, both with distress, and also with admiration and joy. And after great convictions and humblings, and agonizing with God, they had Christ discovered to them anew, as an all sufficient Saviour, and in the glories of his grace, and in a far more clear manner than before; and with greater humility, self-emptiness and brokenness of heart, and a purer, a higher joy, and greater desires after holiness of life; but with greater self-diffidence and distrust of their treacherous hearts.... Conversions were frequently wrought more sensibly and visibly.... The transitions from one state to another were more sensible and plain; so that it might, in many instances, be as it were seen by bystanders. In the final lines above, Edwards' use of sensible refers not to its being "of good sense," but of being available to the senses as Locke used the word. It was a sensate awareness to man's own evil which Edwards was most anxious to obtain, and which he achieved with such success in his own most famous sermon, "'Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God," delivered in 1741. The power of this sermon lies in the direct imagery which Edwards used with his considerable literary skill. It should be pointed out that he follows the traditional sermon pattern, couched in the traditionally controlled plain style, of first citing a text from the Bible, next enlarging the text in a section called the argument, to be finally followed by the application. Text for this sermon is '"Their foot shall slide in due time," Deuteronomy 32:35. 'The following excerpt is from the argument of this sermon: The use of this awful subject may be for awakening unconverted persons in this. Congregation.... That world of misery, that lake of burning brimstone, is extended abroad under you. There is the dreadful pit of the glowing flames of the wrath of God; there is hell's wide gaping mouth open; and you have nothing to stand upon,. nor any thing to take hold of; there is nothing between you and hell but the air; it is only the power and mere pleasure of God that holds you up.... It is to be ascribed to nothing else, that you did not go to hell last night; that you was suffered to awake again in this world, after you closed your eyes to sleep. There is no other reason to be given why you have not gone to hell, since you have sat here in the house of God, provoking his pure eyes by your sinful wicked manner of attending his solemn worship. Yea, there is nothing else that is to be given as a reason why you do not this very moment drop down into hell. It is impossible to escape experiencing such writing, and how unfair to expect one such tidbit to stand in lieu of the accumulative power of the entire composition. Edwards' Closing Years It is not difficult to understand how no one was indifferent to Jonathan Edwards, and those who were against him were so impassioned in their opposition that in 1750 their "packed" ecclesiastical court voted him out of their community—and out of any sustenance for his eleven children, his wife, or himself, overworked and weary. Yet only one of his accusers ever gave any indication of remorse. Edwards took an appointment at Stockbridge in frontier Massachusetts where several were murdered by Indians during his stay there. Here he lived for six years, grateful for the free time it gave him to write his most creative works. Reluctantly he left his true delight to direct the affairs of Princeton College, chosen for his status as the most courageous crusader, the keenest theologian of his day. While his wife was preparing to move, she received word of his sudden death by smallpox. Knowing that he was to die, he had asked friends to "tell her that the uncommon union which has so long subsisted between us has been of such a nature as [ trust is spiritual, and therefore will continue forever." She in turn said: What shall I say? A holy and good God has covered us with a dark cloud. O that we may kiss the rod and lay our, hands on our mouths! The Lord has done it. He has made me adore his goodness, that we had him so long. Unpublished at his death were numerous manuscripts. One of them, Images or Shadows of Divine Things, contains some of his loveliest images. He contemplates nature as an image or shadow of God's beauty which is ever accessible to us. It is fitting that, of the various tunes he sang so effectively, we allow Edwards to speak for himself through this hymn to nature's beauty, in its essential philosophy representative of the heavenly idealism which has always been central to the Puritan mind. 70. If we look on these shadows of divine things as the voice of God purposely by them teaching us these and those spiritual and divine things, to show of what excellent advantage it will be, how agreeably and clearly it will tend to convey instructions to our minds, and to impress things on the mind and to affect the mind, by that we may, as it were, have God speaking to us. Wherever we are, and whatever we are about, we may see divine things excellently represented and_ held forth. And it will abundantly tend to confirm the Scriptures, for there is an excellent agreement between these things and the holy Scriptures... How great a resemblance of a holy and virtuous soil is a calm, serene day. What an infinite number of such like beauties is there in that one thing, the light, and how complicated an harmony and proportion is it. 136 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1959 LESSON DEPARTMENT Hidden beauties are commonly by far the greatest, because the more complex a beauty is, the more hidden is it. In this latter fact consists principally the beauty of the world, and very much in light and colours. 'Thus mere light is pleasing to the mind. If it be to the degree of effulgence, it is very sensible, and mankind have agreed in it; they all represent glory and extraordinary beauty by brightness.... And each sort of rays play a distinct tune to the soul, besides those lovely mixtures that are found in nature. Those beauties, how lovely is the green of the face of the earth in all manner of colours, in flowers, the colour of the skies, and lovely tinctures of the morning and evening. Corollary: Hence the reason why almost all men, and those that seem to be very miserable, love life, because they cannot bear to lose sight of such a beautiful and lovely world. The ideas, that every moment whilst we live have a beauty that we take not distinct notice of, brings a pleasure that, when we come to the trial, we had rather live in much pain and misery than lose. (From Perry Miller's version of Jonathan Edwards' Images or Shadows of Divine Things, 1948, used with permission of Yale University Press.) Place in American Culture Jonathan Edwards was far from being a simple man; neither he nor his impact on American culture can be judged simply. In the final balancing and reckoning, he must be seen as one who fought valiantly for his version of God's truth, and made a major contribution of stalwart courage. In an optimistic land, his - constant emphasis on the evil in man's nature has not been popular, yet he provided a secure foundation 137 for those of the Founding Fathers who insisted that checks and _ balances be built into the Constitution of the United States as protection for both the weak and the wealthy. Edwards stimulated the founding of several universities, and was a pioneer advocate of co-education. Nor was he too proud to give his best years to the still-murdering savages, thus furthering the cause of humanitarianism. Finally, he deserves to be remembered as one of our most lofty idealists, both for his defnition of God as love and as beauty and for the poetic prose he created, that we might know at firsthand how he expressed his "religious affection" he felt towards his God. (See text, "Personal Narrative," pp. 86-92. ) It is interesting to trace, through the history of the Renaissance and of the Reformation and in the religious controversies of this period, a preparing of the way for the restoration of the gospel. Thoughts for Discussion 1. Why did Jonathan Edwards oppose the pattern set by Solomon Stoddard and oppose the Half-Way Covenant? 2. Why does an awareness of beauty in nature hold religious significance for Edwards? 3. Why did he employ his literary skill so effectively in shaping his sermon, "'Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God?" What was he trying to do? Social Science — Latter-day Saint Family Life Lesson 21—How Do | Rate? Elder John Farr Larson For Tuesday, May 26, 1959 Objective: HE following self-analysis chart has been developed to help parents, particularly mothers, to reevaluate their role in the family. It is also designed to serve as a review of social science lessons of the past three years. No attempt has been made to develop a score nor to weigh the importance of one part over another. It should also be kept in mind that many important aspects of the Latter-day Saint family have not been included in the current lessons and many aspects included in the lessons are not included in this review because of space and time limitations. We hope you enjoy rating yourself. How Do I Rate as a Family Member? (Indicate your thinking by marking "T" for True or "F" for False.) 1. The Latter-day Saints philosophy of family living is different from that of the world and should be preserved. 2. The primary responsibilities of all present-day families include: a. Attending parent-teacher meetings. B. Physical care and support. ¢c. Teaching children personal virtues. 3. The effectiveness of family influence is measured entirely by the amount of time family members spend together. 4. In considering plans for aging and aged family members only two things need to be considered, i. E., food and warm clothing. 5. The home gives each family member Page 138 To provide an inventory for self-evaluation in family living. A sense of belonging, a feeling of security, of love and opportunities for growth, regardless of age. 6. Each family member sees the family in the same light. 7. While most fathers stand as a pillar of strength, and symbol of security, yet all fathers unconsciously resent supporting their children. 8. It is the mother, largely, who creates the atmosphere from which husband and children receive emotional security. 9g. A newborn infant should only be touched by his mother and then only after she has sterilized her hands and clothing. 10. We are entirely fair, if we treat each family member exactly the same. 11. Mother should determine what is to be purchased in the home and father should pay the bills. 12. The best way to remain friends with in-laws is to stay away from them except at family reunions. 13. When a child leaves the home, he severs all ties with the family. 14. Family members should all participate in play, but only with persons of similar age. 15. Every family has the responsibility of establishing a way of life which will develop a stable sense of values for its members. 16. In this day of modern invention and conveniences, a change of activity and time for mental and physical relaxation are relatively unimportant. 17. Family Hours and family councils are a waste of time. 18. Children should be seen and not heard. How Do I Rate as a Marriage Partner? (Which alternative best describes me?) 1. I consider that the marriage cove- LESSON DEPARTMENT nant, when properly solemnized, is an eternal relationship which: a. Greatly colors present-day attitudes between husband and wife, or b. Has significance only after death. 2. I believe marriages fail because: a. Individuals who marry fail, or b. One spouse seeks divorce. 3. Success in my marriage began: a. At the time I was married, or b. Early in life. 4. As my spouse and I grow older we think we should: a. Spend less time on personal grooming, Or b. Give personal grooming more attention. 5. I maintain success in marriage is more likely if: a. The marriage partners come from similar backgrounds, or b. The marriage partners come from different backgrounds, thus bringing diversity to the marriage. 6. To me marital happiness is enhanced if both spouses: a. Talk about their differences, or b. Keep their problems to themselves. 7. I find conflicts in marriage are normal. When problems arise my marital partner and I ask: a. What do our differences mean to my spouse? Or b. Why worry about what it means to my spouse? A. How can J hold my ground? Or b. What can I suggest as a step towards the solution of the problem? A. How can I embarrass my partner further? B. Am I permitting my partner to save face? A. Notwithstanding our disagreement, does my partner understand I have great love for him? Or b. Should I frankly tell him I don't love him in order to shock him into being different? 8. When my husband invites me out for an evening without the children do I: a. Say I'm too tired and have nothing to wear? Or b. Accept readily and dress in my best? G. Do my husband and I: a. Give up all social interest while rearing our children? Or 139 b. Cultivate common social interests and friends who will fill our lives after children are married? How Do I Rate as'a Parent? 1. Which of the, following do I consider important to further the intellectual or spiritual growth of my child? A. The child's right to choose without interference. B. The child's right to choose with parental guidance. C. The acquisition of knowledge. D. A_ religious atmosphere in the home. E. Desire for learning. F. Parental refusal to accept child's failure. G. Parental comfort to child who has not succeeded. | h. Patience. I. Safety-tread shoes. J. A working knowledge of comparative religions. K. Goals. ]. Parents with a "hands off" attitude on the evaluation of current publications and events. M. Status with associates. N. A sense of being a person whose worth is reccgnized. O. Love of family members. 2. Do my children have: a. Proper food and nutrition? B. Regular health habits? C. Clean bodies and minds? D. Proper exercise in work and play? E. Sufficient sleep and rest? F. Regular medical and dental checkups? G. Protection against disease and accident? H. Good mental health? I. A hospitalization plan? 3. Do I feel and show a closeness to my children and grandchildren? 4. Do I express my parental love en-- tirely by giving things to my children? 5. Do I introduce my friends to my children and teach them to do the same? 6. Does my love instill confidence in my children?. 7. Does telling my child no constitute a lack of love? 8. Does the love existing between me and my marriage partner have anything 140 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1959 Use MUSIC RECOMMENDED FOR RELIEF SOCIETY CHORUSES HOW LOVELY ARE THY DWELLINGS—Liddle _.................... 25 } SHALL NOT PASS AGAIN THIS WAY—Effinger.......................20 LORD'S PRAYER (Two Parts)— Malotte _....20...2. Ccccccceeeseeeessseeseenes 25 LORD'S PRAYER (Three Parts)— Malotte......... Ceecccccscecececeeeeneeeeceees 25 LORD'S PRAYER—Gates................ -20 MY REDEEMER LIVES—Gates........ -20 MY SOUL IS ATHIRST FOR GOD—Madsen........ Cceeseeceeeeeees.20 O LORD MOST HOLY—Franck.......16 O LOVELY LAND, AMERICA— Christensen-Madsen_................0..-+ 20 PEACE | LEAVE WITH YOU— Roberts 2...... Eececccescsescescceeensececees 16 TWENTY-THIRD PSALM—Schubert.25 UNTO THEE! LIFT MINE Music Sent on Approval this advertisement as your order blank 15 Salt Lake City 11, Utah Please send the music indicated above. A. El 1 DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY! E. Ist South OJ On Approval OO Charge OJ Money Enclosed 15 E. Ist South 145 NoRTH UNIVERSITY, PROVO Salt Lake City 11, Utah when I 1. A. B. A. B. C. A. B. A. B. C. D. E f. G. A0 5 to do with our child's emotional security? 9. Do I make play out of work for my children? 10. Do I hear my children out when they bring problems to me? 11. Do I "nag" or do I discuss? 12. Do I view my child's problems in his setting or with a "IT didn't do that was young" approach? With Which Statement Do I Agree? Every person needs to know the limits of permissible behavior. Most children do not need discipline.. Children are born with self-control. Punishment is the best way to discipline. Punishment is one way to discipline. A child should never be punished. 3. Discipline is made more effective, if (check as many as you wish) you count to twenty before striking a child. You know some_ behavior presses a need. €X-. You have a warm affectional feeling for your child.. You seek to understand your child. It is always administered at mealtime.. Handled by father with the "wait till your father gets home" approach.. When I punish my child: is it brief? Is it soon after the misbehavior? Am I fair? Am I consistent? Does my child understand why? Do I express my sorrow to the child? Do I embarrass him in front of others? 5. When my child asks to bring friends home or have a party, do I: say it's too expensive? Say I haven't room? Say it's too much work?. Agree—and do all the work myself? Agree without apologies and let EYES—Beethoven.22 LESSON DEPARTMENT the child assist me in giving the best party we can afford? Here's How I Stand! 1. All children should be educated in the same way. 2. Parents should not stimulate their young children to learn at home since they must relearn everything in school. 3. Expressed confidence in a child's potential is unwise, for it "puffs" him up before he deserves praise.. The acquisition of knowledge is of little real value or significance without its wise application. 5- Knowledge acquired in this life goes with us into eternity. 6. I should discourage my family on reading the newspaper. 7. I should subscribe to good magazines for my children's age levels. 8. I should be receptive to new books. G. My children don't care whether I keep growing mentally. 10. I should never attend a public gathering where my children perform. 11. It is important to seek knowledge and wisdom concerning good health practices. How Do I Rate as a Community Member? DO I 1. Have a sense of responsibility for what goes on in my community? 2. Continually think of ways I can be a better neighbor? 3. Overlook the mistakes of my neighbors and refrain from speaking evil of them? 4. Rejoice in the accomplishments and success of my neighbors? 5. Ever invite neighbors or their children into my home? 6. Visit my neighbors only when borrowing or asking favors? 7. Encourage neighborhood projects? 8. Make friendly overtures to new neighbors? G. Obey, honor, and sustain the law? 10. Consider it my _ responsibility to help shape the law and its administration through orderly processes? 11. Defend the right to free exercise 141 Hawaii Tours Leaving Salt Lake City February 11, 1959 and June 3, 1959 Transportation by Boat or Plane Fourteen-Day Tour Visiting Four Islands Temple Tour Temple Tour to Utah, Arizona, and California. Leaves early in Spring. Write about our Mexican Tour, European Tour, and also for the Hill Cumorah Pageant Tour for 1959. For further details write or phone: MARGARET LUND TOURS 3021 South 23rd East Salt Lake City 9, Utah Phone: IN 6-2909, AM 2-2339, CR 7-6334 LEARN TO TYPEWRITE! New Classes Begin Soon Adult classes for Relief Society and genealogy workers will teach beginning and advanced typing. Classes will run 6:30 to 8:00 p. M., Mondays and Thursdays. Individual help and instruction by professional teachers. Call for reservations and further information. LDS BUSINESS COLLEGE Phone EM 3-2765 70 North Main Salt Lake City 11, Utah 142 of conscience, the right to and control of property, and the protection of life? 12. Recognize that my freedom under the law is to act within the law? 13. Believe that obedience to law insures protection for the individual, family, community, state, and Nation? How Do I Rate as a Grandparent? 1. I remain an interesting family member by: a. Relying on others to entertain and wait on me. B. Cultivating interests and hobbies of my own. C. Making myself as useful as possible. 2. I keep myself in demand as a guest a. Declining most invitations because I'm too old to fit in. B. Accepting and returning social invitations. C. Being a good conversationalist. 3. I stay as young as possible by: a. Observing good, sound health practices. B. Looking my best. C. Keeping abreast of the times through radio, T'V, newspapers, and other current reading. D. Following the interests and accomplishments of my children and grandchildren. 4.1 am because: a. I think as much as possible of other people. B. I go more than half way in trying to cultivate friends. C. I magnify my troubles and minimize my blessings. D. I always try to live in the past. E. I remain active in my Church. F. I have high regard for the spiritual things of life. A well-adjusted personality How Do I Rate in Translating the Gospel Into Living? A. As a Parent 1. Do I speak to my children: a. As though they' were children of God? B. As if they were a piece of property? RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1959 2. When my child asks a question about a gospel principle he does not understand, do I: a. Say it will all clear up as he grows older? Or b. Take time to explain it in the child's own language? 3. When my children are baptized, confirmed, or advanced in the Priesthood, do I: a. Treat it as a matter of course? Or b. Make it a special occasion and discuss its importance in a family circle? 4. Do I teach my children: a. That everything they pray for will be granted? Or b. That they should pray for the things which the Lord considers for their best good — then accept his will? 5. When my children repeat criticisms of Church leaders, do I: a. Agree with them, saying I have heard of or observed the same faults? Or b. Emphasize the good characteristics of the same leaders? 6. When my child suddenly refuses to attend Sunday School, Primary, or MIA, do I: a. Force him to go without any discussion? B. Attend the auxiliary and help solve his problems with his teachers? 7- When members of my family rebel against sacrament meeting attendance, do I: a. Encourage them to remain at home? B. Invite them to go together as a family? C. Ask them to list reasons for and against such attendance, then discuss their reasons adroitly? D. Suggest I enjoy the services more when they are with me? €. Propose a treat following church? F. Suggest they invite their friends to go along? G. Remind them it is a commandment of the Lord? 8. When I leave my home to fill a Church assignment, do I a. Refer to the effort as drudgery? LESSON DEPARTMENT b. Speak of it as a privilege and an opportunity? B. As an Individual 1. Do I realize that when the Prophet "turned the key": a. Greater rights and opportunities came to women? Or b. Feel that it was done too long ago to affect my life? 2. Do I understand my position as a wife in: a. Sharing the blessings of my husband's Priesthood? B. Honoring the Priesthood in our home? 3. Do I accept my responsibility a. For my own eternal progression? Or b. Believe my husband's Church work will save me? 4. Have I learned to avoid: a. Self-righteousness? B. Intolerance? C. Judging others? D. Gossiping? 5- Have 1 learned to guard my tongue? 6. Have I striven to follow the Prophet's admonition. A. To be merciful? B. To be kind? C. To do good and to be good? D. To be prayerful? Suggestions to Class Leaders Since this is a very interesting, thoughtprovoking, and unique lesson, it would seem wise to have all class members bring their Magazines to class. Then, led by the class leader, they could go through the various ratings together, discussing, at greater length, the aspects most interesting to them. A Listening Face Alice R. Rich There is no excellence nor studied grace To compensate for a listening face. 143 "Getting there is half the fun." "Go by ship—it makes the trip." Hawaii Sail from San Francisco, April 23, 1959. Be in Hawaii for their May Day Celebration when the Shower Trees are in bloom! Europe Sail from Montreal on June 12, 1959. Enjoy life on the Luxury Liner; relax and rest before beginning your fine European Tour. Historic Train The original Historic Train leaves Friday evening July 31, 1959, Salt Lake City, at 5:00 p. M. See Nauvoo, Carthage, _ Kirtland, Sharon, Vermont, Etc., and witness the: Hill Cumorah Pageant For free folders write or phone: VIDA FOX CLAWSON 966 East South Temple Salt Lake City 2, Utah Phone: EM 4-2017 e BEAUTIFUL e HANDY e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover—$2.50; Leather Cover—$3.80 Advance payment must accompany all orders.. Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles _WW..... Eee eee 35 150 to 300 miles..........-........-- 39 300 to 600 miles..............---...--- 45 1000 to 1400 miles.................--------.64 1400 to 1800 miles...............-----.----..76 Over 1800 miles.87 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-2581 33 Richards St. _ Salt Lake City 1, Utah 6S 600 to 1000 miles..........022....2.----.54 Birthday Congratulations Mrs. CEeLestTiA TERRY PETERSON Fairview, Utah R f: S e etite ociely Ninety-three Mrs. ADELINE Maria BOHN PUFFER Beaver, Utah ewe ry Mrs. Mary J. Smart WEBSTER Rexburg, Idaho In Sego Lily Design Ninety-two (As shown on the back cover Cardston, Canada Ninety-one 76 NortH MAIN Mrs. Zenta Rawson Cuucce Mrs. Mary E. HENpERsHor Davis polished back, solid gold safety catch Ninety $5.50 A-2. Gold-filled (1/10 10 kt.) $3.75 Mrs. Mary E. WINTERS: B. BRACELET: gold-filled pendant $6.75 a C. NECKLACE: Heavy chain, gold-filled (1/20 12 kt.) U b eC with double gold-filled pendant $9.75 nseen OY ametra D. NECKLACE: with double gold-filled pendant $6.00 Nothing untoward can happen To a loveliness lighter than lace That beauty unseen by camera, All prices include Federal tax which have been a by Renee Though fragil —_ Society for the past several years wi each. Just puts on a cloak of night, And buttons it with stars. 144 Ninety-eight Mrs. Mary Ann Sotomon Woop Mrs. Mary Evans NeEwMaNn St. John, Utah Ogden, Utah Buck Valley, Pennsylvania Mrs. FLORENCE JANE ALEXANDER CuRTIS Salt Lake City, Utah Salt Lake City, Utah Cherry McKay Charm of ageless grace. Beat that nothing a RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1959 Vow of this Magazine) Available at Office of the General Board SALT Lake City 1], Uran Prices A. RELIEF SOCIETY PINS: A-1. Double gold-filled (1/10 10 kt.), Gold-filled (1/20 12 kt.) with double Light chain, gold-filled (1/20 12 kt.) The smaller Relief Society pins also continue to be available for $1.75 a new book by Leland H. Monson Ancient America Speaks Beautifully organized book that offers highly-interesting factual information on Book of Mormon scriptures and.. ~ archaeological M L Ssionary findings. Handsome pocket size to match your pocket Triple Combination. Complete with LDS Ready Reference and Concordance. Beautifully bound in leather. 314, x 514 page size. $8.50 Matching Pocket Triple Combination $6.00 oe / Deseret Book Company 44 East South Temple / Salt Lake City, Utah F Enclosed you will find (J check [] money order [] I have an ac- / count. Please charge. Amount enOpen a convenient / closers ee a for......... Ancient 30-day charge / America Speaks.......... New Pocket Bible Deseret Book / Address account at / / Ne cece ceneceeeeceeee eevee eetetttentnttte eee Residents of Utah include 2% sales tax Designed and monufactured by LG. Balfour Company 6S; Ly % 23 a a fe fa j Fad est: =, c -/?% Price ond ordering information on page 144 & She &dge of Spring Renie H. Littlewood Our trail lay on the very edge of spring, Where, riding high, the flushed late-winter sun Had warmed the greening blades of grass that fling Themselves down every deep and rock-scarred run. The road curved right, curved left, went up, then down, And with it ran our winter-prisoned hearts, For we had tired of waiting in the town And gone to meet the springtime where it starts. Atop the hill where winds had cleanly swept The melting snow, we found the first faint prints That told us spring had, oh, so lately, stepped Upon its destined path; and now the tints Of promised bloom would clearly mark the way. And we? Content to wait the first spring day. The Cover: "Scene in the Ozark Mountains, Arkansas," Photograph by Fred H. Ragsdale, Free Lance Photographers Guild, Inc. Frontispiece: "View on the Eastern Slope of Mount Timpanogos, Utah," Photograph by Willard Luce Cover Design by Evan Jensen From Near and Sar It was such a wonderful thrill to find a beautiful orchid for my poems published m The Relief Society Magazine (January 1959) from Grace Ingles Frost. It is such a wonderful satisfaction to know that what you loved to write has touched another's heart and mind. And it is still more wonderful to learn that they cared enough to write and let you know.... As [ have said so often, "I love my readcrs.' To write is a great joy, but the task is only half done until one finds a reader. There is so much that is excellent in the Magazine, as it comes slipping through the mail slot every month, that I am lifted with both joy and pride to read it and to know that it is our own. It is doubly gratifying then to be numbered among the contributors. The prize-winning material in the January issue is very worthy, and, while I enjoyed Lael Hill's rhyme scheme... What IJ really loved most about her poem "The Telling'' is its pure poctic feeling and the light grace of its movement. ——Eva Willes Wangsgaard Ogden, Utah The January issue of the Magazine came one cold afternoon last week. How pleasant it was to sit comfortably near the glowing flames from the fireplace and enjoy the excellent prize-winning poems and stories. I was so thrilled to see that Mabel Law Atkinson was again one of the winners. Her work has always touched a responsive cord. Last summer, after re-reading her "Fifty Singing Aprils" (Second Prize Story, February 1958), and on the spur of the moment, I wrote telling her how much I had enjoyed the story. The biographical sketch stated that she had graduated from two poetry classes, by correspondence, after she was fifty. I asked about these classes. Imagine my surprise when, soon after, I received a friendly letter from her with the requested information. It was her encouragement, so graciously given, that prompted me to begin my present study of poetic techniques. —lona Goold Burley, Idaho Page 146 I was so pleased to find the lovely picture of the General Board of Relief Society in the January Magazine. I hope you will make this an annual feature. It is with excitement that I look through my Magazine for familiar names and _ faces. Each month brings a reunion with sisters I have known and loved. I have yet to be disappointed. —Alfarette Liddle Arlington, Virginia When I caught my first glimpse of the cover of The Relief Society Magazine for December, I thought of Keats' words "If eyes are meant for seeing, then beauty is its own excuse for being." The cover is beautiful and affects the heart and soul as well as the eye — how very lovely! So far, I've read only the poems. "Even a Christmas Tree," by Eva Willes Wangsgaard, is magnificent. Also, I especially like the poem "Winter Morning," by Sylvia Probst Young, and "Grannies," by Ethel Jacobson — for their sweet, homey beauty, and "Who Can Know the Stars?" by Maude O. Cook is a fine poem, for its eternal loveliness. Truly these, and all the contents of the Magazine will be "a joy forever." —Mabel Law Atkinson Dayton, Idaho Lael Hill's prize-winning poem "The Telling" (January 1959) is a truly masterful piece of lyric writing. I love it, as I also love Dorothy Roberts' fine poem on "Mary Magdalene" (April 1947) which ended 'Faithful and unafraid, to fly into the ages with her cry." How proud I am to know and love these fine writers, and I do appreciate the Magazine. —Christie Lund Coles Provo, Utah I have read our women's magazines ever since the Woman's Exponent, and I have loved them all, and I now enjoy The Relief Society Magazine. I am always looking for it when the time is near for it to artive. The poems and stories and all the lessons are wonderful. —DMiss Anna Bider Logan, Utah THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - President Marianne C. Sharp - 2 = = - - First Counselor Louise W. Madsen - - - - - - - - = Second Counselor Hulda Parker - - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Aleine M. Young Edith P. Backman Mary V. Cameron Edith S. Elliott Josie B, Bay Winnietred S. Afton W. Hunt Florence J. Madsen Christine H. Robinson Manwaring Wealtha S. Mendenhall Leone G. Layton Alberta H. Christensen Elna P. Haymond Pearle M. Olsen Blanche B. Stoddard Mildred B. Eyring Annie M. Ellsworth Elsa T. Peterson Evon W. Peterson Charlotte A. Larsen Mary R. Young Irene B. Woodford RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor = - - - = - - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - = - = - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford VOL. 46 FEBRUARY 1959 NO. 2 Contents SPECIAL FEATURES Let Us Cherish One Another Hulda Parker 148 The Central States Mission 22.. E. Cccccsces sees... Vees Presion R. Nibley 156 The Old Man of the Mountain wees - Martha Robeson Wright 164 A Fireside Chat On a Burning Question........ 175 The American National Red Cross and Its Field of Service; O. C. Duckett 178 The Second Mile oo. Eicececceccccceseceeees Soo an oes EEE a canncteeccencaceneenesenececeesEffie K. Driggs 182 FICTION The House on Cherry Lane Drive—Third Prize Story ee e.. Sarah O. Moss 150 "Not of This Fold'! 0c Ferrers oor a7Frances C. Yost 156 Rachel Goes to Relief Society —.-.-blizabeth_C. McCrimmon 179 Love Me Tomorrow 2o.. I. Cceessescccsssessessessesscssese seas vevtuesteesaestsestetee ttt coreeoeeeeeeeeteeeRosa Lee Lloyd 184 The Silver Leash—Chapter 3. Oo. Cecceccceccccs cecscesescesceteseseseesseeseeeseeeeeeeeeeceBeatrice Rordame Parsons 193 Recipes From the Central Stotes Mission oo.. Ccccccccccccccccceseeeeeeee. May E. J. Dyer 176 What Is a Home For? Ee a Leona F. Wintch 183 The Angel Tree oiiceicecceccecceccececceceeeeceeseseees -... Helen S. Williams 188 Hold Everything. Sylvia Pezoldt 189 You Can Sew—XIII—Selection of Children's Clothes Jean R. Jennings 190 The Value of a Smile on coeMyrtle S. Hyde 191 Lily E. A. Minner Makes Satin Quilts for Her Grandchildren 192 A Mother's Prayer... Cececcccssssscssneesescsnen cesesee sssscsssssueaessesssaseneneneasssstetesscesusseeseseseceseeteeeeeeee cc. Verla R. Hull 197 Security ee sean. Vernessa M. Nagle 204 POETRY The Edge of Spring—Frontispie ce ooo... Cececcccccsscsscessecs sssseesessesessscseeccesceceeeeceseeeececceee, Renie H. Littlewood 145 Our Chapel—The Grove, by Joyce Wahlburn, 149; The Prairie Wind, by June N. Ashton, 155; A Prophet Spoke, by Ruth H. Chadwick, 155; Mountain Born, by Maude Rubin, 163; Old Home, by Helen M. Livingston, 171; Twilight, by Mabel Law Atkinson, 178; Song of a Tree, by Dorothy J. Roberts, 181; Silhouette, by Mabel Jones Gabboit, 183; Window Lilies, by Evelyn Fjeldsted, 187; Grandma's Crazy Quilt, by Elizabeth MacDougall, 189; Faith, by Iris W. Schow, 192; The Urge of Spring, by Etta S. Robbins, 197; Boy With a Book, by Christie Lund Coles, 203, They Tell Me Your Name Wos Clarissa, by Elsie McKinnon Strachan, 203; The Silver-Fingered, by Ethel Jacobson, 206; Sanctuary, by Vesta N. Lukei, 206; Weeds, by Hattie B. Maughan, 207 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Copyright 1958 by the General Board of Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Editorial and Business Offices: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah: Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy; payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 8, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1108, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts wil] be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Page 147 Let Us Cherish One Another Hulda Parker, General Secretary-Treasurer, Relief Society (Delivered at the Annual General Relief Society Conference, October 8, 1958.) N March 24, 1842, at the second meeting of Relief Society, Sister Lucy Mack Smith, the mother of the Prophet, said, "This institution [referring to Relief Society] is a good one.... We must cherish one another, watch over one another, comfort one another, and gain instruction, that we may all sit down in Heaven together." This statement has impressed me as one which aptly portrays the spirit and purpose of Relief Society — "to cherish one another, to watch over one another, to comfort one another and to gain instruction," or we might say, gain an understanding of the principles of the gospel in order that we might all work out our salvation and exaltation. In the midst of the anxieties, unhappiness, loneliness, physical and spiritual sickness, and insecurities that exist in the world today, how needed are those influences of which Sister Smith spoke! I recently had occasion to call at the home of an elderly sister. She had lived in her home ward for many years. It was where the youngest of her children had grown up, and all had been active in the Church. During the past few years, in her less active condition, her children, wanting to make sure that their mother was properly cared for, had arranged for her to close up her home, which to her was indeed "home," and to live for two or three months in turn with each of them. This sister appreciated the love and Page 148 consideration of her children, but she was not fully happy because she yearned to be in her own home. So the family took her back to her home and arranged for her sister, who was also elderly but more active, to come and live with her. It was shortly after, that I called on them. Upon inquiring if they were happy, their answer was "Oh, yes, but we wish that we could go to Relief Society meeting. It would be so good to mingle with the sisters there, but even those two blocks are too far to walk." Here were two sisters who were not in need physically, except for transportation, but, as Lucy Smith said, they needed to be cherished, they needed to feel that they belonged, they needed to be built up —they needed Relief Society. Not long ago, I went into the home of a young mother, a girl from a good Latter-day Saint home, but who for some reason had not taken a very active part in the Church herself. She had four lovely young children, but the children were disturbed; they were insecure; they were starving for love, for the security that comes through prayer and the assurance that even a child may have that a loving Heavenly Father is watching over him. The mother was frustrated, was complaining about her husband, and scolding the children. The home was disorderly and confusion and strain seemed to reign within its walls. As I left that home, my heart LET US CHERISH ONE ANOTHER ached, and I thought if only that sister could be reached through Relief Society and enjoy the blessings and influences there that would help her to find herself, and to be the real strength in her home that a wife and mother of Israel should be. Again, I thought of the words of Lucy Mack Smith in 1842. These are but two examples of sisters who need Relief Society. I am sure there are many more. These sisters may be neighbors, friends, or even relatives. They are our Heavenly Father's daughters. He is vitally interested in their welfare, and, in his great wisdom, he has 149 caused to be organized this great organization of Relief Society to help meet the needs of the women of the Church. May we as leaders in that organization not leave a stone unturned to see that the blessings and influence of Relief Society are carried into the lives of every mother and homemaker in our wards and branches. May we truly do as Sister Smith said, "cherish one another, watch over one another, comfort one another and gain instruction" together, I pray humbly in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. Our Chapel—The Grove Joyce Wahlburn Durban, South Africa The gates swing wide at a touch, To open on the forepath—an emerald sea, And mirrored in its depths, by light of moon, The stately palms—graceful in their watchful majesty Keep guard over the house of God— Haven of peace and calm serenity. Squarely it stands, wrapped about in its mantle of green, Bordered by hedge-row embossed with trailing bloom And trailing evergreen. Embraced by the night-shadows, and psalmed by the night-sounds Of myriad tiny creeping things. Within his house, the Father waits—a kindly host to all Who enter in, with faith and love. Hush! Hear now—he calls to you—your place is set. Step within these portals—no longer roam, Behold the unseen hand of love held out, And feel the smile of welcome, As the Father bids thee stay, for here is home! Shird Prize Story Annual Reliof Society Short Story Contest The House on Cherry Lane Drive Sarah O. Moss SARAH O. MOSS VALYN had arrived for her visit at the home of her daughter and son-in-law, Maida and Charles Spence. She stood at the ironing board, pressing a scarf, while her daughter sat at the table, sipping her orange juice in the crowded little kitchen. The two small children had gone out to play. "Sure you can manage by yourself, Mother?" asked Maida. "I could drive you around and perhaps save your strength, if you have to do too much walking." "Don't worry about me, dear," answered Evalyn hastily. "Dll just catch a bus up here at the corner, Page 150 and go right to the bank. From there —well, I have a few scattered errands about town. I shouldn't be too long." She felt a little guilty. It didn't seem quite fair to the children, to put over such a big thing as buying a house, all by oneself, thought Evalyn, but she wanted everything settled before she told Maida and Charles that she had bought herself a home on Cherry Lane Drive. At fifty four, and a widow, Evalyn Day was going to be a home owner, and all because Uncle Benjamin had remembered her in his will. If she mentioned the venture to Charles, he would take time from his studies to look for property for her. And Maida, with her keen sense of dollar values, might not approve of the picture on the folder that Evalyn had received through the mail, while living at her sister's boarding house in California. But how she wanted that house! An hour later, when she actually stood before the structure, she knew it was all that she wanted it to be— early American with gray-blue clapboards combined with old brick and a pink trim. It had triangle windowpanes, and with ruffled curtains, a braided rag rug, and early American furniture, Evalyn could see herself welcoming her children. The youngsters would say, ""Let's go to THE HOUSE ON CHERRY LANE DRIVE Grandma's." Maida and Charles could say, "We'll go to Mother's." There would be Sunday night suppers; there would be long Saturday afternoons; and all the holidays that they could be together. There would be that third bedroom where the children could sleep, anytime Maida and Charles wanted to go out. As Evalyn tucked the newly acquired papers in her bag, she felt dizzy and weak. She sat down on the bench to wait for the bus, but the faintness persisted, eventually passing, so that she felt light and gay again as she walked into the hall of Maida's home. Voices came from the next room. "Don't say anything," she heard Maida say, and Evalyn felt a slight discomfiture, as she saw her daughter and her friend, Betty Kane, visiting. "Hello, Betty." The older woman gave the young matron a friendly handshake. "You're looking just wonderful," she said. "Except for being pale, I was going to say the same thing to you," said Betty. "Sure you're all right, Mrs. Day?" "Mother! You look exhausted," said Maida. "I'll get you a cold drink." The sick feeling returned, but with the cold drink to refresh her, Evalyn looked toward the. Stairs. "1 think I'll go up to my room and test awhile," she said. "It's been rather a strenuous morning." "We'll have lunch soon," smiled Maida. "Tl call you, Mother. But you do need the rest." Climbing each step was an effort. Evalyn went so slowly that she had time to notice the heavy accumulation of dust in the corners of the 151 stairs. She also noticed the threadbare carpet on each step. Getting finally to her room, she put her bag and gloves in the dresser drawer, and with effort took off her tight dress and slipped into a robe. Exhausted, she dropped onto the bed. It must have been hours later, that she woke, to see Maida lower the west blind a little, smile, and tiptoe gently out of the room. How wonderful, thought Evalyn, to have a daughter like Maida. People around you who cared and loved you so dearly. Ig was dusk when Evalyn woke up. She slipped into a casual dress, ran a comb through her gray hair, and prepared to go down to the family. 'The weakness scemed to have gone, but she went shakily down the stairs, the carpet absorbing every sound. She sat down on the bottom step of the stairs, to read a postcard that had come with the mail delivery. She must have sat there longer than she had intended, as flashes of dizziness returned. Then from the kitchen came cautious words: "But, Charles, I don't think Mother intends to stay very long, still I should ask her—without offending her, I mean." The words were Maida's. "No, don't," said Charles. "She might think we are trying to rush her off to California again." "But we have to sign up for the unit in Stadium Village. 'That's low rent, compared to this—it's just a third of what we pay here, and you with another year in school...." Maida's voice broke on a deep sigh. "Yes, you're right, honey, but there's another thing to consider. 152 Suppose your mother does go to California for now. 'There's Christmas and other holidays when we all want to be together. Where will we put your mother if we move from here? We couldn't offer her anything better than the living-room couch in Stadium Village." Evalyn heard Maida sigh again. "Oh, Charles! Don't think I haven't thought of it. What are we going to do? With another baby in the spring.... I love my Mother, but what can we do, Charles?" "And so do I, honey, love your mother. 'That's just the point. I like to have her here. You know she's a person everybody feels good around. I'd hate like everything not to give her a room of her own if she wanted to come." VALYN crept back up the stairs. The dizzy feeling had now progressed to a nausea as well, and her limbs felt like lead. She stopped to rest. Suddenly she didn't want the house on Cherry Lane Drive! If she had only talked things over with these two struggling young persons, instead of enjoying every moment of her smugness. Loneliness enveloped her. Maida, Charles, and the children, way across town. With another baby coming, Evalyn knew the reason for the dusty stairs, and the threadbare carpet. 'There could be very few Sunday night suppers, or holiday get-togethers. Maida would be tied with small children. Charles would have to spend every minute earning extra money for bread and butter to feed a family of five, besides going to school. Evalyn made an effort to rise, but fell limp at the top of the stairs. She groaned, then a blessed oblivion enveloped her. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1959 As Evalyn came out of the faint, Charles and Maida stood over her, their anxious, worried faces dimly outlined in the room. "The doctor will be here in a little while," said Charles. "You were out quite a while, and you gave us a scare." Maida wiped her face with a cold cloth. Evalyn remembered she had fal-. Len at the top of the stairs. Now she was in her own bed. They must have carried her in. "I'm so ill," she said weakly. The sickness lasted a week. Influenza and pneumonia, the doctor pronounced it. He came and went often, staying when she seemed the worst. Evalyn knew that the crisis was near. Maida and Charles stood behind the doctor, their worried, anxious faces waiting, as the cold, weakening sweat left her limp— then sleep. As Evalyn improved, she worried as Maida ran up and down the stairs. She knew she shouldn't, with the baby on the way. She brought trays of food, liquids in-between meals, and she bathed and waited on her as a hospital nurse, without complaints or ever mentioning the tiredness she must feel. Charles, too, hovered near, whenever he was home from his busy routine. He brought Evalyn the mail and read the evening paper to her. He helped her into the easy chair, when she felt strong enough to sit up. He did a thousand things for her comfort. It was Evalyn's first day downstairs. With her returning strength, she felt equal to babysit with Diane, the two-year-old girl, while Maida, with four-year-old Bobby, drove over to Betty's for lunch at Betty's invitation. Evalyn walked around the THE HOUSE ON CHERRY LANE DRIVE rooms as Diane slept, grateful that she was alive and well on the way to health. If only she didn't worry so about the house on Cherry Lane Drive. And, as if to still her worries, suddenly there was the agent when she answered the doorbell. "Why, come in, Mr. Anderson," said Evalyn, relief in her voice. "Sorry I took so long with these deeds, Mrs. Day," he said, dropping into a chair at E'valyn's invitation. "T wouldn't have known the difference," said Evalyn. "I've been ill." She took the packet of legal papers. She read the important inscriptions, which proclaimed her the legal owner of the house on Cherry Lane Drive. She scowled as she read. She wasn't happy about being a home owner, now that it was really true. "Anything wrong, Mrs. Day?" VALYN hesitated a moment. "T've just decided," she said suddenly. "I would like you to take these papers back, Mr. Anderson. Make a new deed to my daughter and son-in-law. 'They are young, struggling, and they will love being home owners. As for myself, I just want to live with them. With them I'm really wanted." Mr. Anderson took the papers with misgivings. His look implied that you can't tell a thing about women, but he ogligingly took down the necessary information for the new deeds. Then he left. Evalyn walked about as though she were walking on air. Now everything seemed right again. The worry slipped from her mind, and intense happiness filled her heart. It was a week before Mr. Ander- 153 son came again. 'This time all details for the transaction were completed. Evalyn held even the keys to the new, little house. Waiting anxiously for Maida and Charles to return from the market, where they had gone grocery shopping, she wondered just how she would spring the delightful surprise on them. To pass the time she took a walk around the block. She walked slowly, enjoying the crispness of the air, and the smell of cold rain. On the last stretch, she hurried, as she saw the car in the driveway. "T've really gained strength," said Evalyn, entering the hall. "I went all around the block." Her face shone with exuberance. She felt joyous. Maida's troubled face smiled into hers, wanly, as she sat on the small chair by the table. Charles sat on the stairway, holding a letter in his hand. "You're looking wonderful, Mother," said Maida, casting her eyes downward, as Diane slept in her arms. "We have news to tell you— news you might not like,' she added. "What's wrong? What news?" Evalyn sensed the tenseness about her. "Come now," said Charles, admonishing Maida. "It's not bad news. It's really good news. It's an offer for a new job. We should really be thankful." "A new job?" asked Evalyn. "But where?" Maida's eyes filled. "In Philadelphia," she said. "There's no other way, Mother. Maybe after a few years, we can come back, but with three children by spring, we just can't make it, the way we're 154 going here. And you're coming with us,' Maida hastened to add. "We wouldn't go and leave you out here, you know that, Mother." "But what about your Doctorate, Charles? It's so close." Evalyn was still in the dark. By degrees they told her of the necessity of the delay in Charles' education, and about the offer of the new position that had just come in the mail. It was too good to pass by—equal to the security that would come with a Doctorate. "With rent and utilities the way they are, besides a living to make, tuition, and doctor bills—it's no use," said Maida unhappily. Evalyn knew that the time had come. She left the room, returning in a moment. She handed Charles the crisp, blue legal document, and then handed Maida the keys to the house on Cherry Lane Drive. "Deeds!" said Charles. "Property in our name! What is this?"' He was on his feet, while Maida could only look blankly at the keys in her hand. VALYN enjoyed the scene. She enjoyed telling them all the procedures she had gone through to obtain the house, since that first day that she received her gift from Uncle Benjamin's estate. "But, why?" insisted Charles, "why not have kept the property in your own name? Why hand everything over to us?" Evalyn smiled as she looked up at him. "I didn't want a house, Charles," she said sincerely. "I RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1959 think I just wanted you and Maida and the children. 'To be near you is enough. 'To be wanted is more than enough, and I think you both proved that, through my _ illness. Now that you know everything, perhaps I can show you a practical solution to your problem. Since I had planned on furnishing the house, why not use those funds to complete your education? Have the full year, without worry over bread and butter." Maida gave a happy little scream. "Mother!" she said, going to Evalyn with the baby still sleeping on her shoulder. "Oh, Mother! That is the best part of all, giving poor Charles a rest. He must be the most tired man in the world. Thank you, Mom. You're so wonderful!" Evalyn smiled as she took little Bobby by the hand, as he came into the room. "You have a house," she said to Charles and Maida. "Don't you want to see it?" Charles grinned for a moment. He threw the Philadelphia letter on the table. "I won't need that," he said gratefully. "Youll need this, though," said Maida as she handed him the key. Charles took the key and the small child. "Your mother is certainly tops," he said. Evalyn heard him as she went out the door. It was all she wanted to hear. With children like that, one couldn't ask for more. Life was complete. Sarah O. Moss, Salt Lake City, Utah, is a talented and enthusiastic writer whose work has appeared in the Church magazines over a period of twenty years. Several of her stories have been published in The Relief Society Magazine. She is best known in the field of juvenile writing. Her stories have appeared often in The Children's Friend, as well as in many juvenile magazines of national circulation. She is a member of the League of Utah Wuiters, a former member of the Barnacles Writers Club, and a workshop writers group in Salt Lake City. She is the wife of Don W. Moss. They are members of the Garden Heights South Ward, and are the parents of three daughters, Joyce and Mary Sue Moss, students at the University of Utah, and Mrs. Carol Donna Voss, of Pomona, California, also one grandchild. Mrs. Moss was born in Brooklyn, New York, coming with her parents to Logan, Utah, at an early age. She received her education at Brigham Young College and Utah State University. <i <— She Prairie Wind June N. Ashton Today, from the glacier-bedded mountains Wails the lonely wind, home to the prairie. "Winter and death I bring with me," she shrieks. Her words are ice-covered, fearful, dreary. Yesterday the wind was mellow and mild. Yellow, orange, and red colored the scene. As autumn leaves floated to rest on earth, A rich harvest was yours and mine to glean. Tomorrow a greater change she will bring; Spring will be on her gay breath, and laughter. The warm prairie wind will not give Winter death, but hope to life thereafter. -—- A Prophet Spoke (March 17, 1842) Ruth H. Chadwick A Prophet spoke in these the latter-days, And turned the keys that women, too, might grow In knowledge, wisdom, and in kindly ways To serve mankind as Christ did long ago. From his own lips their earliest teachings came— To care for all, the needy, sick, and those With hearts bowed down with sorrow, or the lame And weary, spirits crushed by countless woes. He taught them truth, a bulwark sure and strong, Against the powers of darkness and of sin; That they might always know the right from wrong And live to gain that peace of soul within. A Prophet spoke and pointed out the way; And blessed are those who listen and obey! THE HOUSE ON CHERRY LANE DRIVE 155 She Central States Mission Preston R. Nibley Assistant Church Historian THE Centra] States Mission is the outgrowth of two earlier missions— the Indian Territory and the Southwestern States. The Indian Territory Mission was organized in April 1855, and Elders Henry W. Miller, Robert C. Petty, Washington W. Cook, John A. Richards, and William A. Richey were sent there to labor as the first missionaries. In 1866 Indian Agents requested the missionaries to leave the Indian Territory and the. Mission was closed. The mission was again opened in 1883 by Elders George 'Teasdale, Joseph H. Felt, and William Dalton. 'T'wo years later Elder Andrew Kimball was called to preside, and he held the position until 1897, when he was succeeded by Elder William T. Jack. In 1898 the name of the mission was changed to the Southwestern States Mission, and it was formed to include Arkansas, Texas, Missouri, Louisiana, and the territories of Oklahoma and Indian Territory. President Jack was succeeded as president, in April 1900, by Elder James G. Duffin. In 1904, the name of the mission was again changed to the Central States Mission and the headquarters was moved to Independence, Jackson County, Missouri. In 1906 Elder Samuel O. Bennion was called to preside over the Central States Mission. Under his direction a substantial mission home Otto Done REMAINS OF STONE ALTAR AT ADAM-ONDI-AHMAN, MISSOURI (Sce Doctrine and Covenants 78:15, 107:53, 116, 117:8, 11.) Page 156 THE CENTRAL STATES MISSION 157 & Marshall Settle Photography Submitted by Douglas Traywick THE NATIONAL HALL OF FAME FOR FAMOUS AMERICAN INDIANS Anadarko, Oklahoma Across the highway to the left is the ten-acre tract where the Anadarko chapel of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is being built, and also the Bureau of Information for the Anadarko Branch. And chapel were erected at Independence. Also a printing plant was built to house Zion's Printing and Publishing Company, which published tracts for all the missions of the Church in the United States. In addition a magazine was published in the interest of missionary work, called the Liahona, the Elders Journal. Samuel O. Bennion presided over the Central States Mission until January 1934, a period of almost twenty-eight years. Prior to this time, on April 13, 1933, he was sustained a member of the First Council of Seventy. President Bennion was succeeded in the Central States Mission by Elias S. Woodruff; President Woodruff was succeeded in June 1939 by John F. Bowman; President Bowman was succeeded in June 1943 by Thomas C. Romney; President Romney was succeeded in October 1946 by Francis W. Brown; President Brown was succeeded in March 1950 by J. Orval Ellsworth; President Ellsworth was succeeded in March 1954 by Alvin R. Dyer; President Dyer was succeeded in July 1958 by Samuel R. Carpenter, who presides at the present time. On November 30, 1958, there were 11,614 members of the Church in the Central States Mission, located in fifty-eight branches. Sixty-five Relief Society organizations, with 1089 members, were reported in December 1958. May E. J. Dyer is former president of the Central States Mission Relief Society, and Catherine R. Carpenter is the present president. Note: The cover for this Magazine "Scene in the Ozark Mountains, Arkansas," is reproduced from a color transparency by Fred H. Ragsdale, Free Lance Photographers Guild, Inc. See also "Recipes From the Central States Mission,' by Sister Dyer, page 176. "Not of This Fold" Frances C. Yost VELYN Handy's fingers worked with the ceramics. Carefully she spooned the moistened plaster of Paris into the molds, and watched it take form. It was fun doing things creative, working with her hands. It reminded Evelyn of Relief Society work meeting back home in Utah. She missed Relief Society more than any one thing since Russell had been transferred and they had come East to live. Sunday wasn't so bad, they almost always drove the long distance to the nearest Latter-day Saint branch and attended meetings. But Evelyn couldn't get to Relief Society on Tuesdays, as she used to do back home. Evelyn thought of her new friends, Sue Reynolds, for one, who lived close by. She was friendly enough, had invited her over, wanted her to join her own friends, but Evelyn knew they played cards. But she did need friends.... "Ding," the door bell sang. "Coming," Evelyn answered. "Wonder who could be calling at nine a. M.?" she murmured, wiping her hands and hurrying to the door. "Why, Sue Reynolds, welcome to the Handy manor this bright fall morning." Evelyn held the door open, and Sue whisked in. "I'm making ceramics, you know, figurines." Evelyn pointed to her work spread out on the dining-room table. "That looks fun to do!" Sue sparkled with delight. "Where on earth did you learn how to make these?" "They taught us back home au.. Te Page 158 "What do you call this figurine?" Sue interrupted, holding up one which Evelyn had completed. "I call that a Pioneer Madonna," Evelyn explained. "See her clothing is simple, and she has a child clinging to her skirts." "It's lovely. I didn't know people made these, I mean... I thought they were artist sculptured." She picked up another figurine. "This one is so colorful in its bright yellow dress, and carrying a basket overflowing with bronze flowers. Reminds me of Indian summer. Does this one have a name?" "T call it Autumn Glory," Evelyn explained. "Well named. What's this little one, an elf?" She asked, picking up a third ceramic. "Well it could be an elf," Evelyn laughed, "but I call him a 'Little Imp.' See, he neither sits nor lies, but does a combination of both." "Honestly, Eve, have you actually made all these figurines yourself?" Sue Reynolds seemed amazed. "Yes, they taught us back home at...." "Tell you what! 'These things, these figurines you've made will make the cleverest prizes for a card game. Your Pioneer Madonna will be first prize; Autumn Glory, second; and the Little Imp will be the consolation prize!" Sue warbled delightedly. "But I've never...." Evelyn started to explain that she didn't want them used for prizes, that she didn't play cards, but it was hard to get a word in with Sue Reynolds. "Evelyn Handy, face the facts. "NOT OF THIS FOLD" You're letting yourself rot away here staying home, and not getting out and meeting people. Now I'm taking you in hand and seeing that you know the nicest people in town. Next Tuesday [ll bring a group of friends here to your home." "But...." Evelyn interluded. "Don't worry about a thing, Eve. Pll furnish the refreshments, bring the guests, and all you'll have to do is furnish the prizes, and you have them already." Sue rambled on. "Well, I just ran over for a few minutes to put off doing the breakfast dishes a little longer. See you Tuesday at two, and I'll bring along some other ladies. Time you were worked into society here in the East, Eve." Sue was gone. HAT same evening Evelyn painted the figurines while Russell read the paper. "You know, Eve, I sort of envy you. You can keep busy making things, and all I seem to be able to do is read in the evening. It seems sort of like evenings back home when you finished your Relief Society work before turning in." "Making these figurines reminds me of work meetings back home too, Russ." Evelyn felt tears moistening her lashes. She had worried all day about Sue Reynolds' plans. She did want to make friends, but she didn't want to lowet her standards, even for friends. If she told Russ about it, perhaps he could help her out of her predicament. Russell Handy looked at his wife, he suspected her loneliness. "Too bad you: have to miss out on so many things like Relief Society, but honestly, Eve, if you 159 hadn't come with me, been a good sport about leaving your home, the Church headquarters, and your friends, well, I just couldn't have made out on this new job. What are you making the figurines for, Eve?" "Sue Reynolds came over this morning, and she's inviting a group of ladies here 'Tuesday afternoon and...." Russ almost smirked. "I asked what you're going to do with the figurines. You talk in circles, Eve." "Well, Sue, she's sort of forward, or domineering or something, Russ. She wants the figurines for prizes...." "Just a bunch of sheep with no leader." Russell stood up and yawned. "Well, I guess I'll turn in." He put the paper aside and left the room. Alone in the dining room, Evelyn realized the problem was hers alone, and hers to work out. She thought, it would have been so much easier if Russell had said, "Make an excuse, honey," or "Go ahead and spend an afternoon with the girls." But he hadn't said anything. Yes, he had muttered something. What was it? "A bunch of sheep with no leader." What had he meant? Evelyn wrestled with her problem, as her fingers worked artfully. Surely a card game with only figurines as prizes wouldn't be too bad. "Too bad," Evelyn muttered the words. Things were either good or bad. They just couldn't be half and half. Evelyn pondered over the words Russell had mumbled as he left the room. The Savior had_ said something himself about sheep, what was it? "Other sheep I have, which are not of this fold." Why 160 these new friends here in the East were no doubt good people, it was just that they were... Sort of... Not of the fold. If I could only get to Sister Murray, our dear Relief Society president back home, and tell her my problems, or if I could invite them all to go with me to Relief Society, but it's so far, and the traffic is so conjested during the week days. "TUESDAY dawned clear, bright, and golden, like an Indian maiden of Indian summertime. Evelyn loved autumn. She took a basket and went into the garden and gathered bronze and yellow chrysanthemums. As she filled her basket she felt like her figurine Autumn Glory. The house must look its loveliest, surely these clean, beautiful flowers would help her see this through. Silently Evelyn said a prayer, "Dear Father, help me to... To carry on alone." "Ding," the doorbell sang. "Coming," Evelyn replied. "Well, here we are!" Sue Reynolds chuckled. "Seven of us congregated at my home and came over together. "Evelyn, I want you to mect Ruth Ellis, the quiet type; Marva Reed, the interesting type; Ginnie Brooks, the talkative one, if I'm not around; Cora Stephens, your neighbor in the next block; Connie Conrad, a friend to everyone; Lydia Walters, a mother to us all, not so much because she is a bit older, but because she is SO very wise." "['m glad to meet all of you," Evelyn said warmly. Inwardly she had dreaded meeting these women, but she liked their appearance. They seemed nice, each one of them. If she could only keep up her courage, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1959 carry things through as she had planned. "Well, where are the card tables?" Sue peered about. "Might as well get started. I've already told the girls about the prizes you make, Eve. Oh, look, girls, here are the clever figurines," Sue called joyously, pointing to a small table. There followed a chatter of admiration. Finally, Evelyn arose and spoke: "Sisters...." She stopped. Why, she shouldn't have addressed them as sisters. She must apologize... "You do all seem like sisters to me. Back where I come from we have a woman's organization which meets each weck just at this time. We call it the Relief Society. The name implies doing good to others, which we do when there is sickness or need around. But the name means even more, it means self-improvement in so many ways." The women were listening. Evelyn found she could modulate her voice. As she continued, her voice held a sacred tone. "We members of the Relief Society meet once each week and do things together. One week we study something uplifting, a study of the scriptures. 'This lesson is called theology. Another week we study literature, you know, great writers, and their works. This particular course is much like going back to college. Another week we study family relations or community problems. It helps us to get along with each other, and rear a family properly in these trying times. "Another week we do things with our hands. We tie quilts for welfare, or quilt lovely ones to sell at the bazaar, or do needlework, or tear carpet rags. Other days we learn to make something decorative "NOT OF THIS FOLD" or useful for our own homes. I made those twin pictures of the flamingos from sheet copper at Relief Society." Evelyn nodded at two pictures hanging on her living room wall. "And this little sewing basket here by my favorite chair, I made it one day at work meeting. 'The silver tray which holds the figurines was another project which we made at our regular monthly work meeting. And, of course, the figurines which Sue showed you, I learned how to make those, too, at Relief Society. "T thought you might like to make one of those ceramics today. I have lots of molds and plaster of Paris, and even the paints and glaze you would need. If you would enjoy making these ceramics today, we could do as we do sometimes at Relief Society, and don some old shirts which I have here, to keep our nice dresses protected. How about it? Would you like to do something together like this...?" VELYN realized she hadn't given such a long speech since she gave a lesson back home in Relief Society meeting. She waited, but no one said anything. 'The women had listened attentively, every one of them, but had they listened with their ears, not their hearts? Evelyn found herself breathing a little prayer as she stood before these new friends, "Dear Father, help me to turn the hearts of these good... Good sisters who are not of the fold...." The clock ticked away the seconds. It seemed unusually loud. Evelyn had hoped they would ask questions about Relief Society. She 161 guessed she had been presumptive; just because she herself had enjoyed Relief Society meetings so much, she had thought everyone would be interested to know about them. She had had the mistaken idea that the women would bubble over with interest at her first mention of it, but this silence, complete silence, except for the clock ticking away the time, stilled Evelyn. She recalled that the women had been very talkative when they first came. Before she had mentioned Relief Society. They had laughed and joked and talked all at the same time and now... Just silence. 'They were indicating that they had come for another reason, not to don old shirts and play in clay. She had let them come here to her home expecting something else, but she had meant well... She had tried. Evelyn felt tears accumulating behind her eyelids. "Of course, if you would rather not," Evelyn began.... "Wait, Mrs. Handy... Eve..." Lydia Walters spoke. Sue had said Lydia Walters was wise. Probably wise in the world's ways. Evelyn's heart almost stopped beating, as she waited to hear what Lydia Walters had to say. "I suggest we make ceramics this afternoon, since you have gone to all the trouble of getting the molds and material. What do you say, girls?" Lydia put the question to the group. "All right, for a change," they murmured. Evelyn's heart took up it's slow, wary beating. "I'll get the things." How strange that her voice should sound so natural when her heart was racing So. 162 OR the next hour Evelyn was as busy as a work meeting leader on work day. Each woman decided on a mold of her choice, and spooned the softened plaster of Paris into the forms. As_ they worked, they chattered about their work, just as the sisters did back home on work day. It was fun talk, and sounded sweetly familiar to Evelyn. 'Time was completely forgotten, and the clock in the hall could not be heard now. "How're you coming with yours, Sue? When you're through with that mold, Ruth, may I use it? Clever, Connie! Good work, Cora! My, that's pretty, Ginnie!" Later, while the ceramics were setting, Evelyn and Sue served light refreshments. Then it was that Lydia Walters asked: "How often do you say your Relief Society meets?" "IEvery Tuesday afternoon," Evelyn replied. "And a work meeting similar to what we have had this afternoon is held once each month?" Lydia inquired. "Yes, once each month. On the second Tuesday," Evelyn replied. "But if the women don't want to wait a whole month, can they finish their work?" Sue Reynolds asked. "Often a special day is held to finish work, or sometimes it is taken home and finished," Evelyn explained. "I have still another question," Lydia Walters said. The women became _ especially quiet, and listened. "Do IJ understand correctly that one can be a member of Relief Society and not be a member of your faith, Evelyn?" "A Relief Society is always organized under the direction of the misRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1959 sion president, but one need not be a member of our Church," Evelyn explained. "Are there dues ciety?" Lydia asked. "Fifty cents a year," Evelyn said simply. "So much for so little." They sighed. "T want each of you to take home one of my Relief Society Magazines' to read. I don't mind admitting it is my favorite magazine, with stories, poems, recipes, articles, and good reading, besides the lessons for each week." Evelyn passed out a Magazine to each of the guests. "Thanks so much," each one murmured. The women were leaving now, but they were all taking her hand in friendship and thanking her for the wonderful afternoon. It was Sue Reynolds who lingered when the others had gone. "Honestly, Evelyn, P've never had such a good, interesting afternoon in my life. I've always wanted to know how to do things with my hands, but I never thought I could learn, or enjoy it so much. You know, Eve, when you started telling us about your Relief Society, you seemed sort of like an angel standing there, and we all knew you had something we just didn't have and we wanted it very much. It's just as if you'd opened up a new world for us." It had been a wonderful afternoon, Evelyn knew. She had so much to tell Russ when he came home. Later she must write to the mission president and his wife and invite them to visit their group. Evelyn had a feeling there might be a new Relief Society to be organized. In Relief So- Josef Muench CRATER LAKE (OREGON) IN WINTER Mountain Born Maude Rubin These I remember: aspens' shimmering shadows: Great granite boulders red with lichen rust; Mariposa lilies in cool meadows; And autumn mornings, white with fern-leafed frost. I hear again the plaintive, endless bleating Of sheep in alpine pastures' huddled flocks; The raucous mountain jay; high call of pika, Its bright-eyed wariness among the rocks. These I remember: sudden drums of thunder — And winter's deep-banked hush — its still white wonder! Page 163 Trask's Studio, Franconia, New Hampshire CLOSE-UP VIEW OF THE OLD MAN OF THE MOUNTAIN The Old Man of the Mountain Martha Robeson Wright \ [7 stood beside the still waters in the warmth of the early June sun, and except for the occasional chirp of a bird, there was absolute peace and quiet. On the opposite shore of the small, tranquil Profile Lake, 1,060 feet above the green forest on Cannon Mountain, the noble, granite profile of a man gazed ever southeastward, as he had been doing for untold years, in solitary dignity. No one spoke as we looked up at nature's handiwork of classic grandeur. For this was the Old Man of the Page 164 Mountain, the Great Stone Face of Hawthorne's famous allegory, in the Franconian Notch Pass in the heart of New Hampshire's White Mountains, about which Whittier wrote: "The Great Notch Mountains shone, watched over by the solemn-browed and awesome face of stone." The mountainous region of the Great Stone Face in the north central part of New Hampshire, in Grafton County, may be reached from United States Highway 3 running north from Boston, Massa- THE OLD MAN OF THE MOUNTAIN chusetts, or from U. S. 2 running eastward from Montpelier, Vermont. New Hampshire, one of the New England States known as "the Cradle of America," is one of the beauty spots of this continent. The White Mountains, high and in places precipitous, with outcroppings of granite in the heavily wooded peaks, abound with rock formations of weird shapes, like Cannon Rock, Old Lady, Indian Head, and 'The Watcher. In the White Mountain Glacier Park, you will find a menagerie of stone: elephant, sea lion, polar bear, bear, camel, dog, turtle, rabbit, and fish. Also a "giant's footprint" embedded in the granite. As "keeper of the zoo' is the stone face of George Washington. The Polar Caves, the "rock garden of the giants," are like nothing else on the North American continent, formed of granite, whereas most caves are of limestone. But to me, the most thrilling sight was that of the Old Man of the Mountain, viewed by over fifty million people since its discovery by white men in 1805. It brought back Hawthorne's mythical village at the base of the mountain, where the inhabitants, year after year, sought to find a man whose nobility of spirit would cause him to resemble the noble profile of the Great Stone Face, only to realize that Ernest, one of their own number, had _ become the living counterpart. It is believed that the likeness was carved by the severeness of the Franconian winters, after eruptions, millions of years ago, of earthquakes and glowing lava that spewed itself over the region, where it cooled in- 165 to the rock now known as Conway granite. Over the centuries, erosion, landslides, and water, slowly carried off the top-soil and exposed the granite to the elements, leaving the Notch and the peaks as they are today. Then a mighty glacier covered them with ice and snow for thousands of years. It left the high southeast cliff of Cannon Mountain bold and steep. Rain, sleet, and snow of the severe winters seeped into the cracks, expanding the rocks and causing tons of them to slide from the cliff. This left ledges blending into each other and forming the Profile. Finally, the frost broke away a thirty-ton block of granite that slid down to form the Profile's forehead. Thus, the Old Man of the Mountain, forty-eight feet from the tip of his forehead to the bottom of the chin, stood for centuries, apparently unnoticed by Indian tribes in the region, for no mention of it can be found in the Indian legends. EW Hampshire history records that a narrow path had been broken through the Notch by Indian war parties driving white captives to remote bases. As the colonists drove the Indians back, the first freight was transported through the Notch in 1771, and the little town of Franconia was settled in 1774, but it was not until 1805 that a road was built and the Great Stone Face was discovered. 'Two parties of surveyors claim to have this distinction. One is that Luke Brooks and Francis Whitcomb stopped by Profile Lake to wash and drink. They straightened up, and one saw the Old Man of the Mountain. The other version is that Nathaniel Hall, 166 also a road worker, went out early in the morning to shoot partridges for breakfast. He happened to look up and hurried back to camp to tell of his discovery. At first, the news spread slowly. Most of the visitors arrived on horseback to see Mt. Washington, 6,293 feet high, but went on to view the face after a guidebook was issued in 1823. Hawthorne visited the Old Man in 1832 and wrote his famous story. Presidents Jackson and Pierce, Lafayette, Longfellow, Whittier, Emerson, Thoreau, and Danicl Webster came to marvel. In 1869 President Ulysses S. Grant came to try the new cog railroad, the first of its kind in this country, to the top of Mt. Washington. He visited the Old Man and spread the word. He was followed by President Cleveland, William Cullen Bryant, Jenny Lind, Mary Baker Eddy, and Henry Ward Beecher. In 1880, when an Appalachian Mountain Club group climbed to the top of the Great Stone Face, they discovered that prying fingers of frost were tilting the great stone that formed the forehead. If the stone tumbled, it would break the nose, and the Old Man would be ruined forever. Surveying experts decided it would be impossible to avert the catastrophe. The Reverend Guy _ Roberts, whose devotion and writings gave him the title of "Valet to the Old Man of the Mountains," waged a successful campaign to save the Profile. He climbed to the top in 1906, taking pictures and measurements, and searched for years for someone who would believe the Old Man could be repaired. In August RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1959 1915, he met E. H. Geddes, manager of a Massachusetts stone quarty, who became interested and climbed up with the Reverend Roberts to inspect the forehead. They found that if it slid four inches, it would fall. Mr. Geddes anchored the boulder, hoping it would hold. Almost a year later, in June, upon inspection, they found the forehead had moved one and a half inches between their visits. HE two men finally convinced Governor Rolland Spaulding that something must be done before it was too late. State funds were provided, and the work started before winter came. 'Three sets of anchor irons three to six feet long and two inches thick were finished by late September. Nearly a ton of gear, including anchors, tools, food and water was hauled to the top. As help was lacking, Mr. Geddes, who was fifty years old, carried most of it up himself. There was no trail, the way was steep and rough, with dense clouds often hiding all landmarks. Mr. Geddes' fingers were frostbitten, and the slippery footing threatened to toss him to death hundreds of feet below, but with holes drilled in the rock and the ledge behind, steel blocks were inserted and cemented. Anchor chains were fastened to the eyes in blocks and drawn tight with turn buckles. The work was finished in eight days. In 1927 and 1937 inspections were made, and the last repair work was done when Mr. Geddes, at seventyone, supervised the work. By this time the State of New Hampshire had taken over. After the Profile House, the hotel built to house the many visitors, had THE OLD MAN OF THE MOUNTAIN ao Trask's Studio, Franconia, New Hampshire 167 ECHO LAKE AND THE FRANCONIAN NOTCH PASS, NEW HAMPSHIRE burned down in 1923, its operators, who owned most of the Notch, decided not to rebuild. Fearing that the Notch might be stripped by lumber firms who were eager to bid, the people of New Hampshire clamored to save it. An appropriation of $200,000 was raised to buy the Old Man of the Mountain and its surroundings. But the hotel owners wanted $400,000 for their entire holdings of 6,000 acres, which included the Old Man, Flume, Profile Lake, Echo, and Lonesome Lake. James Storrow of Boston, treasurer of the Society for the Protection of New Hampshire Forests, willed them $100,000. The State House would not give any more money. Finally, the Women's Club in the State took charge and raised the balance with 15,000 contributions. In 1928, Franconia Notch State Reservation was dedicated as a War Memorial. 'Ten years later the State opened the Cannon Mountain Aerial Tramway, the first of its kind in North America. Other scenic spots were developed. In 1954, a State team, visiting the top of the Great Stone Face, found the anchors placed there by Mr. Geddes still holding. A few loose stones were cemented. So the Old Man of the Mountain, the Profile, or the Great Stone Face, is preserved for future generations. Whether the classic story by Hawthorne is still required reading in the schools, I do not know. In this present world of scientific knowledge, strife, and conflict, it is an imaginative tale of nobility and grandeur found at home. Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, March 1, and March 15, 1899 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WoMEN OF ALL NaTIONs" RESOLUTION BY THE NATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN: Believing that the two strongest unifying forces of organized effort are human brotherhood and Divine Fatherhood, and rejoicing in the expression of humanitarian principles in the manifold activities of American women, represented by the National Council of Women; therefore, Resolved, That this universal faith in the Divine Fatherhood should be expressed by either vocal or silent prayer at the opening of all sessions of the Council. —From the Triennial Report A NOBLE RELIEF SOCIETY WOMAN: The day is quite emblematic, the 8oth birthday of our beloved and respected Stake president, Sister M. I. Horne.. The snow coming down so pure and white is like... Her grand life has been... She has been a model woman, thoroughly domesticated, but modest and unassuming.... I well remember how gentle she seemed in conducting the affairs of the society, yet firm in all her ways, but never any arrogance.... I do not forget how she would intercede with the sisters to do their duty and laid plans, and persevered in having the society hall built... That being completed, paid for and dedicated, how she again planned for the building of a granary.... Her family is an example to the community. What a heavenly blessing! - —E. J. S. MY WARNING Father, I daily plead, keep me from sin, Help me a shining light to be, To help those whom thou hast placed within my care, That I may lead them back to Thee, Back to the home from whence, so pure, they came, This is the prayer I ask in Jesus' name. —Nellie MEMORABLE ANNIVERSARY: The 17th of March, anniversary of the first organization of the Relief Society, will be generally observed throughout the organization in some way commemorative of that auspicious occasion, and no doubt the sisters will try to review in some way the work accomplished during the fifty-seven years, though very few are living now who were present then. Only one that we can recall at this present moment, that one is Sister Bathsheba B. Smith, who was at that time not quite twenty years old. The assistant secretary appointed on that occasion, Sister Phebe M. Wheeler, has died during the last few months at Bountiful at a great age.... —Editorial RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE IN WEBER STAKE: Sister Zina D. H. Young addressed the sisters. Said the faces of the Saints were the most beautiful picture she could look upon. Her desire was to comfort and bless the sisters. She had never had a doubt of the divinity of this work, had received a testimony when a child, and felt herself the happiest person in the world. —Act. Sec. Page 168 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. HE Fine Arts Committee of Mesa, Arizona, choosing from among devotees of all the arts, has named writer Mrs. Orson C. (Bertha) Kleinman "Artist of the Year" for 1958. She received a very handsome plaque and the most flattering of citations. Now eighty-one, Mrs. Kleinman is remembered among Latter-day Saints for her pageant "Message of the Ages." She has since written ten other pageants and is author of a great number of poems, hymns, short stories, and dramas. AMILLA KOFFLER, the famous photographer of animals known as Ylla, was the author of Animals in India, just off the Harper press. The volume includes a diary of her recent trip in India, with entries recording what she saw and photographed up to two days before an accident which killed her —a fall from a jeep while she was photographing a bullock-cart race. RS. TORA SELANDER NELSON, 'Teasdale, Utah, has changed an abandoned schoolhouse into a museum. 'Thirty-three years ago, Mrs. Nelson, who was then a citizen of Sweden, visited Utah's flaming canyon country, and was so impressed that she made up her mind to return and make her home in the colored cliffs. Now she has a home and museum filled with art treasures from all over the world, including an Eskimo blanket made of Arctic duck down, and shawls from Kashmir. Cannon HRISTIE LUND COLES, Provo, Utah, a contributor to The Relief Society Magazine, and _ prizcwinner in several Relief Society literary contests, has published seventy-six of her recent poems in Some Spring Returning (Faucette Publications, Provo, Utah.) The poems are representative of the lyrical gifts and heartfelt understanding of this well-known poet. GERTRUDE MacLEAN, London, England, in 1921, organized the "Universal Aunts," a helpful society offering to do "anything for anybody at any time." They tend babies, find employment for people, locate houses and _ apartments, reserve seats at theaters and do research work. 'They do washings, wave hair, hang curtains, read to the ill or the aged, assist with hobbies, and do catering for parties; they arrange travel tours, buy trousseaux and layettes, act as companions and nurses, and meet trains, airplanes, and busses. "Token" prices are charged for these services, plus a 35c registration fee from all customers. PRISCILLA J. MILITANTE is the first woman of Philippine ancestry to enter the field of geology. She received Bachelor's and Master's Degrees from the University of the Philippines, and at present is working towards a Doctor's Degree in Geology at Stanford University. She is co-author with Joseph J. Graham of an outstanding study on "Philippine Foraminifera." Page 169 Q-> EDITORIAL cm VOL. 46 'Tlow, Let Us Rejoice. "For the traditions of the people shall become a legacy which they shall evaluate with rejoicing.... NE hundred and seventeen years have passed into the annals of time since the organization of Relief Society, March 17, 1842. More than a century has gone, and we come to another time of special evaluation of our heritage as members of Relief Society. It is a time for us to contemplate, with historic perspective, our traditions, our beliefs, the practices and principles which have guided the lives of our mothers in the generations past, which are now our daily pattern, and which will be the legacy of our daughters. The gospel came to the women of the early Church as a cause for great rejoicing. From a profound and earnest searching, a glorious fulfillment had come. The generations of the past, the wide and wonderful vistas of their own day, and all the frontiers of the future reaching into the eternities, for them were linked together in the great sunlight of the restoration. Even hardships became opportunities, and the women felt a desire to enrich their individual potentialities and to unite with their sisters that their hands might be strengthened, their spirits uplifted, and their services multiplied. This rejoicing in the gospel became the luminous horizon for the divinely directed pathway of women. The sisters of Nauvoo saw the boats ruffling the waves of the wide river, as families arrived day after Page 170 "? Day to unite with the Church, and the women who were first in the "City of Joseph" considered the needs of the newcomers as "a loud call for relief"—not for the providing of food and housing alone, but for spiritual enlightenment and for kindness and comfort in an alien place. Long before the formal organization of Relief Society, the women had hoped for a pattern and a design to guide them. When the Prophet Joseph Smith turned the key and gave direction to their efforts, the women rejoiced, for they knew that the blessings of the Lord would be with them in their ministrations. Thus, the restoration of the gospel and the organization of Relief Society by the Prophet became the first great traditions of the Society, and a beacon light for times to come when menibership would be multiplied, when responsibilities would be diverse and far-reaching. In accordance with instructions, so well expressed by the Prophet, and "in harmony' with _ their natures," the women looked first to the needs of their households, the honoring of their husbands, the rearing of their children, and the tasks of making their homes orderly and beautiful, employing with energy all they possessed of time and talents. Then afterward they reached out, MARCH 1959 NO. 3 EDITORIAL with true charity, to serve their sisters, realizing the urgent and special needs of children, the aged, those who were ill, and the ones deprived of close family associations. 'Their quick and willing footsteps along the streets of Nauvoo were a blessing, and doorways were lighted by their faces. These women, as necessity committees, were the first visiting teachers, establishing a treasured design for Relief Society. In the early days the women realized the need, also, as we do today, of a favorable environment outside the home in order that their children might grow strong and beautiful and help to build a world suitable for the coming of the Savior. To meet this responsibility, another tradition has become dear to the hearts of Relief Socicty women — a feeling of devotion to all the auxiliaries of the Church, active participation, and a spiritual dedication to the ways of worship of their children. Relief Society women realize that the Church cannot prosper and 171 reach the full extent of its glorious destiny unless the governments and the social systems of the earth will permit the telling of the gospel story. So the sisters willingly lend their strength and their influence to the improvement of the larger environment. It is a_ tradition among Relief Society women that they hold as a privilege and a duty their right to vote in elections, and to accept and honor the opportunity to help direct the affairs of the city, the state, and the Nation, as well as in the world, where their children must live and work out the temporal patterns of their eternal destiny. The women of Relief Society cherish tenderly their sisterhood, their concern for each other, their kind and loving charity, their blessed companionship. They think of their places of gathering as havens for their singing and their prayers, for their learning and their giving — and for their rejoicing in the gospel. —V. P. C. > Old Home Helen M. Livingston The tree grown tall holds up long arms of shade, Her leafy fingers spread against the sky. The brook runs close around the old white wall, And asters blossom in the field close by. The wide, deep-seated chairs are on the porch; The daisies still are growing in the grass. The evening mists are on the balcony; The dark-gray shadows linger there and pass. And who will sit upon the porch tonight? And who will walk upon the balcony? The moon, slow-rising, dimly lights each pane; A bird's low call pours softly, silvery. Oh, mourning dove, once nestled with your mate, Within the sheltered tree you call—and wait. Woteds. TO THE FIELD Organizations and RReorganizations of Stake g g and TMlission Relief Societies for 1958 NEW ORGANIZATIONS Stakes Auckland Bountiful North Bountiful South Cincinnati Granger Kearns Kearns North Lewiston Monterey Bay. Norwalk | Olympus: Orlando Parleys Phoenix North St. Louis San Antonio San Diego East Shreveport Utah State University Weber Heights West Sharon Yuma Missions New Zealand South Stakes Blaine Bountiful Canyon Rim Dallas Deseret East Phoenix East Provo Florida Grand Junction Page 172 Formerly Part of New Zealand Mission Bountiful and South Davis Stakes Bountiful and South Davis Stakes Great Lakes Mission North Jordan Stake Taylorsville Stake Taylorsville Stake Spokane Stake and Northwestern States Mission San Jose Stake East Long Beach Stake Holladay Stake Southern States Mission Highland Stake Phoenix Stake Central States Mission Houston Stake San Diego Stake Gulf States Mission and Dallas Stake East Cache Stake South Ogden Stake Sharon Stake California Mission Formerly Part of New Zealand Mission Appointed President Date Appointed Gertrude Grant Dora P. Webb Marilla H. Sessions Judith Fish Ella P. Bennion Esther M. Dimick Joyce S. Jensen Norma M. Kunkel LaVee Haws Norma Schauers Vera N. Barber Vela E. Milton Edythe Watson Ida M. Steele Lorene Tidlund Kathryn K. Willis Enid Miller Evelyn B. Hill Hattie B. Maughan Hilda T. Halverson Oda Rasmussen Louise S. Westover Appointed President May 18, 1958 April 20, 1958 April 20, 1958 November 23, 1958 June 8, 1958 February 20, 1958 February 1, 1958 December 14, 1958 March 3, 1958 October 29, 1958 July 20, 1958 February 23, 1958 December 7, 1958 January 20, 1958 June 1, 1958 March 13, 1958 April 20, 1958 January 26, 1958 May 18, 1958 December 3, 1958 November 30, 1958 April 27, 1958 Date Appointed Helen W. Anderson REORGANIZATIONS Released President Louise Price Manilla H. Sessions Bertha H. Blonquist Allene Bremer Mary L. Henrie Lola Green, Ethel M. Wilson Vella V. Tilton Evelyn T. McKinnon Appointed President August 15, 1958 Date Appointed Melba Thorne Ivy W. Richins Myrtle H. Rappley Myr] B. Whiting Ora M. Gardner Wanda Walker Fay P. Loveless Vida P. Bennett Josephine Prinster July 18, 1958 Aptil 20, 1958 November 23, 1958 March 30, 1958 October 5, 1958 April 27, 1958 January 12, 1958 September 21, 1958 June 22, 1958 NOTES TO THE FIELD Stephenson North Idaho Falls North Jordan Ruby F. Olson Ella P. Bennion (deceased July 8, 1958) South Blackfoot Anna P. Wright South Los Angeles Rose B. Astle New Zealand: Northern Mexican Rhoda C. 'Taylor South Australian Adelphia D. Bingham Southwest Indian Lavena L. Rohner _ Arta R. Ballif Appointed President 173 Date Appointed Cora A. Stanard Naomi F. Jensen Ruby M. Blake Irene C. Lloyd Zona M. Perry Madalyn Corrigan Cora S. Hogan Esther W. Heaton Helyn B. Hassell Marian Bennett Beatrice E.. Sorensen Hazel F. Durrant Anna Laura Cannon Dessie W. Thomas Jeanette F. Naegle Mary Lou Nielson Lily D. Kama Cora F, Hansen Nell L. Ellsworth Thera E. Harper Ruth J. Harrison Emily E. Burr Ida Anderson Lillian L. Collett Ruth J. Nielson Inez S. Pendlebury Laura R. Shimp Mattie G. Ray April 27, 1958 April 27, 1958 December 7, 1958 June 29, 1958 February 21, 1958 June 22, 1958 September 14, 1958 September 28, 1958 May 8, 1958 August 31, 1958 April 20, 1958 July 10, 1958 March 2, 1958 December 3, 1958 May 25, 1958 June 15, 1958 August 31, 1958 December 14, 1958 September 26, 1958 May 25, 1958 September 14, 1958 June 29, 1958 April 20, 1958 September 22, 1958 May 18, 1958 July 22, 1958 November 2, 1958 'September 14, 1958 Auretta G. Manwaring November 30, 1958 Hazel H. Chadwick Phoebe H. Norton Beatrice S. McConkie Claire P. Ord Genieve M. James Emma A. Sorenson Amelia S. McConkie Dora I. Hines Vera B. Tibbitts Appointed President September 21, 1958 May 25, 1958 December 14, 1958 June 22, 1958 October 5, 1958 September 9, 1958 August 24, 1958 October 26, 1958 June 1, 1958 Date Appointed Geraldine H. Bangerter Beulah B. Woodbury Lela L. Udall Catherine R. Carpenter Ruby E. Warner Louise S. Brooks Rhoda C. Taylor Jelaire C. Simpson Anna W. Bentley Velma N. Simonsen Wilma F. Turley November 6, 1958 October 2, 1958 August 8, 1958 July 30, 1958 November 4, 1958 May 17, 1958 May 20, 1958 August 15, 1958 May 20, 1958 April 8, 1958 October 9, 1958 Stakes Great Falls Gunnison Highland Holladay Houston Houston Idaho ~ Kanab Klamath Long Beach Lost River Morgan New York New York Oahu Park Pasadena Raft River Rose Park Sacramento San Diego San Francisco San Juan South Ogden South Ogden Star Valley Taylor Uintah Union Walnut Creek Wayne Wilford Willamette Yellowstone Missions Brazilian British California Central States Finnish Hawaiian Mexican Released President Mary W. Hansen Rebecca M. Anderson Marjory H. Eldredge Elaine B. Curtis Kathryn K. Willis Zona M. Perry Elizabeth W. Hatch Elsie J. Brinkerhoff Vesta M. Lewis Lenore G. Merrill Elva J. Beal Eva H. Jensen Margaret D. Anna Laura Cannon Eugenia N. Logan Bernice R. Campbell Thelma J. Nebcker Lona C. Hepworth Betty Jo C. Reiser Lesslie H. Stubbs Enid Miller Gladys R. Winter Margie H. Lyman Delora R. Hurst Mattie G. Ray Eliza L. Robinson Margaret W. Ririe Evyln G. Richardson Mal B. Oveson Ellen L. Cook Thora T. Jackson Lois Jensen Erma L. Snowberger Ida M. Swenson Released President Ida M. Sorensen Trene P. Kerr Alta H. Taylor May J. Dyer | Hortense B. Robinson Maurine H: 'Haycock Jennie S. Bowman 174 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1959 Missions Released President Appointed President Date Appointed Spanish-American Nina N. Bowman Julie Bell Brown October 30, 1958 Tahitian Dorothy P. Ruth R. Reeder October 1, 1958 Christensen Uruguayan Sharon Parry Lois Geniel Jensen March 7, 1958 Western Canadian Annie Ruth Larsen Lila A. Arave May 28, 1958 Western States Mildred P. Elggren Daisy R. Romney January 17, 1958 me Index for 1958 Relief Society Tlagazines Available OPIES of the 1958 index of The Relief Society Magazine are available and may be ordered from the General Board of Relief Society, 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City 11, Utah. The price is 20c, including postage. Relief Society officers and members who wish to have their 1958 issues of The Relief Society Magazine bound may do so through The Deseret News Press, 33 Richards Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah. (See advertisement on page 207.) The cost for binding the twelve issues in a permanent cloth binding is $2.50, leather $3.50, including the index. It is recommended that wards and stakes have one volume of the 1958 Magazines bound for preservation in ward and stake Relief Society libraries. Dramatization "Vomen of the New World " Available to Reliof Society An entertaining and educational dramatization "Women of the New World," by Madeline Silver, is available at the office of the General Board of Relief Society. 'The dramatization portrays effectively important women featured in the 1958-59 literature course. This dramatization could be appropriately used by ward Relief Societies in a closing social. Nine characters are represented, and the time required for presentation would be thirty to forty-five minutes. Price 15c¢ per copy General Board of Relief Society, 76 North Main Salt Lake City 11, Utah —_— Announcing the Special April Short Story Issue The April 1959 issue of The Relief Society Magazine will be the special short story number, with four outstanding stories being presented. Look for these stories in April: "The Day I Turned Eight," by Ilene H. Kingsbury "Unto the Hills," by Helen Hooper "Great-Grandmother's Notebook," by Arlene D. Cloward "The Bishop's Wife," by Sylvia Probst Young A Sireside Chat On a (Burning Question Freedom and Discipline blessed security of direction in our choice of life patterns may be gained from a serious contemplation of our heritage as daughters of Zion. This legacy of physical and spiritual wealth, wide and challenging in its implications, is still a pattern of restraint and discipline. A woman pioneer to the mountain valleys once remarked, "The fireside and the flame seem always to make a design of my life." She recounted the memory of bright flames leaping above a campfire in the snows of Winter Quarters, and, later, the flare of evening fires along the lonely reaches of the Platte. Her first evening in the wide valley beneath the Wasatch Mountains was warmed by a fire that blazed beside her wagon. The fire in her first stove in her first cabin was the heart of the home. And when she was finally settled in an even more distant place, the big, bulging stove in the meetinghouse became the center of her time of worship. Always the flame and the fire were beautiful to her, but always their use required control and constant watchfulness. Our life patterns give us freedom or bondage, according to the value or the detriment which inevitably accompanies each established habit. We need to stand in our own tall strength, and then to have a reserve of energy and enthusiasm for offering to those who need us. It follows, then, that we must eliminate from our lives those habits already acquired which detract from our strength, and we must be ever watchful that no beginning is made on habits which cause us to light a cigarette, "playing with fire" which may lead us into bondage rather than to freedom. It is often necessary to be subject to discipline, if we are to achieve freedom. When we control our habits we have power; when they control us we are weak. It has been well said that there is no infirmity of body or mind that cannot be helped by seeking the truth, and by reliance upon the ever-available help of our Heavenly Father. The light and beauty of the hearth of home, and the heritage of discipline and freedom, are ours to give direction and purpose to our lives — to help us make the most of our brief years upon the earth. Page 175 Recipes From the Central States TNission Submitted by May E. J. Dyer LemMon CruMB CRUNCH Step 1— Yc. Sugar 2 eggs, well beaten 2 tbsp. Flour ¥ c, lemon juice ¥% tsp. Salt 17% tsp. Grated lemon rind 1 c. Hot water Combine sugar, flour, and salt, then add water and mix well. Cook over hot water until thick, stirring constantly. Remove from heat and add egg mixture; return to stove and cook 2 minutes over hot water, stirring constantly. Next add lemon juice and rind and continue cooking about 1 minute. Remove from stove and cool. Pour over layers of crumb crunch, Step 2— Crums CruNncH % c. Shortening % tsp. Salt 1 c. Brown sugar 1 c. Wheat cereal flakes 1 ¢. Flour ¥% c. Coconut Mix shortening and brown sugar. Add flour, salt, cereal flakes, and coconut. Place % of crumb mixture in greased 8-inch square pan, pour filling on top of it, then place remaining 4% of crumb mixture on top. Bake at 350° for 40 minutes. Serves 9. Serve hot or cold with whipped cream or ice cream. Bortep Ratsin Cake Jennie Jewkes First Mixture— 1 Ib. Raisins 1 c. Shortening (scant) 2% c. Water Boil for 10 minutes slowly, and cool. Second Mixture— its c. Sugar 2 tsp. Cinnamon % c¢. Sifted flour 1 tsp. Nutmeg 1 tsp. Soda (rounded spoon) % tsp. Ginger Add this to first mixture when cool. Bake at 350°. 'Time: 1 hour; Pans: 2 greased loaf pans. Rico BRownikgEs Margaretha Evans 2 eggs 1 C. Pecans 1 Cc. Sugar 1 tsp. Vanilla 1 c. Flour Page 1/6 % |b. Butter 2 squares bitter chocolate (melted) RECIPES FROM THE CENTRAL STATES MISSION 177 Cream butter and add sugar, eggs, melted chocolate, flour, nuts, and vanilla, Bake in moderate oven (350°) for 20 minutes in flat greased pan, Cream Purrs—CuHocoLaTE ECLAIRS Gloria Dyer Klein 1 c. Flour 4 eggs 1 square butter or shortening 1 c. Water Let water and butter come to a boil, then add flour quickly and mix, cool. When cooled add eggs one at a time beating well with a fork after each addition. Drop batter on greased cooky sheet in shape of eclair or puff. Bake at 450° for % hour. Fillings: For the cream puff, fill it with whipped cream and sprinkle a little powdered sugar on top. For the eclairs fill them with ice cream or vanilla pudding and frost with chocolate frosting. Fruit Juice Crusu Bessie Martineau 1 large can of juice (pineapple, etc.) 1 pkg. Jello (lemon, etc.) Mix jello, adding one cup of hot juice in place of hot water. Now add to the rest of the fruit juice and place in refrigerator. When partly set, beat with beater and again return to the freezer to freeze. When ready to serve break in chunks and place in electric mixer, beat until right consistency. Pounp CAKE May Dyer 124% c. Sugar - % tsp. Mace 1 c. Butter or % c. Butter an 1 tsp. Salt "" ¢. Shortening 1 tsp. Vanilla 5 eggs 1 pkg. Seeded raisins added to flour 2 c. Cake flour mixture pinch of salt Cream sugar, a little at a time, into butter. Add eggs one at a time, beating well after each addition. Sift flour twice, add salt and mace, then add, a little at a time, to creamed mixture, Bake at 350° for 1 hour in loaf or angel food cake pan. Use lemon frosting made with fresh lemon juice. This icing may be prepared by adding powdered sugar and a lump of butter to fresh lemon juice, and beating the mixture until smooth. She American National Red Cross and Jes Field of Service O. C. Duckett Director, Public Information ¢éN this world where we must continually combat materialistic, godless, and selfish forces, it is not only our military strength but also our spiritual heritage of selfless devotion to meeting the needs of our troubled fellow man that is going to keep us from coming out second best in the fast, tough league in which we are playing." That was the declaration of General Alfred M. Gruenther, President of the American National Red Cross, as the organization prepared to launch its annual March campaign for members and funds. It is this spirit of selfless devotion and of neighborly helpfulness that motivates Red Cross volunteers, he pointed out. "In my two years in this post as President of the Red Cross, I have been tremendously impressed by the devoted service of our volunteers— 2,000,000 of them—who outnumber the Red Cross career staff 146 to one," General Gruenther stated. Although only a small part of what they do ever becomes known to the general public, the Red Cross volunteers' great contribution to human welfare has become proverbial and has instilled in the American consciousness the trust that the organization enjoys, he declared. "The strength of the Red Cross lies not solely in the fact that it is an instrument to bind up the wounds of the suffering," General Gruenther continued. "It is an avenue to better understanding between nations that has thus far never been closed." While there are sharp differences between nations in political and diplomatic matters, there are wide areas of co-operation among the Red Cross societies of the world in matters of human welfare, he pointed out. "With the support of the American people in renewing their membership in the American Red Cross this year, | am certain that we are going to be able to continue to make the contributions to human welfare that our spiritual heritage demands of us,' General Gruenther concluded. | Swilight Mabel Law Atkinson Sweet is the cool of meditation after My task's completed in the sun's warm glow. My silver hours hold music of young laughter; I joy to watch my children's children grow. Their love about me like an accolade, I walk to meet the night all unafraid. Page 178 Rachel Goes to Relief Society Elizabeth C. McCrimmon 6¢ 9 DON'T see how I can go to [| Relief Society meeting today!" fretted Rachel Johnson when she awoke that snowy morning in late winter. She thought of the two-and-a-half-mile drive to the meetinghouse and all the things she had to do at home. As the only woman on a large ranch southwest of Salt Lake City, she had too much work to do. So, in the morning, she would plan the day's program, seizing on the most pressing things, deciding what she could let go. A good housekeeper, she claimed, knew what to leave undone. Today, besides the regular chores of feeding poultry and washing the separator, she ought to mop the kitchen linoleum, make cabbage relish, bake bread, and iron, if any of the clothes thawed out enough to be ironed. Right now the frozen underwear flapped on the line like a row of hanging men. Besides, she ought to roast the chicken she had dressed the day before. On the other hand, the Relief Society needed her. 'The members of Vista Ward, on the salt flats, were mostly foreign-born women, German and Scandinavian. As an educated American woman, Rachel had been the unanimous choice for secretary. When she thought of her assistant, Anna Weiss, she realized it would be difficult for the Swiss woman to write the minutes in English. I guess I'd better go, she decided as she jumped out of bed and donned her clothes. The fire was already going in the kitchen range. Nice of Port to start it before he went out. 'The world looked cold and gray through the windows. After the breakfast dishes were washed, Rachel kneaded the dough into loaves and left them to tise while she stuffed the chicken. She made the dressing with stale bread crumbs, chopped onion, and celery, with a dash of summer savory and sage. The chicken and the bread would both be ready for the noontime dinner, which on the farm, was the main meal of the day. I'm glad I fixed the chicken. Farm folks get mighty sick of salt pork by the end of the winter, she thought, as she built up the fire and slipped the bread and chicken into the oven. The room was filled with fragrant odors when Port came in and washed up for his lunch. He tackled the hot bread and a drumstick with satisfaction, although his wife noticed he seemed preoccupied and worried. "What's the matter, dear?" she asked, as she filled his plate with dressing. "It's the fence. Unless I get it built across the ice while this cold weather lasts, we're done for." His wife knew he had to stand on the ice while he drove the stakes in. He couldn't do it after it thawed. The "lake" he referred to was a brackish pond into which the surrounding land drained. The couple had romantically named it "Lake Mirage," just as they called their farm "Oasis Ranch." Page 179 180 HE new place had an insatiable maw that swallowed up all their resources. They eventually hoped to get it on a paying basis. With winter wheat and alfalfa fields it was absolutely necessary to have a secure fence. Port had worked on it at odd times all the previous year. The part across the water he had left until it froze over so he could string the wire while he stood on the ice. Fencing in bad weather was hard work. Rachel's heart had ached over his bleeding hands when, during the winter, he had finally brought the fence up to the edge of the lake. "Why can't you finish it now?" she asked, looking at him. "Because I need more posts and two bales of wire." Rachel's heart sank. She knew they had no money for them. Port was adamant about borrowing. It was against his principles. He had seen too many farmers ruined by debt. What they couldn't pay for they simply did without. Although the Johnsons had never actually suffered, they had been hard put to at times to make ends meet. "You have to get these things now?" "Yes," he replied. The fence was an absolute necessity. They needed it to keep marauding cattle out and their own few head of stock in. To the young Johnsons, this green spot was the fulfillment of a dream. To make something grow on the desert gave them supreme satisfaction. Theirs was high ground and somewhat better than the surrounding country, as it had drained through centuries. This desert soil, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1959 which had lain idle so long, rich in minerals, was highly productive. Fruit, grain, vegetables raised on it were delicious in flavor, bright in color, plentiful in seed. They also discovered that the desert was not deserted. Its hungry denizens had moved in on their oasis. 'The couple had waged warfare against flies, mosquitocs, grasshoppers, field mice, badgers, porcupines, skunks, and coyotes — to say nothing of migrating sheepherds and neighbors' hungry and neglected dogs! "Can't you buy what you need on credit?" Rachel asked hopefully. "No." "Will you hitch up old Wing so I can go to Relief Society this afternoon?" she changed the subject. After clearing the table, Rachel hurried to her room to get ready to go to the meeting. Her eyes fell on a small plaque by her dressing table. It read "Prayer Changes Things." She said a prayer that her young husband would get what he needed. When she went out and climbed into the buggy, she discovered that Port had put hot bricks in the bottom to keep her feet warm. Despite the cold, she felt exhilarated as she flicked the whip over the flanks of the Indian pony. It's a beautiful country, she thought, as she surveyed the vast expanse of white snow in the center of the Salt Lake Valley. To the East loomed the blue-iced Wasatch range, to the west the Oquirrhs were dark and somber. They are like a ring of steel! She thought. Noticing tracks in circles in the snow, she surmised: 'That is where a dog has chased a rabbit. Wonder if he caught it? RACHEL GOES TO RELIEF SOCIETY "Come on, Baldy," she called to her own dog, a black and white shepherd-collie that raced by the side of the horse. Theirs was a little-used road, and her wheels made the first track of the day. She wondered where they would get the money for the fencing across the pond before the ice melted. ¢67'M so glad you've come," Sister Jensen greeted her when she arrived at the meetinghouse. "Isn't Anna here?" Rachel asked the president. "No. She's home with a cold." "Tm glad I made it. Quite a lot of women out, considering the weather and how far they have to come." It was cosy and warm inside. After the meeting, while the women were putting on their coats, Sister Nelson asked: "You wouldn't have any chicken feed to sell, would you, Sister Johnson?" "Why, we might," Rachel answered, startled. Port stored their grain in a makeshift granary, where he kept it for their own use. "We might have some to spare." They 181 had killed and cured the pigs holiday time. The culls had been weeded out from the poultry. Of course they had more than enough feed to last until the grass would be green again. "Td like Brother Johnson to bring me ten bushels of wheat. Here's the money." Sister Nelson handed it to her. "Td like five." "T could use three." % OK OK OK OK When Rachel arrived home, with rosy cheeks and sparkling eyes, her husband came to meet her. She couldn't wait to tell him as he unhitched the horse. "Guess what? I've got the money for the posts." She drew the roll of bills from her bag and held it out to him. "Thirty-three dollars. Count it." "Where did you get it?" "From the Relief Society women. Several want you to bring them some chicken feed. We can spare it, can't we?" "IT guess we can," he answered slowly. "Funny, I never thought of that!" — Song of a Sree Dorothy J]. Roberts Through the eyes' small wicket enter, 'Tall tree garbed in the robe of spring. Tell with the leaf-cut symbol and the swaying Stamens hung with a distant death; Speak in the kindest tongue of earth; Whisper the wakening wonder, birth. Murmur of the green shoot in the breath; The rhythm, known, of spent and yearn— Green voice singing in the choir of wood, Till the song be bird on bough and understood. She Second Mite Effie K. Driggs Northwestern States Mission Relief Society President H4YE you ever flown low over the tundra, with the Bering Sea on your left and reindeer herds below you, to make a visiting teachers' call? That thrilling experience came to Sisters Calysta Stratford and Sonoma Y. Toolson—two members of the Northwestern States Mission Relief Society Presidency — on a recent trip to Alaska.. It was a "first" for the mission, when, under the direction of the Mission President Douglas H. Driggs and Mission Relief Society President Sister Effie K. Driggs, it was decided to hold Relief Society conventions for the six branches in the Alaska District. Our new Forty-ninth State has in its confines some of the most faithful members of the Relief Society in all the Church. Though far away and few in number, this district of the mission has great spirit — the pioneer spirit which built this Church, and which will build that great new State. At the close of the last convention in Fairbanks, Sisters Stratford and Toolson were told that in Nome, Alaska, there are only two members of the Church — a man and wife — who keep their contact with the Church by way of the Sunday morning radio program, and as the program "sign-off" comes from the "Crossroads of the West," these two people have a Sunday School service and read the scriptures. COUNSELORS IN NORTHWESTERN STATES MISSION RELIEF SOCIETY VISIT IN ALASKA Counselors Calysta Stratford and Sonoma Y. Toolson in Juneau, Alaska Page 182 Can you imagine how hungry that sister was to talk to another sister of her own faith or to have the visiting teachers call? With adventure and dedication in their hearts, Sister Stratford and Sister Toolson boarded a plane for Nome to make a visiting teachers' call. Nome, the land of storied adventure, land of the mighty Yukon, a long way, yes, but when the plane landed, and they found this sister they were paid a thousand fold. 'They had never seen each other before, but strangers they were not, for they were all three Relief Society sisters. The "visit" lasted five hours, surely a long time for one "call," but as they waved farewell a prayer rose heavenward, "Father, reward her for her devotion." i Silhouette Mabel Jones Gabbott How shall I fashion this day—so new and near— One day cut from the fabric of my lifc? Will it have simple lines and grace, as clear As sun-brushed skies in spring? Will inner strife And clouded eyes distort the silhouctte, And blur all birdsong, fuse each fragile shade Of budding tree, and grass, and violet Into a futile dullness, somber-graycd? Or will the pattern of this day seek high And lilting contours unlike any other known, Surprising nuances of soul that I Knew not, like quaffs of apple-bloom, wind-blown? <ip~> <_- What Ys a House For? Leona F, Wintch WHEN Junior wants to play '"choo-choo" train with your chairs, and Mary wants to play house, do you send them over to Jane's to play? Are you spending your life cleaning, and children must be kept out of the house so that it will be "just so" for callers? A well-ordered home is essential to well-being. But children can learn the rules of the home game, and they will play fair. They will tidy up after playing, and put things back where they belong, if you teach them well. When the children grow to adolescence, they will be more likely to spend their leisure time at home with the family, if they are allowed to live in the house when they are small. THE SECOND MILE 183 Love Me Tomorrow Rosa Lee Lloyd [VIAN sped upstairs to read \) David's special delivery letter. "Dinner is almost ready, Viv," Julie called after her. Vivian didn't answer. Closing the bedroom door, she leaned back against it, breathlessly. David had promised not to write or telephone until she decided to marry him and go to the mountains of South America for the next five years, a big opportunity for a mining enginect. "Give me one week away from you, David," she had coaxed him, "and I will make up my mind. The studio will give me a vacation." "Tf you love me...." he had begun. "But I do love you, David. So much that I have to be fair with you. I want to be sure I am willing to give up my weekly singing spot on T'V to go with you." So she had come to Springville, her home town, to visit her schoolgirl chum, Julie Hansen, her husband Ken, and their three-year-old twins. But it had only plunged her deeper into doubt and confusion. Touching David's letter brought him close again; his honest eyes, his deep persuasive voice, like warm honey, his tallness and dark bushy hair, defying popular style. Vivian closed her eyes, holding the letter against her cheek. Was love enough? Would it compensate for the success she had slaved for and the satisfaction she knew each week on her nation-wide program? Sighing wistfully, she opened David's letter, Page 184 My darling: I know I promised to let you have your week undisturbed, but word came from Haskin that I must leave a week earlier than our original plans. I don't want to go without you, Sweetheart, but you must make up your mind by yourself. All I can say is that I love you and will do everything I can to make you happy. We will have to make arrangements for our temple marriage earlier than we had planned, if you say yes. Waiting for your answer, David A week earlier! The thought struck vividly across her heart. How could she let him go to that faraway place without her? Should she go with him? Life there was almost primitive, he had warned her. No beauty salons or restaurants, no Jaundries, only untrained native women to help with housework. "Oh, Vivy!" Julie called from the hall below. "Get a move on. Ken is starving." "T'm coming," she called back, as she put the letter carefully in her suitcase. She would answer it later when she could think clearly. She hadn't told Julie or Ken about David because she didn't want them to influence her decision. HE thump, thump of a ball bouncing against the wall in the next room meant that Sissy and Bud had gotten out of bed, although Julie had bathed and fed them an hour ago. The adorable little rascals, Vivian thought, indignantly. All Julie does is cook and clean and tend those children. No wonder she looks so tired by the time Ken comes home from his dental office. LOVE ME TOMORROW Marriage, she concluded, was a very demanding job. Her lips twisted as she hurried downstairs. Julie did everything to please Ken. Work, work, work every minute, washing, ironing, cooking, and tending romping, yelling children. Ken took it all for granted. Sliding into her chair, she looked across the dinner table at Julie. Her dark, curly hair was limp and she kept her hands folded which hid her chipped nail polish. She was so tired her eyes looked too big for her face. Vivian's heart reached out to her. Marriage had made a slave of Julie, and if she married David, she thought, fearfully, she would become a slave, too. "Would you like the wishbone?" Ken asked Vivian as he served the chicken. He flashed his white smile at her, and she noticed how boyish he looked with his fair hair in a short stubble. 'Don't tempt me, Ken," she pleaded. She must keep her twentyfour-inch waistline. Lifting her satiny blond head, she smiled at Ken. "Just give me some carrots. And if Julie doesn't mind, Pll have a slice of that lean beef in the refrigerator." "Why, of course, Viv," Julie answered. "I know you have to stay thin." Vivian hurried to the refrigerator, hoping she hadn't hurt Julie; but Ted Tolliver, her manager, wouldn't permit her to gain weight. "Remember your audience," he had warned her when she asked for a week off. "They love you just as you are. Don't let them down." Hurrying back to the table, she 185 promised herself she wouldn't let them down if she had to starve. Ken had served Julie. Vivian frowned at her heaped-up plate; two potatoes, thick slice of chicken, and a pool of gravy. Julie's figure was small, but she had gained weight lately. Julie ate the plateful of hot rolls besides. "Look, honey," Ken was saying to her. "How about this drumstick?" "T really shouldn't..." Julie hesitated. "I'm getting fat." "Not you!" he laughed. Vivian wet her lips. How could Ken possibly believe that Julie wasn't fat? He should have his eyes examined. "Say, Viv." He turned to her. "How would you like to see our colored slides after dinner? We have some good ones of Julie and the twins." "T'd love it," she agreed. "But first let's catch my TV show. I want to see whom they substitute in my spot." "Okay," he answered. "Tl do the dishes while you girls see that program. Julie needs to relax." Swallowing hard, Vivian bent her head. "Why, Ken!" Julie scolded. "You must see Viv's program, too! We'll let the dishes go." "Oh, sure!" His face reddened. "T didn't mean...." SIETING on the big sofa, Vivian watched Ken adjust the television set. "T love your program," Julie said, as the picture came on. Vivian listened tensely when the announcer explained that they were introducing a new star, Sara Lyn 186 Wallace, who would substitute for Vivian Burton. Ted Tolliver had promised they would not put a big name in her spot, but, after the first glimpse of Sara Lyn, Vivian wished they had! It would have been kinder if they had substituted a professional who wasn't trying to make her first big hit. Sara Lyn was seventeen; her eyes had a twinkle, and her voice was warm and vibrant. She was slim as wire, too, and twice as electric! The applause that followed at the end of the program, almost shattered Vivian. Even Ken, who would rather have seen the fights, was beaming admiration. Julie touched Vivian's hand. "She isn't as good as you are, Viv," she consoled. 'You are the very tops. I have always envied you so much. Just think of having a nation-wide audience that adores you!" Vivian shuddered. Didn't anyone realize it was harder to stay at the top than to get there? "How about those slides now?" Ken asked her. "Anytime," she said, forcing a smile. At least she wouldn't have to talk while Ken showed them. She could sink down in this nice, soft lounge and wallow in her misery. It's so cruel, Vivian thought. She had slaved to get that spot, and hadn't eaten enough to feel alive. And she had been foolish enough to give Ted a chance to put someone in her place. Now she would have to win her audience all over again. Absorbed in her own troubles, Vivian hardly noticed the white screen Ken had put up, but she RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE-—-MARCH 1959 roused herself when he began to speak. "This is Julie in our garden," he was saying, and his voice had tenderness in it, and pride. "Notice how dark her hair looks against those red roses. I always say I have the prettiest wife in the world, Viv." Vivian couldn't answer. That picture of Julie wasn't flattering. Her. Hair was blowsy and needed a good brushing. During the next hour she looked at slides of Julie and the children taken in the mountains, in the parks, beside the car, on the highway, and in every room in the house. Ken's voice was a continual chant of praise and love. Vivian's eyes moved to Julie curled up in a big comfortable chair. Sissy and Bud had crept downstairs and were crowded in beside her. Julie didn't look tired anymore. Her eyes were star-drenched with happiness. She radiated beauty, and in spite of her straggly hair and extra weight, there was a little aura of enchantment about her that all women have who are very sure that they are truly loved. EN turned around, smiling at Julie. He was showing a picture of her hanging up Sissy's and Bud's little shirts on the clothesline in the back yard. She looked ready to drop with fatigue. "Remember that day, honey?" he asked. "I brought Steve Benson home for lunch unexpectedly. When I saw you out there I ran for the camera, yelling at you not to frown. Have you really forgiven me?" Julie smiled up at him. Their eyes caught and held in a long, LOVE ME TOMORROW understanding moment. Vivian watched them, fascinated. Julie's eyes were saying: Of course I forgive you, darling. No work is too hard so long as you appreciate me. And Ken's eyes answered: Thanks, Julie, for being my wife. Thanks for the babies and the washday and the million things you do for us. A wonderful new magic stirred in Vivian's heart. She had just seen the meaning of marriage poised on a pinpoint of time. She could hardly breathe for the hot lump in her throat. Julie had said she envied her; Julie thought it would be wonderful to have a television audience adore you. Julie didn't realize the audience didn't remember the 187 hours you had slaved and the things you had sacrificed to hold them. A strangely quiet Vivian watched Ken carefully roll up the screen and put it away. Julie has an audience all her own, Vivian thought, wistfully; an audience that still applauds even though she has gained a little weight and doesn't have her hair just perfect. An audience that will love and appreciate her more and more while time changes her outward appearance. Vivian took a long, quivering breath as she got to her feet and hurried to the telephone to call David. After all, life in a mining town couldn't be too hard when you had the gospel and a husband who truly loved you. It might even be wonderful! —_ Wind ow Lil tes Evelyn Fjeldsted Summoned by the valley latk And compassed by spring shafts of light, A brown bulb, waking in the dark, Sent new leaves to reach the window site. And window lily gifts appeared, Secret parcels numbering four, Half-blown waxen blooms that cleared A mystery of flower lore. Morning came like candle giow And lilies wearing claret dress, Threw back their calyx wraps to show Silent, regal queenliness. -Hal Rumel ARRANGEMENT BY FLORENCE WILLIAMS She Angel Sree (For a Baby Announcement Party) Helen Spencer Williams HAT could be sweeter for a child's room or a baby announcement party than this little angel tree? This tree is a rustic branch of scrub oak. Most any kind of tree with tiny branches will do, and Florence Williams broke hers from a tree out in her garden, then she sprayed it with white, quick-drying enamel, and while the paint was Page 188 drying she found a flower pot and filled it with plaster of Paris then placed the tree in it while the plaster was still moist. Then the tree was all ready for its branches to hold baskets, baby dolls, and little angels. She had shopped at the five and dime stores for baby dolls about two and a half inches long and tiny baskets with handles. Next she THE ANGEL TREE went to a display store for angel hair and for the smallest of small flower lights with white wire to light the tree. The little baskets were sprayed with gold, and when thoroughly dry, she lined them with the downlike angel hair. Then she nestled a baby doll in each basket and hung it on the tree. Over each one she placed an angel doll with arms outspread as if to protect and guard the babe sleeping so innocently in the golden basket cradle bencath. The tree is lighted with little white lily globes which give a soft 189 white glow and illuminate the golden baskets. The angel trees stands in a bed of angel hair which catches the highlights from the tree and flower globes, giving an ethereal fecling as if the tree, babes, and angels were resting on a heavenly cloud. The angel tree, whether it is on a table, mantle, or in a child's room brings forth an irresistible "oh" and "ah" from young and old alike, for there is nothing sweeter in the whole world than a little babe asleep in a golden cradle with a guardian angel hovering neat. G randma s Crazy Quilt Elizabeth MacDougall The crazy-quilt on Grandma's bed Is eloquent With memories of other years. Each piece, a record carved with shears, Recalls some well-loved home event Or incident. These patches, framed in catch-stitched thread, With finished art, Present mementoes, gay and stern, Re-echoing days of no return, Etched in nostalgic counterpart Upon my heart. Hold &verything! Sylvia Pezoldt A package of plastic clothespins can be a "silent servant" around the house. Buy them in assorted colors, assign a color to each member of the family, and the novelty as well as convenience will pay off. Thus Johnny's overshoes can be clamped together with a red clothespin; a blue one will hold Susie's gloves in pairs; father's mail is secure in a green clip; and mother can have her grocery list handy in bright yellow jaws. Johnny can tell which are his handkerchiefs and which belong to his father, by clips attached. Susie knows the stationery she can use will be marked with a blue pin, even in the drawer with mother's best. Since most of the plastic pins have a hole in the long side, one can be hung to hold a recipe handy for following. Another in the hall or near the coat closet can carry reminders or letters to be mailed. Paper dolls will be firm and unwrinkled if they rest in a clothespin clasp between sessions of play. In fact, there is no limit to the possibilities of these sparkling helpers. You Can Sew— XIII — Selection of Childrens Clothes Jean R. Jennings EWING for children of all ages is, no doubt, one of the most important phases of the home-sewing program. Fortunate, indeed, are children whose mothers sew with skill and a flair for fashion rightness. Too much emphasis cannot be placed on the importance of fashion in children's clothing. Even though there are always stable styles, such as pinafores, smocked dresses, the standard frocks with full skirts and tight-fitting bodices, there are new innovations in styles and materials which are noteworthy. Children can and should be as aware of good taste and good grooming as their elders. Early training along this line can save much unhappiness and personal difficulty in later years. 'Ihe very young respond to what they are wearing, and this does not change as they grow older. Many behavior problems stem from dull, drab, unbecoming, or uncomfortable clothing. The selection of fabrics appropriate for children's clothes and colors that are becoming should always be a vital phase of sewing for children. Clothes can be chosen with a view to suiting the child's personality. His physical characteristics of coloring and type must be taken into consideration, as well as his habits of action. The dainty, demure little girl will no doubt look her best in clothing different from that worn by a sturdy, active type. The influence of a mother's good taste and guidance can be of value to boys and girls all their lives. Page 190 Clothes for children can be made just as attractive, just as becoming, as the ready-made ones. Mothers, in their sewing, must pay attention to important little details to achieve this. 'Too often they are impelled by economy to buy cheap fabrics, instead of buying the best available, appropriate fabric. If these nicer materials are styled with an eye to becomingness, fit, and fashion, they could no doubt duplicate, at a fraction of the cost, the attractive garments shown in the most exclusive shops. Top designers of children's clothes never skimp on skirt fullness. 'They use two full widths for the perky look. They make deep hems — the deeper the better. They make collars appropriately narrow and, if tiny pockets and tinier puffed sleeves are needed for a chic appearance, that is the way the dresses are made. 'They size clothes to fit when new, not for children to grow into. 'Too many mothers make or buy clothes that never look their best because they are old and shabby before they fit. (Let-out possibilities will be treated in a later lesson.) Designers say that mothers too often lose the style of their children's clothes in their desire to be practical. There should be no compromise with becomingness at any age. A grain of practicality is fine, if all style is not sacrificed for it. HE actual savings accomplished by a mother who sews can be of great importance in any aa More clothes are possible and, addition to this, clothes can be made individually becoming. A clever seamstress can learn to "fit out" physical defects in her children and compensate for "the awkward age" when they are growing up and nothing seems to fit. Chest and waist measurements are important in cutting clothes to fit children. Rarely are individuals of the same age exactly the same size. Alter the size of pattern picces to fit the child's own measurements. 'This is done in accordance with pattern instructions. Make sure that shoulders are not too wide. Scarcely anything is as annoying and conducive to bad temper as a shoulder seam that drops down and catches the arm every time it is raised. It is equally bad in appearance. Waistlines look better on girls, as well as boys, if they are properly located — not too high and certainly not too low. The length of a little girl's skirt is every bit as important to her smart appearance as is her mother's. There are certain fabrics that are always favored for children. There will be new designs and new colors from season to season, but, in the main, smooth surfaces that are easy to iron and avoid picking up lint and dirt are preferable to novelty weaves. Sunfast colors are essential in children's clothes, and fabrics should be firm enough to hold buttons and buttonholes or hammer-on snaps. At a time when the choice of fabrics is almost limitless, it seems that the wise mother should choose for her children the ones that are easy to care for. Any child will be happier in clothes he doesn't have to worry about spoiling. All budgets will be happier without big cleaning bills. So why not dress the children exclusively in clothes that can be laundered easily? You will find in this class plenty of sturdy types, as well as those that are dainty and very dressy in appearance. Start today to make the careful selection of style, color, and fabric the first important step in a successful family sewing venture. She Value of a Smile Myrtle S. Hyde M small son, only two and a half years old, looked up at me and said, "Smile, Mommy." His request startled me, but I smiled. I thought about his words for quite awhile, and realized that I was often too intent upon getting the work done, the little, dirty hands washed, or the shoes tied to smile at my child. I have tried to smile more often, and it works wonders. We have more happy moments, and the distance of years between us is made oblivious because, as we smile at one another, I am not mother and he child; we are just two people who are happy together. YOU CAN SEW—XIII—SELECTION OF CHILDREN'S CLOTHES 191 Lily & A. Miner Makes Satin Quilts for Her Grandchildren ILY E. A. Miner, Salt Lake City, Utah, at the age of seventy-eight, has thirty-three grandchildren and six great-grandchildren. Nearly all of them have been given a satin crib quilt, beautifully designed and stitched with meticulous care. Mrs. Miner has made hundreds of doilies, centerpieces, tablecloths, and many other pieces of fancywork. She loves to work on quilts at Relief Society work meetings. In fact, Mrs. Miner and Relief Society have been inseparable for many years. She has been a Relief Society visiting teacher for more than forty-five vears and has continuously made a one hundred per cent record, except for one year when she spent part of the time in California. She was born in Fairview, Sanpete County, and still loves that beautiful valley with its borders of high mountains and its wide green meadows. She is still busy crocheting and making quilts. Last spring she made a "Signature" quilt, embroidering the name of her husband, her own name, and the names of their nine children, each on a separate block, with quilted blocks alternating. She is now making a red, white, and blue, star quilt. Si a ith Iris W. Schow Faith is the crocus at the snowdrift's edge; The unfelt hand laid on the heart that grieves; The gleam of light beyond the blackest dark; The stanch white rose among the cypress leaves. Page 192 The Silver Leash CHAPTER 3 Beatrice Rordame Parsons Synopsis: LaRue Harding, an orphan, who has lived since childhood in California with an aunt, goes to Fivelakes, Arizona, after the death of her sister Amelia. LaRue finds that her brotherin-law Herbert Vetterly is confined to a wheel chair and his children seem to be alienated from him, and hostile towards LaRue. She tries to make friends with the children, and Connie shows her the town, including the Jonas Harding Hospital, where she meets Dr. Alan Rutherford and his fiancee Gladys Drew. Few mornings later, LaRue awoke to find shadows moving against the outside of the Venetian blinds. She thought fearfully of Gila monsters and small green lizards, then was ashamed of her vivid imagination as she realized that the shadows were nothing more than the branches of trees stirring sleepily in the desert wind. But she was sure that something had awakened her. An _ unaccustomed sound. She listened tensely. There it was again, a timid rap at the panel of her door. She found her voice to call, shakily: "Who is it?" Connie's brown, tousled head appeared in the open door. She wore a blue robe, blue scuffs, and she smiled when she saw LaRue. She asked, plaintively: "Aunt LaRue, Erma won't talk to me. Mommy always talked to me when I woke so early in the morning. Can I talk to you?" LaRue glanced at the clock. It was a little after five, but the dawn was already pink in the sky outside the blinds. She found something pathetic in Connie's words, and made a place beside her. "Tl be glad to talk, darling." Connie crept up on the bed and arranged her blue robe closely about her. Her eyes caught the amber, cut-glass bottle on the empty dressing table, and she wrinkled her brows. "It's very pretty, Aunt LaRue. It looks very old. Why did you bring it with you?" "Because," said LaRue with a smile, "I've had it a long time. Since I was about your age. Your mother gave it to me when she went away from San Francisco. I've kept it as a symbol...." "Symbol?" Connie didn't know the word. LaRue explained: "A symbol is something... A dream, _ perhaps...." Was Amelia really only a dream? "It's something we want...." She was conscious of how much she wanted Amelia's love. She hurried on: "A symbol is something or someone we love very much. We all have symbols, Connie." Connie shook her head sadly. "Daddy doesn't. Not since Mommy died." The child's words cut into LaRue's heart. She drew her closer and nestled Connie's brown head against her cheek. Her words came tenderly. "Your Daddy has three symbols, darling. Irma, Joel, and you!" Connie laughed, and her eyes sparkled for a moment. "Funny Page 193 194 symbols!" Then the sparkle fled and she said: "Daddy has forgotten us, Aunt LaRue." LaRue tried to deny it. "He hasn't forgotten you. It's just that he....". How could she tell Connie that her father was like a hurt, wounded creature hiding from life? Connie said softly: "Aunt LaRue, does God hear our prayers?" LaRue could assure the child of that. "He always hears them, Connie, if we have faith. He always gives us what is best for us." The child's face was pinched, doubtful. Her voice was tremulous. "But I've prayed and prayed that Daddy would listen to Dr. Alan. That he would have an operation. But Daddy is... Scared!'"" Connie was scared, too, LaRue knew. She also knew that Herb would be taking a chance. It seemed pointless to raise Connie's hopes by promising that her father would soon get well. LaRue felt that they should change the conversation. She hit upon an idea. Sf ET'S you and I surprise Mrs. Johnstone and get breakfast ready this morning." "Oh, let's," cried Connie, clapping her hands, sunshine breaking out in her small face. She rushed to her bedroom to get dressed, and joined LaRue in the kitchen. Sun-ladders climbed the pretty wallpaper in Amelia's neat kitchen as the light came through the snowy curtains. LaRue found a blue tablecloth, and Connie set yellowsprigged dishes at each place in the breakfast nook. Erma came in, her eyes wide with astonishment to find LaRue at the stove. She gave her aunt a brief, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1959 "Good morning," and sat down at the table. Joel came in. His brown crewcut was still damp from his morning shower. He, too, was surprised to see LaRue turning eggs in the frying pan. But he just grunted his "Hi," and took his place. Herb rolled his rubber-tired chair to the table and asked for the bless-. Ing. Connie bent her head until her long braids fell over her shoulders and said the words. As soon as she was finished, she cried happily: "Aunt LaRue cooked French toast. She always cooks it when she's in San Francisco." Firma and Joel ate in silence. Herb said: "It's very good." But he ate very little. LaRue thought painfully: They are all so quiet. As though they were strangers. Breakfast, she told herself, should be a family time. The time when a family, rested, calm, meets for the first time in the day fecling happy, for family prayers. But there was no more prayer— except, perhaps, the ones which each uttered in silence. Erma and Joel lost no opportunity to be sharp with each other and Connie. Connie chatted continually, filled with gossip which she had overheard. She had been too much with older people since her mother died. She was whispering to her aunt in a tone that carried around the silent table. "Aunt LaRue, did you know that Gladys Drew was engaged to Earl Meeghan before Dr. Alan?" She looked proud of her knowledge. "I heard one of the neighbors telling Janice's mother that Gladys and Earl had had a fight. He rushed out of town because he's a salesman. Then Gladys got herself engaged to THE SILVER LEASH Dr. Alan out of spite. But Earl's coming home for the Festival. 'Then maybe Gladys will change her mind and..." Her father's tone was loud, imperative. "Connie, that's only gossip. I wish you wouldn't evesdrop on the neighbors' conversations. Besides, your aunt isn't interested In... "She is so!" Said Connie insistently. "She's asked a lot of questions about Dr. Alan." ARUE flushed, confessed: "I did ask questions. About the hospital...." Her voice failed. She had asked other things. "Please don't blame Connie. Perhaps I've encouraged her to gossip...." "Nobody needs to encourage her," snapped Erma crossly. "She tells everything she knows." "T like to tell," said Connie shamelessly. 'People are interested when I talk." Her smile was triumphant. "I know you went out with Bob Powers last evening. I saw his car waiting around the corner. He didn't come in." "T didn't ask him," said Erma angrily. Connie turned to LaRue, said conversationally: "I think they probably went to the drugstore for a soda. Bob goes to the U, and he doesn't have much money. He can't afford...." "Father!?' For the first time Erma appealed to Herb. "Does that awful child have to tell everything? It's nobody's business...." "It's my business," said her father, levelly. "I wish you'd bring Bob in. I'd like to get acquainted." He turned to Connie, said with author- 195 ity: "Connie, after this, don't tattle on your sister. She can explain." Connie, close to angry tears, said raggedly: "But you haven't asked Joel to explain about those things that got stole from the used car lot. The police were asking questions. I heard Mrs. Johnstone talking about it to one of the neighbors, and...." "What is this, Joel?" His father's voice was explosive. "I've heard nothing of it!" There was a stubborn line to Joel's chin. "It wasn't I!" He grew belligerent. "Connie doesn't have to tattle. What if some kids did take some things? I can't blame them. They need things. They don't have much money...." "Joel," his father's tone was thunderous, "you're losing your sense of value. You know it's wrong to steal." "T said it wasn't I," muttered Joel. "I want you to stay away from those boys," said his father angrily. Joel sulked. "A fellow's got to have a pal, hasn't he?" LaRue saw by Joel's face that he was remembering that his father had not been his pal for a long time. Silence stretched about the table. The children sat there, hurt, angry, without looking at each other. Herb's face was pale and strained as he excused himself and wheeled his chair into his bedroom. Erma folded her napkin and left the table. Joel tossed his at the side of his plate and left the house. Only Connie remained, anger going slowly out of her face. As LaRue cleared the dishes, Connie tagged at her aunt's heels, spreading gossip like jam on bread. LaRue spoke sharply: "Connie, you've been too much with older 196 people. Don't you have anyone to play with?" Connie's face was suddenly still. "Of course. 'There's Janice and Ethyl, lots of other girls. But I like to be with you." LaRue's heart was touched, but she said: "Connie, your father doesn't like you to gossip. It's a very bad habit to get into. After this, please go out and play with the other girls.' She saw that Connie was hurt, and said quickly: "Try to understand, darling. It's only that "You don't love me," said Connie harshly. "You don't love any of us, Aunt LaRue. You just want to go home and leave us all alone." She began crying passionately: "I wish my Mommy was here!" ARUE knew she'd been clumsy in her attempt to correct the child. She hadn't meant to hurt her. She tried to take her into her arms. But Connie was too hurt. She pushed her aunt away and ran outside. LaRue went calling her but she had disappeared. "T haven't earned the right to correct her,' she told herself. Connie thinks I don't love her. I do! I do! I'm beginning to love them all. Especially Connie. The child seems closer than the others. I'll find her. Tell her. She walked about the garden, but Connie was not there. 'The great, weird, stone-carved mountains frowned upon her. The brilliance of sun-flecked distances hurt her eyes. The beautiful scarlet blossoms of the cacti in Amelia's garden beckoned fragrantly, yet repelled her with sharp spears. She longed for Connie's elfin face to appear among RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1959 the fronds of the tamarisk. She remembered how close they had been that morning, sharing confidences. But Connie had flown away, just as the huge orange-brown butterfly which had sipped honey from the flowers had flown away from the garden. LaRue was alone, lonely. She went into the silent house. Herb, as. Usual, was shut away behind closed doors. If Erma was inside, she made no sound. In her loneliness LaRue longed for Aunt Mettie, for Amelia! She thought of how Amelia had loved her children. Had loved her husband. Though there was not a speck of dust under Mrs. Johnstone's meticulous housekeeping, memory spread over everything in the room thicker than any dust. How happy Amelia must have been selecting the neat, pretty things for her home. How shining in her desire to make and keep things fine, beautiful for her family! LaRue thought: Amelia was always so sure! They had been different — these two sisters. LaRue was timid, shy, afraid of things. Perhaps a little selfish. But Amelia had been so sure] The truths which the sisters had been taught since childhood had meant so much to Amelia. She had never doubted. She had given her sister a tiny symbol of her love in an amber bottle. She had given her husband the symbol of her love in their three children. Amelia's steadiness had helped Herb in his guidance of the children when they were little, but he had lost Amelia's steady love. La THE SILVER LEASH Rue had seen his confusion in trying to make his son see that it was wrong to steal. He had let himself grow angry, as he would never have grown angry before Joel's mother! Herb needed Amelia's wisdom, now. He must not let his children drift. Erma and Joel were at a dangerous point in their lives. The three of them— Erma, Joel, and Connie—needed their father's confidence in them. They needed their mother's love 197 —her closeness—now more than ever before. Her love is here! Thought LaRue, touching one of her sister's small possessions with trembling hands. "Amelia is gone. But she left her love." LaRue's heart swelled with happiness. Suddenly she knew why she had come to Fivelakes. She had come to help Herb and his children find Amelia's love.... (To be continued ) <_< She Urge of Spring Etta S. Robbins Two neighbors stand across the street, Eyes searching, hands on hips, As they explore the ruffled sod In search of verdant tips Of early crocus, blades of grass Peeping through damp mold. They watch with breathless interest The signs of spring unfold.... Their dishes in the sink can wait, Be later washed and dried.... The urge of spring is everywhere Why should they stay inside? A Nlother's Prayer Verla R. Hull D** God, I pray—not for myself alone—but for the children thou hast given me as a precious charge! Help me to infuse into my family the faith to combat each failure, the pure intelligence to overcome temptation's lure, the love that will light their way to real joy and fulfillment. Encircle, O Lord, my children with thy protecting cloak, keeping them strong in body and mind. And gird well my tempestuous teenagers with the armor of virtue, that they may guard the sacred fountains of life from which generations will spring. Help them, too, to help keep America free, to accept the obligations of freedom along with its blessings, to realize thy transcendent mercy on behalf of America. Help my children to remember, as they satiate themselves in the fruitage of our verdant land, that "love thy neighbor as thyself," is the great commandment, second only to love for thee. \\_FROM_ THE FIELD |? Hulda Parker, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Relief Society Handbook of Instructions. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Zina R. Engebretsen NORWEGIAN MISSION RELIEF SOCIETY, OSLO AND SKARPSNO BRANCHES HONOR FORMER PRESIDENTS AND VISITING TEACHERS AT OPENING SOCIAL, September 30, 1958 Seated, left to right: Jenny Friis; Mina Mork; Anna Marie Adner; Maren Selan; Getta Wennemo. Standing, left to right: Dagmar Porsboll; Zina R. Engebretsen, President, Norwegian Mission Relief Society; Martha Johannesen; Marit Arnesen; Magna Staavi, Aagot Larsen; Anna Walfjord; Rosa Arveseter; Synnove Johansen, President, Skarpsno Branch Relief Society; Laura Gaarder. Absent when the picture was taken were Inger Johnsen, President, Oslo Branch Relief Society; and Aase Gaarder. Sister Engebretsen reports: "The Oslo and Skarpsno Branches of the Nerwegian Mission, both located in the city of Oslo, combined for an opening social, and specially honored were the visiting teachers who had served for thirty years or more, and also the living former presidents. Out of six living former presidents, there were five present at the social. A luncheon was served." Page 198 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 199 Photograph submitted by Ida A. Gallagher MURRAY STAKE (UTAH), MURRAY EIGHTH WARD VISITING TEACHERS RETAIN HIGH RECORD FOR ATTENDANCE AT VISITING TEACHER MEETINGS Officers presiding during this time, front row, seated, beginning third from left: President Irma Y. Fairbanks; Second Counselor Pearl S. Ohlwiler; Secretary Clara K. Farnsworth. First Counselor Olive Harding was not present when the picture was taken. Ida A. Gallagher, President, Murray Stake Relief Society, reports: 'For four years the visiting teachers of the Murray Eighth Ward have maintained the highest percentage of attendance at visiting teacher meetings in Murray Stake." Photograph submitted by Cora S. Jenkins BONNEVILLE STAKE (SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL CONFERENCE October 8, 1958 Shirley Swenson, chorister, stands at the right of the 'podium in front; Elder Alexander Schreiner, Tabernacle organist, stands at the left of the console. Cora S. Jenkins, President, Bonneville Stake Relief Society, stands sixth from the right in the front row. Gladys Seely, Relief Society stake organist, stands ninth from the right on the third row. Sister Jenkins reports: "The opportunity for our Singing Mothers to sing in the Relief Society General Conference this year was such a special one that we had a picture taken." 200 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1959 oe 3 Photograph submitted by Lucy G. Gran NETHERLANDS MISSION, UTRECHT DISTRICT RELIEF SOCIETY OUTING Lucy G. Sperry, President, Netherlands Mission Relief Society, reports a pleasant summer outing and social: "The sisters in Holland look forward to summer outings more than most people. Perhaps it is because they don't have too many warm, sunshiny days. It is the practice of the Relicf Societies to have an outing in most every district during the summer months. This summer (1958) the Utrecht sisters got together for their holiday. They made it a full day from nine a. M. Until nine p. M. They traveled by bus with lots of singing and snacks along the way. As the cities are close together in this country, they visited several of them... Zandvoort on the North Sea being one of them. After a visit to one of the famous old Saint Bavo (Dutch Reformed Churches), they ate dinner at a lovely restaurant in Haarlem. Everyone had a lovely day. The sun was shining brightly for the occasion. We have found that these summer outings tend to bring these sisters closer together, and they are looking forward from one summer to the next. "Sister Alberdina van den Hazel, first row, second from the right, the district supervisor of Utrecht, had charge of this outing." Photograph submitted by Hilda Goucher SANTA MONICA STAKE (CALIFORNIA) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT ANNUAL CONCERT, JUNE 13, 1958 Standing, in front, at the left: Lola Brimley, conductor; Nan Rains, organist; Odette Coulam, assistant organist. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 201 Hilda Goucher, President, Santa Monica Stake Relief Society, reports: '"This concert, as usual, was an outstanding affair. Vhe chorus has brought a great cultural entertainment to the members of Santa Monica Stake as well as to many people who, as yet, are not members of the Church. Nine of the twelve members of our Relief Society Stake Board, including the entire presidency, participate in the chorus. On our programs this year was printed a tribute to the Singing Mothers composed by our dear Ruth May Fox, who recently passed away. 'This poem was brought to us by her granddaughter Blanche Clayton, who is second counselor in the stake Relief Society presidency. Our Singing Mothers have given us outstanding service in our union meetings, conventions, and all programs and activities. I can't think of words to show my gratitude adequately for them and their splendid conductor and accompanist." Photograph submitted by Ruby M. Nielsen LEHI STAKE (UTAH), LEHI SEVENTH WARD RELIEF SOCIETY SUMMER SEWING CLASS Seated at the sewing machines at the left, in front: Tessa Allred and Joyce Karren; and at the far right, in front: Second Counselor Ila Pulley. Back row, standing, left to nght: Hilda Bushman; First Counselor, Virginia Smith; Secretary-Treasurer, Phyllis Covington; President Sarah B. Price; work meeting leader Evelyn Yates; seated at the sewing machine, Geneva Bourne; Ann Bernall; Effie Gibbons. Not present when the picture was taken: Eleanor Lund, Norma Powell, and Vesta Jacob. Ruby M. Nielsen, President, Lehi Stake Relief Society, reports: "This picture was taken at one of the sewing classes held during the summer months by the Seventh Ward Relief Society of Lehi Stake. The classes began with the June work meeting and continued weekly until the finale, or fashion show held in September. Many hours of patient instruction were given these beginning sewers. Six teenagers joined the class and did sewing for themselves. At the fashion show the sisters modeled the dresses they had made at the sewing class. A total of twenty-eight articles, including men's and children's clothing, were completed. We are very proud of the work these sisters have done. They not only taught Relief Society members to sew, but aided others to learn to sew for themselves. It is felt that the classes were so successful that continued instruction will be given at each monthly work meeting. Even the 'experts' felt that they could learn, as they exchanged ideas and shortcuts at these classes. We are attempting to follow the instructions of the General Board and put more stress on sewing and learning to sew at our work meetings." 202 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1959 Photograph submitted by Grace Utley MURRAY SOUTH STAKE (UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR VISITING TEACHERS CONVENTION, May 16, 1958 First row, beginning ninth from the left, left to right: Melda Hale, chorister; Venice Black, Second Counselor, Murray South Stake Relief Society; Cora Lee Richardson, organist. Top row, standing, beginning tenth from the left, left to right: Hulda Parker, General Secretary-Treasurer of Relief Society; Grace Utley, President, Murray South Stake Relief Society; Helena Evans, First Counselor; Hennie Heutter, Secretary-Treasurer, Murray South Stake Relief Society. Sister Utley reports: "This lovely group of Singing Mothers presented the music for the Murray South Stake Visiting Teachers Convention, May 16, 1958. This was the first visiting teachers convention for this new stake. This chorus has also presented music for other stake functions, including stake quarterly conference. Sisters from cach of the wards, in turn, present the music at the monthly union meetings." Photograph submitted by Hortense Robinson FINNISH MISSION, HELSINKI DISTRICT RELIEF SOCIETY SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR MISSION RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE, November ist and 2d, 1958 The chorister, Ulla Kerttula, stands in the front row at the right; Hortense B. Robinson, President, Finnish Mission Relief Society, and accompanist for the chorus, stands at the left. Sister Robinson reports: "Sessions of the conference were held Saturday and Sun- day. 'The Saturday sessions featured talks by the Relief Society board members, the mission president, as well as by the branch Relief Society presidents. On Saturday afternoon special attention was given to work meeting activities. Representatives from each of the seventeen branches were present. Seventy sisters attended the leadership meetings on Saturday. Sunday featured a testimony meeting and the Helsinki District Relief Society Conference conducted by Lea Minni, President." Hortense B. Robinson was released as president of the Finnish Mission Relief Society shortly after the above picture was taken. The newly appointed president is Ruby E. Warner. Boy With a Book Christie Lund Coles We saw him sitting on the country porch, Alone and still, a book between his hands, Oblivious to us, the twilight's torch Against the western sky; the nearby stands Where fruit was sold, and people paused—as we— To touch and purchase. For a moment, only, I looked upon him, in his jeans, to see If he apart there from us, could be lonely. Then, suddenly, I knew it was not true, For all the magic and the priceless joy Of books that I had read, returned. I knew They were incarnate now within this boy. Oh, to be as young as he was thcre and then, And for the first time, read each book again. —~>- Shey Sell Ne Your Name Was Clarissa Elsie McKinnon Strachan I knew you not at all, and yct I know Your parlor was serene as shining silver, Your bedroom curtains caught the wild-rose winds, Like petals in a jar, for you to savor. I knew you not at all, whose steps are gone From these loved rooms, and yet it pleasures Me to keep them lovely as you would, Your little chairs, your faded books, your treasures. In this clean kitchen where your man brought home The taste of summer clover in his kiss, I breathe the scent of bread, fresh-baked and warm, And hear imagined words of yours and his; And always at your hearth—which now is ours, Contentment, born of love, still grows and flowers. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 203 MUSIC RECOMMENDED FOR RELIEF SOCIETY CHORUSES _. HOW LOVELY ARE THY DWELLINGS — Liddle.................... 25 _— I SHALL NOT PASS AGAIN THIS WAY — Effinger...................20 acme LORD'S PRAYER (Two Parts)— Malotte.......0.....-..0: cecceecceeeeeeeeeeeeeees 25 a LORD'S PRAYER (Three Parts)— Malotte 2.0... Ceeeccecce cece ceceeeeee -25 os LORD'S PRAYER — Gates.............20 — MY REDEEMER LIVES — Gates.....20 i MY SOUL IS ATHIRST FOR GOD — Madsen..................---...2...- -20 = O LORD MOST HOLY — Franck.....16. O LOVELY LAND, AMERICA— Christensen-Madsen.................-...-.20 — PEACE | LEAVE WITH YOU— Roberts............. Een -eeneece cease ceeeeeeeceees 16 seeeee TWENTY-THIRD PSALM—Schubert...25 ee UNTO THEE! LIFT MINE EYES — Beethoven.........................22 Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 15 E. Ist South Salt Lake City 11, Utah ' { \ \ | Please send the music indicated above.! Cl On Approval 0 Charge | OJ Money Enclosed 1 1 I ' \ ame ddress ity & State O>r> Z 145 NORTH UNIVERSITY, PROVO?! Salt Lake City 11, Utah Page 204 Security Vernessa M. Nagle TRANGE that tonight my thoughts should drift to evening sounds that were so much a part of my childhood's country home. I seem to hear Mother's sweet soprano as she kept time to the swish, swish of the churn dasher as it made the innumerable revolutions that promised golden, sweetflavored butter. I listen again to Father's loud vocalizing, "We Thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet," vibrant and clear, as he threw the final forkful of hay to the horses stabled for the night. Somewhat modified by time are the remembrances of raucous sounds of our kitchen during long winter evenings when "harness fixing" time rolled around; but the image remains focused sharply, as Father lugged into the house the heavy hames and tugs after the chores were all done to deposit on Mother's immaculate kitchen floor. The weather always had something to do with the event. Most generally the wind howled without, and the window panes shook protestingly with the impact of drifting snow. With harness oil placed at a convenient angle near the heap of leather gear, a piece of steel rail serving as the anvil, and the gleam of the copper rivets in the soft lamplight, the evening's excitement began. The precision of each hammer stroke always amazed me as Father made rivet fastenings secure. Mother generally found this event an occasion to pop corn on the shining expanses of our kitchen range. SECURITY It could have been that the little task took her mind from the formidable pile centering her kitchen floor. On such nights she was also prone to tantalize us with odors of honey taffy that for interminable lengths failed to reach the "thread" or "crack" stage. Another of Mother's little household tasks which intrigued us was her evening preparation of baked apples for next morning's breakfast. 'The dabs of butter, spices, sugar, and pattings that went into the operation! "Now they'll just need warming up in the morning." Mother would smile with deep satisfaction. And the teakettle agreed, as it sang homey songs. At length the repairing operations of the evening were completed, the harness heap moved to the porch, and tiny shavings of leather swept neatly into the coal shovel. 'Then, at length, the time had arrived. Father would read stories to us. Oh! The book friends of my youth! Even today I long to take time out for a brief reunion with the Little Shepherd of Kingdom Come, remembering so vividly young Chad as my father introduced him to me. Occasionally Mother added a bit of explanatory narrative to the tales Father read as she looked up from her mending. Her "asides" were not the kind that required mental punctuating, for they were strikingly restrictive. But all too soon she intruded into our realm of romance with threatening glances at the big mahogany clock hung above the kitchen table. With our usual mild protestations, we watched Father close the storybook and we reluctantly moved closer to the kitchen range for a final warming before we ventured 205 "Getting there is half the fun." "Go by ship—it makes the trip." Europe Sail from Montreal on June 12, 1959. Enjoy life on the Luxury Liner; relax and rest before beginning your fine European Tour. Hawaii Sail from San Francisco, April 23, 1959. Be in Hawaii for their May Day Celebration when the Shower Trees are in bloom! Historic Train The original Historic Train leaves Friday evening July 31, 1959, Salt Lake City, at 5:00 p. M. See Nauvoo, Carthage, Kirtland, Sharon, Vermont, Etc., and witness the Hill Cumorah Pageant For free folders write or phone: VIDA FOX CLAWSON 966 East South Temple Salt Lake City 2, Utah Phone: EM 4-2017 LEARN TO TYPEWRITE! 2 —_— New Classes Begin Soon Adult classes for Relief Society and genealogy workers will teach beginning and advanced typing. Classes will run 6:30 to 8:00 p. M., Mondays and Thursdays. Individual help and instruction by professional teachers. Call for reservations and further information. LDS BUSINESS COLLEGE Phone EM 3-2765 70 North Main Salt Lake City 11, Utah 206 Mason & Hamlin The Stradivari of Pianos EVERETT PIANOS Finest Toned Spinet Piano Built THE WORLD'S FINEST Cable-Nelson Finest Low Priced Piano Built We specialize in all muste for Relief Society Beesley Musi¢ Co. Pioneer Piano People 70 S. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH HAWAITI Sail on July 1, 1959 A lovely time to go to Hawaii. HISTORICAL TOUR Leaves August 1, 1959, for the famous Hill Cumorah Pageant. SCENIC NORTHWESTERN TOUR Leaves June 27, 1959 Come join us on this wonderful vacation tour. Ask about our European Tours in June and August 1959. For further details write or phone: MARGARET LUND TOURS Salt Lake City, Utah Phone: IN 6-2909, AM 2-2339, CR 7-6334 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1959 into the frigid realms of our winter bedrooms. But our souls had been warmed with a warmth that only family solidarity can give. Father and Mother are gone from that circle now, but the memories of our evenings around the old cookstove are crystal clear and the security fostered there gives us faith a ee She Silve r-Fin ge red Ethel Jacobson The fingers of March Are silver with frost. They fret the larch, Still leafless, lost In dreams that now Wear ragged and thin As each chafed bough Feels a pulse begin. The fingers of March Probe lingering snows Where green shoots arch And a trillium shows. They part the rain, Then, dazzling clear, Paint a rainbow plain From heaven to here! <a _> Sa nctuary Vesta N. Lukei We know Two wheel tracks worn Like furrows faint and brown and tutted Amid the hillside weeds And new spring grecn. We know This short, steep road That ends by lichen-covered rocks And weathered pasture fence. We overlook a gentle valley In the curve of hills. We know, Always and over all, The benediction of sky. We have been here before. We shall come again. P. O. Box 20 in the goodness of life. Sugarhouse Station: WVreeds Hattie B. Maughan My neighbor's yard is full of weeds, Right thriftily they grow. My border line is scoured clean Of noxious things, for oh— My lilies will a contrast form To weeds in rank disorder, And all will see a lesson in My straight and spotless border. But, as I wander through my yard, So smugly self content, A weed around my ankle twines On sin and mischief bent. I look and all around my feet, They chortle in disorder. My neighbor may Jook further than My chaste and cleanly border. MEXICAN TOUR | Leaving Salt Lake City, Utah March 14, 1959 Acapulco, Mexico City, Taxco, etc. Ancient pyramids and ruins. Guide is a member of Latter-day Saints Church. HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT TOUR Leaving Salt Lake City, Utah July 24, 1959—23 Days See Liberty, Carthage, Nauvoo, Adam-Ondi-Ahman, Kirtland, Ete. Including Boston, New York, Washington, Chicago. NORTHWESTERN TOUR Leaving Salt Lake City, Utah June 28, 1959 Including Banff, Lake Louise, and Victoria. For Itinerary write or phone: ESTHER JAMES TOURS 460 Seventh Avenue Salt Lake City 3, Utah Phone: EM 3-5229 ® BEAUTIFUL e HANDY e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover—$2.50; Leather Cover—$3.80 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles 0. 35 150 to 300 miles —. 39 300 to 600 miles d 600 to 1000 miles 1000 to 1400 mites d 1400 to 1800 miles 0... 16 Over 1800 miles.87 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-2581 33 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah LIVE BETTER ELECTRICALLY with Full HOUSEPOWER Electricity Costs So Little You Can Afford a Lot UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. Page 207 TRAVEL © TRAVEL ® TRAVEL ® TRAVEL © TRAVEL ® TRAVEL ® TRAVEL © TRAVEL TRAVEL ® TRAVEL HAWAII 8 or 16 fun-filled sun-filled days. Deluxe hotels. Meals. Sightseeing trips and cruises. Visit 4 islands, L. D. S. Temple. Enjoy native festivities and Island Lealea (Fun). Depart any time or travel with groups leaving regularly. $259-$639 EUROPE 48 days — 14 countries: England, Scotland, Norway, Sweden, Denmark, Germany, Holland, Belgium, Austria, Switzerland, Italy, Monaco, San Marino, Lichtenstein. (June and September departures.) AMERICAN HERITAGE TOUR Along the Mormon Trail — visit Liberty, Carthage, Nauvoo, Adamondi-Ahman, HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT, Niagara Falls, OttawaMontreal, Quebec, New England, Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Washington, Mt. Vernon and other Mormon and American Historic Locations. L. D. S. YOUTH TOUR EUROPE 30 days — 11 countries. All expense, fine hotels, balanced menus, visit L. D. S. Branches. Cultural and Educational Sightseeing, Supervised Fun, Physician accompanying Tour. Limited Accommodations, apply early. Departs June 1959, ROBBINS TOURS INTERNATIONAL Compare Itineraries Compare Prices then TRAVEL WITH US Box 1514 Salt Lake City, Utah Phone EL 9-0959 TSAVUL @ THAVAL Page 208 TAAVUL @ TAAVUL © THAVUL © THJAVUL e THAVYUL e THAVYL @ THAVYL © WIAVUL Birthday Congratulations One Hundred One Mrs. JuLia CAROLINE Beat Burr Provo, Utah One Hundred Mrs. Crevrstia SNow GarDNER Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-five Mrs. Nancy WInn KartTcltNner Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary McDonatp LupLow Heber City, Utah Ninety-four Mrs. Laura P. NEBEKER Pleasant Grove, Utah Ninety-three Mrs. Lavinia Ricspy Corp Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-two Mrs. Sarau HELENA FOTHERINGHAM Stockton, California Mrs. ALBerTINA S. BECKSTRAND TISHER Meadow, Utah Mrs. SusANNA WacstaFF McGuire Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Auice G. Smiru Logan, Utah Mrs. Mary Ann Batty SMITH Randolph, Utah Mrs. CatTHEeRINE HEGGCIE GRIFFITHS Clarkston, Utah Ninety Mrs. Marcaret ELLEN Biacxk ROWLEY Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Susan DanIEvs Payson, Utah Mrs. Martua Evizasetu Brapy RASMUSSEN La Jara, Colorado Mrs. Louis—E BrockBANK REYNOLDS Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Lena ASHBAKER OLSEN Logan, Utah for Good Reading Matching pocket-sized editions of the Standard Works. The ideal gift for a missionary, for the traveling man or woman, for the student away from home... Or for anyone who wants to take advantage of brief leisure moments — anytime, anyplace — for good reading. MISSIONARY POCKET BIBLE Complete with LDS Ready Reference and Concordance. Page size 31%, x 5%. Genuine leather POCKET TRIPLE COMBINATION Book of Mormon, Doctrine and Covenants, Pearl White leather $6.75 Deseret 44 East South Temple -- Salt Lake City, Utah ¥ binding. Of Great Price, bound in genuine leather. $8.50 $6.00 How to make your life insurance more BENEFICIAL he 5:. On jt che With the passing years, changes come quickly. There may be new additions to your family—like Stevie. Perhaps you've just bought a new house. Or Dad has a promotion. Each of these changes mean a corresponding change in your family's financial picture. And this means that your life insurance program should be reviewed periodically... To keep it eae Beneficial Life Insurance Company Beneficial Building Salt Lake City, Utah Send me new folder giving more complete details about Beneficial's new family Package Plan. Up to date... To make it more Beneficial to your family. Your Beneficial man will be happy to recommend the best one for your family size and income. Ask him especially about the new Benefactor Plan that provides insurance for every member of the family. Call him soon, or mail the coupon. Daan fas Carpe aly feuranee thinned Virgil H. Smith, ~ oor Lake City, 7 E LIES { M4 CRS *, * * 5 * Si VOL. 46 NO. 4 Special Short Story elssue APRIL 1959 Above the ITlorning Margery S. Stewart Thou hast not made the day Less lovely, Lord, Because I faltered at the Battle's edge, Or, by reason of small wounds, Cast down my sword. Tenderly, yet wildly beautiful Thy burning sun Winds through the morning Mistiness; Thy fleeing stars Cast garments spun Of silver on the unknowing world. In fingers of the wind The night's debris is flung Far out beyond Rims of this unscarred day. The freshness is not thinned. But my heart is wrung dry, Seeing, this once, thine own Invincible loveliness. Thou wilt not make one dawn Less wonderful, one rose less blown, Though armies turn away, Though nations choose the dark. This light falls softly on The scornet's head, impervious Sings thy lark. The Cover: The Hermitage, President Andrew Jackson's Home, near Nashville, Tennessee Photograph by Arthur Griffin, Free Lance Photographers Guild, Inc. Frontispiece: Springtime Blossoms, Luoma Studios Cover Design by Evan Jensen From Near and Star Congratulations on the February issue of The Relief Society Magazine. We hope you were happy with the cover picture. We are naturally prejudiced, but we think it one of the finest you have ever had. —Henry A. Smith President Central Atlantic States Mission Roanoke, Virginia The four process coloring of the cover for the February Magazine is the most beautiful I ever saw, and I have watched the development of printing, engraving, and photography for eight decades. ''Sunset on the James River, Virginia, showing the statue of Captain John Smith" gives an effect of strength and delicacy unsurpassed. —Charles V. Worthington Los Angeles, California I enjoy the articles, lessons, stories, and poems in the Magazine very much. But there is one thing that I especially enjoy— the beautiful covers and frontispieces. I have noticed for several years that the one responsible for the cover designs is Evan Jensen. I would like to thank him for the beautiful work that is done on the covers. —Lynn Benson Salt Lake City, Utah My husband and I are laboring here in Mississippi as missionaries and are enjoying our efforts very much. For Christmas my children sent me money, as they didn't know just what I needed. After wondering what I could do with it that would bring the most happiness, and also the most blessings to the greatest number of people, I have decided to use it to put our Church publications in the homes of the scattered members... Of course I couldn't leave out The Relief Society Magazine, for the women here, as everywhere, need the help this Magazine gives toward making better mothers, keeping better homes, in fact, helping us to be more as our Father in heaven wants us to be.... —cCora Shippen Anderson Louisville, Mississippi Page 210 I like Mrs. Hill's prize poem (January 1959) very much. I must have read it six times to date. I have profound admiration for our Utah writers. There are a number of fine craftsmen among them. —Grace Ingles Frost Provo, Utah Congratulations on the new covers on The Relief Society Magazine. I have been a reader of the Magazine since I was a little girl and then was interested only in the stories. Mother was an active worker in Relief Society. Now I read the Magazine from cover to cover. So much information for such a small time spent in reading! —Goldie L. Stark Pocatello, Idaho In the five and a half years that I have been in the South, I have looked forward to receiving my Relief Society Magazine. My husband, who is Bishop of the Biloxi Ward, finds time to read the Magazine as soon as it arrives. It has always been his favorite. We are most grateful to all the wonderful women who devote so much of their time and effort to prepare the poems, stories, lessons, and instructions. The new covers for the Magazine are beautiful. I hope to save my copies and have them bound. I only wish that every woman in the mission field could have a subscription to The Relief Society Magazine. We are too busy here to be homesick for dear old Utah, our home State, and The Relief Society Magazine helps us to meet old friends, not only in story and verse, but sometimes in pictures of members who are Singing Mothers, or who have appeared in programs and dramatizations. —Violet B. Coletti Gulfport, Mississippi My present study of poetic technique is giving me a greater appreciation of the art and a deep respect for all who labor to create poems. I marvel at the skill of Lael W. Hill ("The Telling," January 1959), the depth of thought and feeling she can convey with such light, almost weightless, musical lines. —Mrs. Iona Goold Burley, Idaho THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spatford - - - - - - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - - First Counselor Louise W. Madsen - - - = «© = = «= = Second Counselor Hulda Parker - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Aleine M. Young Edith P. Backman Mary V. Cameron Edith §. Elliott Josie B. Bay Winniefred S. Afton W. Hunt Florence J. Madsen Christine H. Robinson Manwaring Wealtha S. Mendenhall Leone G. Layton Alberta H. Christensen Elna P. Haymond Pearle M. Olsen Blanche B. Stoddard Mildred B. Eyring Annie M. Ellsworth Elsa T. Peterson Evon W. Peterson Charlotte A. Larsen Mary R. Young Irene B. Woodford RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor 2 - - - = - - 2 ° - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - = - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford VOL. 46 APRIL 1959 NO. 4 Cane us SPECIAL FEATURES Messengers of Faith and Charity Spencer W. Kimball 212 The East Central States Mission..... - Preston R. Nibley 220 The Right Circles o... Cesecceccccsseenescescecesceccesscecesece coceocscceecessecaeeacerencaessececsceeesesseseesacseeeseeesseassesesceeseesseneescssseeeseenenese 244 Guard Your Family—Fight Cancer With a Checkup and a Check....... Esther Allegretti 249 About Twilight 2.. Ccceccecee cc ccccesccsesccesscesceceesssenteseneeceaesecnescecscesesenesecceeacsnesesesssevecseaecseseseeesecereeeececeeeaAmy Viau 264 FICTION — SPECIAL APRIL SHORT STORIES Unto the Hills.. Helen Hooper 222 The Bishop's Wife 0.0... A: - Sylvia Probst Young 228 The Day I Turned Eight.....000.0.. Co Ilene H. Kingsbury 250 Great-Grandmother's Notebook.... — Arlene D. Cloward 256 The Silver Leash — Chapter 4 o. Eeieecececeeeecccecccecececeececececee cece eeeeeenenenseeeneeseeeeeesnsnenneneesBeatrice R. Parsons 265 From Near and Far 210 Sixty Years Ago 238 Woman's Sphere re raacesctenet nec -ns-0- Ramona W. Cannon 239 Editorial: "School Thy Feelings') 2... CcceeccseeeesceccicessceteeescseceseeseseesseeeesereeececeenteseseLouise W. Madsen 240 Notes to the Field: Brigham Young University on Campus Leadership Week oo. Ceeceececeeeseceeceeeee 242 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities oo... Eecceceeesecceececcececceeeeceseceesceseseessteceeeeeesue Parker 268 Birthday Congratulations n. E. Eeceeeececsceccccesee eceseseceseseseseses seneeseeeeceeseeneeseeseseecs 280 Seven Months of Color To a Friend 0... Eee Recipes From the East Central States Mi Eva Willes Wangsgaard re Marion Winterbottom 243.. Marie Curtis Richards 246 WOrdS oaeaeeaeasseesceceseeseseeseerseeesescessececcensecessesestensesee se sensneeae ceesessceeseesceeceecenceeceeseceseseeeneees. Grace Ingles Frost 248 You Can Sew — XIV — Children's Clothes — Infants and Toddlers................ Jean R. Jennings 254 Rozella Dowdle Kingsford Makes Lace Tablecloths and Braided Rugs. 260 "Easy Soap'' Recipe....... Vera C. Stratford 260 "Now You Know You're Livimrg') oo... CcceccececcecscsseceeseeeceececeeeeseseecesecesesseseeseeeeeseeeeeesMary Ek Knowles 261 Home Decorators ooi. Eeiceeeeescceecsecceceecececseseeeesceseesee eeesnecsceceecess coseeceeceecseceeccesceesssecereceeesseJoyce K. MacKabe 263 The Hole in the Fence Dorothy Oakley Rea 278 Above the Morning — Frontispiece _ Margery S. Stewart 209 Nature's Prayer. We. Helen Hurr 227 Wild Primrose o.. E. Eeeceeecccccccceceeceeeeeeeneeee cess; ea enna ETINNEvelyn Fjeldsted 237 Wake Me oooiceecececeeceeccececeeeceeccensceneeeeeseesees aHazel Loomis 241 Ruth H. Chadwick 243 Song for Her Soul oe ee ceeeeeeeeeeeees cessMaude Rubin 245 Old Logging Road MO nnn caacensenn Benediction oeceecececceeseecescceestenneeccceecseseeseeseeceeeseees. Im. Thelma Ireland 249 My Love Is Young |, TS ccssnesasesactereseeescsasesMaixene Jennings 253 Grandma Reminisces.. Elsie McKinnon Strachan 255 Precious Token Rowena Jensen Bills 274 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Copyright 1958 by the General Board of Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Editorial and Business Offices: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah: Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy; payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1108, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Page 211 April Evening cceecccccccccceesecssseesesccsceceescceceeseceececsceeceeeeeceece ceeseesecsesseceeceneeeecseessees This Year's Spring <2... Cececcesscsesecececssceccceceeeee ceceeeeseeasecescsccoecse teeneaceeceerereeseeesceesess Ida Elaine James 219 Vesta N. Lukei 263 Messengers of Faith and Charity Elder Spencer W. Kimball Of the Council of the Twelve (Address delivered at a Monument Park Stake Visiting Teachers Convention, September 16, 1958) Y beloved sisters of the Relief Society, I think one of my first childhood experiences was an awareness or consciousness of the existence and the importance of the Relief Society. We left Salt Lake City when I was three years old. My mother had six children, and during much of the time that she went through five more pregnancies, five more births, she was president of the Relief Society—in a time when compassionate service had a little different meaning perhaps, than it does today — at least in its expression. We went to a new world where water was drawn out of open wells; where flies were so thick that you could not see out of the screen door in the evenings; and where typhoid ran rampant, summer complaint, and many other diseases were ever present; where medical skill was extremely limited; where there were no hospitals, no nurses, nor trained people, except the country doctor who had more than he could ever do. I read in her journal not long ago such expressions as these: "I left the little ones with Ruth, or with Delbert, or with Gordon, and went to Sister Smith's home where the second twin just died, and where they had three others desperately ill with typhoid fever." "Today I spent the day with other sisters making burial clothes for the two children of Sister Jones," and on and on and on. That was my introduction to Relief SoPage 212 ciety, and I am sure that that kind of work is still going forward, for as I understand your work, it in- © cludes not only the spiritual and the moral, but also the physical wellbeing of the people. Whenever I think of visiting teachers I think of ward teachers, also, and think that certainly your duties must be very much the same as the ward teachers, which briefly are "... To watch over the Church always," not twenty minutes a month—but always, "And be with them and strengthen them;" not a knock at the door, but to be with them, and lift them, and strengthen them, and empower them, and fortify them; "And see that there is no iniquity... Neither hardness... Backbiting, nor evil speaking" (D & C 20:53-54). What an opportunity! Some like to talk critically about what is happening in the ward, the division of it, the reorganization of a bishopric, or of the Relief Society presidency, or any other of the numerous things done in the ward, which people might question and criticize. How glorious the privilege of two sisters to go into a home neutralizing the negative and the critical and _ building up the Authorities of the Church, the Church itself, its doctrines, its policies, its practices, "And see that the church meet together often... And... Do their duty" (D & C 20:55). There can be no force in this pro- MESSENGERS OF FAITH AND CHARITY gram as I see it. It must be a matter of encouragement and love. It is amazing how many people we can convert and inspire with love "... To warn, expound, exhort, and teach, and invite unto Christ" (D & C 20:59), the Lord said in his revelations. This could be nonmembers as well as members. 'The time may come when you will put more emphasis on bringing the nonmembers to your meetings, but at least all of the members and the women of part-member families. To be successful, it seems to me, a visiting teacher must have a high purpose and remember it constantly, desiring to have great vision. She should have enthusiasm which cannot be worn down; positive attitudes, of course, and a great love. In the 42d Section of The Doctrine and Covenants, the Lord said, And the Spirit shall be given unto you by the prayer of faith; and if ye receive not the Spirit ye shall not teach (D & C 42:14). I assume that your work is closely allied to that of the Priesthood. We read:... The elders, priests and teachers of this church shall teach the principles of my gospel, which are in the Bible and the Book of Mormon, in the which is the fulness of the gospel (D & C 42:12). OU then will teach not mere ethics, but turn to the standard works of the Church and bring to them the blessings which they may be in need of by your inspiring messages. The teacher, of course, must be living all she teaches. That goes without saying, though it is sometimes forgotten. 213 And I give unto you a commandment that you shall teach one another the doctrine of the kingdom (D & C 88:77). And they shall observe the covenants and church articles to do them, and these shall be their teachings, as they shall be directed by the Spirit. And all this ye shall observe to do as I have commanded concerning your teaching, until the fulness of my scriptures is given (D & C 42:13, 15). Don't let us be satisfied with mere visits, with just making friends. 'That, of course, has its place. With our missionary program, we have that constantly to fight, especially in Lamanite missions. A missionary gets it in his mind that he must have a great bridge and so he builds ten miles of approach to get over a quarter mile stream, and he is worn out by the time he gets to the bridge, and then he may not accomplish his objective. Friendship, of course, is important, but how better can one make a friend than to teach him everlasting principles of life and salvation? Karl G. Maeser said, "I would rather trust my child to a serpent than to a teacher who does not believe in God." So, as expressed already, your testimony is a powerful medium. As we tell missionaries, nobody can answer your testimony, but there are many smart people just as clever as you are who know the scriptures just as well as you do, and who can argue, and probably outargue many of you. Many of these ministers spend all of their lives in studying the Bible, and they can rationalize and they know the scriptures, and they can find passages better than many of us, but not any one of them can ever meet your testimony. It leaves 214 them dumb. You do not always have to bear it in the most formal manner, there are so many approaches. Your testimony can have so many different expressions. Charles Burnap said, "He then who would command among his fellows must excel them more in energy of will than in power of intellect." I would like to add another word to visiting teachers: to excel and to give leadership to the women whom they visit. 'They must excel in energy, and vision, and thoroughness, and testimony is unanswerable. The 38th Section of The Doctrine and Covenants, starting with the 23d verse, appealed to me as 1 glanced through it the other night: But, verily I say unto you, teach one another according to the office wherewith I have appointed you; And let every man [and I think we can say women, too] esteem his brother [sister] as himself, and practice virtue and holiness before me. And again I say unto you, let every man esteem his brother [sister] as himself. For what man among you having twelve sons, and is no respecter of them, and they serve him obediently, and he saith unto the one: Be thou clothed in robes and sit thou here; and to the other: Be thou clothed in rags and sit thou there— and looketh upon his sons and saith I am just? Behold, this I have given unto you as a parable, and it is even as I am. I say unto you, be one; and if ye are not one ye are not mine (D & C 38:23-27). HERE are many of your sisters living in this city who are living in rags, spiritual rags. 'They are entitled: to gorgeous robes, spiritual robes, as in the parable. It is your RELIEF SCCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1959 privilege, not duty, but it is your privilege to go into those homes and exchange robes for rags. We talk about duty—"I have got to go and do my ward teaching." "I have got to go and do my visiting teacher's work." We have lost already the enthusiasm, the vision, and the objective when we say, "I have got to go this morning and do my visiting teaching." Rather it could be— "Today's the day I have been waiting for. I am happy to go into the homes of my sisters and lift them to new heights." You have a responsibility. You have been called, called of God through the properly constituted authorities. You must not just go to homes, you have blood on your skirts to clear. It says in the 88th Section:. Purify your hearts, and cleanse your hands and your feet before me, that I may make you clean; That I may testify unto your Father, and your God, and my God, that you are clean from the blood of this wicked generation..." (D & C 88:74-75).. You cannot miss a home with impunity; you must not pass a sister up even though she is a little uncomplimentary, or not too happy for your visit. "Also, I give you a commandment that ye shall continue in prayer and fasting from this time forth" (D & C 88:76). In Matthew, the 21st Chapter, we have a beautiful example. 'The Lord said: But what think ye? A certain man had two sons; and he came to the first, and said, Son, go work to day in my vineyard. He answered and said, I will not: but afterward he repented, and went. And he came to the second, and said MESSENGERS OF FAITH AND CHARITY likewise. And he answered and said, I go, sir: and went not. Whether of them twain did the will of his father? They say unto him, The first. Jesus saith unto them, Verily I say unto you, That the publicans and the harlots go into the kingdom of God before you (Mt. 21:28-31). Is that a bit harsh? It would be if it came from any other than the Lord's own voice. He or she who accepts a responsibility, and fails to magnify it, ignoring it — well, you heard what he said, didn't you? "... That the publicans and the harlots go into the kingdom of God before you." For you ward teachers or you visiting teachers to accept a responsibility of four, five, six, or seven homes, and leave the people in their spiritual rags and tatters is without excuse; and when you go into the homes, there should be no "vain babblings" or "swelling words." You go to save souls, and who can tell but that many of the fine, active people in the Church today are active because you were in their homes and gave them a new outlook, a new vision. You pulled back the curtain. You extended their horizons. You gave them something new to contemplate. Maybe they will never tell you about it in all their lives, but you did the work and will be blessed. OU see, you are not only saving these sisters, but they also influence their hin seonels and children. If the sister is a little inactive or a little careless, quite likely she has a husband who is a little more so, and she has children who are only "dabbing" at the program, perhaps. There are exceptions, of course, but 215 they are just hitting at it a little bit here and there. They are not absorbed in the kingdom, so you have a great work to do. It was Ezekiel who said something about if the parents "'... Have eaten sour grapes... The children's teeth are set on edge" (Ezekiel 18:2). That is what happens if you miss the mother and the mother misses the children. Their teeth arc on edge because the mother is cating sour grapes, but if you can give her sweet grapes, if you can give her good food, if you can nourish her, if you can lift her, then, of course, her children have a chance. There is the old story vou have heard so many times of the questions asked the builders, and the first one when asked, ""W hat are you doing here?" answered and said, am working eight hours a day. Iam putting in time. I am earning my living this way." The second one said, "I am putting brick on brick, and [ am building a structure here." The third, when he was asked, raised himself up to full stature and said, "Tam building a great cathedral." So it seems to me that visiting teachers who just have to go and do their teaching, who have to get in their reports, who have to answer to a call, who have to do anything, they are just time watchers, clock watchers. I guess there could be some of those clock watchers. Then there are those who have a little better vision, "Why, it is all right, and it is part of the work of the Lord and, therefore, I guess I should set aside my own interests and go." But I am sure, most of the sisters in this stake are building great cathedrals.. He which soweth sparingly," 216 said Paul, "shall reap also sparingly; and he which soweth bountifully shall reap also bountifully (II Cor.:6). We do not get far by just saying words. We must put our hearts into the words, and we must plan, and prepare our minds. I wonder if there are any sisters who fast the morning they are going to do their monthly visiting teaching. I do not know that it is required. 'There are many things in the Church that are not required: For behold, it is not meet that I should command in all things; for he that is compelled in all things, the same is a slothful and not a wise servant; wherefore he receiveth no reward (D & C 58:26). ONE who goes just to visit homes, to knock on the doors, to pass the time of day, and then goes back and makes the report, is somewhat like the one whom Paul spoke of who was fighting, as "one that beateth the air" (I Cor. 9:26), not making any progress. She is like one whose wheels are spinning on the ice. We need to get out and put some gravel on the ice. We need to get some tires that have treads upon them, and then go forth and do our job as we should do it. I suspect that in almost every district there are difficult situations, women who will not let you in. There may be women who do not want you to come in, but permit it. There are women who wish you would leave before you do. You remember the Savior had troubles like that, too. And it came to pass, when the time was come that he should be received up, he steadfastly set his face to go to Jerusalem, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1959 And sent messengers before his face: and they went, and entered into a village of the Samaritans, to make ready for him. And they did not receive him, because his face was as though he would go to Jerusalem. And when his disciples James and John saw this, they said, Lord, wilt thou that we command fire to come down from heaven, and consume them, even as Elias did? But he turned, and rebuked them, and said, Ye know not what manner of spirit ye are of. For the Son of man is not come to destroy men's lives, but to save them. And they went to another village (Luke 9:51-56). At another time a man came to the Savior and said: Lord, have mercy on my son: for he is lunatick, and sore vexed: for ofttimes he falleth into the fire, and oft into the water. And I brought him to thy disciples, and they could not cure him. Then Jesus answered and said, O faithless and perverse generation, how long shall I be with you? How long shall I suffer you? Bring him hither to me. And Jesus rebuked the devil; and he departed out of him: and the child was cured from that very hour. Then came the disciples to Jesus apart and said, Why could not we cast him out? And Jesus said unto them, Because of your unbelief: for verily I say unto you, If ye have faith as a grain of mustard seed, ve shall say unto this mountain, Remove hence to yonder place and it shall remove and nothing shall be impossible unto you. Howbeit this kind goeth not out but by prayer and fasting (Mt. 17:15-21). When you have a woman who MESSENGERS OF FAITH AND CHARITY will not open her door, and you know she is in the house, one who opens her door and does not want to, one who admits you and wishes you had not come, next month would it not be well to follow the advice of the Lord, "Howbeit this kind goeth not out but by prayer and fasting" (Mt. 17:21)? You know the Lord has intangible methods and ways and means and forces that can touch hearts. Remember Alma? Alma was persecuting the Church one day, and the next day he was a great advocate of it. Remember Paul? One day he was arresting the saints and imprisoning them, and in a few days he was preaching the gospel in every synagogue with great power. What was the difference? It was some intangible force that had been brought to bear on them by the Lord. He touched their hearts. He did something else, too. We know what it was, of course. Now you say, "Well, that woman can never be touched." Of course, she can be touched. She can be brought in. John Taylor said there is none who cannot be converted if the right person makes the right approach at the right time in the right way with the right spirit. He didn't put all those rights in; I have added them; but do not think that it is impossible. O back to the first book in The Book of Mormon and read it again. You remember when Nephi said:... I will go and do the things which the Lord hath commanded, for I know that the Lord giveth no commandments unto the children of men, save he shall prepare a way for them that they may 217 accomplish the thing which he commandeth them (I Nephi 3:7). The 17th Chapter, 3d verse, is practically a repetition of it: And thus we see that the commandments of God must be fulfilled. And if it so be that the children of men keep the commandments of God he doth nourish them, and strengthen them, and _provide means whereby they can accomplish the thing which he has commanded them; wherefore, he did provide means for us while we did sojourn in the wilderness (I Nephi 17:3). It can be done! We must eliminate entirely from our vocabulary the word "can't." The Lord called you. Do you accept that, or do you think that your ward president called you? Now if only your ward president called you, then it may be that it can't be done, but if God called you through these proper channels, in the way you know you are called, then it follows surely that you cannot fail, if you do your full part. It is easy to fail. It is easy to get discouraged. It is easy to quit. You remember how Nephi was confronted with an impossible situation and could not get the plates. His brothers could not. They were unable to buy them. They could not bribe them out of the hands of Laban. They could not force their way in, and their lives were hanging on a thread. In spite of all that, here comes one unarmed boy who walks into a city through a wall that could not be penetrated, into gates that could not be opened, into a garden that was impenetrable, into a vault that was locked, among soldiers who could not be by-passed, and he came out with his arms full of records to keep his posterity and others from 218 perishing in unbelief. He did what was humanly impossible. But nothing is impossible to the Lord. Anytime we have him on our side, when he has called us and given us a commandment, then, if our energy and our efforts and our planning and our prayers are equal to the size of the calling, the work, of course, will be successfully completed. A monk is said to have built a tower sixty fect high and three feet wide. On a certain day he would climb up to the top of the tower and pray, and the words of his prayers were generally about like this: "O God, where art thou?" No answer. "Come, O God, where art thou?" No answer was heard. Finally, there came a voice which said: "I am down among the people." We must be humble. Our wealth, our affluence, our liberties, all that we possess must never let us feel above anyone. We must always keep in mind a deep sincerity, a great humility, and a total dependence upon the Lord. Most failures are made by those who have found that good enough satisfies them. 'There is the story of Antonio Stradivarius with which you are all familiar, I am sure. He died at ninety-three. When he was about seventy years old, he created the greatest violin that has ever been built. He had had some training before, but the vision came to him long, long after he had left all his teachers. He made many changes. He gave the violin a greater curvature in the middle ribs, the four corner blocks were made more massive. He lowered the height of the arch of the belly of it. He made the scroll more massive and prominent. He reached his perfection when he was about seventy. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1959 HEN Sister Kimball and I had our little girl studying violin we thought she might be a great violinist someday. We bought her a little violin. I think you would call it a "fiddle," because it cost us only fifteen dollars, As far as I could tell, it looked just like any other violin — like a Stradivarius, perhaps. It was a fifteen-dollar instrument, for her to start her work on. If she had become a great violinist, we would have purchased a better one for her. I inquired the other day down at one of our music stores, and they said that Stradivarius violins sometimes go up as high as two hundred thousand dollars. I once knew a rather odd family and the father claimed to have a Stradivarius. They wouldn't all go to Church at any one time. Always, somebody had to stay home and watch the violin, it was considered so precious. Well, I tell you that each one of you can be a fiddle, or you can be a Stradivarius, when you go into the homes of the saints to teach them the gospel. You remember that love is the greatest law. When the Lord was asked which were the two greatest laws, he said:.. Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself (Mt. 22:37, 39). He told us who our neighbors are. 'They are the people next door, the ones that are away; those who are on their journeys; those injured, the ill, the mean, the sinful. Everybody is our neighbor, and these MESSENGERS OF FAITH AND CHARITY people in these homes are our neighbors. If you go to fill assignments, that is one thing, but if you go to bring your neighbor to a full knowledge of the gospel, then that is another story. Persistence is often rewarded, especially if it is attended with love and kindness. It is difficult to serve where there is little appreciation; but often obstinacy gives way and receptiveness takes the place of rejection. Even nature exemplifies this principle: A little moisture gets into the rocks and freezes and cracks the rock wide open; a strong wind carves out the cliffs; a seed falls in a crack in the stone and, waging a slow, silent, but never-relaxing pressure, finally splits the stone; a tiny tree root under heavy pavement finally cracks and lifts the enormous weight. You can succeed. Like the little vine, the little root that can topple a wall or split a rock, you can touch hearts and break people away from their improper moorings and bring them into spiritual activity. It can be done! ~<—- 219 Now, in conclusion, let me quote you one of my favorite little verses. I have quoted it many times. Maybe you have heard me quote it. It is by Henry Van Dyke: Let me do my work from day to day In the field or forest, at the desk or loom, In roaring market place or tranquil room; Let me but find it in my heart to say, When vagrant wishes beckon me astray, This is my work; my blessing, not my doom; Of all who live I am the one by whom This work can best be done in the right way. Then shall I see it not too great, nor small, To suit my spirit and to prove my powers; Then shall I cheerful, greet the labouring hours, And cheerful turn, when the long shadows fall At eventide, to play and love and rest, Because I know for me my work is best. (From "The Three Best —1, Work, by Henry Van Dyke) Things" God bless you sisters in your glorious work, in your sweet personalities, in the extended influence you can pass to others, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. April & vening Ida Elaine James Why do I linger, still, in dark and mist Through which I cannot see, and still I strain— Is there a lilac left I have not kissed And drunk its breath with April's subtle pain? How can I leave the dogwood here, unsung, In darkness through the poignant April night, Unwind my arms from blossoms where they've clung Bursting to give their hearts out, snowy-white. The dogwood's little sisters, bridal-wreath, Droop graciously to second place, in awe, Mute to my listening heart that beats beneath Their frail encircling arcs without a flaw. With such pure beauty offered me, profuse, Oh, April, let me stand without excuse. She &ast Central States Ilission Preston R. Nibley Assistant Church Historian THe East Central States Mission was organized in November 1928, under the direction of Elder Stephen L Richards of the Council of the Twelve. The states of Tennessee, Kentucky, North Carolina, and Virginia were taken from the Southern States Mission, and West Virginia and part-of Maryland from the Eastern States Mission, to form the new mussion. Miles L. Jones of Ogden, Utah, was chosen as the first president. Headquarters of the mission was established in Louisville, Kentucky, where a commodious mission home was purchased. The total Latter-day Saint membership of the new mission at the time of its organization, was 12,289, which included 2,060 children. President Jones served as president of the East Central States Mission until June 1934, when he was succeeded by James M. Kirkham. President Kirkham was succeeded in June 1937 by William T. Tew; President 'Tew served until July 1940 when he was succceded by James P. Jensen; President Jensen was succeeded in October 1943 by Graham Doxey; President Doxey served until November 1946, when he was succeeded by Thomas W. Richards; President Richards presided until May 1950, when he was succeeded by John B. Matheson; President Matheson was succeeded in Courtesy Departeene of Public Relations Frankfort, Kentucky Submitted by Marie C. Richards BIRTHPLACE CABIN OF ABRAHAM LINCOLN In the Memorial Building, National Historical Park Near Hodgenville, Kentucky Page 220 EAST CENTRAL STATES MISSION 221 Luoma Photos LANDSCAPE NEAR ELKINS, WEST VIRGINIA Headquarters for the Monongahela National Forest in the Allegheny Mountains October 1953 by Cornelius Zappey; President Zappey presided until February 1955, when he was released on account of illness. He was succeeded by Melvin Ross Richards, who presides at the present time. In 1947 the states of North Carolina, Virginia, and parts of West Virginia, were taken from the East Central States Mission and given to the Central Atlantic States mission. Elder Sterling W. Sill, Assistant to the Council of the Twelve, made a tour of the East Central States Mission, in company with President M. Ross Richards, during May 1958. Chapels were dedicated in the McMinnville, Bristol, Knoxville, and Hopkinsville branches. At the conclusion of his tour, Elder Sill said: "I am delighted with the quality of the people who are being brought into the Church and the spirit that seems to be among them." On December 31, 1958, there were 13,607 members of the Church in the East Central States Mission, located in forty-nine branches. During the year 1958, five hundred converts were baptized in the mission. Fifty-three Relief Society organizations, with 1003 members, were reported in December 1958. Marie C. Richards presides over the Hast Central States Mission Relief Society. Note: The cover for this Magazine, '""The Hermitage," home of President Andrew Jackson, near Nashville, Tennessee, is reproduced from a color transparency by Arthur Gniftin, Free Lance Photographers Guild, Inc. See also "Recipes From the East Central States Mission," by Sister Richards, page 246. Unto the Hills Helen Hooper 66 AMA, Mama!" We came M running into the kitchen wide-eyed and_ shocked, with petticoats and pigtails flying behind us. "Mama, Mrs. Haynes and Mrs. O'Hara just stoled our big white rooster!" "What do you mean stoled?" asked Mama calmly, as she lifted the heavy sadiron from the shirt on the ironing board and set it back on the hot stove, then lifted the other one from the stove, tested it with a moistened forefinger, and went on ironing the shirt. "We saw them, Mama. Mrs. O'Hara shooed him over the fence, and Mrs. Haynes caught him in her apron, and they both ran into Mrs. Haynes' house. I bet they're gonna eat him, too!" Both of us were quivering with righteous indignation as we presented the facts of the case. Mama carefully finished the shirt and placed the iron back on the stove. "My goodness," she said thoughtfully. "That's too bad. Mr. O'Hara must be drinking again, and that rooster's as tough as sole leather. You go back out in the yard and pick out the fattest hen you can find. Catch it quick, and go knock on Mrs. Haynes' door and tell them I want them to have that one, too. One rooster isn't nearly enough to feed two families." Blanche and I looked at each other a moment, then, giggling with delight, we ran to obey. I can still remember the faces of the two women when we handed them that chicken. Page 222 "Mama wants you to have this one, too," Blanche explained with strained solemnity. "We never took your chicken!" said Mrs. Haynes, her face getting all red and splotchy. "Never mind, Belle, there's no use gettin' all heated up," said Mrs. O'Hara. "Miz Whitehead just plain knows we need it, and that's why she sent this one, too." She turned to us. "Go on home and tell your ma thanks." She took the chicken, and, as she shut the door, we heard her continue, "She's a right good and understanding woman in spite of her being a Mormon." This observation in no way surtprised us. We had grown accustomed to the fact that we were different — a Mormon widow and her children living in a non-Mormon town. Unlike most of the towns in Utah, Eureka had been settled by prospectors and miners who were interested only in the rich ore from its mountains. 'There were twentytwo business establishments on Main Street, and eighteen of them were saloons. NEVER will forget the day Father was killed. He was sheriff of Juab County and he'd been out with a posse to capture some bank robbers. It was washday and when I heard Leland yell. I ran out with Mama to meet the men on horses. We saw father lying limp across his saddle. Mama gasped and _ ran through the gate. She lifted his head in her arms. It took a whole minute for her to realize that he UNTO THE HILLS was dead, then she turned and walked dazedly into the house. She went into her bedroom and shut the door. It was the next morning before she unlocked that door and came out. Her face was white and drawn, but she was quiet and composed. We never saw her cry at all. The Relief Society sisters had been there most of the night and the washing was done and the house was in order. All that day our house swarmed with people who came to pay their respect. Strange men, looking uncomfortable in celluloid collars, held their hats in their calloused hands and bowed to Mama, saying over and over that Jim Whitehead was a real gentleman, and the town would miss him. After the funeral was over the next day, all of our relatives gathered together and agreed that we would have to go back to Provo with them. They reckoned, however, without Mama. When they had all finished talking and making arrangements for us, she told them sweetly, but firmly, that she had no intention of allowing either herself or her children to become a burden to anyone. "Tt isn't a matter of choice, as I see it,' said Grandfather. "You have no way of supporting eight young children. You'll have to ac cept help from the family." "No," replied Mama. "T''ll take in boarders." "But, Julia!' Aunt Mary's voice was shocked. "You can't be seriously intending to rear your children among the riffraff of a mining town without Jim's help and protection! It was a dreadful mistake to come here in the first place." Mama's back stiffened slightly. 223 "Jim never made a mistake." Her voice was soft but firm. "As far as protection is concerned, I'm sure the Spirit of the Lord dwells in the mountains the same as in the valleys. We'll just have to put our trust in him." Winter came early in October that year, before the rooms for the boarders were finished. It was then that I began to notice the silver streaks in Mama's hair, as I brushed it in the evenings while she read to us. I couldn't help but remember Aunt Mary's words. Could we really manage without Father? I tried to concentrate on Les Miserables, but all the time I could hear the wind rattling the windows, while the coyotes howled up in the hills, and the snow sifted thinly through the crack under the door. NE morning Lizzie Brady fainted in school. She told me afterwards that she hadn't had anything to eat for three days. I gave her most of my lunch and felt embarrassed when she ate ravenously. The lunch wasn't much. Our pantry and cellar were almost bare, too. When I went home from school that afternoon, I told Mama about Lizzie. She clucked her tongue behind her teeth, and I could tell she was calculating just how much = she could spare. "Mr. Brady's very ill, and Mrs. Brady's not strong yet from the birth of the twins, poor thing." She lifted the cellar door, and I followed her down the stairs. She picked up a gunny sack, and we divided the remaining potatoes and onions and carrots. To this she added half of the last piece of salt pork and half of the small piece of 224 cheese. She scooped a pan of flour out of the bottom of the barrel and handed it to me to carry, along with a loaf of bread. She sent Leland to the coal shed with another gunny sack and told Howard to pick up all the wood he could carry. I saw her glance briefly at the small pile of coal left in the corner of the shed as we passed. Mrs. Brady was wrapped in a shawl, and the children were shivering under thin quilts. While Mrs. Brady sat and wept, Mama built a fire. 'The children were so hungry they could scarcely wait until the food was cooked, begging to eat it raw. Their faces were like Christmas when we left them gathered around the table and the steaming bowls of stew. On the way home I looked at Mama stepping lightly and quickly through the snow and_ thought about Mr. Brady's parting words. She wasn't really one of God's angels, but I had a feeling that she knew him in a way I couldn't understand. HEN I brought up the last potatoes the following Saturday, I sat on the cellar stairs nibbling the white sprouts. What if we didn't get any more? What would it be like to starve to death? That night we had finished saying family prayers, and Mama was tucking us in our beds, spreading newspapers between the quilts for greater warmth, when we heard a great stomping and snorting and then a pounding on the front door. "My goodness," Mama said, "who can that be at this time of night?" We all leaped out of bed and followed her to the door. She opRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1959 ened it up, and there stood Uncle Bill from down on the farm in Springville. His moustache and hair below his hat and ear muffs were white with frost, and his leather gloves were frozen stiff on his hands. He pounded them together as Mama pushed him into the kitchen and fanned up the embers in | the stove and put in some more wood. Soon she had his feet in a tub of hot water and her warm shawl around his shoulders. The boys had dressed and gone out to unharness the horses and put them in the shed. When they came in, Uncle Bill was warm and relaxed and able to talk. He told the boys to get the bale of hay out of the wagon, feed and water the horses, and be sure to put the blankets over them; then he reached for the teakettle and poured more hot water over his feet. He sat back, sighing with comfort. "IT don't know but I think that's the coldest ride I ever had, except the time we went out after Blackhawk and his braves." He smiled at Mama. "I don't want to hurry you, Julia, but I could sure appreciate something warm and satisfying in my stomach." Mama stood perfectly still, while two big tears started down her cheeks. I swallowed hard and the tears started down my face in sympathy. "Oh, Bill," she said, "I... Tm so sorry, I know you're hungry and I... Haven't a thing in the house to give you to eat." By this time we were all sniffling. "Why, Julia, I don't want you to fuss." Uncle Bill looked embarrassed. "Just a bowl of hot milktoast'll be fine." Mama spread her hands emptily. UNTO THE HILLS "You don't understand. I haven't anything...." Uncle Bill stood straight up in the tub. He was a big man, and at that moment he seemed to tower above us. His face became white, and he almost thundered, "Julia, do you mean to tell me that you haven't any food to eat?" Mama could only nod. Uncle Bill sat down again. He seemed limp, like a shirt with the starch all gone out of it. "Well I'm beat," he muttered, "to think I almost ignored it and didn't come." Mama took her handkerchief out of her pocket and blew her nose and wiped her eyes, then she reached over and did mine. Uncle Bill watched her a moment and then he said, "Julia, I dreamed about you last night, and when I woke up this morning it seemed as if you needed me. I told myself that dreams didn't mean a thing, but I couldn't seem to forget it. I told Mollie and she said maybe I'd better come on up and see you." He reached for the towel and began drying his feet. "We butchered a hog last week, and she said I should bring you some fresh pork, headcheese, and sausage. The root cellar's still nearly full, and I figured if you were going to feed boarders you could probably use some extra food, so I tossed in a few bags of potatoes, carrots, onions, and _parsnips." Uncle Bill began to pull on his socks and shoes. ""There're a few squash, some apples, some new rendered lard, butter, and cheese, some of Moollie's chickens, and fresh eggs and a smoked ham." He paused, shaking his head. "Julia, 225 why didn't you write and tell us you needed help?" Mama smiled tenderly. "I was afraid I was going to have to, but I kept asking the Lord and he told you." Uncle Bill just looked at her for a long minute, then, as he started for the door, he said, "You always were mighty proud where other folks were concerned, Julia, but, I guess, if you're humble enough before God, that excuses it." ONE night the following spring Mama and I were late coming home from choir practice. Thinking about Mama always makes me remember that night. It was a reward for being good to accompany her to choir practice. I was nine years old then, and I loved to sit in the back of the meetinghouse, alone on the big bench, and listen to the singing. I can still feel those hymns in my very bones. For the strength of the hills we bless thee, Our God, our father's God; Thou hast made thy children mighty By the touch of the mountain sod.... The sopranos climbed joyfully up the scale. Thou hast led thy chosen Israel To freedom's last abode. For the strength of the hills we bless thee, Our God, our father's God. That was my favorite song. It seemed as if it had been written for us. We came out of the chapel and walked up the board sidewalk. I stepped eagerly, skipping over the cracks. We came to Sullivans' corner and turned off the sidewalk down the middle of the dirt road. 226 I made my way, balancing carefully in a narrow, wagon-wheel rut until we turned off into the alley by Dunn's. Mama was humming softly, and I began humming with her.. Suddenly her hand tightened on mine. | I looked up and saw that she was watching something in front of us. It lowered its head and pawed the ground, and I realized that it was Mr. Redmond's yearling steer. I sidled closer to Mama, and she said, "Don't be frightened. He probably won't bother us at all." "Can't we run back?" I asked, looking fearfully at the sheds lining the sides of the alley. "No. I'm sure he could run faster than we could," she said. "Tl boost you up on the shed and don't you dare get down until I tell you." Quickly she put her hands under my arms. "Now jump." I jumped and caught hold of the top of the shed. She pushed me again, and I was up on top. I steadied myself and then looked back just in time to see the steer charge forward head down, its horns spearing the moonlight. Mama braced herself on her heels and lifted her hands, crouching slightly as I'd seen the cowboys do at the rodeo. Just as the steer reached her, he swung his head intending to lift her on his horns, but, instead, she seized them with her two hands and turned him quickly to the side, trying to throw him to the ground. His head was twisted up and back, close against Mama's breast, and I could see the whites of his eyes as they rolled round and round as he snorted. "Please, Heavenly Father," I prayed, "make him fall down. Don't let him hurt Mama. Please make RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1959 him fall down. Oh, please don't let him hurt Mama." Mama's breath was coming in deep gasping sobs, and her arms were shaking from the terrible strain. _ Her hair had loosened from its pins and was falling forward over her face. I began to sob in terror that she was going to be killed, and then, all at once, it was - finished. 'The steer's legs flipped out from under him and he fell heavily on his side. Mama sank to her knees and fell forward on top of him. For a moment they lay there panting together, then he gave a great heave and staggered to his feet. Docilely he trotted off down the alley. I jumped down and ran to Mama, dropping beside her and lifting her head into my lap. Gently I stroked her tumbled hair back from her face and kissed her temple in the little hollow where it throbbed in and out. She opened her eyes and smiled to reassure me. She rested a little while longer, until her breathing was nearly back to normal, then she stood up. She took a deep breath and let it go in a long, trembling sigh, as she straightened her dress and pinned back her hair. "Oh, Mama," I cried. '""The Lord heard and answered my prayer." "Yes, Nettie," she answered. "He did." Then she put her hands on each side of my face and looked into my eyes. "You must remember, child, the Lord gives us strength and he expects us to help ourselves, too." She took my hand in hers and again we started home. Confidently I walked beside her. Once again we began to sing, "For the strength of the hills...." PRES Stag oh ea ho pea Josef Muench SPRING IN SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA Mount San Gorgonio in Background Nature Ky Prayer Helen Hurr Oh, human lips, be still awhile And hear all nature pray. The peaceful calm of twilight hour Says more than words can say. The silent whispers of its heart, From orchard shadows rise, The mighty praises of God's power, No word can realize. Oh, human heart, be humble here Where nature sings his praise, In peace and calm of twilight hour, That tell of his kind ways. The quiet stillness of this hour, With sacred reverence, Speaks softly of his tender love And his great eminence. Page 227 The Bishop's Wife Sylvia Probst Young ARIAN, with a little smile of amusement, watched her husband eating _ breakfast across the table. Apparently unaware of anything around him, he masterfully managed the eggs and bacon without taking his eyes from the morning paper. "Typical American husband," she observed, "without a paper in front of his face he couldn't enjoy the meal. Why, I could feed him burned toast and scorched bacon, and he wouldn't know the difference." Abruptly the paper was lowered, and two warm blue eyes smiled across at her. "T don't advise you try it, Mrs. C. Anyway, it's your fault for spoiling me these sixteen years." "TI really have, haven't I?" Contentment, warm as the early morning sunlight stealing through her kitchen window, filled-Marian's heart. She enjoyed the early breakfast with Don before the boys were up. It gave them a few minutes alone in the busy day, minutes of mutual understanding, whether for serious contemplation or even light banter as this morning. "Guess I'd better go." Don rose from the table, his glass still in hand. "Marian." "Yes?" "Will you be real busy today? I need to have a stencil cut. We've got to get a letter out about the budget. I've written it. There on my desk. And do you think you could go over to the church and run it off? We'll need about three Page 228 hundred copies. I want to get it out tomorrow, and I can't do it tonight, it's stake Priesthood meeting. "Oh, and will you call Dell and Willis, tell them I'll pick them up about 7:45? And, Marian, if you have time, there're a couple of letters of recommendation I should write, for Dean Clayton and Jack Sawyer. 'They want to become Eagles. You know, like the ones you've written before. 'They'll be coming for them, and I haven't had time." He came to stand beside her a moment then. "You're a honey." He planted a light kiss on the tip of her nose. "What would I do without you, Migs?" Migs—the pet name brought a rush of tender memories. It had been a long time since he had called her that. He had invented the name back in those World-War days when she had married him, a slim, dark-haired Marine. From the window she watched him getting into the car. His hair had slipped now, and was graying at the temples, and his figure had lost its boyish slimness. How often she had teased him lately about having just the right figure for a bishop. But he was always quick to remind her that her own hair had a tint of gray, and that constantly she was fighting to keep her waistline. How perfectly they understood each other. And how little the physical changes mattered when the depth of understanding and warmth of heart continued to grow. THE BISHOP'S WIFE MARIAN turned from the window. Life had been good to them. 'Temporally and spiritually, they had been greatly blessed. She gathered the dishes from the table and put them in the sink. "What's for breakfast, Mom?" Tousle-headed and _ sleepy-eyed, fifteen-year-old Dave stood tall and blond in the doorway. Marian smiled at him. It seemed only yesterday that he was a mere toddler. "Get the other boys up," she said, "T'll feed you all at once." As she cooked pancakes, Marian wondered if she would ever be able to fill her boys up. Fifteen, twelve, ten, and seven — they were all alike and yet so different. "Mark, you and Tommy do the dishes," she announced. "I've got some work to do for Daddy, and Dave you'd better get going, Dad will be expecting you. Denny, you play around here, now, so we'll know where you are." "Mama," it was Tommy calling from the den, "telephone." "He usually gets home about sixthirty, but it's Priesthood mecting tonight," she answered into the mouthpiece. "No, I really couldn't tell you. Why don't you call about seven o'clock?" Putting the phone back into its cradle, Marian noticed a book laid out upon the desk — Home Memories of President McKay. She remembered Don saying he had promised to lend it to old Brother Marlow. I could take it to him this morning after I've finished the mimeographing, she thought. At half-past ten, with Denny at her side so he wouldn't vex the other boys all morning, Marian was 229 ready to go to the church to run off Don's stencil. 'The scout letters had been written, and she had called the counselors' wives about the Priesthood appointment. Just as she she was ready to go, the Relief Society president called. Would Marian have the bishop call her tonight if he could? "You're about as busy as he is," Marian concluded, after she had talked to Sister Franson a few minutes. "T'll have him call you for sure." She made a note of it. Beside the memo pad was a thick envelope she hadn't noticed before. Mary Ann Parker's marriage license. Don had married her and the Hayden boy last week. It was ready to mail except for a stamp. She would stop at the post office. With the letter and her other things, Marian went out of the house. It was a morning of summer loveliness — pink and gold, and gently fragrant with the perfume of blossoming honey locusts. Mark and Tommy were working on a bicycle in the garage. "Tl be back in time to get your lunch," she told them. "I'd like you to do your practicing while I'm gone." "Do we have to?" Tommy protested. "Well, thanks for taking Denny, anyway,' Mark called as she drove out. In the cool quiet of the bishop's oftice, Marian sat at the table a moment before getting to the mimeographing. Here, in the quiet of this office, Don, as the bishop, made decisions and gave advice that constantly affected human lives. It was a great and humbling responsi- 230 bility to serve the Lord in such a capacity. Denny tugged at her arm. "Let's do the letters, Mama." He was intrigued as the printed sheets slid so quickly from under the roller. In a few minutes they had finished and were out again in the bright sunlight. LD Brother Marlow lived about a mile from town. His house, of stately gingerbread construction, the color of overcooked tomato soup, stood behind a row of tall Lombardy poplars, cool and reminiscent of a past generation. Brother Marlow was working in his petunia bed. He was a round, jolly little man, who, Denny declared, looked like Santa Claus. It pleased him when Marian wanted to know about his flowers. He took her from plant to plant explaining. Specially he was proud of his roses—hybrids, a dozen or more—he knew the name of every one. "Tl set you out some slips, Sister Crandall," he promised. Then he begged her to sit on his old porch, and he talked about his wife and the yesteryears. His great appreciation for the book and the homemade gingerbread that she brought made her realize anew how much personal satisfaction can be derived from the smallest act of kindness. The boys were clamoring for lunch when she got home, so it wasn't until later that she found the note by the telephone in Tommy's round, boyish scrawl. "Mama call IN 7-8926." Carefully she dialed the number, not remembering whose it was until she heard the voice on the other end. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1959 "Allie," she cried, "how nice. It's been ages since I've heard from you." "Marian, I've got the nicest surprise. I just got an airmail letter from the Bronsons. Howard has some sort of a business convention here in town on Saturday. They have to go again on Sunday, but Audrey would like us all to get together on Saturday night. Marian, I thought we could go to that new place up Pine Creek — Silver Lake Lodge. Do you know it's been ten years since we've seen Audrey?" Audrey — the name brought back memories of a summer at a Marine base in South Carolina, before the war ended. Audrey and Howard Bronson, Allie and Raymond Chesley, Don and she — the six of them had lived at Parris Island. The boys had served together in the same battery in the Pacific, and although the girls hadn't known each other until that summer, it hadn't taken long for them to become close friends. After the war, the Bronsons had gone back to the East Coast. Allie and Raymond lived only fifteen miles away, but Marian and Don hadn't gone out with them for more than a year. "Saturday night — that sounds wonderful," Marian told her friend. "Don doesn't have a thing that night, I'm sure. It'll be like old times, Allie." "Marian, could you and Don meet here at our place about seven so we won't be too late? It takes about half an hour to drive up there." "We'll be there," Marian promised. "Ill have Don leave the store early. I know he'll be as anxious to see you all as I am." THE BISHOP'S WIFE ARIAN was right in her predictions, Don was _ enthusiastic about the Saturday night plans. He was home from the store at five o'clock that night and helped Marian with a patio supper for the boys. Relaxing with the newspaper before getting ready, they recalled old times. "Remember the time we went to Jacksonville in Howard's old car?" 'Do VV'"' "T always thought we had fun at the beach in Savannah, though. Remember how Dave loved the water. He'd have walked night into the ocean if we hadn't held on to him every minute." "Speaking of Dave, remember how our landlord spanked him for spilling the watermelon seeds?" Don laughed. "Boy, wasn't I mad! I was ready to spank the old > man. "Dave was practically a baby — say, we'd better get going." Marian followed Don into their bedroom. "What shall I wear?" she asked. "I really haven't much choice." "But I like you in anything." "That's comforting." "How about that blue dress? I think you look real cute in it." "Okay. The blue it will be." They were almost ready, Marian was just helping Don with his cufflinks, when the phone rang. "Wonder who that is?' "Probably someone for the kids." "Dad," Dave called from the den, "telephone." "Know who it was, Dave?" Marian asked, following Don into the den. "IT don't know, Mom. It was a 231 woman's voice, sounded real worried." Marian looked at Don listening at thephone: Flis face looked grave. "IT surely will," she heard him say, "Ill come right away." "What is it?" she asked, when he turned from the phone. "Don, where are you going?" "Marian," he turned from the phone, "Ronnie Decker was hit by an automobile. Thrown from his bike. They don't know just how badly he was hurt. Sister Decker would like me to come to the hospital to administer to him." "Don, can't you send someone else? Dell and Willis could go." He shook his head. "It's my duty to go, Marian. She asked for me. Look, honey, you call Allie and tell her we'll be a little late, but I should be back from the hospital in half an hour. Tell them to go on and we'll come soon as we can." He cupped his hand under her chin, reading the dark disappointment in her eyes. "I'm the bishop, honey," he reminded her gently. "Sister Decker and Ronnie are members of my ward. I'll go get Dell, and I'll be back soon as I can." She watched him go and then turned back to the phone to call Allie. The voice that answered was as filled with disappointment as her own. "We'll wait for you," Allie said. "No, you mustn't do that. We'll come just as soon as Don gets back. He shouldn't be too long." An hour later the phone rang. It was Don calling from the hospital. "Marian, the doctors are still working with Ronnie. You don't know how sorry I am, honey, I 232 wanted to see the Bronsons, too. But we just couldn't leave. See you soon as I can." The boys were in the basement playing Ping-pong and watching television. Marian changed into a robe and went out on the patio to wait. A full moon was peeking above Mt. Olympus, and a gentle breeze stirred the locusts. Silly to nurse a disappointment on such a beautiful night. She turned her thoughts to the vacation they were planning. When Don finally came, she met him with a smile. He put his arms around her. Without saying a word, he knew that she understood his appreciation for her. "Ronnie's going to be all right," he said. "But he was badly battered up, several broken ribs, and his right leg really smashed. He looked so white and little when they brought him into the room." 'Well, he's only about eight, isn't he?" "That's right. But do you know what he said after we had administered to him? He said, "Thanks, Bishop, I know the Lord is with you.' "It made me feel so good, Marian. Sister Decker was so appreciative, and her husband — we had quite a talk. I really believe he was impressed." "He very well might have been, Don," she answered. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1959 HE next morning Marian learned how right their impression concerning Mr. Decker had been. It was how right their impression concerning Mr. Decker had been. It was still early when the phone rang. "Sister Crandall, this is Jean Decker," she heard the voice on the other end saying. "I want to tell you how much we appreciated having the bishop and Brother Walker administer to Ronnie last night. I know the Lord was with them. "And, Sister Crandall, you don't know what an impression they made on my husband. He's always been so disinterested in the Church. He never would come to meetings or anything. But last night he told me that he had no idea that a Mormon bishop was so devoted to his members. 'Maybe your church is worth investigating,' he said." There was a catch in her voice, "You don't know how much that means to me. I want to thank you so much for the sacrifices you make, too. It must be hard to have your husband gone so much, but I'll bet you're really proud to be the bishop's wife." Marian felt a sudden wave of love and gratitude fill her heart. Whatever sacrifices she made were doubly compensated by the rich blessings she enjoyed, she had always known that. "Oh, yes," she answered humbly, "I'm very proud to be the bishop's wife." Seven ITlonths of Color Eva Willes Wangsgaard Ward Linton = EASTER LILIES (Gyieneen plans and flower arrangements are composed with the same basic principles —contrast of size, height, and shape with harmony and unification, proper use of color and tones with balance for good composition. Color means many things to many people. You can get interesting effects with foliage alone or with brilliant blooms. 'There are thousands of plants in the world and it is fun to try everything you see, but effective gardens are created by planting a choice few. Often the simplest designs are the most attractive. Old favorite plants have been so improved upon that one can get a variety of stunning designs by different combinations of the same plant, for example, the old standby marigolds or zinnias. In landscaping a city lot the same principles hold true for the whole as for individual garden plots. A sample landscape is on a long, narrow lot (42' x 132') with a south front. Walking up the driveway (not shown on the diagram) on your right is a raised curb and three feet of land. 'This plot is set m narcissi. Since my purpose from end to end of my land-picture is to have continuous bloom, abundance of cutting flowers, and minimum labor, I learned which bulbs would survive the summer irrigating of plants sharing the same area with them. The King Alfred daffodils have to be teplaced almost annually, but the "paper-whites," "golden dwarfs," and "Cheerfulness" live on prolifically year after year. In the spring planting period, I divide my clumps of azalea chrysanthemums and replant them between the blooming bulbs. As the narcissi ripen and die back, the chrysanthemums grow and _ spread into graceful domes of deep green foliage hiding the blades, then burst into gorgeous bronze flowers in July and bloom on until snowfall. Facing the house, let us consider the foundation planting. 'The house is purple fire brick with a brick porch with brick corner pillars making an "L" with the front wall. At the right of the porch in the house wall is a seven-foot picture window. Under the window the cement walk is cut away leaving a small semicircular garden spot. 'The front walk also curves around the lawn to the driveway. On the far Page 233 234 ° 2 Diacs IRISES TILASS 1) uw wn < wo wu Ss G a3 an Zz P64 € g 8 Z 4 IRISES wi = |? Re) < PEONIES Sp eo - < ° 3 o} z 9 w Oo 4 ar < Pp) < LAWN z } > bs w 8 8 Oo x & < > o {9 Bai a > { 9 i a G o 2s ese J [é) a 8 PATIO € tg ix) ft be a 3 1) 0) Ww UH 0 HOUSE 4 7 < 4 a) 2 A 3 a ti fe) a Lb Ww a < o [~} (a) WS 2 PORCH 8 yn wW Ww [a4 3 ea 09 re) Ole o¢ 2 Oo OS Ow 2 GC og PART OF LAWN ee left, bordering the lawn, is a hedge of Peace roses. A curb also marks this property line and continues west of the porch and angles to the house. In the plot made by the right angle stands a juniper (pfitzRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1959 er) chosen because it tolerates shade, grows large and rapidly, and so soon screened off the unsightly area between the houses. N front of the porch I marked a garden plot which forms a lazy "S" with the curve in the cement walk, then followed it with parallel curves ending at the driveway. In this area are the foundation evergreens — in front of each pillar an upright, golden arborvitae. Between these, well-centered, is a deep green ball arborvitae, and filling the area on either side are two spreading arborvitae (Armstrong). Two other upright, golden arborvitae follow the swerve of the pathway and the earth between hides under spreading junipers known as "tams." Against the wall of the porch we attached a wire framework of nonrusting fencing for support for purple clematis vines. Between the vines and the evergreens we spaced two broad-leafed evergreen shrubs (Euonymus), because they fan out well, grow rapidly, bear beautiful glossy green broad leaves the year around, screen the wire from sight, and yield filtered shade from the fierce midday sun which might tax the strength of the slender vine stems. Another lovely fan of Euonymus drapes the wall under the high-set picture window and the curve beneath it is a wonderful place in which to show off the flamboyant "Emperor Red" tulips or the even larger "Gloria." All across the front of the house and porch, in the open spaces between shrubs, are azalea chrysanthemum roots ready to add their bronze domes to the picture as the summer progresses, covering SEVEN MONTHS OF COLOR Ward Linton PINKS the unsightly dwindling blades of the tulips. Also there was room for two tall-growing pink floribunda rosebushes strategically placed to fill in color between the height of the purple cffusion of the clematis and the low-arching bronze of chrysanthemums. Walking past the house down the driveway, you notice that privacy ls maintained by an upright golden arborvitae set even with the houseline. The area between the driveway and the neighbor's house is five feet, green all year with periwinkle (myrtle), and dotted with blue and white blossoms in May. A curved recess in the cement driveway permits a hedge of floribunda roses (set from slips) along the east foundation of the house. 'There is room for a border of "Emperor Red" tulips and chrysanthemums planted against the wall behind and between the roses which carry the bronze and pink theme along the house from tulip time to autumn. 235 The garage is set back eleven feet from the house. On the night, the myrtle garden gives way to a raised plot of perennial phlox shaded by Austrian copper sweetbriers and backed by maroon and purple clematis vines climbing the link fence. On the left, connected with the house, is a long patio (11' x 28') with an aluminum roof, white, to match the woodwork on the house. GINCE the lines of the house, garage, and patio are all straight and a curve lends itself to casier artistry, I broke up the straightness by cutting arcs in the lawn and planting native junipers in the triangles thus created, covering the exposed earth with spreading junipers, Armstrongs, and "tams." 'The fourfoot garden west of the patio is planted with shrubs, an English yew which thrives on shade, American Beauty June roses, and climbers. In spring, numerous tulips of the great Darwin type come up between Ward Linton NASTURTIUMS 236 the Boston ivy leaves, grow to a height from eighteen inches to thirty-two inches and spread a riot of color abroad, then creep back under the ivy leaves during the summer. The roses follow the west fence line all down the lot. We chose a link fence to get a feeling of spaciousness blending the gardens of the neighborhood and achieved privacy by planting taller shrubs, lilacs, forsythia, and altheas where necessary. The dense green of hydrangeas fills in the shady places. Behind the garage we described another arc in the lawn, built a slatted redwood canopy to filter the high noon sun, and specially prepared the soil for the begonia bed with a backdrop of vetch ivy on the garage wall. On the left, is a perennial garden of irises, lilies, and peonies partially shaded by two flowering crab trees — a Hopi with its single, deep-rose blossoms and jewellike fruits, and the Betchel, with its clusters of appleblossoms — pink Ward Linton SNOW FLURRY IRIS ELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1959 Don Knight VIRGINIA STOCK double flowers. There is still room for a small rectangle of perennials on the east end balancing with the lilies on the west. All the borders and vacant spots between large perennials are carpeted with Ballerina petunias as my color-scheme for the rear garden is set by the phlox in their luscious pastel tones. A row of phlox between the peony rows holds tall bushy racemes of gorgeous rose, purple, salmon, and maroon florets above the midsummer foliage of the peonies. All over the garden are naturalized clumps of hyacinths, tulips, and daffodils that spring up early and scatter generous cups of sunshine for March and April pick-ups that last well into May, then die down modestly under the summer foliage and abundant petunia blooms. HADE for the back lawn is provided by a Norway maple tree which was a wind-blown seedling SEVEN MONTHS OF COLOR seventeen years ago, and an interesting element of what's-around-thecorner surprise is achieved by a magnolia shrub which arches out gracefully to filter the afternoon sunshine before it reaches the begonias. Its heavy rose-washed white, tulip-like blossoms are exotic in season, and its glossy leaves are a full season's delight. The iris bed is a series of circles of patented varieties surrounding a circular raised garden in the center between the crabtrees. They, with the peonies, provide an abundance of cutting bloom when we need it most for Decoration Day, weddings, and graduations, and their simple foliage makes a fine carpeting beneath stands of planters filled with summer bloom. Between and among the background shrubs and lilacs, grow more and taller, fall-blooming chrysanthemums. 'These tolerate shade well and add to the green tones of the backdrop until autumn when they flame out in reds, bronzes, and golden tones upon the changing scene. In all shaded areas where flowers 237 are impractical, Boston and English ivy trail their beautifully cut, broad leaves under the shrubs, hiding earthy spots and tying everything together with their restful, pleasing greenness. A garden is a personal thing. What best suits your home will be determined by the architecture and by what you like, because people are seldom comfortable in uncongenial surroundings. 'These rules are general: plan as a unit, vary the individual parts, keep a_ color scheme, buy well, keep designs simple, and keep gardens wellgroomed. Buy perennials, especially peonies, by catalogue name, and choose only high-grade varieties. Never plant inferior plants just because they are cheap. Fewer and better specimens will yield more quickly and with lasting returns. If you cannot landscape a whole lot at once, buy a few plants each year, keeping the whole plan in mind and placing plants where they will be unified in the same growth cycle. Let your garden rate high in enjoyment and livability without. Sacrificing either utility or beauty. <= Wild Primrose Evelyn Fjeldsted Over furrowed fields beyond the town, Sleeping under snowflake down, The primrose wakes when winter wanes, And alone a queenly flower reigns. When sunset leaves a silver loom, To weave the light through hillside aisles, The evening primrose sends perfume, Across the land of prairie wilds. To the infinite design attuned, Wielding beauty's unseen scepter, A small, white flower tells of peace, And of earth the true inheritor. Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, April 1, and April 15, 1899 "For THE Rights OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN oF ALL Nations" MARCH 17th CELEBRATION IN PAROWAN: I wonder if there are any who care to read of the unpretentious ward of Parowan, or rather the Relief Society in this ward?... At two p. M. We had a program meeting, the time being occupied by a number of the elderly sisters speaking on the object of the Relief Society.... Some very appropriate recitations by the younger sisters with some well chosen songs and sentiments, making those present feel like saying, "It is good to be here.' In the evening the organization gave a ball, the members of the society contributing a dainty lunch.... Many of our members are young mothers whose first duty is to guard and guide the precious jewels an indulgent Parent has entrusted to them.... There is a certain magical link that seems to chain us together so that whenever we aim for anything in righteousness we are sure to gain it.... —E. Crane Watson FREEDOM: The very air we breathe is redolent of freedom. For this precious gift let us offer a tribute of praise from the altar of our hearts to the God of liberty. We can scarcely be too ardent in our enthusiasm concerning this goodly land, these beautiful vales in the desert where a band of weary Pilgrims found rest and peace after a long and toilsome journey across the bleak and desolate plains, having been wanderers like the children of Israel for an indefinite period because of their religious faith... And finally made their resting place by America's Great Dead Sea.. —Emmeline B. Wells YOUR CHILDREN Teach them your children round the hearth When evening fires burn clear; And in the fields of harvest mirth, And on the hills of deer. So shall each unforgotten word When far their loved ones roam, Call back the hearts which once it stirred To childhood's holy home... —Selected DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP'S GRADUATES: Sister Ellis R. Shipp is an M. D. And graduated from Philadelphia... The whole class, eight in number, passed the written examinations before the State Medical Board of Utah. They all averaged 80 per cent, and two of the students, Mrs. Emily G. Cluff and Miss Olea Shipp, were specifically mentioned as coming through with flying colors, these two getting ninety-five per cent.... Dr. Shipp cannot receive too much eulogy for the good work she is doing.... The students are scattered all through the country and do much good in the communities where they reside, in alleviating suffering, and what is better, instructing their patients how to prevent it.... Our successes have only caused us to feel more humble and thankful to our Heavenly Father, for we realize that he has given us the ability to understand and opened the way for us to devote our time to this gloriously interesting study.... —Emily G. Cluff Page 238 ELLE S. SPAFFORD, General President of Relief Society, left Salt Lake City, February 27th, for London to study the programs of the Women's Voluntary Service Organizations of England. Announcement of the trip came from President David O. McKay of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. President Spafford was invited to study these organizations by Dowager Marchioness of Reading, G. B. E. (Dame Grand Commander of the Order of the British Empire) and C. S. T. (of the Order of St. John of Jerusalem). Lady Reading is also a member of the House of Lords in the British Parliament. RS. MARY G. ROEBLING has recently been elected to the board of governors of the American Stock Exchange. This is the first time a woman has been a member of a governing body of a United States securities market. MRS. Eva Willes Wangsgaard, well-known poet, and frequent contributor to The Relief Society Magazine, has a new volume of poems, her fifth, just off the Wings Press. In this book, Shape of Earth, are poems of nature and of the human heart. Many have a deep religious feeling. The poems show delicacy, imagination, strength, and imagery. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon ISS Verla Birrell, assistant professor of art, University of Utah, is the author of The Textile Arts, published in January by Harper and Brothers. The volume is designed as a text, a reference book for anthropological, archacological, or historical research, or for studies in home economics or art. It will be equally useful as a guide to those interested in weaving, braiding, fabric design, fabric dyeing, and printing. Miss Birrell, a Latter-day Saint, has published poems and has received citations for her paintings. RS. MARY FRANCES MOSES recently died at the age of 100 years. She was the first woman appointed to a United States civil service position, a 'Treasury Department clerk at $900 a year — in 1883, six months after President Chester Arthur signed the Civil Service Act. LEANOR STOKER BOLL, sociologist, in collaboration with James H. S. Bossard, discusses interfaith marriages in 'the new book Why Marriages Go Wrong (Ronald Press, New York). 'The authors conclude that marriages involving people of different faiths are several times as likely to end in divorce as marriages between people of identical faiths. Page 239 EDITORIAL cm© VOL. 46 APRIL 1959 NO. 4 'School Shy Feelings r School thy feelings, oh my brother; Train thy warm impulsive soul; Do not its emotions smother, But let wisdom's voice control. 66 CHOOL thy feelings" is S the poet's gentle way of encouraging self-discipline. Discipline is not a severe word, yet it has been so frequently used in connection with punishment that to some people it has no other meaning than punishment. In reality, discipline is training that develops self-control, and indicates some submission to authority. In fact, the word discipline comes from the same root word as disciple. "'Disciple" brings to mind the followers of Christ. It follows, then, that one might think of discipline as training to be a follower of the teachings of the Savior. "Life is a gift of God and therefore divine. The proper use of this divinity impels men to become the master, not the slave, of nature" (President David O. McKay). When God granted to his children the glorious privilege of the right to choose, he did not leave them without help in choosing the right. He gave to each of them a spark of divinity. Brigham Young tells us that the will of man is the divinity God placed in his intelligent creatures. In another discourse he said: I have frequently said that the greatest endowment God ever gave to man is Page 240 —Charles W. Penrose good, sound, solid sense to know how to govern ourselves.... Let every person be determined, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, to overcome every besetment —to be the master of himself, that the Spirit God has put in your tabernacle shall tule... (Discourses of Brigham Young, pp. 265-266, 1941 Edition). The power of self-denial and the resultant self-mastery are guiding principles in character building. Some of the ordinary aspects of living, if carried to an excess, can be forces of evil. For example, a healthy appetite can be a physical benefit; but if this appetite becomes overindulgence in food the body suffers, and greed, an evil characteristic, may result. So it is with other instincts and passions; carried to an excess they may degrade instead of uplift. Christ "taught, and modern physiology and psychology confirm, that hate and jealousy, and other evil passions, destroy a man's physical vigor and efficiency" (President David O. Mckay, Pathways to Happiness, page 62). The abundant life, the life that leads to joy everlasting, is characterized by victory over self, and the acquisition of spirituality. All of the prophets have cautioned the people in matters of self-restraint. Some have taught that uncontrolled anger can so cloud the mind that EDITORIAL one is led to do and say many things that later cause regret. The Prophet Joseph Smith taught the early Relief Society sisters to be very tolerant of the faults of others, but extremely intolerant of their own shortcomings. He was concerned with the evil that can result from gossip and counseled them to control their tongues and not to spread unhappiness. He showed them the beauty of meekness of spirit, of humility, and of acting with loving kindness. The spirit of their homes, the happiness of their husbands and children, were of such importance as to require unselfish thoughtfulness of them, he taught. No one can teach others self-discipline unless he has achieved it himself. In no other relationship with others is the necessity of being exemplary so important. In his Letters and Social Aims, Emerson suggested: "Do not say things. What you are stands over you the while, and thunders so that I cannot hear what you say to the contrary." In no other instance is the effort to teach "Do as I say, not as I do" so unavailing. Our leaders teach that discipline is not a rod. President Brigham Young said that the use of the wood- 241 en rod could drive children away from their parents. "Where there is severity there is no affection of filial feelings." Love and understanding are the tools of disciplinary action. Parents must recognize that children will show some irritation at restraint. No doubt the parents have felt it themselves and should handle the situation with sympathy. Children welcome fair limitations of acceptable behavior, and profit by knowing what they may and should do. Firmness, not vacillation, provides the right teaching. Lovingly, kindly, but firmly, children must be taught obedience. "There can be no true happiness in the home without obedience—obedience obtained, not through physical force, but through the divine element of love" (President McKay). When one has learned to be obedient he has learned an important aspect of selfcontrol. Self-control leads to a more reverent living of the gospel; a real spirituality. Self-discipline lends strength and wisdom to leadership. Self-restraint aids in avoiding evil. All of them are parts of righteous living. —L. W. M. I atl Wake Ie Hazel Loomis Linger, lilacs, linger, Just a little longer. While I breathe the fragrance On the midnight air. But if you go, oh, lilacs, Go, while I am sleeping, Then wake me gently, lilacs, With a blossom in my hair. Ylotes TO THE FIELD Brigham Young University on Campus Leadership WVeoek June 6-10, 1959 yoN EF 6-10 of 1959 the doors of Bigham Young University will again open to the guests of the outstanding Leadership Week on the Provo Campus. Each year the Relief Society members have found the events of Leadership Week most interesting, enjoyable, and of great help in their year's program. 'Ihe General Board would like to direct the attention of the members of the Relief Society to the following events which, along with many others, will be of great value to Relief Society women: Relief Society Theology Lessons—'""The Doctrine and Covenants'' Relief Society Social Science Lessons—"Spiritual Living in the Nuclear Age" Relicf Society Literature Lessons—'America's Literature" Demonstrations on Food Preparation: 'The Bread Basket, Food with a Foreign Accent, Dress up Your Vegetables, Food Becomes You Food Storage Food for Large Groups Bazaar Helps Handicrafts and Work Day Helps Planning the Home Grounds for Better Living First Aid for the Ilome and Home Nursing Record Keeping in the Home Planning for Social Recreation Teaching Adults Family Hour Activities Arts and Crafts for Teachers of Adults Construction of Teaching Aids Storytelling and Dramatization Youth and Parents Share in Looking Ahead to Marriage Fashion 'Trends Bargains and Buys It's the Fit That Counts Stretching the Wardrobe How to Conduct Our Hymns Materials and Methods for Church Choirs Organ Instruction Writing for the Church Book Bait for the Family Every Home Should Have Three—Buy Wisely Ward Librarians' Workshop Chemistry, Electricity, Physics in the Home Fashion Shows Elder Roy W. Doxey, author of the theology lessons for the coming year, will teach the course on the Doctrine and Covenants; Elder Briant S. Jacobs, author of the Relief Society literature lessons, will teach the classes in America's Literature; and Elder Blaine M. Porter, author of the social Page 242 science lessons, will teach the course in Spiritual Living in the Nuclear Age. Many outstanding lectures and demonstrations on family life, in addition to the above list, will be given. Each day a devotional assembly will be held with excellent keynote speakers, and evening entertainments will climax each day. Detailed programs and registration cards may be obtained by writing to or calling at the Brigham Young University Adult Education and Extension Services in Provo, Utah. The information and teachings given at Leadership Week do not substitute for the official Relief Society instructions, but the material is beneficial as it supplements and enhances understanding. — Song for Fler Soul Ruth H. Chadwick I heard her singing, sitting there alone— The words I knew by heart, and yet before I saw her face or stepped inside her door, I felt a newborn grandeur in her tone. She had not heard my footsteps as I came, And so I watched and listened to her song. Her fragile body, braced to make it strong, Bent forward now above her quilting frame. Her bony fingers shook; her shoulders twitched. Then, gripping fast the frame, she forced her chair On wheels to move along the side, to where Another pattern waited to be stitched. And all the while, she sang without a break In melody or words, first soft and sweet, Then full and strong, and with each new repeat She sewed fresh courage there for her own sake. Her pain was eased by the tune she loved so well; The words, her testimony, "All is well!" << S od Friend Marion Winterbottom Te haunting melody of a lute was casting its spell over me as I watched the lonely river winding its way out to the sea. Then, suddenly, a jubilant symphony scemed to fill the land. The cntire world seemed beautiful as I clasped your outstretched hand; as we walked together the muddy river turned to dusky jade; the dark clouds vanished from my sight, and I no longer was afraid. I knew that this perfect harmony would never come to an end, because from that day until forever I had you for a frend. NOTES TO THE FIELD 243 rere inet etn The Right Circl ens rie * = JS; he R ight C: rcles Swing the corner like swinging on a gate— Now your own if you're not too late; Ring up four with all your might, All join in and circle right. GAILY the dancers circle and swing to the beat of the band and the command of the caller... Every happy heart in tune. What wholesome harmony; what wonderful fun... When everybody's in step and in tune, and when your partners in the dance are clean, healthy, wholesome people like yourself. Page 244 And so it is in real life, too. The circle is gay or dull, good or bad, as we find, or fail to find, the right partners and heed, or ignore, the command of the "caller." Life is a series of circles, beginning with the family circle. For this happy circle, when love and faith abide in the home, we give thanks to kind and wise parents. Working, playing, and praying together, the happy family moves from round to round in perfect rhythm. Next we widen our circles to include an ever-growing number of casual or close associates: chums of our youth, neighbors, schoolmates, club, social, business, and Church friends. Out of these circles come eventually our more enduring friendships, our lovers and sweethearts, and the permanent partners we will choose to help us start new family circles of our own. These permanent circles of association and affection will become for us, if we choose them wisely and keep in time and tune, the might circles. In them we will find true harmony and happiness. BE HONEST WITH YOURSELF >_> Old Li ogging Road Maude Rubin Across this sun-baked hillock, Along this rutted road, Once a lunging bullock Sweated and pulled his load.... Straight logs to build a cabin, A roof to shelter love, Walls against winter's chilling, A hearth-fire warm as clove. Left scattered in wide defiance, Among these quiet stones, Were seeds of those needled giants, Sleeping in resiny cones. They woke to forgiving greenness, Thickets of youngling trees, Children of fir and hemlocks, Where time and a rain-wet breeze Unsealed each varnished pod— Then left the rest to God.... THE RIGHT CIRCLES 245 Recipes trom the Gast Central States ITlission Submitted by Marie Curtis Richards ALABAMA PECAN PIE (Popular in Tennessee and Mississippi) Martha Joe Garrett, Memphis, Tennessee % ce. Sugar 2 tbsp. Melted butter 4 tbsp. Corn meal 1 c. Dark syrup 2 eggs 1 C. Pecans Line nine-inch pie pan with pastry and set aside. Measure and stir sugar and corn' meal together in mixing bowl. Mix in eggs, butter, and corn syrup. Stir in pecans, and pour into unbaked pie shell. Bake at 375° for thirty-five to forty minutes. If glass pan is used, reduce baking time five minutes. LEATHER BRITCHES (Dned String Beans—Cooked) Lucy Harmon, Charleston, West Virginia Choose good, full green beans. String (but do not break) on a heavy thread with a darning needle. Hang up to dry inside away from insects. Let dry until completely dry. (This takes several days in humid climate and not so long in hot, dry climate.) Then place in a container with lid and store in dry place. To cook Leather Britches, either soak overnight or pour boiling water over them, cover, and let stand a few minutes. Pour off water and put in pan with a little water, salt to taste, season with ham hock or bacon. Cook over low flame for five or six hours. Add a little water as needed. Let the water all cook away before serving. These are delicious in the wintertime with corn bread. SourrreL Wirn Pork Cuors (A Delicacy in the South) Lucy Harmon, Charleston, West Virginia Put a couple of pork chops in bottom of pan. Dress and cut squirrel and place on top of pork chops. Cover with water. Salt and pepper to taste. Cook slowly until tender and the water is cooked away, and pork chops fry. Let brown well. Pour a little water (2 or 3 spoonfuls) and cover for a few seconds. This makes its own brown gravy. Friep Piss Cook dried fruit in very little water until tender. Add sugar to taste. Cool. Dough: 1 c. Flour % tsp. Salt "2 ¢. Shortening 2 tbsp. Cold water Mix flour, salt, and shortening until pieces are about the size of small peas. Add cold water and mix. Handle as little as possible. Wrap in wax paper and chill. When ready to use pinch off picces to make about a three-inch circle when rolled. Roll on floured board. Put a tablespoon of fruit on one side and pull dough over and pinch edges together with a fork. Fry in deep, hot fat. Brown on one side and then the other. When done, drain on paper towels to remove cxcess fat. Page 246 RECIPES FROM THE EAST CENTRAL STATES MISSION 247 Lazy Pir Melt one-fourth pound butter or other shortening in casserole dish. (A deep dish to prevent spilling should be used.) Mix together the following ingredients: 1 ¢. Flour 1 tbsp. Baking powder 1 Cc. Sugar 24 c. Milk Pour the above into melted butter. (Distribute evenly, but do not stir!) Add: 2% c. Cooked fruit with syrup (sweetened to taste). Do not mix fruit and syrup when adding to casserole, just pour it in as evenly as possible. You will be surprised at how the fruit takes its place and the crust comes to the top by itself. Cook at 350° I'. For forty-five minutes or until browned nicely. Makes six large servings or eight small ones. Serve plain or with ice cream or whipped cream. (Note: With some canned fruit, if syrup is thicker, you may need to add one-half cup of water.) SwEeET Potato CASSEROLE Mrs. Thompson Crawford, Fairmont, West Virginia (Original Recipe ) 1 medium-sized can swect potatoes 4 tbsp. Orange juice ' c. Brown sugar 1 tsp. Salt 4 tbsp. Butter or other shortening "% C. Raisins 1 tbsp. Grated orange rind nuts as desired Mash sweet potatoes with fork. Add all other ingredients and mix well together. Put into casserole and bake in 350° oven about thirty minutes. ORANGE SUGAR COOKIES Mrs. Thompson Crawford, Fairmont, West Virginia (Original Recipe) %% c, shortening 3 tsp. Baking powder 1% c. Sugar 1 tsp. Salt 2 eggs grated rind of 1 medium-sized orange 3 ¢. Flour 4 tbsp. Orange juice Cream shortening, sugar, and eggs together. Add sifted dry ingredients to first mixture along with orange juice and rind. Chill. Roll out or use cookie press. Bake in 350° oven for ten to fifteen minutes. Burrerscotcu PuppING Franklin, West Virginia, Relief Society 2 c. Brown sugar % c. Butter 1 qt. Cold water Boil down to a light syrup in a saucepan and then beat the mixture. Second Mixture 2 eggs 1 c. Sweet milk 1 c. White sugar 2 tsp. Baking powder 2 tbsp. Vanilla 2% c¢. Sifted flour Beat eggs and sugar and add vanilla and milk. Then add the flour and baking powder. Put the dough in the syrup and set it in the oven to bake until brown. Looks like a cake. Makes four to six servings. 248 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1959 Op FasuionepD Meat PuppING Ruby Ederbum, Clarksburg, West Virginia 1 hog's head corn meal (to thicken as desired) 1 hog's liver salt and pepper to taste Skin hog's head and cut in pieces. Remove the tongue and scald to remove outer layer. Cook in a large kettle until meat is tender. Cook liver in separate pan and don't save broth off the liver. Grind the cooked meat together. In the broth left from the hog's head, add enough corn meal to thicken and cook at least one hour. After the hour, add salt and pepper to taste and add ground meat and boil another hour, stirring frequently. When done, pour in pans and grease will cover top. When © cold slice and fry. Will keep for over a month if in cool place. Any other bones left over from butchering may be cooked with the hog's head as it gives a better flavor. Extra scraps of meat may be added. Green ToMATO Kraut Samantha Hayes, Webster Springs, West Virginia Slice 1 peck green tomatoes and put in granite dishpan. Sprinkle three cups salt over this and let stand over night. Next day drain the green water off and chop the tomatoes fine. Then cut up enough cabbage to measure the same, and mix all together. Use a stone jar to pack it in. Put in a thin layer of coarse salt and a layer of the mixture. 'Then another layer of salt and mixture, until you complete the amount you want to make. Then put on weights to hold it under the brine. I use a cloth bag to put it in and no mold can get to the tomato kraut. This will soon sour and be ready to eat. The salt will raise the brine. Do not add water. When it is sour enough, you can take it out and heat it and can it in glass jars, as you would any other food, and seal it. Hot Pepper Kraut Samantha Hayes, Webster Springs, West Virginia Cut 12 hot peppers and 1 gallon of cabbage fine and mix together well. Sterilize a stone jar. Use a cloth bag and put a thin Jayer of salt and then half of the cabbage and peppers. Then another layer of salt and another layer of cabbage and peppers. Place weights on mixture to hold it down in the brine. When the mixture sours, it can be heated and canned and sealed, as other foods. Drain off green brine before serving Or canning. If this recipe is too hot for your taste, use fewer peppers. I make both kinds, and we like both of them. Words Grace Ingles Frost H°' careful we should be of the words that we speak. Words resemble seeds. Good seeds capable of producing a profitable harvest, are often destroyed by seeds with wild tendencies. It is just so with words. Sow words of beauty in receptive minds and they will bring forth a bounteous, beautiful harvest; but beware of the untamed word. Like seeds, one wild word can destroy your entire planting. Guard Your Family—Fight Cancer With a Checkup and a Check Submitted by Esther Allegretti American Cancer Society, Inc. Ig is reassuring to know that today one cancer patient in three is being saved. A few years ago only one in four was saved. But we can do better. Half of those who get cancer could be saved if we guard ourselves and our families with thoughtful attention to health checkups and speedy medical attention at the earliest sign of a symptom. You can help the American Cancer Society in its crusade against the disease by sending a generous check to your local unit of the Society. Remember—the checkup is to guard your family now—the check will guard their future. No matter how diverse people may be in their attitudes and ways of life, they are united in a determination to banish one of mankind's worst enemies—cancer. Americans have backed this determination by working as volunteers for, and by their contributions to, the American Cancer Society. Fighting cancer costs money. In the last ten years the American people contributed $211,441,437 to the American Cancer Society for this cause. It has brought results. 'There are 800,000 Americans who have reason to thank the ACS for the balanced research, education, and service programs which helped save their lives. 'These 800,000 once had cancer and were cured. Cancer affects rich and poor, office, factory, and professional worker alike. That's why they stand shoulder to shoulder in the great crusade to wipe out cancer. Men and women stricken with cancer lose many millions of dollars in earnings and in hospital bills. Yet funds available for cancer research are a fraction of this cost. We have it in our power to hasten the greatest V-Day humanity will ever know—the day when nobody has to die of cancer. Expensive? Yes, but some of the best things in life are costly. When you're asked for a donation this April, remember you have an opportunity to acquire some day, for your own family, and all families everywhere, one of the greatest gifts of life—freedom from cancer. A > Benediction Thelma Ireland She kneels beside her little bed, Her wee hands clasped in prayer. Then trusting him, she falls asleep. There is a sermon there. Page 249 The Day I Turned Eight Ilene H. Kingsbury 'he rain beat on my head. It struck my braids until they hung sodden. From my belted middle to my shoeless feet, I was quivering as the aspen leaves whose shade flickered over my face. This standing in a pond of spring water was almost more than I had bargained for. The ripples on its clear surface answered to the pelting April rain with dancing splashes and ever-widening circles. The persuasive tug of the water almost pulled me over on my face. Only the steady arm of my father kept me from floating away. This was the moment of my baptism. The day was warm for the season or we would not have started out on this serious errand. Our home on the desert, nearly a hundred miles away, had never given us the luxury of enough water for outdoor shower baths, let alone a swimming hole. And this was my first experience in deep water. No extravagant use of this precious substance was a maxim with us. For many years it was carried from artesian wells in wooden barrels. This, then explained our visit to Grandma's in time for the spring baptismal day in the pond at the outskirts of her Southern Utah town. From Grandma's to the meetinghouse and from there, in converging buggies, perhaps a dozen, we had headed for the pond. It was only after the horses were tied to the fence that we felt a little moisture on our faces and saw it fall in the dust and kick up miniature clouds at our feet. But, as the sun still Page 250 shone and the spot shower would soon move on down the valley, the plans of yesterday went forward. All my life up to that day, I had been taught the magic of becoming eight. For then I could be baptized. So, in the nurturing rain, which did not cease its gentle falling, we hurried to a leanto on the north side of the deserted ranch house to prepare ourselves for the event. Once under cover, my teeth began to chatter, not with cold, but with fear of the next few minutes. I sneaked a glance at one of my cousins, and at four or five other girls my age. They had already begun to peel off their dresses and were down to their long underwear. This ankle length garment of ribbed cotton, some of it combed soft on the skin side, reached to the shoe tops; and on the arms, to the elbows. The style had been designed for a wrist length, but during the winter most of us had begged our mothers to cut them off short, meaning to the elbows. Where this request had failed, some of us had done it ourselves back of the kitchen stove on bathing nights, and then stood the consequences. One could tell by our faces we wished it were at least May the first. On that great day we could shed this cocoon type encasement and, for perhaps a half year, be lightly clad either in vest and bloomers of woven cotton, elastic threaded at waist and knee; or in store pants of white knit. But today, April 25th, was a week before the THE DAY 1} TURNED EIGHT historic change to lighter garments, and even this momentous occasion hadn't warranted summer underwear. Modesty took over the scene at this point, and each girl hid herself behind a towel while she changed to a white dress, in two cases, several sizes too big. 'Then, each stepped cautiously over the board floor and stretched around the door frame to see whether the great outside world was looking her way. EVERAL mothers, solicitous of every detail, stood in the kitchen path and motioned us to hurry, didn't we know the rain might come down harder any minute? Three of us made it safely out of the house; but the fourth caught the hem of her gathered skirt on the loosened wire screen. This had unwoven itself in long rippling tendrils, each hanging out at odd angles as unbraided hair does when we say electricity is combed through it. This little girl, entangled in the wire, became frantic as a caged squirrel. She snatched her dress so quickly it billowed out around the screen and curled against the frame. One couldn't tell whether she was going out or coming in. The next two girls, stalled in their ceremonial march, bent to help her extricate the folds, but too many hands only made the matter worse. They shrugged off all responsibility then, and ran around her to catch up with the others. 'These first, prompt, unimpeded ones turned around to question the delay, couldn't decide where their duty lay; but upon hearing their mothers commanding them to come on, they took to their steady course down the path. 251 In after years I asked the entangled one how she felt at the moment of desertion, and she said, "So hopeless! What if I never got loosened in time to be baptized. Then the Lord would never forgive me for stealing Grandma's candy from the jar in her parlor." She did unleash herself, however, and came running, a bit tear-stained, to catch up, and pridefully clutching the torn hem to hide it. Then what happened made someone quote "the last shall be first," thought from a Sunday School lesson. 'The girl's name was Adams, and she headed the line! Here we were, tremblingly standing, a bit breathless, ready for the great moment; but where were the boys? Sounds of a minor battle over in the tool shed gave notice of where they were, all right. But why weren't they ready? One of the fathers hastened to the ruction — it was hard to determine from his face and stride whether by now he wanted to quell the trouble or join in and beat up the noisy offenders. The upsurge of sound as he opened the door was cut off with his stern presence and, in short order, a half dozen boys came filing out, each looking temporarily guilty, or perhaps it was embarrassment at, for once, being dressed all in white. They, at least, wore better fitting outfits than the girls, and only the color seemed odd. Of course, we all knew what we were about, this baptism by immersion, but a stranger to our ways would have been somewhat puzzled. His enlightenment would have been less likely upon hearing. Two bold remarks. The biggest boy, by a head, evidently long over the eight-year limit, stated louder than. 252 boys ever realize they are talking, "I decided I'd get baptized today, even if I had to do it myself in the bathtub!" His friend, standing near, boasted, "If they just don't hold me under more than two minutes, I can hold my breath!" One could see straight off that someone along the line had neglected to inform the lads that eight years was the time to know right from wrong. Immersion, complete for an instant only, was the commanded form to symbolize a new birth into a life of consecration toward better ways. Also, the brief ceremony, packed with deep spiritual significance, was to be loved, not feared. As young as I was, I could see twelve children with as many hopes and fears showing all over their faces. 'That is, except for one, a little Indian boy, totally calm, absolutely noncommittal, always on the outside of the group, alone in a white man's ceremony. I guessed his parents were the Pahutes, motionless as totems, a ways off under a cottonwood tree. I was grown before I realized how sensitive this race is to the eyes of outsiders, white or red. My turn to enter the waters came before I could quite understand why the biggest boy came on the bank blubbering, or why the littlest girl seemed almost transported to angelic bliss at her moment of purity. Nor could I understand why the pudgy blond girl should have been shaking as with laughter; or for that matter, why in middle age, she is still chuckling over life. All of us resembled soaked weeds— hair streaming, straightened, tangled, eyelashes dewy and gathered in RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1959 beauty's up-length — soggy clothing clinging in shapeless drapes and utterly refusing to stand out from our formless selves. Each looked at each with the purest inward touch we would probably ever have again. We knew our sins had been forgiven us, and we solemnly believed we never could offend a soul, if we lived to be a' hundred. Most of us felt considerably older than we had an hour earlier. Age eight is truly a marvel in mankind's progress. We were all well launched on the path to heaven, and we knew at the end of the journey all of us would be there together. Such was our faith, repentance, and baptism. UICKLY we ran to the leanto. Now that it was all over, except of course our confirmation on next Fast Sunday, we were in haste to join our parents and relatives who already were roaming __restlessly about the grounds. Some of the older ones named the year they, too, had come here to be baptized. A couple of very little boys spoke up. They didn't think the pond was anything but a swimming hole. The elder in charge hoped that one day a font would be built within a new meetinghouse. His dream showed in his eyes. As we entered the house, we looked back just in time to see three boys racing for a surrey at the gate. And, still sopping wet, each with his dry clothes under his arm and his shoes tied together and slung around his neck, off they drove for town. One boy yelled back, "Why stop to dress when it is raining anyway?" This seemed reasonable, except THE DAY I TURNED EIGHT that to little girls, in a chattering state of wetness and excitement, the delay for getting dressed was more urgent. And besides, we thought, what mother would let girls drive about soaking wet! That was just for boys, we guessed. By the time we drew on our long stockings over our damp skin and crumpled underwear and laced our high-topped shoes, all the boys and their families had left, and most of the remaining parents were calling us to hurry. In a way, I hated to leave. I felt a little sad, just the way my spirits fell when we said goodbye to Grandma after a visit or when Christmas day was finally over, and it wouldn't happen again for a whole, interminable year. As we climbed in the buggy and the harness slapped the mare to signal motion toward home, we looked back at the pond. The April rain was strengthening its fall, a gust of canyon wind ruffled its surface. With a little shiver I looked for comfort to Mother and Grand- 253 ma sitting in the front seat. They were happy to be on the way home again. 'heir concern, then, was about my birthday cake which they hoped someone had thought to take out of the oven. It was then I knew I was still a little girl, and not so terribly grownup after all; for I got so hungry for that cake that I nearly jumped out of the buggy and ran ahead of the horse. When the whole day was over: rain, baptism, cake, and all, I tried to think of the most wonderful thing to remember when [ got real old, say twenty-five. I settled for the moment in the pond, the deep water gently swaying me and the loving arms of my father steadying me as he began to talk to the Lord in my behalf. It all came back, each detail — as it has most of my numerous birthdays — the next morning when Mother combed my hair. My braids were still damp from the rain and the water in the pond — that day I turned eight. _> My Love Ls Young Maixene Jennings My love is young, and, oh, so filled with needing! For comfort, warmth, and strength he turns to me; His tiny voice that asks of me his feeding Names me his orbit's queen, his certainty. My love is small, but, oh, so full of growing! His dimpled charm thrives on the racing days; His shrinking clothes contrive to keep me sewing, While healthy pounds revise his baby ways. My love is mine, but, oh, so busy sleeping! His waking hours most precious hours I've known! My cup is full, but I am close to weeping— The more he grows the less he is my own! You Can Sew—XIV —Childrens Clothes —Ynfants and Soddlers Jean R. Jennings T is a wise woman, indeed, who approaches the making of a layette with a practical and not a sentimental plan. Too often young mothers let their feelings run away with them and buy entirely too many and too frivolous clothes for the coming baby. The kinds and number of garments are matters of personal decision, but wise mothers plan for very few infants' clothes. Babies grow fast and are soon too large for the first tiny clothes. Often friends send gifts, and soon there is much more for the baby than can ever be needed. When selecting clothing for the infant, keep these three important points in mind: the garments must be comfortable; they must be easy to launder; they must be easy to slip on and off. To insure perfect comfort in infants' and small tots' clothing, first make sure the fabrics are soft. Fine nainsook, lawn, batiste, soft flannel, and soft crepe are satisfactory. Many of the new synthetic fabrics are non-absorbent and do not readily ventilate, so are, therefore, not as good for the wee ones. Do not use any materials that will, in any way, irritate sensitive skin. Rough textures and stiff or starchy types are a very poor choice for children. In most cases, especially for night clothes, those that tie are better than those that button. Give preference to a front closing and to taglan sleeves which will give freePage 254 dom and more comfort than set-in sleeves. Avoid tiny collars that crumple up around the neck, no matter how cute they are. Resist garments that slip over the head. They are hard to adjust and hard to iron. Young mothers with growing families can be kind to themselves by keeping children's clothes simple and uncluttered so they are easy to launder. 'The fewer the frills for everyday clothes the better. When baby begins to crawl and learn to walk, his clothes need special consideration. Plan garments which allow the greatest freedom for getting around on hands and knees and taking the first steps. Both girls and boys fare better in a cover-all type of garment that is buttoned at the crotch for easy changing. At this stage they are difficult to keep clean and frequent changes are necessary, so simplicity is the keynote for comfort. Make such garments in_ pretty colors which can be washed often. Soft, flexible fabrics, with smooth surfaces which do not pick up dirt, should be used. They should always be pre-shrunk and color-fast. All seams should be narrow, flat, and smooth. All stitching should be very secure as these clothes will receive hard wear. Buttons and buttonholes must stay fast and keep their shape. They will be subjected to a great deal of buttoning and unbuttoning. To encourage self-reliance in children, fastenings and plackets should YOU CAN SEW — XIV — CHILDREN'S CLOTHES — INFANTS AND TODDLERS be in front within easy reach. Avoid very large or very small buttons for the child who is ready to learn to dress himself. Zippers and hooks and eyes are taboo as they are too difficult for tiny fingers. Gripper fasteners are good as the child gets a little older. All garments should have as few fastenings as possible. Pajamas or nightgowns are made on the same principle as daytime clothes. 'They should be sturdy, with firm fastenings, be easy to get in and out of, and easy to launder. They should be made in comfortable fabrics that wear well. Fashion should be important in night clothes as in day clothes. Children can look adorable in their night things if fabrics are attractive and well chosen and the styles becoming. Cotton crepe for summer wear and cotton flannel and jersey for winter are ideal fabrics. They are casily washed and need little or no ironing. Because infants' and_ toddlers' clothes get hard wear and need frequent laundering, plain seams are 255 not satisfactory for use in their construction. Two sturdier-type seams that are most frequently used are the French seam and the flat fell seam. For infants' and little girls' dresses, slips, and gowns, the French seam is best. For play clothes and pajamas, the fell seam serves well. To make a French seam lay the fabric edges together, right side out. Pin or baste, then stitch, taking out half the seam allowance. 'Trim raw edges, then press the seam open or to one side. Turn to the wrong side and crease on the line of stitching. Stitch along the seam line and so enclose the raw edges. To make a flat fell seam begin by pinning or basting the seam from the right side and stitch. Press flat. Trim away one edge to within 1/4 inch of the seam line. Turn the other edge under and pin or baste flat so the raw edge is covered. Stitch close to the fold. Make extra long plackets in children's clothes, using methods discussed in Article XII, in The Relief Society Magazine for February 1959. <i _ G randma 'Reminisces Elsie McKinnon Strachan Sometimes, when loneliness offset my fear Of horse and rig, I'd call the children in, Would scrub each elbow, wash each earth-stained ear, And dress them party-clean from toe to chin. Then from the silent barn, I'd fetch Old Ned, Who, waiting always, lonely and forsaken, Returned my awkward words with toss of head And gentle whinnies.... Fearful (but unshaken) With trembling hands, I'd put the bridle on, Gingerly fasten the tugs to whippletree— Quieting the children's noise... My thoughts upon That neighbor five miles west. Unwaveringly, I'd call '""Giddap!" jarring the buggy's load, And leave my loneliness along the road. Great-Grandmother's Notebook Arlene D. T had been one of "those" days from the very beginning Janine sighed heavily. First little Joey had awakened early with a slight fever, cross and fretful, and all that would pacify him was to rock him slowly in the rocking chair. Finally he had fallen asleep, but Janine's arm where his head had rested was stiff and tired. 'Then Jenny had spilled a whole quart of milk across the newly waxed kitchen floor and now, not fifteen minutes later, Jenny was skipping toward her, leaving behind a trail of muddy little footprints. In her hands she was holding up a quart jar with a captive butterfly lifting lovely fragile wings to beat against the sides. "Oh, lookee, Mommie," she exclaimed, her small five-year-old face alight with excitement. "Down in the garden I found this andI.. "Oh, Jenny, Jenny, I told you not to go down in that garden. I just watered last night. Now look at your shoes and my floor. Whatever am I going to do with you? Go outside and sit down on the porch this very instant. And stay there!" Jenny's eager little face fell, and she glanced from the glossy-winged butterfly to her muddy footprints, and then she quietly turned and slipped back out the door, clutching her jar tightly. Janine was just wiping up the mud when she heard Dave talking to Jenny outside. His voice and his step on the doorsill were heavier than usual, and when her eyes met his she knew that he hadn't received Page 256 Cloward his raise. They wouldn't be able to buy the lovely brick rambler home up in the new section of town after all. The beautiful home that they had so wanted. "Tm sorry," Dave murmured, seeking her eyes for some answer. Janine covered her mouth with her hand and fled quickly to the kitchen sink, where she silently turned on the water tap full force and began noisily rattling the dishes. She had wanted that house so! Nothing ever seemed to turn out nght. Dave stood for a moment watching her, and then turned away, his broad shoulders bent dejectedly, his eyes sad. "I tried. Well I... Im on my way now to meet a client." Janine didn't reply and he left, his fect even heavier than when he had come. Just thinking about the disappointment brought new tears to her eyes, and she rubbed an arm angrily across her hot forehead, letting a soapy dish slip with a crash to the floor. Just then, at as miserable and untimely a pace as everything else that day, the telephone rang. Snatching up a towel, she dried her hands furiously, trying to blink back the tears and clear the sob in the middle of her throat. At the sweet, familiar sound of her mother's voice, Janine broke out into loud and uncontrollable sobs, telling the woes of her terrible day somewhat incoherently into the phone. Right in the middle of telling about Dave's not getting the raise GREAT-GRANDMOTHER'S NOTEBOOK and the beautiful home that they wouldn't be able to have, Mother interrupted gently. "It sounds, dear, as if today is the day that I need to turn over to you my grandmother's notes." Janine sniffed. "Notes?" "Yes. I think perhaps it would be of a great deal of help to you. My mother gave this little notebook to me when I was young and newly married, and suggested that I pass it on to you on a day that seemed to be extra trying. Either you've been very lucky darling, or very secretive, because I haven't found the right occasion until today. [ll be nght over. Just sit down and wait for me." The receiver clicked and Janine sat staring at the instrument with bewildered eyes. Whatever could some notes written by her greatgrandmother have to do with her and all the things that had gone wrong! A notebook _ certainly couldn't solve a thing. Janine laid the phone back into its cradle slowly and walked wearily into the living room, sinking dejectedly into the nearest soft chair. She shut her eyes, and a few hot tears slid from beneath her eyelids and down her cheeks. 'Today was a day she wished that she could have missed. Not one nice thing had happened. She thought that she would have been better to have stayed in bed. Janine was still there when her mother arrived twenty minutes later, carrying a very small cedar chest. She set the little chest on Janine's lap and smiled. "Here, dear. This belonged to your great-grandmother Elizabeth. She came across the plains with a handcart company in 1856, and with 257 her she brought this chest. I want you to read the little notebook inside, and I promise you you will reread it many times during your life. See you tomorrow, Janine. Goodbye." Her mother was out the door before the astonished young woman could open her mouth to protest. After the sound of her mother's car had died away down the street, Janine looked curiously at the little cedar chest. On the lid was a beautifully carved rose, surrounded by dainty leaf-like designs, and through the pattern was engraved "To My Beloved Beth." Shyly, almost humbly, Janine unfastened the aging brass fastener and lifted the lid. Inside lay an old, yellowed notebook, and she picked it up carefully. The first page was so faded that she had to read slowly in order to make out the words, but as she did so, the tears left her eyes and she became quite lost in the words before her. CS ¢éTT is the last of May, 1856, and we are almost ready to begin our long journey. Charles, my husband, has the handcart packed to the brim, and we are going to try to take along our big beautiful mahogany bedstead that was given to us on our wedding day. We hope to start our new home with this dearly beloved bedstead, for somehow a home wouldn't seem to be a home without it. I've wrapped it very carefully in the heaviest quilt I could find to keep it free from dust and scratches. All of our other things, my china, and the lovely maple dining set we have given to our family and friends we are leaving behind. "Charles and the other men have 258 floated the carts across the river on the Council Bluffs ferry. The ferty is a fascinating flat-bottomed boat, built to convey travelers to the other side. They are returning now for the other women, myself, our son Joseph, and our two daughters, Melissa and Mary. "June — The heat is already oppressive, and my calico dress is long since faded from the sun. Dust rises in heavy clouds from the wheels of the carts ahead of us and coats our skin. Melissa's golden curls are gray with it, and when I shake my bonnet it makes a little dust storm of its own. I grieve for my baby, Mary. How uncomfortable and hot she is. Dear Mary, who longs to kick and coo, and must be held so tightly in my arms all day long. The blanket has to be held so close about her to protect the soft, delicate skin from the blistering sun. 6¢("HARLES, dear Charles, strains so hard at the cart to pull it over rocks and through the deep dust, and Joseph and Melissa are so often thirsty, with no water to give them. Thank the dear Lord for the joy and love in our hearts, and for the glorious light of his gospel. For how, without this, could my children point out with glee the swift spring of the wild hare, the beauty of the distant golden sunset, and then turn to see their father's back straighten and his eyes become alert? Baby Mary, so sweet to smile at the songs I sing. The songs that give wings to our weary feet. And Charles, so strong his arms, so reassuring his kind smile. "July — It is finally night. As I sit here in our tent I can hear the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1959 raindrops drumming steadily on the canvas. The rain hasn't let up for almost a week. It is pitch black, except for my little tallow candle which flickers so that it is difficult to write. My family is at last scttled for the night. Dear Joseph is flopped out flat, with arms spread above his head and his little hands open and relaxed. Melissa is curled up like a kitten with her thumb popped into her rosy mouth, and Mary sleeps, peacefully stretching. Charles is so tired. Even in sleep his bronzed face is lined — lines around his eyes from squinting against the sun, tired lines, gentle lines, worried lines. "Two days ago, however, I lifted a burden from his back. The mud was so deep that it was over my knees, and the cart wheels were so caked that we could scarcely pull it. I laid my Mary deep in the cart and together we pulled and pushed and scraped mud from the rims, but it was no use, the cart was too heavily loaded to push any further. It had rained for four days then, and showed no signs of letting up. We had to reach higher ground. And so quietly I told Charles that our bedstead must go, that I wouldn't let him struggle with such a heavy burden any longer for my sake. "Silently we lifted all of our bedding and provisions out of the cart onto a canvas until we came to the big mahogany bedstead. How my heart cried to see Charles heave out our precious little bit of home, remove the quilt, and set it down so painstakingly gentle into the deep black mud. "Rain pelted down our faces and dripped off our clothes as we stood GREAT-GRANDMOTHER'S NOTEBOOK there, looking down at the shiny mahogany begin to glisten with raindrops. Charles looked at me, so deeply, and with such _heartbreaking sympathy that I had to show him that although it hurt terribly, it didn't really matter. "T touched his wet arm with my hand, and | smiled through the rain and said, "Darling Charles, we were wrong. That bedstead wasn't what it takes to make a home. We don't need it really, after all. Home, my darling, is where you and I and our babies are.' "And it is true. We left our beautiful bedstead back along the muddy trail in the rain, but we are all here, tucked safely within our tent with the sound of soothing rain pattering above us and we are really at home —together." me OF Oe OK ANINE was crying when she finished reading the yellowed notebook, but now her tears were different from the tears that she had shed earlier. She brought the small book up caressingly against her cheek. "Thank you, Great-grandmother. Thank you." She stood up, clutching it against her breast. Dave had heavy burdens, too, although they were not quite the same as a handcart. And what had she done to help to lighten them? What comfort had she given him? None! She had been 259 too engrossed in her own disappointment to reach out and help him with his. No, she thought, she would probably never be called upon to leave a beloved bedstead along a muddy trail, but, perhaps, she might need to abandon a few too high-priced ideas for her husband's broad shoulders to carry. In fact, this very evening when Dave returned she would try to show him, with the help of a wise great-grandmother, that they were also really at home by being together and that was all that mattered. Slowly, gently, she replaced the notebook in the little chest. She would read it often, as her mother had promised her that she would. Placing the chest upon the mantel, she tiptoed to the screen door and opened it quietly. Jenny was still sitting there, holding the jar, but her eyes were uninterested now, and her tiny feet drummed nervously on the step. Somewhere along the way, Janine realized, she had forgotten to see the beautiful things her children pointed out to her, and she had also forgotten to bring joy to them. She sat down upon the step beside the little girl and put her arm about her. The child's face lighted in bewilderment, and then a smile spread across her face and lighted up her deep blue eyes again as Janine said gently, "Darling, I'm ready now to see your butterfly." ~ But let all those that put their trust in thee rejoice: let them ever shout for joy because thou defendest them: let them also that love thy name be joyful in thee. For thou, Lord, wilt bless the righteous; with favour wilt thou compass him as with a shield (Psalms 5:11-12). Resale Doll fiaggond Wate Ae Tablecloths and Braided Rugs ROZELLA Dowdle Kingsford, Cove, Utah, has been busy with needles and crochet hooks since girlhood. She has made more than fifty braided rugs and many articles of exquisite crocheting. For the Relief Society room in her ward chapel she crocheted a lovely lace tablecloth and a lace cloth for the top of the piano. She also crocheted hundreds of articles which were sold and the money given to help finance the building of the ward chapel. Mrs. Kingsford's "double hobby," as she calls it, is gardening. She raises raspberries and strawberries, as well as a vegetable garden, and her flower garden is the pride of the valley — presenting a picture of continuous bloom from early spring until late fall. Her habits of industry and thrift were acquired early, for Rozella Dowdle lost her mother when she, the eldest daughter, was only twelve. Soon after the mother's death, Rozella's father said to her, "Be sure to have the bushel of wheat ready for the Relief Society sisters when they call, even though your mother is not here." Relief Society has been a beloved companion to Mrs. Kingsford for many of her seventy-eight years, and she has been a visiting teacher for more than forty years. She is mother to eight children and grandmother to twenty-seven. —> 'Gasy Soap Recipe Vera C. Stratford 2 quarts grease "2 cup ammonia 1 quart cold soft water 2 tablespoons borax 1 can lye Heat grease, add lye, which has been dissolved in water overnight. Stir 15 to 20 minutes. Add ammonia and borax which have been dissolved in % cup warm water. Stir until thick. The grease need not be too warm. Mark the pieces as soon as soap is cold enough. As soon as it will grate nicely grate it, and store in boxes or plastic bags. Page 260 "Tlow You Know You're Living ° Mary Ek Knowles Y mother-in-law was the most gifted person I have ever known. Not gifted in the usual sense. She couldn't paint a picture, or compose a song, or write a novel. She was gifted, rather, in the art of living life to the fullest. Never have I known a person who got so much enjoyment out of the simple, everyday things. A_ twoblock walk to the grocery store was a thrilling experience. In her home neighborhood that two-block walk might take all morning, because she must stop to visit a moment with everyone: women, men, children, dogs, cats, even the parrot on Mrs. Alden's front porch. And in a strange neighborhood — but, come to think of it, there was no such thing as a strange neighborhood to Grandma, because any neighborhood was made up of people and people weren't strangers. A fifteen-minute talk with a man she had never met before, and she would come away with his family background, his complete life's history, a list of his physical ailments, and the projects he hoped to succeed in. For Grandma a trip across the barren Nevada desert was an adventure comparable to - sailing around the Horn. ""Isn't that an awful stretch over the desert?" one of my friends asked Grandma, when she drove over with her daughter to visit me when we were living in Reno. "Awful?" Grandma said, swinging happily in the lawn swing. "No, now I can't say that it was. I thought it was a beautiful trip." "Beautiful! Friend said. About it?" "Why, the Joshua trees, and those desert lilies and miles and miles of clean sand sparkling in the sun, and the jackrabbits standing up so sassy on their haunches watching us go by, and the sunset!) Why that sunset alone was worth the trip. It was just like a big painting with nothing to block our view." Grandma took time out to do things for people. One of my fondest memories is the day she taught four little boys, five and six years of age, to embroider. For over a half hour they had watched fascinated while she skillfully embroidered a pink rose in the corner of a blue luncheon cloth. Then one of the Albright twins said, "That looks like fun, Grandma Knowles." And Grandma said, "It is. Would you like to embroider something?" "Yes," they all agreed they would. "Well, go home and get embroidery hoops and I'll show you how." They got embroidery hoops from their bewildered mothers, and Grandma drew designs and figures on remnants of white cotton I had. She provided the needles, the brightcolored thread. I can still see them, four frecklefaced, tough-looking little boys sitting on the steps of the big, shady front porch, their Tomahawk-haircut heads bent over their embrotdery hooks. I can still hear Grandma saying: "You want to embroider the cat purple? Well, now Page 261 You're joking!" my "What was beautiful 262 that I think of it, PH bet many a cat's wished she could be purple." But the point is that she enjoyed every minute of threading needles and tying knots and unsnarling thread. Y mother-in-law had many expressions that exactly fit the situation, but the one I remember most vividly was "Now you know youre living." I heard it first one hot August afternoon when — so to speak — life had me by the throat. Since early morning things had been happening, disasters like the toilet flooding over, and the rinse tub springing a leak, and one clothesline breaking with its load of sheets. Now it was three o'clock, the hottest part of the day, and my sixyear-old daughter Janet was crying because she had skinned her knee; fifteen-month-old Ernie had just broken out in red spots that Grandma diagnosed as "Chicken pox, sure enough. My isn't he covered, though? He will feel better now they're out." Three-month-old Larry was teething and cranky. There was a sink full of dirty dishes, a bushel of peaches on the back porch to be bottled, a basket of clean clothes to be dampened and ironed. Grandma had arrived just ten minutes before. She had walked the two blocks from her house, swinging along on her crutches — she had arthritis in both hips by then, but she could cover distances faster than most people could with two good legs — and now she sat in the rocker, held the baby, patted his back, said a few sympathetic words to Janet, and surveyed the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1959 situation. I know she was planning how she could best help me once the baby was quieted, but not even that knowledge could lift my dragging spirits. "Oh, Grandma," I wailed, "isn't everything a mess. Isn't life awful!" "No, I don't think it's awful at all," she said brightly, happily, as she rocked back and forth. "Now you know you're living." Believe me, I didn't understand then what she meant. This, I thought, horrified, she calls living! Either my beloved mother-in-law had taken leave of her senses, or she was trying to buoy me up with false optimism. UT I understand now. Life to Grandma was living. It was as simple as that. Life was meeting a problem head on, grappling with it, and solving it. It was taking a bushel of peaches and turning it into jars of golden fruit for wintertime; it was the changing of a pile of dirty clothes into clean, starched dresses and expertly ironed men's shirts; it was taking three dirtyfaced, tousled-haired children and transforming them into three clean cherubs marching off to Sunday School. Life was giving encouragement and praise to the tired man of the house. It was riding herd on a rebellious teen-age son who towered over you, and ordering him to his room for the rest of the day and night, your heart pounding as you prayed that you had reared him right and he would know he had the discipline coming and would not storm out of the house, knowing that physically you could not stop him. It was a prayer of gratitude "NOW YOU KNOW YOU'RE LIVING" when he pounded off to his room, grumbling, but going anyhow to stay as you had ordered. Life to Grandma meant not complaining or bewailing your lot, or blaming your failures on a parent who didn't give you the doll buggy you cried for when you were three years old. It was squaring your shoulders and going on until your strength gave out, and then draw- 263 even know you had, and going on again. That August day I didn't understand what she meant, but I do now. Now when the house is quiet and clean and it stays that way, and sometimes the hours drag. "Now you know you're living," she had said. How wise, how right she was. I wish I had appreciated it more then. Ing on a deeper strength you didn't <- Shis Year s Spring Vesta N. Lukei Over your shoulder, you loving me, I see the slanting rain, The dripping leaves of eucalyptus, And spring's first green refrain. Over your shoulder, you loving me, I see gray clouds that fill The curve of sky above the sweep Of country road and hill. Over your shoulder, you loving me, I see the burgeoning Of life. Here you and I, entwined, Are part of this year's spring. —— Home Decorators Joyce K. MacKabe I don't have murals or oil paintings hanging on my walls. The decorators of my home are not trained, nor do they get paid for their work. The bright paper truck cut laboriously in kindergarten from colored paper adorns our living room wall. The mural on the refrigerator was made by little hands, brown with cake batter licked from the mixing bowl. A trail of toys leads through the house left by a toddler's tiny hands, a true free-form design from the modern school of art. Crumbs encircle each of the twenty legs of our breakfast set, but their delicate tracery means more to me than the careful pattern of the linoleum, for they recall the smiles on the clean faces that were around the table such a short time before. These are the decorators of my home, hardly professional, yet I am convinced they are the best God has to offer, and I thank him for my children. About Swilight Amy Viau HEN I first met twilight, long ago as a child, it was a very special time of evening. During the long summer days, people seemed to look forward to it as a kind of luxurious siesta. Twilight on the farm of a Midwestern State, where great fields and distances stretched, unchecked by mountains to horizon them, was a splendored prefix to night: There, in its softened glowing of gray, the whole world was a charmed landscape. In that land of level fields and reaching pastures, twilight stretched far beyond the toad running past our front yard. And often there was mentioning of the twilight, as of the sunset. "Isn't it a lovely twilight?" was almost as natural an exchange between neighbors as was "How are you?" And in that day, before cars stirred the highways with speed, the thick, velvety dust of the summer road yielded softly to every footstep of those who walked along in the twilight, just for the joy of the evening. There was the summer evening when a stranger came sauntering along past the yard, as though he walked a royal pathway. And, though strangers did not often walk that road, it seemed natural and fitting for him. "Good evening, Sir," he called out to my father, sitting with the whole family in the cool front yard. "'A lovely twilight — a lovely twilight, if I ever saw one!" Of course, father agreed, and the stranger leaned on the top rail of the rail fence, with regular twilight friendliness. He explained that he was hiking to upstate and loved walking at twilight and under the stars of night. When he was reminded by father that it was eight miles to the nearest town, where he could get lodging—he laughed, then explained what a pleasure it was when he was walk-tired, to take his coat from the valise he carried and to le down beside the road, or in some dewy field to rest—with God's vastness all around him. And to my child mind, that was a heavenly thing to do. The two large sycamore trees across the road, responded to twilight with a stillness of utter peace, until the night blackened them into indefinable shapes. But they were a bit of trim to the twilight, worth mentioning. The old, gray stable—not the real barn, just the squat stable, was a kind of dwarfish castle in twilight, as the light went from subdued gray to a depth of blue from which it slowly melted into night. It was at the time of this bluish gray, that Father always seemed impelled to sing. "The Ninety and Nine" was his favorite song. He would start it with a twilight-kind of humming, which finally became words that rose clear and distinct in the crescendo of the verse. When the "'wandering sheep" were finally safe in the Father's arms, and Father's beautiful voice ebbed into the silent twilight—I felt happy and satisfied. "Shall we take a little walk in the twilight?" was almost as usual in the family as was the mentioning of supper being ready, or of lighting the indoor lights. However, lights spoiled the effect of twilight. Even the flashings of fireflies over the fields and yard, which are comparable to flashes of fairy lanterns, to a child, can mar the effect of twilight-glowing. Twilight needs only its own varied tones to make a world of fairyland. Page 264 The Silver Leash CHAPTER 4 Beatrice Rordame Parsons Synopsis: LaRue Harding, an orphan, who has lived since childhood in Callifornia with an aunt, goes to Fivelakes, Arizona, after the death of her sister Amelia. She tries to help and encourage her brother-in-law Herbert Vetterly, who is confined to a wheel chair. His children gradually come to accept LaRue as a friend and as a member of the family. She meets Dr. Alan Rutherford, a surgeon at the Jonas Harding Hospital, and _ his fiancee Gladys Drew. WEEK or so later, LaRue had the opportunity to speak to Herb about her plans for extending her vacation. "I'd like to wire the bank and ask for a little more time, Herb. That is, if you and the children can put up with me a little longer." She felt herself flushing and took refuge in the Founding Festival, adding: "I'd like to stay for the celebration. Everyone's talking about it." "Of course, stay," said Herb, but he could not hide the questioning frown which crossed his forehead. LaRue decided that she must be completely honest. '"'I didn't mean to stay, Herb. I realize that Erma and Joel resent me. Connie has been offended ever since the day I corrected her...." "The children are young," said Herb, coming quickly to their defense. "I shall speak to them...." "Please don't," said LaRue, stiffly. "Oh, I know that it seems to them that I came only for a vacation, that I didn't want to come. But I had to come, Herb." Her voice failed. Silence stretched within the pretty room with its starched white curtains, its homelike furniture. There was a crystal bowl on a table. Amelia had loved it because it had been given to her by a good friend. Amelia had had so many friends. Everyone had liked her. Everybody LaRue met. Said kind, loving things about Amelia. And because they did, LaRue felt lonely. Herb was speaking haltingly: "I have no right to ask you to stay, LaRue. Yet I need you. We all need you." It was good to be needed. Yet LaRue knew the limitations of that need. After Herb had gone to his room and closed his door, she thought about it. When she sat down to send a telegram to the bank, she felt doubtful. Once her hand paused, and she crumbled the paper, deciding not to stay. Then she heard Connie going along the hall. She paused at her father's door, called out to him: "Daddy, I'm going out to play with Janice and Atlast. If you need anything, just call me." Carol waited hopefully for an answer. When it did not come, she went slowly along the hall and outside. LaRue felt anger rising hot in her throat. He might have answered, she thought, knowing the depth of a small child's disappointment. She scribbled words on paper, and went to the phone and sent the message. Then she went into the kitchen. 'There were a few soiled dishes in the sink. She atPaae 265 266 tacked them fiercely, then smiled at her own display of spleen. She scolded herself. Be fair to Herb. The accident which broke his body, broke his spirit, too. She knew that Amelia's death had shattered the faith he had lived by all during his life. Amelia had been his other self. Without her love he was lost. Truth and knowledge had drifted away. LARUE rinsed a shining glass and set it in the cupboard. She stared at it for a few moments seeing it filled with sparkling punch. I don't know much about entertaining voung folks, she thought dubiously, but maybe I could try. If Erma and Joel had a closer home life, they would not always be away from their home. If there was only something.... Maybe a party. I could ask Erma. But she still felt a little frightened of Erma's scorn. Anyway, she thought, relieved, I could ask Bob Powers to suggest something that would keep Joel more at home. Fiven as she planned, she felt unsure about how to go about things. She decided to go for a walk. Maybe it would help her think. She changed her house-frock for a pink, sleeveless cotton. She shaded her gray-blue eyes with a large hat. She had no particular destination in view. But when she came to the knoll rising up to Hillhigh House, she turned automatically and began the climb. The walk was steep and weed-grown. The lawn sloped towards the new highway. She stood in an old brick patio gazing out upon a surprising panorama. Below, the highway, under the onslaught of the road-building machines, stretched into the disRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1959 tance like an unwinding spool of dark thread. Vehicles moved along it like toys propelled by a childish hand, to disappear between molded pink cliffs. Far to the left, Blue Lake danced and sparkled, holding captive in its sapphire depths a great golden ball of sun. She pulled off her hat and let the breeze ruffle her burnished curls, there in the shadow of an old willow tree. She was unaware, until she heard a voice, that anyone was near. Then she remembered that Connie had said that Grandie visited the old house daily. The voice was ancient, mellow. It said: "Matilda Harding!" LaRue whirled, wondering how anyone had ever learned her middle name. She had never cared for it, although it had been her grandmother's name. The old man was sitting on the steps of the high porch. His white hair was silver in the breeze. He smiled, and she saw that his eyes were dark, and very, very shrewd with the lessons of eighty-two years. She smiled, correcting him: "I am LaRue Harding, Sir." "You're Amelia's sister." He spoke complacently. "My grandson, Dr. Alan, said you were here. You're very like your grandmother. We were children together, Matilda and I. She had that same red hair!" LaRue hadn't known. Amelia had known about her family, not LaRue. So her grandmother had had red hair! The knowledge warmed her, somehow. Grandie was staring at her critically. "Like the old house, LaRue?" It was a friendly question, and when she nodded, he grinned happily. "TI like it, too. Have since I was a kid. It was built by the THE SILVER LEASH Hardings, but my wife and I lived here, after I bought it, until my darling left me for a better place." His eyes were sad, but he kept his smile. "Amelia loved this old house. She wanted to buy it. Fix it up. The attic's filled with old furniture." He broke off, shaking his head. "Young folks aren't interested in old things," he said tiredly. LaRue found, suddenly, that she was more interested than she had thought. She said quickly: ""Someday I'd like to bring Erma here and look the house over. Connie would love to come. Maybe, Joel...." HE old man waved his hand towards a garage that had once been a carriage house. "There's a car in there. Built long before Joel was born. Hear he's interested in cars." LaRue's face was shining. "He'd love to see it, Grandie." She said the name as if she had been saying it all her life, the way the others did. She cried excitedly, looking about: "This would be a lovely spot for a cook-out. We could bring a portable grill and chairs, and...." "The old house would like that," cried Grandie, his old eyes bright with happiness. Quite solemnly he stated: "The house gets lonely, you know." There was something pathetic in the thought. LaRue had known loneliness. She asked: "Do houses really get lonely, Grandie?" "Why not?" The question was eager. "People get lonely. Why not houses? This house is used to people. Crowds of people. It could be quite an attractive place if...." He glanced at the crooked FOR SALE sign nailed to one of the 267 pillars of the porch, and confessed: "Guess I haven't tried very hard to sell it. Guess ['m_ sentimental! Wouldn't want to see the old house fall into the hands of someone who'd tear it down. Or abuse it." He talked about the house as though it were human. LaRue knew how he loved it. He saw her looking at him and said: "Gladys. Wants a fine, ranch-type house in Maple Park when she marries my grandson. She wants me to build him a fine office, too." LaRue nodded. "She told me about it once when she came with Dr. Alan to call on Ilerb." She wrinkled her brows doubtfully. "But Dr. Alan told us of his plans for adding a children's wing to the hospital. He tried to encourage Herb to draw the plans. But Herb didn't seem interested." She remembered how Dr. Alan had sketched what he wanted on the back of a rumpled envelope. "His face fairly shone when he talked about it," she finished. Grandie's old face was still. "Alan's dreamed of that wing ever since he started medical college. The hospital needs it. The children's ward is too crowded. Sort of out-of-date." He added, abruptly: "Gladys says he'd be wasting his life, staying on at the hospital when he could have a fine, brand new office, and a wealthy clientele." "Wasting his life!' LaRue echoed the phrase indignantly. Grandie looked her straight in the eye. "I've already told Gladys I would give Alan the money for the home and office. She was very happy." LaRue stared at the old man. Just a second before he had been so (Continued on page 275) \\_ FROM THE FIELD [~7 Hulda Parker, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through. Stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Relief Society Handbook of Instructions. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES ALPINE STAKE (UTAH), AMERICAN FORK FIRST WARD OPENING SOCIAL PRESENTS DRAMATIZATION "GET ABOARD THE RELIEF SOCIETY SPECIAL," October 3, 1958 Seated, upper row, right to left: President Ethel Graff as engineer; Counselor Doris Robinson as conductor; Counselor Catherine Hoglund as brakeman. Edna S. Walker, President, Alpine Stake Relief Society, reports: "' 'Get Aboard the Relicf Socicty Special,' was the theme of the opening social of the American Fork First Ward. A large number of the sisters of the ward were in attendance and many brought their husbands. The first feature of the evening consisted of an exhibit of handwork and the announcement of the outcome of a food contest that was held earlier in the day. The program began with a little skit which cleverly invited all sisters of the ward to 'Get on the Relief Society Special." The first to enter it were the executive officers. The other officers and class leaders followed. As they passed the ticket office, which was attended by the secretary, they paid their Relief Society membership dues. "With the leaders in the background, a fashion show was presented, with Melissa Robinson as commentator. About one hundred fifty people participated in the making and modeling of clothing, which was the culmination of the Relief Society summer sewing project." Page 268 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 269 be Photograph submitted by Emma S. Longson MONUMENT PARK WEST STAKE (UTAH) RELIEF SOCIETY SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE Standing, front row, left to right: Emma S. Longson, President, Monument Park West Stake Relief Society; Hazel Swain, First Counselor; Leah Reynolds, Second Counselor; Antoinette Daynes, Secretary-Treasurer. Standing front row, second from right, with arm on organ, Phyllis Hansen, chorister; at Sister Hansen's right, Bernice Engeman, organist. Sister Longson reports: "All of the seven wards in the stake were represented by members of the presidencies." we Photograph submitted by Gladys K. Wagner CENTRAL AMERICAN MISSION, SAN PEDRO SULA, HONDURAS BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY DISPLAY OF DOLLS AT BAZAAR, November 1958 Gladys K. Wagner, President, Central American Mission Relief Society, reports: "Dolls of various countries were designed, stuffed, and dressed. The dolls were made artistically. Their faces radiated personality, and their costumes were typical of the counties represented. Amparo Vasquez was president of this Relief Society of fifteen members." 270 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1959: meses Photograph submitted by Beth M. StaJ}man INGLEWOOD STAKE (CALIFORNIA) RELIEF SOCIETY SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE December 14, 1958 The director, June Eggleston, stands at the left in the back row; Lucille Peel, organist, is seated at the piano. Beth M. Stallman, President, Inglewood Stake Relief Society, reports: "The group includes members of cach of our six wards, also five stake board members. The Singing Mothers also presented the music for our Relief Society stake convention in May, and many of them sang with the chorus from California, at the Relicf Society Conference in October 1958." = Photograph submitted by Elizabeth C. Hayward EAST SHARON STAKE (UTAH) VISITING TEACHERS HONORED AT CONVENTION, January 10, 1959 Front row, left to right: Lorena C. Fletcher, who has served thirty-five years as a visiting teacher; stake social science class leader Pearl Stubbs, who has been a visiting teacher for forty-five years; Annie Gillespie, forty years; Mina Marriotti, fifty years; Amanda Crandall, twenty years. Second row, left to right: Chloe Tayson, thirty years; Rachael Davis, twenty-five years; Preal Jones, thirty years; Eva Gillespie, forty years; Ina Lewis, thirty years. Third row, left to ght: Lorena James, thirty years; Ivy Perry, thirty years; Margaret NOTES FROM THE FIELD 271 McCracken, twenty-eight years; Winnifred Cannon, twenty-one years; Ida Ercanbrack, thirty years. Elizabeth C. Hayward, President, East Sharon Stake Relief Society, reports: "For the purpose of giving renewed spiritual uplift and inspiration to our visiting teachers, on January 10th, 1959, our Visiting 'Teachers Convention was held. All visiting teachers were recognized and honored at this time. Fifty-seven were given special honors for having been visiting teachers for ten years or more, and all those with records of forty years or more of service were presented with Rclief Society pins. Sister Mina Marriotti, with fifty years of service, was given an African violet as well. For the main feature of our program we used the presentation given at the last Annual Relief Society Conference, 'A Light Shining.' The sisters conducting and presenting it caught the spiritual message the presentation so well portrays, and none of the beauty or emphasis of its timely message was lost. We were well satisfied with the pleased, enthusiastic reaction of the sisters, and fcel that the visiting teaching program received rich new vigor and importance as a result of this meeting." Photograph submitted by Helen B. Pitcher CALGARY STAKE (CANADA), RED DEER BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY DISPLAYS PRIZE-WINNING QUILTS Left to nght: Kathleen Taylor, President; Marie Service, visiting teacher; Johanna Blades; Ellen McLean, Secretary-Treasurer; Sadie Soderberg, visiting teacher; Ruby Lacey, theology class leader; Lola Malmberg; Farrold Service, work meeting leader; Ruth Nielsen, Second Counselor; Jean Edwards; Hazel Guenther, First Counselor. Helen B. Pitcher, President, Calgary Stake Relicf Society, reports that these sisters are seen displaying the quilts which won first and second prizes in competition at a local fair. "These sisters are very devoted and humble in their callings, and although they travel a distance farther than any other members, they never miss." 272 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1959 SAMOAN MISSION CURIOS COLLECTED BY RELIEF SOCIETY AND SENT TO THE BUREAU OF INFORMATION AT THE NEW ZEALAND TEMPLE Thelma H. Sampson, President, Samoan Mission Relief Society, reports: "Enclosed is a picture of Samoan curios which our Relief Society sisters collected and sent to the Bureau of Information at the New Zealand Temple, so that people visiting the temple might be able to see and enjoy some of the arts and crafts of the South Sea Islands. Our sisters enjoyed this project and responded with enthusiasm. Now we are busy getting ready for our year's work, as our Relief Society year here in Samoa is from April to December." SOUTHERN FAR EAST MISSION, REPRESENTATIVES OF FIVE HONG KONG BRANCHES MEET TO PLAN FOR BAZAARS Shown is a tablecloth on which is embroidered a famous Chinese poem in ancient style of writing. Luana C. Heaton, President, Southern Far East Relief Society, reports: "We are very pleased with the progress that has been made with the Relief Society program NOTES FROM THE FIELD 273 during the past year. At this time last year there was only one organized Relief Society. However, due to the rapid growth in membership, it was necessary to divide the Relief Society, and, as a result, we now have five well-functioning Relief Societies. "During the month of December, five Relief Societies held bazaars in Hong Kong. December is the month when most bazaars are held in the Colony. After the dividing of the Relief Society, the members of the new branches were very eager to prepare for their own bazaars. In preparing for the bazaars, it was suggested that the evening's entertainment be divided into three sections: a handwork display, a food and cake sale, and a program. Because American-type cakes cannot be purchased in Hong Kong, the sisters thought it would be a good project to make cakes and sell them at their bazaars. It was also decided to have a project of making tablecloths. These tablecloths are very unusual in that they are made of twenty-five ten-inch squares. In each square is embroidered a Chinese character about three inches in length. When the squares are sewed together, they form a Chinese poem. The Chinese sisters are very gifted in doing handwork, and the workmanship on the tablecloths is excellent. "There is a Relief Society branch quite a distance from Hong Kong. In fact, the lady missionaries in charge travel each week to meeting by boat. The town in which this branch is located is a refugee settlement, and because of this the people are very poor. The Relief Socity sisters wanted very much to have a bazaar, but realized that the members of the branch would be unable to support it. Therefore, they combined with another branch and held a joint bazaar. Because of financial difficulties and the long distance in traveling, only three sisters were able to represent their branch at the bazaar. However, all the sisters helped with the preparations, and their efforts were well rewarded, for the bazaar was very successful." Photograph submitted by Norma Schauers NORWALK STAKE (CALIFORNIA) FIRST RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENCY Left to right: Fern Marcroft, First Counselor; Norma Schauers, President; Irene Hollands, Second Counselor. Norwalk Stake was organized October 26, 1958, resulting from a division of the East Long Beach Stake. 274 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1959 Sas:: aS SoS ae Photograph submitted by Leah H. Lewis CANADIAN MISSION, DISTRICT AND BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS AT ANNUAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE, TORONTO, ONTARIO, CANADA, October 18, 1958 Front row, left to right: Jean Shelton; Venice Hill; Emma Hillman; Mabel Taylor, Mission Relief Society Secretary-Treasurer; Leah H. Lewis, President, Canadian Mission Relief Society; Rebecca Bird; Ida Belfiglio; Lilly Scott. Sccond row, left to right: Jean Gordon; Dorothy Gates; Mildred Smith; Doraine Nagy; Teen Ball; Davina Wright; Mildred Porter; Olive Butler; Dorothy Savin; Edna Yeager; Grace Crossman. Third row, left to right: Martha M. Marshall; Alta Ball; Ruth Jones; Irene Krist; Elva Marie Adamson; Evelyn Connie; Bernice Clark; Della Odendahl. Back row, left to mght: Hazel Tate; Elizabeth Courchesne; Rosalind C. Nve; Isobel Reuter; Doris Morrison; Janet Boucher; Hilda Crashaw; Kathleen Wilson; Emily Ditty; Grace Dunlop. Sister Lewis reports: "With 235 present, this Relief Socicty conference was the largest ever held in the Canadian Mission. Some of the sisters traveled nearly 1,000 miles (round trip) to attend the conference. Highly informative and inspirational departmental meetings were held. The work mecting articles, attractively displayed by the branches, were the center of keen interest. The climax of the conference was the presentation of playlets by the Ottawa, London, and East Toronto Branches. These playlets all centered around the Relief Society and the home. The music of the combined Singing Mothers chorus was inspiring. A delicious luncheon was served between sessions by the West Toronto Branch." <-> Precious Token Rowena Jeusen Bills A gilded basket full of flowers— Buttcrcups and bluebells, daisies, Not the fragile kind, Laced through yellow string. Nor the delicate in scent Lovers have in mind, But all the gay and bright profusion Windy hillsides bring; Baby hands had plucked one dozen Blossoms — even more — To bring to Mother all the grandeur From a distant shore. The Silver Leash (Continued from page 267) sure that a children's wing was what the hospital needed. Now he was making the way easy for Dr. Alan to lose his dream. LaRue's voice was sharply critical. "Dr. Alan will be very unhappy in that brand new office." 'There was scorn in her gray-blue eyes. Grandie regarded her passively. "Well, well! So you seem to know my grandson pretty well. Better than his fiancee does!" LaRue was furious with herself for blushing. But she met the old man's eyes and said honestly: "I've only met him a few times. But I like him. He'sa fine man. I know he's a kind, considerate doctor. I've heard him trying to convince Herb that an operation might help him. But Herb is afraid. Dr. Alan is letting Herb make up his own mind." She rose to the doctor's defense, saying seriously: "I think Dr. Alan should be allowed to make up his own mind about where he lives, where he builds his office, or whether he'd rather stay on at the hospital and build that new wing." The old man was grinning. Then he said quizzically: "Some people need a push in the wrong direction." He chuckled softly. "Alan often prescribes nasty-tasting medicine for his patients. So nasty medicine ls good for doctors, too. Especially when it's forced down their throats." LaRue was confused. But the old man was through talking. He put on his hat and bowed low over her hand, telling her that he and the old house had enjoyed her visit. He waved his cane and walked slowly to his own red-brick cottage. Page 275 in 15 Minutes Come in and we'll show you how easy it is to play the CONN "MINUET," America's finest spinet organ. In less than 15 minutes you'll be playing simple tunes with both hands—even if you don't know a note of music! It's EASY —it's FUN... The Conn "Minuet" is the one instrument that provides every member of the family true joy of self expression —for every mood, every occasion. Daynes Made | mmm ee * 145 NoRTH UNIVERSMTY, PROVO! Salt Lake City 11, Utah 276 ARUE stared after him, trying to puzzle him out, trying to understand just what he had meant about "nasty medicine." As she strolled home she put his words down to an old man's wandering memory. She knew she shouldn't, but she asked Connie questions. "Doesn't Grandie like Gladys Drew?" Connie smiled. "Oh, he likes her all right. But most people don't think she's really in love with Alan. Some people thing that she still likes Earl. But Grandie promised her a beautiful house, and a lot of nice things, and...." LaRue stopped her, ashamed of herself for wanting to share Connie's gossip. At dinner, she told Herb and the others about her visit to the old house. Connie, as usual, bubbled over with words. "Mommy used to visit Grandie, too. She loved his house. If Daddy hadn't got hurt she wanted to buy it." The flash of pain in Herb's face made LaRue interrupt, quickly. "It's very nice up there on the knoll. Cool, lovely. I've been wondering if we all couldn't go there. Have a sort of cook-out...?" The look of derision in Erma's face made her falter. But Joel leaned across the table, interest in his young face. "Maybe Grandie would let me see that old car." LaRue smiled. "He told me he would," she assured him quickly. Then, with a side glance at Erma, "He promised to show us the old furniture. I thought it might be fun." Erma did not answer, though there was a stirring of interest in her pretty face. Herb spoke quietly. "When I was a kid, Hillhigh House used to THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1959 be the show place of the valley. There were always parties. Surreys and fine horses climbed the sloping drive. 'There were roses along the walks. 'Their red, pink, and yellow petals made a sort of carpet...." He was lost in memories. Connie laughed a little, and cried: "Oh, Daddy, that was in the good old days." For a long moment there was silence. Then Joel spoke loudly: "Could we have fried chicken, Aunt LaRue?" It was the first time he had ever made a request. A faint glow burned in LaRue's heart. "Fried chicken, Joel," she promised, "and a lot of other good things." Connie bounced. '"We'll invite Grandie. And Dr. Alan and Gladys," and with a glance at Erma, she added, "Bob Powers." Erma flushed hotly, but she didn't speak angrily to her sister. "Maybe Ed'd like to see that old Lizzie," stated Joel hesitantly. His eyes turned to his father, as though expecting reproof for such a suggestion, but LaRue spoke hurriedly. "Surely, invite Eddie! All boys like fried chicken." She thought, but did not add: Eddie needs a little help. No boy's all bad. Connie's eyes were shining. "I just love Grandie," she cried. "Don't you, Aunt LaRue?" LaRue had liked the old man. Even though she hadn't understood his double-talk about nasty medicine. She smiled at Connie, then braced herself to face Herb. She held her voice tight so it would not waver. "You're also invited," she said. For an instant Herb's hands THE SILVER LEASH clenched on the wheels of his chair. His face drained of color. LaRue heard the quiet breathing of the children as they waited politely for their father to speak. By their faces, she knew that they expected their father's customary rejection. LaRue's clear eyes forced Herb's dark ones to meet her look. She knew how much courage it was taking for him to speak. When he did, it was smilingly. "T'm very happy to accept." LaRue heard the great sigh which escaped in unison from the children's lips. She knew they were fighting to keep from showing their surprise. But gratitude shone in their faces. They began to make plans about what should go into the lunch basket. They talked in low tones, as though they were almost afraid to believe what they had heard their father say. But they could not hide the happy smiles which raced into their faces. ARUE'S eyes met Herb's with an approving smile. She knew that he had understood what she was trying to do and had wanted to help her. There was an unuttered "Thank you," in Herb's face as he slowly turned his chair towards his room. As soon as his door had closed, the children broke into excited conversation. "TIl ask Bob to pick out the freshest vegetables for our salad," said Erma happily. "TH go tell Eddie what's up," cried Joel, and went away, whistling brightly. Connie spoke soberly. "I'll ask Janice to come. And Atlast. He loves picnics, though he can't have any chicken bones. I'll take his 277 HAWAII Depart April 26th. Fly United Air Lines and return by United Air Lines or Luraline, whichever you prefer. Be in Hawaii for the May Day Celebration when the Shower Trees are in bloom. EUROPE Sail from Montreal on June 12, 1959. Enjoy life on the Luxury Liner; relax and rest before beginning your fine European Tour. HISTORIC TRAIN The original Historic Train leaves Friday evening, July 31, 1959, Salt Lake City, Utah, at 5:00 p. M. See Nauvoo, Carthage, Kirtland, Sharon, Vermont, etc., and witness the HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT. Historic Bus leaves Salt Lake City on August Ist. For free folders write or phone: VIDA FOX CLAWSON 216 South 13th East Salt Lake City 2, Utah Phone DA 8-0303 leash so's he won't get into mischief when Janice and I make a playhouse and play with our dolls." "What else shall we have to eat?" asked LaRue, poising her pencil above her notebook. They planned the menu. When Joel came back they set the day, and the time. Joel said he'd get out the folding aluminum chairs. 'They'd take a table, and grill, and first thing in the morning he and Eddie would.... LaRue didn't really listen to what they all said. She felt warm and happy, closer to Amelia's children than she had felt since she arrived. She wondered how she had ever doubted them! After all, she reminded herself tremulously, they are part of their dear mother.. (To be continued) HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT TOUR Leaving Salt Lake City, Utah, July 24, 1959. 23 Days. See Liberty, Carthage, Nauvoo, Adam-Ondi-Ahman, Kirtland, ete. Including Chicago, Boston, New York, Washington, Niagara Falls, and the SONG OF NORWAY Stage Show. NORTHWESTERN TOUR Leaving Salt Lake City, Utah, June 28, 1959. Including Banff, Lake Louise, Vancouver, and Victoria. MESA VERDE Labor Day weekend four. September 5-6-7, 1959. HAWAIIAN TOUR Leaving in November. For Itinerary write or phone: ESTHER JAMES TOURS 460 Seventh Avenue Salt Lake City 3, Utah Phone EM 3-5229 SACRED HIGHLIGHTS PIANO cases Chapel Musings — Perry............. Ecee +85 a Sabbath Day Music... Eee 1.50 — Sacred and Secular Piano—Heaps....1.00 ORGAN = At the Console — Felton......................2.00 — Eight Sacred Songs — Hart..................1.50 = Organ in the Church — Asper............2.75 CHOIR wees Heavens Were Opened...................-.... -25 _ They Found Him in the Temple...........20 7 How Beautiful Upon the Mountains—........ Harker.....25 LADIES SSA an If Christ Should Come Tomorrow.......20 _ 1] Walked in God's Garden.............. 625 —_ He That Hath Clean Hands... Weve 020 -_ Every Heart That Is Clean................... -20 PIANO SOLO _—_ Meditation — Herman......... Cccccecceeee 660 VOCAL SOLOS —_ He Smiled on Me ouu.. Eeeceseeceereeeeee +60 _- If Christ Should Come Tomorrow.......75 He That Hath Clean Hands.................75 VOCAL DUETS OR SOLOS ~— The Temple by the Sea ou... 275 PLUS ALL L. D. S. REQUIRED NUMBERS — Jessie Evans Smith L. P. Singing "Mickey'' Hart SOngS...........: cccecceceee3.98 HART BROS. (Sugar House Music Co.) 2130 So. 11th East Salt Lake City 6, Utah ( ) Charge ( ) Approval ( ) Cash Page 278 She Hole in the Fence Dorothy Oakley Rea HEN Papa finally fixed the hole in the fence, it was like writing the ending to the happiest chapter in the story of our lives in the old home. He didn't fix it until after all the high-school yearbooks had been fondly tucked away in the attic, and it was after the Nelson family had moved away. The hole in the fence was a solid link in the friendship chain of the neighborhood where we lived. The slamming of the screen door at the Nelson house next door told us that, at that minute, one of the Nelsons was coming through the hole in the fence and would be at our back door by the time we were there to open it. As we each passed back and forth through the hole in the fence, we carried with us the news of joys and sorrows shared by the two homes. The news of a budding romance, a poor report card, or a new pickle recipe reached the house next door as surely as did the news of wedding, birth, illness, or death. None could remember how many starts of yeast, fat loaves of hot bread, or pans of newly picked garden vegetables were exchanged through the hole in the fence on those summer days that stretched as sweet and long as poplar shade. For each of the growing children at our house, there was a friend of near-age in the house next door... THE HOLE IN THE FENCE and Mrs. Nelson was Mama's dearest friend. Each springtime when Papa patiently planted his garden, small running feet would lay the new plants low. Then he would say at supper, "Mama, tomorrow I will surely have to fix the hole in the fence." Mama would glance at our alarmed faces with a silencing smile because she knew Papa wasn't going to fix the hole in the fence for years to come. As tides of time changed each of our lives, the old hole in the fence was almost forgotten... Until the day of Mama's funeral. That's when Willard, the youngest of the Nelson family, brought it back to our minds with all the glowing sweetness of those shining days of sun and snow. "T remember the day the Oakley family moved into our neighborhood," he said from the flower-lined pulpit. "Tt all began with a very small boy and a very small hole in the fence. In fact, the hole was smaller than the boy, but even as a camel might pass through the eye of a needle, any small boy can pass through a very small hole in a wire fence. However, a miscalculated wiggle and the seat of a pair of overalls was caught with a stray wire. The boy's shout carried well to the home of the new neighbor. The neighbor came, and with gentle hands released the wire and pulled the boy through the fence.... May I repeat, pulled the boy through the fence, not pushed him back through the fence. 'That day, a young boy 279 as an ambassador from his own family, wormed his way into the lives, home, and thoughts of the family next door." In that sad and solemn hour, we all looked back gratefully to a small hole in the fence that grew with growing children until at last, no fence and no distance were great enough to loosen the bond that was securely welded before the children went away and Papa finally fixed the hole in the fence. OS EUROPE Special royal tours leaving in June and August. Economically yours. HAWAII Special deluxe tours leaving in April, June, or July. Vacation Hawaii — eight days, seven nights, transportation, hotel accommodations, sightseeing, only $275.00. SCENIC NORTHWESTERN TOUR Leaves June 27, 1959. Come join us on this wonderful vacation tour. HISTORICAL TOUR Leaves August 1, 1959, for the famous HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT. DISNEYLAND TOUR Student tour to Disneyland on August 2nd through August 8th. Includes other sightseeing in California. For further details write or phone: MARGARET LUND TOURS P. O. Box 20 Sugar House Station Salt Lake City, Utah Phone IN 6-2909, AM 2-2339, CR 7-6334 Supplies for All Popular Handicrafts Foam and Plastic Tote Bags All Flower Materials Aluminum Trays—Mosaics Copper Tooling—Copper Enameling Basketry—Textile Paints Shellcraft—Boutique Materials Ceramic Supplies And many, many others. ZIM'S 240 East 2d South Salt Lake City, Utah <-> Birthday Congratulations One Hundred One Mrs. Desstzr NEwMAN MIDDLETON Los Angeles, California Ninety-seven Mrs. EvizaBeTH JANE RussELL Day Hunter, Utah Ninety-four Mrs. EvizaBETH Witson YOUNG Sanford, Colorado Ninety-three Mrs. Eva Barton GROESBECK Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. ANNA SHULDBERG HILLSTEAD Preston, Idaho Mrs. MInNETTA PERMELIA BROWN THORNE Manti, Utah Page 280 Mrs. Maria P. Tuompson Ephraim, Utah Ninety-two Mrs. ApA DranNA ALEXANDER BONNER Midway, Utah Mrs. Mary Susan Sizemore Row Ley Grantsville, Utah Mrs. Autice DeLAMare Gowans Tooele, Utah Mrs. Martua JONES Provo, Utah Ninety-one Mrs. Exizasetn Brooks JACKSON Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Anna M. Jarvis Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Ovens Marie PETERSON Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Lente JESPERSON PETERSON Blackfoot, Idaho Ninety Mrs. Exvizasetn Ripp HALL Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Hannay Evizasetu Bares SHEPPARD Ogden, Utah Mrs. Saray Fircu Wuyre Lethbridge, Canada Mrs. ALBERTHA FRANSISKA NIELSON Hatcu Riverton, Wyoming Mrs. Saran Syatons HiLusTEAD Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Emity Marian Cow ey Bencn FOwLer Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary TREHARNE Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Emity Ranpatyi RIcHARDS Logan, Utah Mrs. Emma Munk WILKES Bedford, Wyoming © TRAVEL ®© TRAVEL ® TRAVEL ® TRAVEL TRAVEL @© TRAVEL ® TRAVEL ® TRAVEL TRAVEL © TRAVEL HAWAII 8 or 16 fun-filled sun-filled days. Deluxe hotels. Meals. Sightseeing trips and cruises. Visit 4 islands, L. D. S. Temple. Enjoy native festivities and Island Lealea (Fun). Depart any time or travel with groups leaving regularly. $259-$639 EUROPE 48 days — 14 countries: England, Scotland, Norway, Sweden, Denmark, Germany, Holland, Belgium, Ausiria, Switzerland, Italy, Monaco, San Marino, Lichtenstein. (June and September departures.) AMERICAN HERITAGE TOUR Along the Mormon Trail — visit Liberty, Carthage, Nauvoo, Adamondi-Ahman, HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT, Niagara Falls, OttawaMontreal, Quebec, New England, Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Weshington, Mt. Vernon and other Mormon and American Historic Locctions. L. D. S. YOUTH TOUR EUROPE 30 days — 11 countries. All expense, fine hotels, balanced menus, visit L. D. S. Branches. Cultural and Educational Sightseeing, Supervised Fun, Physician accompanying Tour. Limited Accommodations, apply early. Departs June 1959. ROBBINS TOURS INTERNATIONAL Compare Itineraries Compare Prices then TRAVEL WITH US Box 1514 Salt Lake City, Utah Phone EL 9-0959 TRAVEL © TRAVEL TAAVUL @ THAVEL @ THAVUL @ THAVYL e THAVUL @ THAVUL e@ THAVUL © TSAVUL Mason & Hamlin The Stradivari of Pianos EVERETT PIANOS Finest Toned Spinet Piano Built THE WORLD'S FINEST Cable-Nelson Finest Low Priced Piano Built We specialize in all music for Relief Society Beesley Music Co. Pioneer Piano People 70 S. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH LEARN TO TYPEWRITE! New Classes Begin Soon Adult classes for Relief Society and genealogy workers will teach beginning and advanced typing. Classes will run 6:30 to 8:00 p. M., Mondays and Thursdays. Individual help and instruction by professional teachers. Call for reservations and further information. LDS BUSINESS COLLEGE Phone EM 3-2765 70 North Main Salt Lake City 11, Utah CHRIST in Ancient America (ARCHAEOLOGY and the BOOK OF MORMON Vol. I) DR. MILTON R. HUNTER Volume Ii centers on Quetzalcoatl, the "White and Bearded God" of Indian legend and brings into sharp focus the fact that Christ's visit to the Western Hemisphere persisted in history right down to the time of the coming of the Spaniards some fifteen centuries later. This book provides fascinating reading in and of itself, independent of Volume I. $3.95 at Ameri VOLUAWY LNILONV NI LSTUHS New, Revised Edition SEARCH and RESEARCH NOEL C. STEVENSON This book offers many aids in locating ancestors who are bound in a never-ending chain of succeeding generations back to Adam. The author lists each state in the United States with reference books, state officials under whose jurisdiction records are filed, and other sources such as wills, army registers, land rolls, etc., as well as sources in other countries where clues may be found for additional research. "Book Co. 44 East South Temple -- Salt Lake C: ty Utah DESERET BOOK COMPANY. 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah Gentlemen: Enclosed you will find ( ) check ( ) money order ( ) J have an account. Please charge for encircled (numbered) books: 1 2. Amount enclosed $... J Noe IRESS) Geese rcp ococo ooo CRC Oe DCEO CROC City ne Zone State. 7 Q 3 o Ve ee es cs Oe comes mee om eet ee ea Promise Dorothy J. Roberts The apple is but a pearly promise now Inscribed in petals over twig and bough— A word, revived by springtime's alchemy, It scents the soft wind filtered through the tree. Each blossom drawn above the wakening earth Foretells the wonder of an apple's birth. Spring fashions change and change again, save these Worn each new season by the orchard trees— This white replacing now the scentless snow; This nest growing loud where the leaf-buds blow. A promise is unfolding over leaf and wing As syllables of summer climb the stems of spring. The Cover: Brandywine Park, Wilmington, Delaware Photograph by Fred H. Ragsdale, Free Lance Photographers Guild Frontispiece: Apple Blossoms, Photograph by Luoma Studios Cover Design by Evan Jensen Cover Lithographed in full color by Deseret News Press From Near and Sar We are delighted with the cover picture for the February Magazine, the inside pictures, the article by Brother Nibley, and the recipes which were used. We are grateful for the privilege of having our mission featured, and we hope others will enjoy this issue as we are enjoying it. The Relief Society Magazine means so much to us here in the mission. Our sisters have an added feeling of sisterhood with each contact we have. —Lovell W. Smith President Central Atlantic States Mission Relief Society Roanoke, Virginia I wish to express my gratitude for The Relief Society Magazine which was sent to me six years ago by Mrs. Leslie Burt, my daughter's mother-in-law, as a Christmas gift. I really think it is a wonderful Magazine, and I] enjoy reading it very much. I like all the articles that are in it. I wish to congratulate all for the time and effort it must take to prepare such a good, instructive, and spiritual Magazine. I admire the cover for the November issue, "Plaque in the Relief Society Building," with the picture of three nice looking ladies. —Emona Jones Tamburini Buenos Aires, Argentina It's peculiar, but the Magazine has always been ours in my mind. I can hardly wait for the moment to come when I can sit down and read it from cover to cover, enjoy the thoughts of other women who have the same way of life as mine. I especially enjoyed the story 'Not of This Fold," by Frances C. Yost in the March issue. Since I saw her first story in the Magazine, I always scan the pages quickly to see whether or not she has a story in the current issue. She tells of such human situations, it seems as if you might be reading about yourself or someone in your town. —Jere Scott Thatcher, Arizona So many lovely comments on our Magazine I have received from poet friends to Page 282 whom I sent the January issue! Poets from New York City, Grand Rapids, Michigan, Los Angeles, and from the states of Minnesota, Mississippi, Iowa, etc. — one a poct laureate — have given high praise for the quality of the poems and stories, and for the scope of living and education covered by our lessons. One commented very favorably on the lesson. On Jonathan Edwards and said she didn't expect to find such material in a church publication. I am happy to report these reactions, for I am proud of our Magazine and thankful to be represented in it. —Mabel Law Atkinson Salt Lake City, Utah Reading The Relief Society Magazine is like finding an oasis in a desert after reading many other magazines. I think that all the prize stories and poems were especially fine this year. Mrs. Hill's '""The Telling" is unique in technique. Its apparent simplicity — which is not simple at all — combined with its spiritual essence, makes it outstandingly beautiful. I don't know what I would do without the Magazine. I have written for it ever since "Aunt Susie Young Gates" was called to be the editor. May it continue on in its great mission. —Grace Ingles Frost Provo, Utah I am grateful for the lesson on discipline "The Restraining Hand," by Elder John Farr Larson, in the November 1958 issue of the Magazine. It helped my husband and me better to understand the problems of our child and gave us new courage towards our goal of making a real home for our little family. —Bessie L. Abbott Kearns, Utah I have taken The Relief Society Magazine almost ever since 1921. I have surely enjoyed reading it and hope I can continue taking it until my days are finished on earth. I do enjoy the stories and the lessons. —Bertha G. Brown Grants Pass, Oregon THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford = Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - Louise W. Madsen - - - - - = = = Hulda Parker - - Anna B. Hart Aleine M. Young Edith S. Elliott Josie B. Bay Blanche B. Stodderd Mildred B. Eyring Evon W. Peterson Charlotte A. Larsen Mary R. Young RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Winniefred S. Manwaring Editor - - - Associate Editor - General Manager - Edith P. Backma Elna P. Haymond Annie M. Ellsworth = President - First Counselor - Second Counselor Secretary-Treasurer n Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Wealtha S. Mendenhall Pearle M. Olsen Elsa T. Peterson Irene B. Woodford Marianne C. Sharp Vesta P. Crawford Belle S. Spafford NO. 5 Co ntents SPECIAL FEATURES Abraham Lincoln—A Study in Adversity A. Hamer Reiser The Eastern States Mission... Preston R. Nibley Contest Announcements—1959 Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest Relief Society Short Story Contest Would You Write Poetry? What's in a Story? OroSylvia Probst Young The Right Circles Norma A. Wrathall Louisa Helen M. Livingston Gem of the Hills.. Lydia M. Sorensen The Silver Leash—Chapter 5... Beatrice R. Parsons GENERAL FEATURES From Near and Far Sixty Years Ago Woman's Sphere Weeds To My Daughter Dream, Come True My Mother Old Fishermen The Temple... Sun in Bloom Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities 22... TeccccsccescccecseeeesceseeesesseseeeeeeeeeessHulda Parker 335 FEATURES FOR THE HOME POETRY Camilla Woodbury Judd 298 aIda Elaine James 309 Elsie McKinnon Strachan 309 NL PISNOTINCN on... EeeecececeeceeeeeceateeneecceeeeeceaeeneccccnceeseseceseeesseseeesseeseseeseseseeaseesasaseeeseaseeaessesenseteesEthel Jacobson 319 Eva Willes Wangsgaard 340 Ann Barber Fletcher 343 Temple Marriage PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Copyright 1959 by General Board of Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Editorial and Business Offices: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah: Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy; payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 8, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1108, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Page 283 Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton VOL. 46 —— Editorial: Books—Recorders for the Ages Magazine Honor Roll for 1958 Birthday Congratulations Recipes From the Eastern States Mission - You Can Sew—XV—Children's Clothing _200000.. Maggie Richards Wood Specializes in Making Lace Tablecloths Promise—Frontispiece Grandmother's Pinks When Deserts Bloom in Arizona TOM ple on. Essenseneceeeceeteeeceeeeecsecseetsesseteaceseenseateneeseeecseatssecesessees Spring's Golden Web Christine H. Robinson Alberta H. Christensen MAY 1959 Ramona W. Cannon 307 Vesta P. Crawford 308 Marianne C. Sharp 325 343 Florence S. Jacobsen 311 Celia Luce 316 Jean R. Jennings 317 319 Dorothy J. Roberts 281 Maude Rubin 316 Ruth H. Chadwick 334 Winona F. Thomas 338 -Grace Ingles Frost 340 Abraham Lincoln A STUDY IN ADVERSITY A. Hamer Reiser Assistant Secretary to the First Presidency 66 IRCUMSTANCES _ have C made me, I have not made them." 'This is attributed to Abraham Lincoln as an explanation of himself. As a creature of adverse circumstances, Abraham Lincoln and his life offer a rewarding study. It is instructive to make a tally of the successes and failures of his life, to total them, and then to strike a balance and ponder the outcome. Another way to see him is as one wrestling with the dramatic forces of conflict inherent in his times and circumstances, to observe the preponderance of hindrances and the tardy achievement of success. If he had been notable for moral cowardice, self-pity, or neurosis, he would have succumbed _ early, drowned in the deluge of adversity which constantly washed over him. He stood, however, like a seabattered rock, lashed by storms of hurricane force, and survived the elements of defeat. He reduced himself to his lowest terms and has survived to the greatness of one who would "lose his life"' and save it. He wrote: "I was born February 12, 1809, in Hardin County, Kentucky. My parents were both born in Virginia, of undistinguished families — second families, perhaps I should say. My mother, who died in my tenth year, was of a family of the name of Hanks, some of whom now reside in Adams and others in Macon County, Illinois. My paPage 284 ternal grandfather, Abraham Lincoln, emigrated from Rockingham County, Virginia, to Kentucky about 1781 or 1782, where a year or two later he was killed by the Indians, not in battle, but by stealth, when he was laboring to open a farm in the forest. His ancestors, who were Quakers, went to Virginia from Berks County, Pennsylvania. An effort to identify them with the New England family of the same name ended in nothing more definite than a similarity of Christian names in both familics, such as Enoch, Levi, Mordecai, Solomon, Abraham, and the like. "My father, at the death of his father, was but six years of age, and he grew up literally without education. He removed from Kentucky to what is now Spencer County, Indiana, in my eighth year. We reached our new home about the same time the State came into the Union. It was a wild region, with many bears and other wild animals still in the woods. There I grew up. There were some schools, so called, but no qualification was ever required of a teacher beyond readin', writin', and cipherin', to the rule of three. If a straggler supposed to understand Latin happened to sojourn in the neighborhood, he was looked upon as a wizard. There was absolutely nothing to excite ambition for education. Of course, when I came of age I did not know much. Still, somehow, I could read, write, and cipher to the rule of three, but ABRAHAM LINCOLN that was all. I have not been to school since. 'The little advance I now have upon this store of education, I have picked up from time to time under the pressure of necessity. "T was raised to farm work, which I continued till I was twenty-two. At twenty-one [ came to Illinois, Macon County. Then I got to New Salem, at that time in Sangamon, now in Menard County, where I remained a year as a sort of clerk in a store. 'Then came the Black Hawk war, and I was elected a captain of volunteers, a success which gave me more pleasure than any I have had since. I went the campaign, was clated, ran for the legislature the same year (1832) and was beaten— the only time I ever have been beaten by the people. The next and three succeeding biennial elections I was elected to the legislature. I was not a candidate afterward. During the legislative period I had studied law, and removed to Springfield to practise it. In 1864 I was once elected to the lower House of Congress. Was not a candidate for reelection. From 1849 to 1854, both inclusive, practised law more assiduously than ever before. Always a Whig in politics, and generally on the Whig electoral tickets, making active canvasses. I was losing interest in politics when the repeal of the Missouri compromise aroused me again. What I have done since then is pretty well known. "If any personal description of me is thought desirable, it may be said I am, in height, six feet four inches, nearly; lean in flesh, weighing on an average one hundred and eighty pounds; dark complexion, with coarse black hair and gray eyes. 285 No other marks or brands recollected." HE foregoing was written by Abraham Lincoln himself in 1859 to a friend, Jesse W. Fell, of Bloomington, Illinois, who wanted the information to promote his champion among his friends in the Fast. They had become curious about the homespun debater who had aroused the people during the epoch-making Lincoln-Douglas debates. Fell had told his friends: "We have two giants in Illinois; Douglas is the little Giant, and Abe Lincoln is the big one...." The debates with Stephen A. Douglas mark a convenient meridian before and after which Lincoln's life can be divided. Before the debates, observe how the tally of adversity versus good fortune appears. His ancestry and parentage he described as "undistinguished." At eight he was taken by his fortune-hunting, land-hungry, farmer father, into the Indiana wilderness, where he grew up, with a minimum benefit of school and without the normal amenities of children. At ten he was orphaned of a mother, and for a time was mothered by an older sister, Sarah. In his book Abraham Lincoln, James Daugherty describes the lonely cabin where the sweet spirit of Nancy's love seemed to linger in the midst of a sorrow that was slow to heal. Yet, the children, without the tender ministrations of their mother went unkempt and undirected, except for the efforts of Sarah Lincoln, only fourteen years old. Tom Lincoln, sometime after Nancy's death, left the children in the Indiana woods and returned to 286 Kentucky where he found a friend of his youth, Sarah Bush (Johnston) then a widow. She became the children's stepmother. Abraham Lincoln throughout his life, in simple, thoughtful ways and visits expressed his gratitude to this compassionate woman for the care she gave the forlorn children. By 1830 the growing family was beginning to scatter. Sarah married and died in childbirth. Other Lincolns and Hanks had found fairer fields in Illinois and 'Tom, ever the wanderer, sought greener fields. At twenty-one, Abraham was emancipated and on his own. He hired out to run a flatboat down the Mississippi to New Orleans for Denton Offut and later returned to be Offut's storekeeper at New Salem. It was on the flatboat voyages that Abe suffered the shock of observing the slave market where men, women, and children were bought and sold. During the New Salem days, Abraham Lincoln's popularity grew. His friendly good humor and his seemingly natural gift as a storyteller and spinner of tall tales won him a reputation which advertised him and brought him easy and attentive audiences wherever he went. This should be counted on the "asset" or "advantage" side of the tally sheet in this battle of adversity versus advantage. Good storytellers have a natural affinity for politics; or politics has magnetic power to attract tellers of tall tales. Abraham Lincoln's natural affection for people and his sincere interest in the well-being of his fellow men made him a _ natural champion of the rights and benefits of man in the arenas of law and politics. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1959 "THE story of his subduing the bully, Jack Armstrong, affords another glimpse of the force which won him respect among the hardy frontiersmen of the western wilderness. Self-taught Abraham, now an adult, acknowledged guidance and encouragement in learning from — Mentor Graham, the frontier schoolmaster; John Allen, the country doctor; Old John Berry, the revivalist preacher; Judge Bowling Green, and of Jack Kelso, Robert Burns, and William Shakespeare in about equal proportions. From such as these, Abe gleaned the rudiments of a love of learning. Abe was defeated in the first election at which he sought an office in 1832. Offut's store failed and Abe tried storekeeping in partnership with young Berry, the minister's son. They borrowed money to buy out Bill Greene, but the business was scant and the mounting debts inexorable. Adversity drove his partner to drink and early death, and left Lincoln in debt and out of business. For fifteen years he struggled to pay off the debts of his lone venture in business. He was appointed postmaster of New Salem and later deputy county surveyor. In 1834 he was elected to the State Assembly of Illinois. Here he had his first contact with the boisterous buffetings of frontier politics and democracy on the loose. The following year, legend says, Abraham Lincoln and _fair-haired Ann Rutledge, daughter of James, the mill owner, the tavern keeper, became engaged, but sudden, fatal illness took her away and thrust Abraham into the gloomy depths of despair. ABRAHAM LINCOLN It was in this era of his career that he began the practice of law as junior partner to Judge Stewart and in 1841 to Judge Stephen T. Logan. The next year, November 4, he married the ambitious, much soughtafter Mary Todd, who had vowed that she would choose for her husband "the one that has the best chance of being President." In 1860, eighteen years later, her estimate was fulfilled, when he was nominated to run for the office of President of the United States. Amidst the rejoicing of his friends, he said: "There is a little woman at our house who is more interested in this dispatch than I am." In November, after the election returns were in, he announced to her, "Mary, we're elected." Joy to her; gloom and sorrow for him. He could discern the darkness of civil strife by that time, and the gathering storm clouds on the horizon. For one term — 1847-1849 — Lincoln was a Representative from [linois in the House of Representatives. Mary and the family had a brief taste of what life was in the Nation's capital. Here he was thrown into the midst of the political conflicts seething around the issues of slavery. His outspoken opinions on the subject brought his defeat and froze his immediate political future in Illinois. He returned to the practice of law in Illinois. For nine years following 1849 he devoted himself to his profession and built his fame as a lawyer, riding circuit. The Missouri Compromise of 1850 he thought would "lay the ghost" of the slavery issue until by moderate, gradual means of educa- 287 tion and freeing the slaves by Goyernment purchase the issue could be permanently buried. THIS idea of "gradual emancipation" of slaves by Government purchase had evidently become a deep-seated conviction with him. Repeatedly he tried to win his supporters to the idea. In February 1865, he made one last great attempt to use the principle to avert the further disaster he could see for the country. © To his cabinet he proposed that "Congress be asked to appropriate $400,000,000 to compensate the owners of slaves in such of the Southern states as should have ceased resistance by April 1," but the proposal was unanimously disapproved by the Cabinet. He was defeated again. Among his papers was found a note dated February 5, 1865: "Today these papers which explain themselves, were drawn up and submitted to the Cabinet and unanimously disapproved by them. A. Lincoln." Twenty-one years earlier, May 1844, in Illinois, less than two years after Abe had married Mary, and while he was practicing law in Springfield, another young man in Illinois, just four years Abe's senior, was nominated by his friends for the Presidency of the United States. He had announced as one of the principles of his political faith "to rid so free a country of every vestige of slavery... And give liberty to the captive by paying the Southern gentlemen a reasonable equivalent for their property, that the whole nation might be free...." In his address to the American people on that occasion, among other things, he said, "Pray Congress to pay every man a reasonable price for his slaves 288 out of the surplus revenue arising from the sale of public lands, and from the deduction of pay from the members of Congress" ("History of Joseph Smith," D. H. C. VI, pp. 197-209). The great debates with Stephen A. Douglas brought Lincoln before his countrymen where he expressed in simple, clear, and forceful language the convictions of millions that the extension of slavery would cause the collapse of Government of, by, and for the people. It was the essence of the betrayal of that principle of government, he thought. The Supreme Court decision of 1857 in the Dred Scott case, and the repeal of the Missouri Compromise by the passage of the Kansas-Nebraska Act projected him again into the political strife, which achieved its clearest expression in the debates with Douglas. If these debates are to be appraised as furtherances or hindrances to his career, it is well to consider that the outcome of the presidential election, though nominally a victory for him, showed that he had _ received 1,866,452 of the popular vote: Douglas, 1,375,157; Breckenridge, 847,953; and Bell, 590,631. 'Though he received a plurality, he was nearly a million votes short of a majority. He profited this time by the split in the Democratic party. His political career to this point had been notable for defeats and now at its peak, he barely squeezed through. Ahead rose the specter of bloody civil war with embarrassment, rebellion, calamity, and military reverses. These are the connotations of Fort Sumter, of the Battle of Bull Run of July 1861; the vacillations of General McClellan; the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1959 usurpation and premature actions of General Fremont in the West; the Trent incident, and the resulting embarrassment of making amends by the return of the Confederate envoys Mason and Slidell on the demand of Great Britain. E had painfully and impotently awaited inauguration in 1861, while the Union was disintegrating under the bungling and inaction of President Buchanan, who turned over to him a Government and country in the shambles of rebellion. For four bitter, dark years the menace of the disruption of the Union haunted him and the American people. He was to taste the bitterness of defeat in the outcomes of the battle of Manassas, near Bull Run; of the campaigns of Stonewall Jackson in the Shenandoah Valley; Lee in the defense of Richmond; the empty victory of Antietam; the slaughter at Fredericksburg; the shock of Lee's victory at Chancellorsville; the desperate and costly triumph at Gettysburg, and the escape of Lee, to fight again. When the tide began to turn with the success of the Union Armies under Grant at Vicksburg, and later with the congregation of victorious Union generals at Lookout Mountain and Missionary Ridge, the stage was setting for the fall of Richmond. Yet there were tense days of awful suspense while Sherman's army assaulted Kennesaw Mountain, then marched through Georgia, disappeared for thirty-two newsless days, and at last reached the sea. Final victory at a staggering cost came with the fall of Richmond and Lee's surrender at Appomattox, April 9, 1865. Victory in sight, political conflict, bitter criticism, and opposition ABRAHAM LINCOLN swelled to a loud crescendo. The Nation, exhausted, spent, and destitute, in mourning, and crushed by the ravages of civil war, in the South, harbored the bitterness of defeat, and in the North and everywhere, empty victory and staggering losses, which rebellion and successful resistance had brought. The bleeding, sorely wounded Nation gasped its way painfully and slowly back to life. Abraham Lincoln had been renominated and re-elected, this time by a popular vote of 2,330,552, to McClellan's 1,835,985. The war was over. Armed resistance had ceased. The destruction of war was everywhere, in the lives of the people, in the cities, and in the war-torn countryside. Grief had visited millions of homes. The bitterness of defeat and the widespread suffering had taken heavy toll. Sorrow and sacrifice had drained the spiritual reserves of the people. When President Lincoln was inaugurated the second time he expressed the spirit and purpose now well known throughout the world, in the classical statement of good will: 289 With malice toward none; with charity for all; with firmness in the right, as God gives us to see the right, let us strive on to finish the work we are in; to bind up the nation's wounds; to care for him who shall have borne the battle, and for his widow and his orphan — to do all which may achieve and cherish a just and lasting peace among ourselves and with all nations. In a moment of relaxation when he was about to take up the tasks of rebuilding the shattered and broken parts of the sundered Nation, an assassin took his life. Adversity again snatched away his opportunity, but spared him the knowledge in mortality of the tragic madness which followed his Mary to her grave. Though stalked by hardship, failure, defeat, and tragedy through the greater part of his life, with preciously meager respite in a few successes, Abraham Lincoln, the American Job, is remembered and_ revered throughout the world for vast patience, good will, and affection for mankind, and for monumental firmness in the night as God gave him to see the right. These everlasting qualities have survived the hatred of men, the havoc of war, and death. Te compassionate service which Relief Society women universally render so generously and stoically must bring them constantly into situations where adversity of many kinds is suffered by the people they serve. I expect that they observe that adversity has a mellowing effect upon some people and an embittering effect upon others. 'The reaction of people to adversity, I have long thought, is a manifestation of spiritual maturity. Abraham Lincoln is one of America's most eminent examples of the spiritual power required to overcome adversity. Joseph Smith is America's pre-eminent example. I offer this as an explanation of the reason for writing about Abraham Lincoln in the somber, tragic vein of this essay. I think his life is a classic of inspiration for all of us who must at some time face adversity in some degree. —A. HAMER REISER She Sastern States lTlission Preston R. Nibley Assistant Church Historian HE Eastern States Mission may be said to be the oldest mission in the Church. Shortly after the Church was organized, in April 1830, missionaries were sent out and branches were established in New York, Pennsylvania, and in the New England States. In January 1832 Orson Hyde, Samuel H. Smith, Orson Pratt, and Lyman E. Johnson were called to preach the gospel "in the eastern countries." When the Twelve Apostles were called in 1835, they filled their first mission in the Eastern States. In 1837 a branch of the Church was established in New York City by Parley P. Pratt. In May 1839 John P. Greene was appointed by the Prophet Joseph Smith "to go to the city of New York and preside over the Saints in that place and in the regions round about." From that time on active missionary work in the Eastern States was continued, until the coming of Johnston's Army to Utah in 1857, when all the Utah missionaries in the United States were called by President Brigham Young to return home. Then, following the Johnston's Army episode, came the great Civil War, which prolonged the crisis. In fact it was not until 1893 that a new mission president was appointed for the Eastern States, Elder Job Pingree of Ogden, who established headquarters in Brooklyn. Courtesy Pennsylvania State Department of Commerce DUTCH BARN "DECORATED JUST FOR FANCY" SOUTHEAST PENNSYLVANIA Page 290 EASTERN STATES MISSION 291 Photo by Roger L. Moore Courtesy New York State Department of Commerce VIEW OF THE BATTERY FROM STATEN ISLAND FERRY NEW YORK CITY Since the return of President Pingree in 1895 the following brethren have served as presidents of this mission: Samuel W. Richards, 1895-97; Alonzo P. Kesler, 1897-99; William H. Smart, 1899-1900; Edward H. Snow, 1900-01; John G. McQuarrie, 1901-08; Ben E. Rich, 1908-13; Walter P. Monson, 1913-19; George W. McCune, 1919-22; Brigham H. Roberts, 1922-27; Henry H. Rolapp, 1927-28; James H. Moyle, 1928-33; Don B. Colton, 1933-37; Frank Evans, 1937-40; Gustave A. Iverson, 1940-44; Roy W. Doxey, 1944-48; George Q. Morris, 1948-52; Delbert G. 'Taylor, 1952-55; Theodore C. Jacobsen, 1955-59; Gerald G. Smith, 1959—. In 1937 the great Cumorah Pageant was inaugurated, and since that time it has become an important annual event in the Eastern States Mission. In January 1959, there were 8,726 members of the Church in the Eastern States mission, located in fifty-five branches. 'There were 547 converts baptized during the year 1958. Sixty-four Relief Society organizations, with 1287 members, were reported in December 1958. Florence S. Jacobsen is former president of the Eastern States Mission Relief Society, and Olive Lunt Smith is the present president. Note: The cover for this Magazine, "Brandywine Park, Wilmington, Delaware," is reproduced from a color transparency by Fred H. Ragsdale, Free Lance Photographers Guild, Inc. See also "Recipes From the Eastern States Mission," by Sister Jacobsen, page 311. Contest Announcements— 1959 CONTESTS CLOSE AUGUST 15, 1959 HE Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest and the Relief Society Short Story Contest are conducted annually by the General Board of Relief Society to stimulate creative writing among Latter-day Saint women and to encourage high standards of work. Latter-day Saint women who | qualify under the rules of the respective contests are invited to enter their work in either or both contests. The General Board would be pleased to receive entries from the outlying stakes and missions of the Church as well as from those in and near Utah. Since the two contests are entirely separate, requiring different writing skills, the winning of an award in one of them in no way precludes winning in the other. It is suggested that authors who plan to enter the contests study carefully the articles on story writing and poetry which appear in this Magazine and similar articles in the May issue 1955, 1956, 1957, 1958, and in the June issue for the preceding nine years. Eliza RK. Snow Poem Contest HE Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest opens with this announcement and closes August 15, 1959. Prizes will be awarded as follows: First prize -..........2----------$40 Second prize......2.22++--+--$30 Third prize.............-.-----$20 Prize poems will be published in the January 1960 issue of The Relief Society Magazine (the birthmonth of Eliza R. Snow). Prize-winning poems become the property of the Relief Society General Board and may not be published by others except upon written permission from the General Board. 'The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other poems submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rates. Page 292 Rules for the contest: 1. This contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women, exclusive of members of the Relief Society General Board and employees of the Relief Society General Board. 2. Only one poem may be submitted by each contestant. 3. The poem must not exceed fifty lines and should be typewritten, if possible; where this cannot be done, it should be legibly written. Only one side of the paper is to be used. (A duplicate copy of the poem should be retained by contestants to insure against loss.) 4. The sheet on which the poem is written is to be without signature or other identifying marks. 5- No explanatory material or picture is to accompany the poems. 6. Each poem is to be accompanied by a stamped envelope on which is written the contestant's name and address. Nom de plumes are not to be used. 7. A signed statement is to accompany the poem submitted, certifying: a. That the author is a member of The ELIZA R. SNOW POEM CONTEST Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. B. That the poem (state title) is the contestant's original work. C. That it has never been published. D. That it is not in the hands of an editor or other person with a view to publication. E. That it will not be published nor submitted elsewhere for publication until the contest is decided. 8. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. G. The judges shall consist of one member of the General Board, one person from the English department of an educational institution, and one person who is a 293 recognized writer. In case of complete disagreement among judges, all poems selected for a place by the various judges will be submitted to a specially selected committee for final decision. In evaluating the poems, consideration will be given to the following points: a. Message or theme b. Form and pattern c. Rhythm and meter d. Accomplishment of the purpose of the poem e. Climax 10. Entries must be postmarked not later than August 15, 1959. 11, All entries are to be addressed to Relief Society Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest, 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah. Reliof Society Short Story Contest HE Relief Society Short Story Contest for 1959 opens with this announcement and closes August 15, 1959. The prizes this year will be as follows: First prize -.....2.22.-.-----$75 Second prize.......-...------$60 Third prize..........2.22------$50 The three prize-winning stories will be published consecutively in the first three issues of The Relief Society Magazine for 1960. Prizewinning stories become the property of the Relief Society General Board and may not be published by others except upon written permission from the General Board. The Gencral Board reserves the right to publish any of the other stories entered in the contest, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rates. Rules for the contest: 1. This contest is open to Latter-day Saint women—exclusive of members of the Relief Society General Board and employees of the General Board—who have had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication. 2. Only one story may be submitted by each contestant. 3. The story must not exceed 3,000 words in length and must be typewntten. The number of the words must appear on the first page of the manuscript. (All words should be counted, including one and two-letter words.) A duplicate copy of the story should be retained by contestants to insure against loss. 4. The contestant's name is not to appear anywhere on the manuscript, but a stamped envelope on which is written the contestant's name and address is to be enclosed with the story. Nom de plumes are not to be used. 5. A signed statement is to accompany the story submitted certifying: a. That the author is a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. B. That the author has had at least one literary composition published or ac- 294 cepted for publication. (This statement must give name and date of publication in which the contestant's work has appeared, or, if not yet published, evidence of acceptance for publication.) c. That the story submitted (state the title and number of words) is the contestant's original work. D. That it has never been published, that it is not in the hands of an editor or other person with a view to publication, and that it will not be published nor submitted elsewhere for publication until the contest is closed. 6. No explanatory material or picture is to accompany the story. 7. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait for two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1959 8. The judges shall consist of one member of the General Board, one person from the English department of an educational institution, and one person who is a recognized writer. In case of complete disagreement among the judges, all stories selected for a place by the various judges will be submitted to a specially selected committee for final decision. In evaluating the stories, consideration will be given to the following points: a. Characters and their presentation b. Plot development c. Message of the story d. Writing style g. Entries must be postmarked not later than August 15, 1959. 10. All entries are to be addressed to Relief Society Short Story Contest, 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah. Would You Write Poetry? Sylvia Probst Young ATCHING a setting sun \¢ streak the summer sky with crimson and gold, a friend exclaimed, "If I could put such beauty in a poem!" "Have you ever tried?" I asked her. "Once," she told me, didn't sound right." A good poem is never written with one trial. If you would write poetry you must know what to strive for, and then practice and practice with the technique you have gained. To be a writer of poetry, I believe that one must first of all be a reader of it. Read the poetry of the ancient writers, the poets of the Bible, early English literature, Shakespeare's poetry and other Elizabethan masterpieces, poetry of the romantic period, the great flowering "but it of Victorian literature, American literature, from colonial times to current poetry. Analyze the types of poems appearing in great varicty in modern magazines — literary publications, women's periodicals, and Church magazines. 'Try to find the elements which make poetry appealing and significant — find the secrets of the art of poetry writing. Poetry, you will find, makes many kinds of appeals, through the pictures it creates; through the feelings it stimulates; through its rhythm and sound. It is a kind of window that has power to illuminate the commonplace. It is a lifting, inspirational thing, and through reading it, many of our own thoughts are born. The inspiration or idea for a poem comes first; it precedes everything WOULD YOU WRITE POETRY? Else; and every day brings inspiration for poetry writing. It is all around us, in the most ordinary things — a baby's shoe, a favorite chair, a child's upturned face. It is in remembered experiences, and those of which we have read. The thoughts for a poem may come through emotions we have experienced, and, most surely, from the fabric of imagination. "Sometimes I have such beautiful thoughts for poems," a neighbor once confided. "But when I get time to write them down, I've forgotten what I wanted to say." Get your idea down on paper, don't let it slip away, if you have to turn off the iron or even get out of bed at three a. MM. Write it as it comes to you, don't worry about the meter or rhyme, you will come back to that. I like to keep paper and pencil always with me because I never know just when the idea for a poem might be born. After the inspiration, a poet must transform the raw material for a poem into a poem itself. FIRST, let us ask, "Does the poem I am writing have substance?" A poem should tell something. It should give a new light on something people already know. It must be more than a description. It should reflect life. Could anyone possibly say after having read it, "Well, what of it?" "Does this poem have beauty?" is the next thing we might ask. It should be beautiful in its selfless sincerity, a clear, crystal showing of what has been experienced. It should satisfy and content the heart by the precision of its wording. 295 Emily Dickinson's choice of words is one of her greatest charms. And she often chooses words that have become worn to a shadow in minor verses, but she reveals them in new strength, and allows them to perform duties which the poets have not assigned to them for years. I would recommend her works for your reading. Many times in The Relief Society Magazine I have found poetry that gave me heart contentment by the beauty of its wording. Mabel Law Atkinson's "December Violets," The Relief Society Magazine, December 1958, is such a poem: Love does not wait till blue wings flash To bid the heart to sing; Till fluting larks and swelling buds Announce the proof of spring, Love knows no season boundaries, Gives lilacs in November And gathers April violets In crystal-cold December. A good poem never generalizes. Mrs. Atkinson does not say "Gives flowers in November," she says "Gives lilacs." She does not say "fluting birds," but "fluting larks." Be specific. When you say tree you mean silver birch or oak. It makes a significant difference whether you see in your mind's eye a wisteria or an ivy when you say vine. Strength in a poem is often diminished because the author is too fond of adjectives. How overworked and trite are many of the adjectives we use day by day—stately lily, endless eons, winning ways, azure sky, beautiful day. These are but a few of the timeworn expressions that will brand your poem as the work of 296 an amateur. Try something new! Much better than roaring stream is furious stream. Better than pale moon is chalk-white moon. Red wings of dawn is better than crimson dawn. Whenever possible substitute an adjective with a verb. Verbs give a poem strength, they put subject material into action. Choosing the right verb is very important, too. Freshness of conception makes itself known by our choice of verbs. Look at these two lines from the song, "Swing Low, Sweet Chariot": A band of angels comin' for me, Comin' for to carry me home— Leave out the verb carry and use take instead. At once you will see that take does not have a tenth the power that carry has. Robert Louis Stevenson's "Windy Nights" is a very good example of the power of verbs in a poem. Nouns are necessary in a poem, adjectives — sometimes. "But by their verbs shall ye know them." Outdated words should never be used in a poem; they will brand it as the work of an amateur. Guard against such words as 'tis, "twas, 'bide, o'er, yon, neath. Your poem will gain in effectiveness if you let it speak the natural language that you and your readers understand. MAGERY is another means of making poetry poignant and appealing. Note the use of imagery in these lines from Vesta P. Crawford's prize - winning poem "Drought" (The Relief Society Magazine, January 1935.) And hollow like the dry and wrinkled fruit, I grew to be as withered as the field. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1959 Beholding the desert that leered untamed After its ancient way and gave no yicld. Images are always based on memory. Ask yourself, "Of what does it make me think?" There are three musts in imagery: 1. Images should be true, true to what most of us would feel under similar circumstances. 2. Images should be vivid. To make them vivid is to make them appeal to the five senses, five senses, not just sight alone. Give your readers not only pictures to look at, but sounds to hear, fragrance to smell, textures to touch, and even things to taste, and they will enjoy your poems with compounding interest. How appealing to the sense of smell is this little poem by Grace Barker Wilson (The Relief Society Magazine, June 1951): FRAGRANT MEMORIES Remembered things are poignant as today: The scent of violet, The young, green odor of a fresh cut lawn, Essence of mignonette; Elusive sweetness from the orchard trees When apples are in flower, The clean smell of a forest glade After a summer shower. 3. Images should also be concrete; no generalization is successful as an image. By using similies and metaphors, we can make our images interesting, vivid, and concrete. HE reader's point of view is very important to the writer of poetry. Ask yourself, "How will the reader interpret this?" When you are trying for a solemn mood in the reader avoid words which have gay connotations. Many times a word which jars in a line is merely a word in the wrong place. WOULD YOU WRITE POETRY? Repetition of pleasing vowel and consonant sounds is an effective way to attract attention to a particular phrase, and provides a compelling, haunting quality. Note the repetition of sounds in these lines: The singing of a swallow on the summer air. Above the ruffles of the surf.... Bright striped urchins flay each other with sand. But do not overuse repetition in your poem or the mind of the reader will be carried only on the surface of the sound. Rhythm, we are told, is fundamental to all the arts. In poetry the rhythmical pattern consists of various arrangements of stressed and unstressed sounds. 'The meter, or measurable rhythm of a line of poetry, is characterized by a repeated pattern of stressed and unstressed sounds. <A stressed sound combined with either one or two unstressed sounds in called a foot, and a description of a line of poetry is given in terms of the basic metrical foot and number of feet in the line. The rhythmical pattern of poetry must be studied to be understood. You can teach yourself this technique. Any good book on the art of poetry writing (I have recommended several at the end of the article) contains practical information. If you are willing to study and practice, you can learn to count the feet of your poem and make it thythmically patterned. The rhyme scheme of a poem may fall into any one of many patterns, from simple couplet rhyming to complex stanzas, and a poet may try 297 almost any pattern that seems to suit her subject material, and which harmonizes with the mood and effect she wishes to convey. While rhyme is an important and effective embellishment of poetry, care must be exercised in the selection of rhyme words. Do not permit the rhymes to falsify the message of the poem. Be very careful of inversions, and do not use them for the purpose of achieving rhyme. When we say meadows gay, instead of gay meadows, the reader knows that we were forced to make the inversion for the sake of rhyme. Then is the time to revise. Omit the entire stanza if necessary and try another rhyme pattern, but do not use the inversion. Obvious thyming makes a poem commonplace and uninteresting. Such thymes as dove and love, wing and sing, bliss and kiss, have grown stale from overuse. Many significant and enduring poems have been written without regularly recurrent rhyme, without any rhyme, and without definite metrical pattern or stanza form. Poems written "free of traditional limitations" are somewhat loosely classified as free verse. 'I'he great poet Milton (1608-1674) referred to this type of expression as "thoughts that involuntary move in harmonious numbers." Some modern poets have spoken of their 'free' compositions as the "inevitable movement of emotion and meaning." Many unpatterned poems rely for their effect upon cadence, or phrasing within the poem. The Englishman, Matthew Arnold, wrote some of his best poems in free verse, and Walt Whitman, in America, is often cited as an example of pro- 298 ficiency in the wide range of free verse. Others who might be studied in this connection are: Amy Lowell, Archibald MacLeish, Conrad Aiken, T. S. Eliot, and Carl Sandburg. The Biblical Psalms, the Song of Solomon, parts of Isaiah, the magnificent chapters thirteen and fifteen from First Corinthians, and many other parts of the Bible are written in free flowing poetry of great strength and spirituality. However, the amateur poct, who is interested in experimenting with free verse, should be sure of his background in poetry, and sure of his purpose in a particular poem. Writing free verse does not give a poet license to express his thoughts in prose and call it poetry. Free verse, in spite of its freedom, places great responsibility upon a_ poet, and makes demands which are less RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1959 definable and perhaps less easy to attain than the well-defined requirements of traditional patterns. If you would write poetry, you must be willing to study, to accept the disciplines it involves; to be critical of your own work; to revise and revise, until you express to the full intensity and creative rhythm. That which you felt. Never ask yourself, "Is what I've experienced important enough to write about?" Of course it is! Poetry writing is soul satisfying, and an effective poem in print is worth all of the effort involved. Why don't you try it? Of the books I have found helpful, I would most particularly recommend How to Revise Your Own Poems. It is a practical and helpful book on poetry writing. With it you can begin to teach yourself. REFERENCES Brackmuir, R. P.: Form and Value in Modern Poetry, Doubleday Anchor Books, 575 Madison Avenue, New York City 22, New York, $1.25. Foucuaux, MapvEine: First Aid for Limping Verse, Camas Press, P. O. Box 3857, North Hollywood, California, 75c. Hamitton, ANNE: How to Revise Your Own Poems, Wuter's Digest, 22 East 12th Street, Cincinnati 10, Ohio, $1.50. Hittyer, Rosert: First Principles of Verse, Writer's Digest, $2.00. Ee Jo My Daughter Camilla Woodbury Judd I have grown old, my daughter, since you went away, Missing the radiance of your shining hair, Missing your face of heavenly sweetness, cameo chiseled; Your skin like velvet flower petals, Your laughing eyes, your lips so tender; The saucy tilt of your nose, the little dent in your forehead, The long expressive hands, so deft and beautiful; Your arms about me — your rare, sweet confidence. Missing all these so much, My heart grows young again at your returning. What's in a Story? Norma A. Wrathall HY don't you write a story \¢ for The Relief Society Magazine Short Story Contest? Maybe you have already started one. Or maybe all you need is to get started. Let us begin with a definition, and then consider some of the ingredients of the short story. A short story has been defined as a prose narrative which depicts characters in processes of struggle and complications. 'The narrative usually centers around a principal character, with a special problem, against a specific background. A dominant purpose or theme should be in evidence, and the effective short story is marked by dramatic interest, involving significant human experience. In every story, six elements are present: setting (place); persons (characters); events (plot); idea (theme); emotion; and style. I have not listed them in order of their importance, for in any given story one element may predominate over the others. But in every story, all are present to some degree. There are three main steps in building the story: (1) finding the story; (2) building the plot; and (3) developing the narrative. Perhaps you have noted an expression on someone's face showing great joy, strong anger, or deep sorrow. The emotion seemed so intense that you kept thinking about it. You wondered what could have caused anyone to feel that way. You may remember a similar feeling in yourself, and recall the circumstance. You may wonder what events might have led to it, what had happened to the person to cause him to react in that way. And you have the germ of a story. Or, you may know of a series of events in which everything worked out rather smoothly, eventually turning out as planned. But you might wonder, what if something had happened to change those plans? What if, at a certain point, things had gone wrong? What then? And you would begin to have a story; you would think what the people (characters ) might have done in the emergency, how each would have reacted to disappointment; what would have been the outcome. Or, you may have visited a place that fairly teemed with a story, such as a remote house; an abandoned farm; a seemingly peaceful village with an undercurrent of turmoil. Or, you may have a belief that you want to portray in dramatic action. I have read much discussion as to whether one should begin with theme, character, or plot. It is like trying to decide the old question of the chicken or the egg? As far as we are concerned, perhaps we should begin with the element that suggested the story in the first place, and then build in the other parts. This means that if we start with character, we decide on a certain characteristic in the person (such as truthfulness). We then portray this quality by presenting the character in incidents to which he will react to reveal this quality. If we start with plot, we have in mind a series Page 299 300 of significant incidents, then decide what characters would be necessary to bring to pass these events. In the same manner, one might begin with theme or setting. We can't have a story at all without people. N the short story, there is room for only one leading character. This person must be in focus most of the time in the story, if not in actual fact, then by reference. He should be rounded out as much as possible by his thoughts and feelings, his reactions to certain events, his reactions to other people, his appearance, the way he moves, walks, and talks. One or two minor characters, not so fully characterized, may be used to bring out the main character. But they must always be subordinate to him. Don't have any "scene stealers" in your dramatic situations. If you do, the story will be muddled and the reader confused. The character should be made sympathetic to the reader, so that the reader can identify himself with the story-person, and will care what happens to him. And before you can cause the reader to identify with the character, you, the writer, must identify with him yourself. You must be able to feel as he feels, think as he thinks, before you know how he will react to certain situations. Make your character natural and human. Even an evil character must be shown in such a way that the reader will think, "Well, I guess that's what I'd do, if I were that kind of person!" Everything that you write about the character must bring out the characteristic that you are trying to portray. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1959 Here are some steps in character development: (1) Select an outstanding characteristic and show (as early in the story as possible) how the character acts to portray that quality. (2) Characterize by telling or showing the thoughts and feelings of the person. (3) Develop character in dialogue, which includes the speech of the characters in conversation, and also what other people in the story say about the main character. In writing dialogue, train your car to listen to your characters speak. Speech is one of the most difficult things in writing. For if one is not careful, all the characters will be talking alike, and chances are, in the same way as the author! (4) Appearance is important, especially so if appearance can be made to show, by comparison or contrast, the inner feclings of the person. For example: Aunt Sade's hair had always been held tightly at the sides by two brown combs. It wound into a smooth coil at the back, always in the same place, with the same thickness and smoothness. A lock had never been known to escape either of the combs and curl upon her high white forehead; it would not dare! (5) You can individualize your character by some little trait— such as pulling at his ear while thinking. (6) Movement is a language in itself, and sometimes shows far more than any of the other ways. Examples: Diana's bare toes skimmed over the dew-wet grass, a naughty elf fleeing from the prosaic morning ritual of getting dressed... Old Ernst placed one foot ahead of the other with such calculated economy of motion that one had to watch him a moment to know if he really moved. Remember, you cannot characterize your actor and then have done with it once and for all. You must keep on characterizing him right up to, and including, the end of the story. Now that you have the idea for your story, and the characters WHAT'S IN A STORY? Well in mind, it is time to begin on step two, building the plot. Don't believe it if someone tells you that she is not interested in plot. As well try to bake a cake without a recipe, or sew a dress without a pattern. The plot is the framework of the story, the skeleton upon which is placed flesh and skin and coloring. It consists of a series of dramatic happenings, arranged in climactic order, and containing struggle or complication. The first part of the plot is the situation. It contains the want of the principal character, and the problem which seems to prevent him from getting it. 'This part may end with the dramatic climax (the point at which the character despairs of attaining his desire). 'The second part is the solution, in which the character brings about, by his own effort or decision, the solving of the problem. To avoid a "forced result," it is well to have treated in the situation every factor used in the solution. The want should be introduced as early as possible in the story. It must be strongly motivated, so that the reader will be interested in knowing how it turns out. By complication is meant not merely a series of obstacles or stumbling blocks which can be rather easily overcome. For instance, we might be writing about a young girl who is going to college. We give her a strong motive for wanting to earn her degree in June. 'To do so, she must get credit in French. She is not linguistic, and the subject is hard for her, but by studying late at nights, and taking many notes, she thinks she can pass. But she loses her notebook just before the test. However, she finds it again in time 301 to "cram" for the exam. 'These things would hinder her, but they would not be complication. Suppose that when the girl found her notebook at the last minute, she stayed up nearly all night to study. But she was so tired and unnerved that right in the middle of the test she began to weep and ran out of the room, thus flunking the course. So, according to the rules, she would not be allowed to graduate in June. Now, based upon what you might have shown about her, what will she do? Will she accept meekly the ruling of the committee? Or will she find some way out of the dilemma? This would be complication, because it would change the course of action, and it would involve emotional conflict in the leading character. SOMETIMES the character may attain his original want, only to find that it is not what he needed or wanted after all, and a substitute goal is found. This usually grows out of, or is a variant of, the original want; it may be in the nature of a decision. Sometimes the struggle exists almost entirely in the mind of the character, and a decision is the outcome. But in any case, the pattern is the same: the well-defined want; the complication which seems to prevent its attainment; the solution to the problem. Write out your plot in outline form, in whatever way you like. I usually write in short sentences, double-spaced typing, then go over it and see if the incidents lead logically into each other. After I have written my outline, I often write the end of the story, rapidly, just as it comes to me, and 302 sometimes the first two or three paragraphs of the beginning of the story. Then, even with all the interruptions which happen to my writing, I can go back and get into the mood of it again. Each writer must decide what is the best way for her. Now we have finished for the time being with steps one and two. We are ready for the final step, the actual writing. Well, nearly ready. Who is to tell the story? If a character tells it, you will write in first person—the "T" story. If the author tells it, you will write in third person. 'Think it out in several ways. Now write your story. Write. Keep going, to the end, if possible, without thinking of wording or construction or technique. When you have finished, put the story away for several days, or even weeks. Forget it. This step is just as important as any part of the wiiting. When you are ready to begin again, read it entirely through from beginning to end as if you had never seen it before. Now you begin the real work of writing, the revision. Be sure that you have your writer's tools at hand, including your Roget's 'Thesaurus, a good dictionary, and a book of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1959 English grammar and composition for reference. Ask yourself these questions about the story: (1) Would the narrative move along just as well and be just as true and interesting without this incident? If so, leave it out. (2) What is the purpose of each incident? Does each one carry out, or lead toward, the general purpose of the story? (3) Is each incident, and the act of each character, properly motivated? (4) Does the story have suspense and emotional appeal? Cutting and shortening the story are also a part of revision, for you will always have to meet certain word-length requirements. As you see, there are many things to consider. But the best way to learn to write is by writing. Read published stories, and see how our principles of the short story are carried out by the authors. Read and study good reference books and articles in writers' magazines. And be sure to keep a notebook of ideas and characterizations, scribbled in quickly as they come to mind. Now put this article away. Write your story. You will work, and dream, and despair over it. But whatever its fate, if you have given it your best, you are a winner; for ahead of success is achievement. You have achieved something, and the result is uplifting and rewarding. REFERENCES Bates, E. H.: The Modern Short Story, $3.00 Etwoop Maren: Characters Make Your Story, $4.00 MirriELeEES, Eviru M.: Story Writing, $3.50. The books listed above may be purchased from The Writer, Inc. Publishers, 8 Arlington, Street, Boston 16, Massachusetts Rocet's THESAURUS, $1.90 Writer's Digest, 22 East 12th Street, Cincinnati 10, Ohio. Louisa Helen M. Livingston HE long train of handcarts pushed on through the dusty afternoon. "Keep moving. Fight miles yet to go. We'll make the Sweetwater tonight." This word came down the line from the leader of the Enoc Company. Louisa pushed along. The extra sack of flour from the provision wagon made the pushing harder. Sometimes it seemed that that extra fifty pounds were right on _ her shoulders. But she mustn't look tired or Brother Thames next to her would take the sack on his load. Brother Thames was small and wiry. He had supervised linen looms and was not fitted for heavy pulling and his load was twice as big as Louisa's. He carried for a family. His wife was ill and hardly able to get herself along, and three-year-old Melinda had to sit on the load much of the time. So the sun beat down. This was strange dry country. When a breeze came it was not salty, nor cool, nor damp from the sea. It was dry and crisp and took all the moisture out of your skin, and out of your mouth. Louisa saw buffalo tracks at the side of the trail. It might have been wet when the huge animal walked there, but those tracks were hard and dry now. A scaly lizard at the side of the trail looked at her with startled, beady eyes, then slithered away in the shadscale brush. Louisa touched her hand to her face. Her own skin felt as brown and rough as the lizard's. She pulled her big bonnet closer over her face and pinned the neck of her dress a little higher. If only her foot would stop hurting, Louisa thought. The sturdiest shoes she could buy, too, and all out at the sides! She had come on that cactus so suddenly the other day. She had sat at the side for awhile and taken out the spines. But it still pained. It was getting worse. The heated rays of the sun shot nght down through her broken shoe like sharp knives, and her whole foot was throbbing. It felt like the great wheel of the cart was turning on her foot. Once they came to a spring; no, not a spring, just a bog. But they dug deep holes until the water oozed in, then they gathered around in groups and drank the water. Little Melinda broke loose from her father's hand. She rushed toward the water and didn't wait until she reached the hole. She just caught up a handful of black mud and thrust it into her mouth, sucking the moisture onto her dry lips and tongue. Louisa, cupping her hands, brought water to Melinda. As it seeped through her fingers she put out her throbbing foot to catch the cool drops. But time couldn't be wasted at the spring. Soon the Enoc train was pushing on again. "Keep your own place in your own company." Each person tried to follow the directions, but every now and then a cart would be stopped at the roadside. One cart Page 303 304 had a cover that fell over at the side, making a little tent. As the carts pushed past, Louisa heard the cry of a new baby. She thought of her own mother back in England. She thought of her younger brothers and sisters. She wanted to leave the line and rush into the crude tent, but she moved mechanically on, looking into the dry distance. If you walked this far in England you would come to ocean, but there were no oceans here, just desert and the far distant mountains. But she mustn't think of England. It was best her father and mother had stayed. They could come later. How her foot throbbed, but she remembered the words of the prophet, "Let them gird up their loins and walk through and nothing shall hinder them." She lifted her head higher. The load seemed lighter. Her sore foot eased. HE afternoon wore on. Another cart was stopped at the side of the trail. It was Levi Andrus. Louisa brushed the dust from her navy alpaca and straightened her brown hair under her bonnet. Levi had danced with her the first night they had camped. "I'll have to save the axle," Levi told Brother Thames, as he fitted his only leather jacket around the axle. "You need something to tie it, Lad. Here, take my belt." Louisa untied the big bow under her chin and jerked off one of the ties. "Take this, as well." Her bonnet fell back from her face. Levi's quick eye saw the white skin on her forehead where her bonnet had covered. It made a pale border around the deep brown of the freckles on her nose and chin. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1959 "Looks as if you need your bonnet held tight." But Levi didn't give the tie back. They left him tugging at his axle. The sun dropped behind the western horizon. There was no singing along the long lines now. 'The tired bodies bent forward, pushing and pulling. 'The slow creaking of. Wheels continued. "No stop until we reach the Sweetwater." 'They kept doggedly on. But when the sun sank the heat went, too, and a cold chill came over the plains. "There are three graves to be dug when we stop." The word came to Brother Thames, but it was passed along up and down the lines and settled with the cold evening on the company. Word came that snow was already in the mountains. There was no time to waste. Brother 'Thames murmured, "May the Lord in his mercy preserve us." The words were repeated like a prayer down the line sounding much like a chant as it echoed back. "May the Lord in his mercy preserve us." At last the handcart company could smell the Sweetwater River. Dry nostrils sniffed the damp breeze, and the train picked up speed. Shoulders lifted and pushed harder, finally a shout went up from the front. The bank was soon lined with carts. The people were drinking and dipping their hands into the water. Many fell upon the bank not wanting to move. It was dark and the water was cold, but the sacks were removed from the feet of those whose shoes were gone and they dipped their feet in the cold water. Louisa removed what was left of LOUISA her broken shoe. Her foot was swollen. It looked as if a fire were inside it. She washed it and sat holding it. The carts that had lagged were pushing up into their own places. Levi's cart with the leather-wrapped axle came creaking into view. He stopped and dropped down by Louisa. He noticed the swollen foot. "It needs to be opened." Brother Thames bent over, too, and examined the swelling as if it were a flaw in a length of lovely linen. "Best get it cared for tonight, so you can be on it tomorrow." LOUBA looked helpless. Levi comforted, "It's not so bad. If the pressure is relieved it will be better." He slipped out his sharp knife and handed it to her. She shook her head. "Would you?" she asked. He hesitated. Then slid over to the water. He scoured the knife in the white sand. "Now," he said, "put your foot here. Then I can't see your face, and you can't see your foot." It was done in a second. Blood stained the white sand. "Do you have something with which to wrap it?" Louisa shook her head. Levi took from his pocket a neat, folded, bonnet tie, and with quick, skilled movements, he wrapped the foot and tied the bandage. Many of the carts were already being unloaded. The tired train of emigrants was just getting ready for the night when a loud call came from behind. "We will push through the river tonight." Unrest filled the train. Sighs and 305 complaints filled the air. "We've come fifteen miles today." "It's cold; we can't take icy water tonight." "Our cart is already unloaded." "It's dark; we'll slip on the rocks." "Our feet are already bleeding." No one moved toward the water. "How is your foot?" Levi asked. He took her broken shoe and went to his cart. "We'll push through the water tonight," the call re-echoed from the captain. No one moved. 'There was just a low cough of complaining. Then an axle squeaked. A cart moved into the river. Then a clear, vibrant voice rose over the water. "Come, come, ye saints, no toil nor labor fear." Other carts were moved. More voices were singing. The whole company came in on the chorus, "All is well, all is well." The air vibrated. The carts were moving on through the water. 'The emptied ones were being filled. 'The last verse echoed joyously out through the valley. The large camp fire was burning on the other side as the last carts came up the bank from the water. Steam rose from wet clothing. Camps were set for the night. Levi brought her shoe back to Louisa. "Did your foot make it through the water?" He called her Louesa. She corrected him. "Louisa. My mother is named Louisa. My grandmother is. Louisa. It has always been Louisa. It has to be Louisa." Levi looked deep into her face, by the light of the dying fire. 'All right," he said, "Blue-eyes." Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, May 1, and May 15, 1899 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN oF Ati NATIONS" OBEDIENCE WITHOUT SEVERITY: Law is the governing force of the universe.... Nevertheless there are persons who hesitate to compel obedience lest they might injure the child's will power. But we think this is not so. Too frequently where there is strong will power displayed it is a manifestation of selfishness. Children do sometimes have strong instinctive desires in the right direction; therefore their motives should be most cautiously considered.... A stubborn, unconquered child is sure to develop into a man so self-centered and determined to have his own way that he will forego pleasures and even success rather than retract, and will be as he was when a child, his own greatest enemy.... —Amy Brown Lyman EDUCATION AND MOTHERHOOD: The knowledge stored in days of youth can be brought forth from time to time, to enrich the minds of the children. They must look up to the mother; feel that she possesses the very acme of wisdom; then they are willing and respectful subjects. Mothers, live with your children, answer all their manifold questions... You must retain and add to the education of carly years... The education obtained in school days, is only the foundation on which to erect the life structure.. —Lydia D. Alder America Religious freedom on thy soil, Was born 'mid struggling bands, And Liberty to light the world, In New York harbor stands. Shine on thou incandescent light, Nor let thy rays grow dim, Bring joy to earth's inhabitants, With thy effulgent gleam. —Lucy A. Clark A FLOURISHING BRANCH: San Diego, California. In this far off, beautiful southern city of between twenty and twenty-six thousand, there is a little band of Saints organized, numbering probably thirty-five souls, all told.... The Relief Society is under the able management of Sister Amelia Jewell, at whose home the sisters convene... For the purpose of testifying of God's goodness and blessings, and to lend themselves physically for the relief and succor of those in need.... —Rhoda Celestia Nash NATIONAL WOMAN'S RELIEF SOCIETY: This society is so perfectly organized that it is comparatively easy to carry out any plan formulated by the General Board.... Thus there are divisions and subdivisions of the society, which consists at present of thirty thousand members and more than six hundred branches scattered through this and other countries and on the islands of the sea. —E. B. W. Page 306 M®s MARY M. ROBERTS, who died in January 1959, was editor of the American Journal of Nursing from 1921 to 1949, and editor emeritus until her death. She regarded nursing as an "all-encompassing service in response to a universal human need." She was cited and decorated for distinguished service in many fields of nursing. HE Women's State Legislative Council of Utah has received international recognition because of the Commitment Law, which it spearheaded six years ago. 'This legislation makes it easier for mentally ill people to be admitted for observation or treatment at the state hospital on a voluntary basis. It also deletes the word insane so frequently used in former legislation and makes several other enlightened improvements. This law, it is said, will be the basis of similar legislation in India and has been copied by Arizona and New Mexico. RS. KATHERINE G. CAPT is survey statistician, Division of Statistical Research, United States Bureau of the Census, Washington, D. C. It is her responsibility to find, through the research and experiments of various workers, the most accurate and effective ways of making surveys to form a basis for governmental action. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon MP. CATHERINE BYRNE, Lord Mayor of Dublin, Ireland, was an honored guest in New York City on St. Patrick's Day, March 17, 1959, when 120,000 Irishmen took over Fifth Avenue. Accompanied by Governor Nelson A. Rockefeller, she reviewed the marchers. ME. JOSEPHINE PERFECT BAY was appointed recently to the chairmanship of the board of directors of the American Export Lines. She is the first woman to head a major steamship line. Mrs. Bay was born in Iowa and inherited extensive financial interests when her husband, Charles Ulrick Bay, former United States Ambassador to Norway, died in 1955. RS. CLAIRE BOOTH LUCE, former Ambassador to Italy from 1953 to 1957, has been named ambassador to Brazil. Mrs. Luce won considerable acclaim for the conduct of her office in Italy. MOGEN HOLST, musical secretary to Britain's brilliant composer, Benjamin Britten, is co-author with him of The Wonderful World of Music (Garden City Books). This volume explains music to children imaginatively and delightfully. Page 307 OQ-—>D EDITORIAL c~© VOL. 46 MAY 1959 NO. 5 Books a Recorders for the Ages. Seek ye out of the best books words of wisdom, seek learning, even by study and also by faith (D & C 88:118). AN it be that the wide and wonderful world of books is being lost to many of our generation? Each year more and more good books become available—the thoughts and researches, the conclusions of great minds of our time, and innumerable new editions of the classics of the past. History, science, literature, books on art, volumes of sacred scriptures are easily secured. Books are being circulated through libraries in towns and cities, and, in some areas, bookmobiles distribute books even in isolated regions. Books on myriad subjects, suitable for all age groups, are available at small cost. Books, the recorders for the ages, companions of all generations, encompassing the tablets of the past and foreshadowing the future, are within reach for our information, our entertainment, our inspiration, and our spiritual advancement. Yet there are many homes which lack this illumined acquaintanceship, and which seem to be unaware of these treasures of knowledge. Perhaps we value lightly the opportunities which are abundant. Our fathers and our mothers, our grandparents, many of them rejoiced in the few books they owned and the ones they were able to borrow. Books of poems, histories, Bibles, were brought in covered wagons and in handcarts to the valleys of the Page 308 mountains, and the books were read by evening firelight, by flickering candles; they were read on Sabbath afternoons, on long journeys; and they were read by the farmer at noontime rest beside his field; mothers read to their children in shade of poplar trees and on the cabin porch. Isolation became union with a world of faraway people and places. Pioneer families on lonely ranches companioned themselves with books. Rejoicing in her measure of such companionship, was a teenage girl, living all summer at her father's sheep camp on the mountain range. Only one book was available, a small, paper-bound book, filled with words of lasting strength and beauty. "the light shineth in darkness... The voice of one crying in the wilderness... 'There cometh a woman of Samaria to draw water... A well of water springing up into everlasting life...." There were twenty-one chapters in the little book, and each chapter was divided and rationed, read over and over again, so that there would be a little reading for each of the long summer days that stretched slowly to evening on the high blue ridges. The small, paper-bound book was the Gospel of John, and when the girl became a woman she still loved books and rejoiced when other books and other scriptures opened for her the illimit- EDITORIAL able vistas of this world and the worlds to come. If we lose for ourselves the world of books, we lose much of our heritage; we lose the selectivity that may be exercised in choosing those volumes that will embellish our thoughts and our ways with treasures proved through the long years, and new delights that come to us in poem and story, in travelogues, in new light on ancient places, accounts of the widening panoramas of change. The myriad rooms of wonderment that books open are available to us 309 and to our children. The books we read to our little ones in this their day of tender impressions will be their memories tomorrow, and they will hold in high esteem and with a lasting love, that mother or father, that grandmother or grandfather, that kind companion who sat beside the child and turned the pages of a book, opening for him the glorious world of experience and inspiration —the world that is so wide and so wonderful, and yet so small that books can capture much of it, for books are the recorders of the ages. —V. P. C. ~<—- Drea Mn, Co re Sue Ida Elaine James My head is bent over blossom-white seams No whiter, no sweeter than are my dreams. Into the shining needle there goes A vision of cuddly dimpled toes And pink cheeks smooth as the summcer's rose. Into the web of my threads are run Bird-like laughter and glint of sun— The shimmering pathway of dreams begun. Thread and needle, fly swift and free, Make the dream that I hold come true to me. My Mother Elsie McKinnon Strachan A part of prairie land, I see her still Wherever meadow grasses scent the air; Wherever plain folk work a gentle hill, A picture lives for me, undimmed and clear. Bright picture of my mother as she came Across the hayfield, bringing me warm bread, Fresh-baked and sweet, calling out my name— Wind billowing her dress of faded red. And when our lunch was over, she would go, Skirts full and blowing, sunlight in her hair, Back through the cut hay, milk jug swinging low, Her color ebbing on the bright blue air. I'll see her always where wild sweet grasses bend, My prairie mother walking in the wind. She Right Circles And awake and arise... And strengthen thy stakes and enlarge thy borders forever, that thou mayest no more be confounded, that the covenants of the Eternal Father which he hath made unto thee.. Are, by the F{NCIRCLED, as we gifts and blessings so freely granted through the mission and teachings of Jesus Christ, and through the enlightenment and verification of the restored gospel, we are heirs of the covenant. As such we are entitled to as much progression and as much joy as our own capacities and obedience will allow us to receive. It is a natural feeling for those who have been given participation in a rewarding earth life and in a glorious promise for the eternities— it is a natural wish for them to share their riches with others and to spread the tidings that many may join in the blessings and participate in "the right circles." A formal missionary system was established early in the history of the Church. Through revelation the Prophet Joseph Smith instructPage 310. May be fulfilled (Moroni 10:31). Ed a group of early missionaries: "And from this place [Kirtland, Ohio] ye shall go forth into the regions westward; and inasmuch as ye shall find them that will receive' you ye shall build up my church in every region" (D & C 42:8). Though all of us are not called to special missions, we are all missionaries in one way or another. The child who invites his playmate to Primary is enlarging the circle of joyful companionship. The older son who takes a school friend with him to Mutual gives this friend an opportunity to see life as it progresses in the gospel circle. The woman at home may be one to lift her voice and share her heritage. If she is alert to the needs of her neighbors, she may invite a seamstress, or one interested in handicraft, to the work mecting, and open for her the blessings and opportunities of Relief Society. Young mothers, through interest and invitation, may be gathered into the circle of homemakers who are entiched by participation in the lessons that give them instruction and inspiration. Many women who love literature may find this to be the portal of their entrance into Relief Society. As the first Section of the Doctrine and Covenants so well expresses the wideness of the gospel message, it is forever an enlarging circle: "Hearken ye people from afar; and ye that are upon the islands of the sea, listen together..." (D&C 1:1). Recipes trom the astern States Nlisston Submitted by Florence S. Jacobsen FROM THE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA PENNSYLVANIA DUTCH RECIPES In the early years of the eighteenth century, nearly all the first settlers in Eastern Pennsylvania came from the Palatinate in Germany. They brought with them tecipes of famous German cooks. Life was hard in America, and it was not always possible to secure the prescribed ingredients, so it became necessary to develop their own recipes and to utilize plain foods in the creation of tasty dishes. SAUERBRATEN (Pot Roast) 4 pounds beef (chuck, rump, or round) 1 bunch carrots, cut in strips 1 pint vinegar 6 onions, sliced water 1 tbsp. Sugar 4 bay leaves 10 gingersnaps 12 peppercorns salt and pepper 4 cloves Wipe meat with damp cloth and then sprinkle thoroughly with salt and pepper. Place in earthen dish and add vinegar and enough water to cover. Add the bay leaves, peppercorns, and cloves, and let stand tightly covered for 5 days in a cool place (refrigerator). Put meat in a Dutch oven and brown well on all sides. Add the carrots and onions and 1 cup of the spiced vinegar. Cover tightly and cook over low flame about 3 hours or until meat is tender. When meat ls cooked, add the sugar and crumbled gingersnaps and cook for 10 minutes. This makes delicious gravy. If necessary, more of the spiced vinegar may be added. Lemon Tarts Sweet Pastry Dough 1 c. Flour ¥, c. Butter or other shortening % ¢. Sugar % tsp. Baking powder egg yolk Mix flour, sugar, butter, and baking powder together. Moisten ingredients using enough beaten egg yolk to make a dough just stiff enough to handle. Roll thin and line two small tart pans (small pie tins) with dough. Prick the bottom with a fork and bake in hot oven 20 minutes (400°). Lemon Tart Filling 2 tbsp. Cornstarch. Grated rind of % lemon 1 c. Brown sugar juice of 1 lemon (large) 2 c. Boiling water butter, size of walnut % c. Molasses (mild) Mix cornstarch and sugar together and slowly add to the boiling water, stirring constantly. Cook until mixture thickens. Add molasses, butter, lemon rind, and juice. Cook one minute longer. Cool slightly and pour into baked pie shell. Serve warm or cold. Serves 6-8. Page 311 312 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1959 APPELSTRUDEL 2% c. Flour 1 c. Brown sugar 1 tsp. Salt "2 ¢. Seedless raisins 2 tbsp. Shortening % c. Chopped nuts 2 eggs, slightly beaten 3 tbsp. Melted butter YC. Warm water "2 tsp. Cinnamon 5 c. Sliced apples grated rind of a lemon Sift four and salt together. Cut in the 2 tbsp. Shortening, then add the eggs and water. Knead well, then throw or beat dough against board until it blisters. Stand it in a warm place under a cloth for 20 minutes. Cover the kitchen table with a small: white cloth and flour it. Put dough on it. Pull out dough with hands very carefully to thickness of tissue paper. Spread with mixture made of the sliced apples, melted butter, raisins, nuts, brown sugar, cinnamon, and grated lemon rind. Fold in outer edges and form a roll about 4 inches wide. Bake in a very hot oven (450°) for 10 minutes, reduce the heat to moderately hot oven (375°) and continue to bake about 20 minutes. Let cool. Cut into slices about 2 inches wide. Serve warm or cold. SHOOFLY PIF Make favorite pastry recipe and line two pie tins with dough rolled very thin (makes filling for two 8-inch pies). Crumbs for Pie Liquid for Pie 3 ¢. Flour 1% tsp. Soda 1 ¢. Sugar small amount cold water pinch salt 1 ¢. Light molasses "2 ¢. Shortening 1 c. Boiling water % tsp. Grated nutmeg Mix crumbs ingredients into a crumbly mixture. 'Take out handful of crumbs and reserve for top of pies. Mix soda with a small amount of cold water. Mix hot water and molasses until thoroughly dissolved. Add soda. Pour molasses mixture into the crumb mixture. Mix thoroughly and pour into unbaked pie shell. Sprinkle the spare crumbs on top and bake in a moderate (350°) oven about 60 minutes. FROM THE STATE OF NEW JERSEY Economy PRUNE CAKE % ¢. Fat 1 c. Nuts 1 c. Sugar 2% c. Flour 1 tsp. Vanilla 1 tsp. Cinnamon 2 tsp. Soda % tsp. Salt 2 c. Cooked prunes cut fine, and enough % tsp. Cloves juice to fill measuring cup ' tsp. Nutmeg Cream fat and sugar together. Add vanilla. Add soda to prunes and juice. Mix dry ingredients together. Add nuts and prunes to creamed fat and sugar, and stir thoroughly. Last add dry ingredients. Bake in greased cake pan at 300° F. For 60 minutes. (May bake in layers if desired — requires less baking time.) WHIPPED CREAM FROSTING FOR PRUNE CAKE 2 tbsp. Flour % c. Shortening ¥% c. Milk % c. Butter or butter substitute % c. Sugar RECIPES FROM THE EASTERN STATES MISSION 313 Mix flour and milk into a smooth paste and cook until thick, stirring constantly. Cool. Mix shortening and butter together with electric beater. Add sugar and beat 4 minutes. Add paste and beat four additional minutes. Frost top and sides of prune cake. FROM THE STATE OF NEW YORK Broxen Giass TORTE 1 pkg. Each orange, lime, and 1 c. Hot pineapple juice raspberry gelatine 2c. Heavy cream (whipped) 1% c. Hot water for each package % ¢. Sugar 1 envelope plain gelatine 1 tsp. Vanilla % ¢. Cold water whipped cream for frosting Angel food cake (Loaf cake cut in slices) Dissolve cach of 3 packages flavored gelatine in 1% cups hot water. Keep separate. 'Turn into shallow pans about % inches thick, chill, and cut into cubes. Soften plain gelatine in cold water and dissolve in hot pineapple juice. Cool thoroughly, then fold into whipped cream into which has been beaten sugar and vanilla. Stir colored gelatine cubes into the whipped cream mixture. Line a large pan with thin angel food cake slices. Add gelatin mixture and cover with layer of angel food. Chill about 12 hours. When ready to serve unmold and frost torte with layer of whipped cream. Slice and serve. 12-16 servings. GoLpEN Brown BreEAD 2 c. Buttermilk or sour milk 2 tsp. Salt 1 c. Dark molasses 2 c. Whole wheat flour % c. Sifted all-purpose flour 1 c. Uncooked rolled oats 2 tsp. Soda "2 ¢. Yellow corn meal 1 tsp. Baking powder 1 c. Seedless raisins Combine milk and molasses, add all-purpose flour, soda, baking powder, and salt sifted together. Mix thoroughly and add remaining ingredients. Pour into 2 greased 1-pound tin cans or molds. Cover tightly. Place in steamer or on rack in large kettle. Add water to depth of 1 inch. Cover. Place over low heat and steam 3 hours, adding more hot water if needed. Remove from cans at once. Serve hot or cold. Makes 2 large loaves. Sweet Roti BREAD 1 pkg. Dry yeast '2 tsp. Salt 2 tbsp. Warm water 3 ¢. Sifted flour % c. Scalded milk, cooled 3 egg whites, beaten stiff % Ib. Melted butter or shortening % c. Sugar 3 beaten egg yolks 1 c. Chopped nuts 3 tbsp. Sugar 1 C. Raisins "" tsp. Vanilla cinnamon Dissolve 1 pkg. Dry yeast in warm water. Add cooled, scalded milk. Add butter, egg yolks, 3 tbsp. Sugar, vanilla, salt, and flour. Mix thoroughly. Cover and let stand two or three hours in refrigerator. Divide the dough into three portions. Roll thin and spread each portion with the egg whites to which has been added % c. Sugar. Sprinkle egg white with cinnamon, raisins, and chopped nuts. Roll as a jelly roll. Place in greased bread tin and let stand one hour at room temperature. Bake in a 300° F. Oven 1 hour. Serve hot or cold. Gem of the Flills Lydia M. Sorensen 66 HY are you milking the cow so early?" I asked. "The sun's still "way nee! Re going for a walk," Mamma answered. "Couldn't we do the chores after we come back?" "No. Not tonight. We'll be too tired." Her answers, cut short with an intense earnestness in her preparations, sharpened our curiosity. "After milking, she fed the cow. With Papa away from home for several days, Mama had the full responsibility. "Where are we going?" I persisted. "You'll see." My three-year-old sister and I frequently walked up in the cedars behind the corral. Mamma hardly ever went with us. By all the preparations she was making, she must be planning a long walk, maybe past the field to the west and clear up into the cedars beyond on the road up the ditch. It was miles in either direction before the road led by another home. But, as children, we enjoyed exploring our cedar-bound world. While it was unusual for Mamma to go along, this time the idea was hers. Preparations complete, she placed the baby in the buggy and led the way south down the road. When it turned east toward the dugway, she left the road and continued south across the stubble field. Having crossed the field, we came to soft, dusty soil. Here Mamma had to carry the baby while we pushed the Page 314 buggy. That soon became too difficult, so we turned it around and pulled it. Being tired and hot, we grumbled about it. To encourage us for the task, she told us about the trek of the pioneers. At the moment pioneering held no charms ° for us, but the prospect of being left in this desolate place was even less attractive. Since our erstwhile considerate Mother determinedly kept on going despite our entreaties to go back, we had no choice but to follow. When we reached the sand knolls where the cedars grew, the carriage had to be abandoned. It was left under a tree and we girls carried the baby's supplies. 'Trudging on, we arrived at the edge of the hill. A complete surprise awaited us children. Far below in a natural cove, like a jewel in its setting, nestled a spot of vivid green. As we studied the scene, we could make out what appeared to be miniature trees, a wee little house, and some other diminutive buildings. And then, would wonders never cease? There were the tiniest people we had ever seen. "Look at the tiny little people walking around!" I exclaimed. "I could hold one in my hand." I had never heard of Gulliver nor his Lilliputian friends, but I had my own varicty of little people, colonies of them. They were dry cedar twigs of toothpick dimensions whom I moved by hand and clothed with imagination, giving them all the attributes of the living which my young mind could devise. GEM OF THE HILLS In a flash I thought how delightful it would be to take these people home to play with, care for, and protect. My sister was equally enchanted. The fact that the people went about their business in a purposeful manner and seemed capable of looking out for themselves was quite beside the point. If a dog should come along, they might be glad to have us keep him away from them. "I didn't know there were any teal people that little," I marveled. "Those people are as big as we are,' Mamma replied to our unbelieving dismay. ""They look little because they are so far away. We're going down there," she added. A fear of strangers sprang up in my mind, but I looked to natural barriers for protection. "We can't get down over the ledges," I objected. "We'd fall off." But she knew a trail. "Maybe they're mean people," I cautioned. "No, they're good people," she reassured us. "Do you know them?" "Yes." As we made our way down, IJ kept hoping that the people would remain at least a little smaller than we. But they gradually increased in size to knee high, waist high, shoulder high, until some of them outgrew all of us. By the time we reached the level ground, the house had become large enough for us to enter and, approaching it, we were glad for the cool shade of the towering trees. UR disappointment in the loss of our tiny people was compensated for and our fears allayed by the warmth of a full-grown welcome. 315 This was the family of our bishop. They were most solicitous of us, especially of our tired little mother. Nevertheless, the combination of fatigue and my sudden change from the big potential protector of these people to a little child dependent upon their hospitality, along with a little jealousy, made me a bit peevish. Perhaps one of the hardest lessons to learn in life is to achieve contentment in going from strength to weakness, whether real or imagined. Is it possible? First [ wanted a drink of water which was gladly given—cool and delicious. Then I whimpered that I was hungry. Supper would be ready in about half an hour our hostess assured us, and gave each of us a peach from their orchard. Then she suggested that I go out and play with the children. Feeling shy, I did not want to do that, but the peach was good; so I whimpered some more to Mamma, who was paying no attention to me and was getting more of the peach than | was. 'his time we were given some large blue plums which I did not like as well as the peach, but I had to be satished. Their children had a playhouse, the only real playhouse I ever saw. I remember their tall father stooping to enter as they had asked him to examine something that needed fixing. He said he would fix it. In a little while we were called to supper. It was good when we were tired and hungry to find people so graciously ready to administer to our comfort. We stayed all night. At bedtime, one after another, the smaller children knelt at their mother's knee to say their prayers. 316 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1959 The other children having finished, When we were ready to go, the baby wanted to say her prayer. Bishop carried the baby up the hill. Kneeling on her mother's lap, she At the top Mamma thanked him repeated a syllable or two each time warmly as she once more took the her mother paused, and finished — child. With evident satisfaction. Later, in They were wonderful people. The privacy of our assigned bedrooms They moved away, and I missed we offered our own prayers. Them in later years when I traveled In the morning at breakfast, milk that trail many times on horseback. Was poured from a brown and white or on foot herding cows or sheep. Pitcher, over a cereal made of bread 'The house and other buildings all crumbs. As the brother and older disappeared from their places by the sister set out on foot for school orchard and shade trees. Yet whernearly two miles distant, their faever they lived and wherever we ther kindly admonished them not lived, that bishop's family were to play on the way. Always among our warmest friends. <i Grandmother s Pinks Maude Rubin Remember those carnations? How their spice Perfumed the rain-washed stillness! Leafy loam Was black and rich—and when the creek's glare ice Began to sing, our grandmother's heart-home Was out-of-doors, her floor the sun-warmed earth; She left the indoor tasks, to help at birth Of summer, hands as spring showers. Then when carnation petals burst their tight Green buds, to spill their spice on sun-rich air, We went to Sabbath school in fresh-starched white— She gave us each one crimson "pink" to wear! > Weeds Celia Luce T seems that no matter how hard I work in the garden, some weeds will creep in. I go after the big weeds with a will. I pull up redroot and wild lettuce and make the garden a thing of beauty again. But, often, in my fight with the large weeds, I fail to notice that stunted redroot behind the bushes and that small wild lettuce on the dry spot. I go my way and leave them there. Next year their seeds grow into huge wild lettuce and redroot, and I have my battle to do all over again. I am constantly fighting my faults, trying to pull them out and discard them as I do the weeds. The large faults worry me a lot, and I go after them. But I often forget little faults hidden in the background. Foolishly, I let them grow until they are the seeds for large faults. My battle must be fought again. You Can Sew— XV —Childrens Clothing Jean R. Jennings good styling in children's clothing, as it is for clothing of all sizes and ages. Not only do our young ones look better in clothes not too fussy or elaborate, but they will be more comfortable in them, and there will be less time and effort needed for their care. Trimmings on girls' dresses should not be heavy or ornate. Fine tucking, narrow, dainty ruffles, hand stitches, smocking, narrow pipings, cording, and binding are the desirable and natural finishes for children's clothes. More often than not, the trim that is most effective is the easiest to use. Mothers faced with the problem of making children's clothing, regardless of how simple or complicated the project, can save a great deal of time and effort by planning carefully in advance of the start of the actual sewing. As far as possible, plan the season's work as a unit. Make a careful list of things to be purchased such as fabrics, trimmings, notions, etc. Keep the list with you in your handbag and pick up an item here and there as you pass by, instead of making many special trips. Or better still, make one trip do for all purchasing. In families where there are several children, there is much sewing to be done, and an even greater need for economy of time and energy. One way to save time in sewing is to cut several garments at once. Make notes of any special things to remember about cach article, such S IMPLICITY is the keynote for as piecing, etc. And attach it to the proper article for reference when machine sewing begins. Put everything needed for each garment together in a separate roll so that you can do all the machine work at one time. Introduce assembly-line efficiency into your family sewing by sewing several articles as one unit. _ Sewing should be fun as well as practical. Handwork can be done in leisure moments while you visit with the family or a neighbor, or enjoy a radio or television program. Once you get the habit of bundle sewing, you will find it useful to have several things to work on at once so that just the right sewing can be done while you enjoy some other activity in your day or evening. Pick up your hand sewing as you would pick up knitting or crocheting. It will surprise you how much you can accomplish this way. Adjust to Growth The problem of having clothes fit children properly when new, and still allow room for growth, is sometimes a difficult one. We feel it can best be solved by carefully concealed let-out areas. In little girls' dresses, extra length for later on may be supplied by laying a tuck on the inside just above the waistline for additional waist length and another tuck in the hem of the skirt for easy let-down. Such tucks can be put in with a long machine-basting stitch so that they are easy to remove. AJl straps on overalls and play Page 317 318 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1959 Figure 1 suits should be made allowing several extra inches for growth. Buttons can be moved as added length is needed. In making clothes for children of all ages, it is important to sew them as carefully and firmly as possible. Spare no effort to make them durable, reinforcing points of strain. Always use backing for buttons and buttonholes as well as for pockets. Extra time spent in the making will help to keep them out of the mending basket. NSTRUCTION on_ techniques given in earlier lessons are applicable to all types of garments for both adults and children. We do, however, want to add suggestions for gathering and cording, both of which will be found helpful in making dresses for the young. Countless yards of material are gathered each year for children's dresses with varying degrees of success. It can be done easily and quickly with the correct method. To machine gather, adjust the machine stitch to eight stitches to the inch. For the upper thread use regular weight, but have heavier Figure 2 thread on the bobbin, so it will not break easily. Put in two rows of large machine stitching, having the first one on the seam line. (See Figure 1.) Use your presser foot as a gauge to keep rows even. When applying the gathered edge to a straight edge, divide both into segments at equal distances and mark with pins. Pin gathered edge to plain edge at centers of front and sides and midway between all around. Do not pull up gathers until they are pinned in place. Draw up gathers, pulling both threads at once. Fasten threads over last pin by means of several laps. Baste and sew between the two rows of stitching. Cording is an attractive and easy way to finish the waistline of small dresses. Use cable cord or heavy string of the desired thickness. To cover the cord, cut material on the true bias. Lay the cord in the fold and stitch close to the cord, using the machine cording foot (zipper foot). The strip should be cut wide enough to cover the cord, plus seam allowance. Insert the cord between the seams of the waist and skirt and stitch as close to the cord as possible. (See Figure 2.) Mlaggie Richards Wood Specializes in Mlaking Lace Tablecloths Msc Richards Wood, Ficlding, Utah, has presented each of her five daughters and the three daughters-in-law with a beautiful lace tablecloth, a chair back set, and many other crocheted and tatted articles. During the past two years she has made fifty-two quilt tops, including eight in the wedding-ring pattern, two in the lovers' knot pattern, fourteen in the star pattern, and many appliqued quilts with original patterns. At a family party two years ago her forty-five grandchildren and seven great-grandchildren were present to see the quilt tops, and, as far as possible, were given the opportunity to make an individual choice of the lovely quilt tops displayed. She now has forty-six grandchildren and eleven great-grandchildren. Mrs. Wood has served the Church in many capacities, including Primary president, president of her ward Relief Society, theology class leader, and counselor in Relief Society. She has been a visiting teacher for many years. Homemaking, handwork, and Church service have made her life busy and beautiful. Old Fishermen Ethel Jacobson So sat the huddled forms around A storied sea; So shone the sun on fishermen Of Galilee, Where carefully the nets were spread On bare brown sands And mended with such stiff and scarred And patient hands. Page 319 The Silver Leash CHAPTER 5 Beatrice Rordame Parsons Synopsis: LaRue Harding, an orphan, who has lived since childhood in California with an aunt, goes to Fivelakes, Arizona, after the death of her sister, Amelia. She tries to help and encourage her brother-in-law Herbert Vetterly, who is confined to a wheel chair. His children gradually come to accept LaRue as a fricnd and as a member of the family. She meets Dr. Alan Rutherford, a surgeon at the Jonas Harding Hospital, and_ his fiancee Gladys Drew. "Grandie," Dr. Rutherford's grandfather, who now owns old Hillhigh House, which was built by the Hardings, invites them to a picnic there. W ese LaRue had first suggested the cook-out at Hillhigh House, she had been doubtful of its success. But Erma and Joel — to say nothing about Connie — were so delighted and surprised by the prospect of their father accompanying them, that they could not do enough to help. Though he didn't speak of it, LaRue knew that Herb was still frightened by the thought of leaving the house in his chair. She knew his shyness at being seen by his friends and neighbors. She knew his courage in deciding to go! LaRue admired her brother-inlaw for that courage. She knew that his love for his children had overshadowed his fear. But she knew that deep inside he cringed at the thought of what he would have to face. The children, however, did not guess. 'They were glad, happy, too excited to look for hidden meanings in their father's actions. Page 320 Connie had written carefully printed notes on some flowered stationery she had found, and had sent them off to Dr. Alan, to Gladys, Grandie, Janice, and Bob. She had even sent one to Eddie Parrat and had propped one up outside of Atlast's little dog house. "Tve been teaching him to behave when I put him on his leash," explained Connie dubiously, "but he's not very polite. He runs away all the time, dragging his leash behind him." As though she hated to criticize her little pet, she added hurriedly, "It's only because he's not used to a leash that he acts that way, Aunt LaRue." "['m sure he'll be properly trained by the time we go to Hillhigh House,' LaRue assured her, smilingly, but deep inside, she was not entirely sure that the little tan and white dog would take graciously to his collar and leash. "At least, darling, you can be sure he can't find any very naughty mischief to get into at Hillhigh House. There's plenty of space in which to run." Connie was comforted. She didn't give up trying, however, and when it was time to get ready, she carefully packed Atlast's leash. There were sundry other things that she and Janice packed in order to set up proper housekeeping for their dolls; and when they were ready, Joel clapped his hands to his head and guffawed loudly. "We look more like we're moying, than just going to a cook-out," THE SILVER LEASH he declared, surveying all the folding chairs, the table and grill, the picnic basket, and all the other things that they were to take along. "Tt's good that Dr. Alan is calling for Dad. What with his chair and everything...." He caught a quick, sidelong glance of his father's face, and shouted at Eddie: "Grab something, man. Don't just stand there with your tongue hanging out, thinking about all that chicken." LaRue was relieved to see that in the bustle the boys made packing the back of the car, Herb's color had a chance to come back before Dr. Alan, with Gladys in the front seat and Grandie in the back, lifted Herb's chair into his car. LaRue, watching the shadows creep into Herb's face, grew worried. "Perhaps I shouldn't have... Yes... Forced Herb to come," she told herself fearfully. "If anything should happen...." But she turned that thought away as Joel shouted for her to hurry. THEY laughed and chatted and made fun of their two-car caravan as it advanced up the steep road to Hillhigh House. Joel got quite a laugh as he remembered something his father had said. "Stately carriages, and spirited horses were never like this!" he declared, giving Eddie a great thump against his shoulder. "I'll bet the clustered ghosts of long-gone Hardings are staring down at us with disapproval in their... Eyes?" Everybody laughed, but Connie was worrled. ""There aren't any ghosts in the daytime, are there, Aunt LaRue?" She clutched at Janice's arm as she waited for an answer, and both small faces were pale. 321 "Of course not," cried Erma vehemently. Then with more gentleness: "If there are any Harding ghosts at Hillhigh House, they are all very nice ones. Grandie knew most of them, and he always tells such kind stories about them. ['m sure they were wonderful people." LaRue saw Bob Powers beaming at Erma, and she remembered how sharp Erma's reply might once have been to a_ thoughtless brother, frightening little girls with stories of ghosts. She's improving, LaRue told herself happily; and found that they had reached their goal. There were so many eager hands to help with the unpacking and getting settled, that there was more confusion than order, there under the old willow, on the brick patio. They arranged folding chairs, tables, the grill, and the special aluminum-and-nylon chaise lounge which Gladys had insisted on bringing for her very own benefit in the pool of shade cast by the great tree. Dr. Alan had made a huge chef's hat out of white paper. When he tipped it over his dark hair and waved his scepter — a long barbecue fork for turning the chicken — they all declared him "The Ruler of the Feast." Grandie was happy to be with Erma and Bob, strolling over the grounds, pointing out the old rock spring house, which had once served the Hardings and the Rutherfords as a natural refrigerator where round pans of milk had been set until they were golden with thick, sweet cream for the table. Janice and Connie made a fabulous playhouse with bits of white stone, and a carpet of dried leaves. Atlast, unconfined by his collar 322 and leash, thumped the dust, from what they had decided was the front porch, with his tail, until Connie spoke firmly about the trouble of housekeeping with a small dog. Then he curled his paws under him and dozed, keeping one ear well cocked to hear what his young mistress was up to. Joel and Eddie climbed ancient apple trees, but Herb sat in his wheelchair, tense, shaken by his journey to the old house. While Dr. Alan turned the chicken over the charcoal in the grill, Gladys lazed in her chaise lounge and pointed towards the activity taking place at Blue Lake. "They're getting ready for the celebration," she sighed contentedly, crossing slim, tanned legs in a pool of sunshine to add to their tan. "Why, they are assembling a regular mountain of steel and wood for the amusement part of the carnival." "There's the merry-go-round," cried Connie, turning Janice about so that she could see, too. "I just love those pink, green, and lavender horses! I think I'm going to ride 1? Them all! Frma turned to Grandie and smiled. "Will you ride the Ferris Wheel with Bob and me, Grandie?" HE old man slapped his knee and grinned: "I'll even pay for the tickets," he assured her teasingly. Joel and Eddie were disdainful of merry-go-rounds and Ferris wheels. "We're going to ride the rocket to the moon," said Joel, boastfully. "And the atomic blockbuster. And the satellite bomb." Everybody giggled. But LaRue's eyes were shining as she studied the tall, dark-haired boy who would RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1959 soon be the man his father had once been. His head is full of wheels and wings, she thought eagerly. So is Eddie's. Boys of that age are mechanics. 'They need things to do with their hands. They will be flying those atomic-powered planes of the future. They'll be riding the earth satellites. She laughed aloud at her own wild imaginings. Glayds, lazily beautiful in a sleeveless raspberry-red frock, spoke scornfully. "You can have those things! Pll take the dancing. I'm going to buy a new Mexicali frock — blue, I think — with a cute little bodice with a V-neck." She looked to where LaRue was helping Dr. Alan fry the chicken, her dress protected with a big apron, and asked: "What will you wear, LaRue?" For all she had told Herb that she wanted to stay for the Festival, LaRue had not consciously made any plans. She remembered the dresses she had left hanging in the neat clothes closet back in San Francisco and wished she _ had brought something very special. But she shook her head a bit ruefully. "My yellow, I guess. It's not new, but it's the only nice thing I brought with me. Maybe it's a little plain for...." "They wear anything, Aunt LaRue," said Erma quickly. "I'm sure your yellow will be all right." LaRue turned a piece of chicken, saying thoughtfully: "Pll wear it, if I go." Dr. Alan waved a chicken leg at the end of his barbecue fork. He wore a dish towel to protect his gray slacks, and his paper hat was rakishly tilted over his twinkling eyes. THE SILVER LEASH "Of course you're going. Even if Gladys and I have to drag you...." "Dr. Alan Rutherford!" It was Grandie's voice rising indignantly. "Is that any way to invite a young lady to dance?" He gave his grandson a withering glance, and bowed formally to LaRue. "Miss Harding," he asked most politely, "may I have the pleasure of escorting you to the Founding Festival? Perhaps I'm not quite up to the jitterbug, but I'll be glad to try." LaRue's face was merry, her voice choked, but her acceptance was very formal. "T'd be honored, Grandie. Very, very honored. Thank you. We can sit out the jitterbug." Everybody laughed then and scrambled for their places as Dr. Alan announced that the chicken was ready. It was heaped on a large platter, crisp, golden brown, and it smelled so delicious that Atlast took up his place near Connie, where she could surreptitiously feed him on bits of skin. MORE than once during the meal, LaRue saw Herb's hand go out, offering Atlast a tidbit. 'They sat there, watching the workmen build peppermint-striped booths along the shores of Blue Lake. Other men were setting up frames for the fireworks on a small island. They ate until they could not hold another bite. 'Then they packed away the remains of the feast and followed Grandie for a tour of the old house. LaRue had never been inside, yet, somehow, she felt as if she belonged. It was very run-down, yet beautiful and gracious. Gladys walked ginger- 323 ly, fearing the floor might let her through, but Grandie laughed at the idea. "This house was built to last, Gladys." He led them up the curved staircase to the second floor. LeRue peeped into the dormerwindowed bedrooms where so many Hardings had slept. Then they went up a short staircase to the attic where some lovely old furniture was ranged against the rafters. LaRue watched Erma's face as she and Bob walked about. The girl's hand went out to touch the old rosewood piano, and it gave off a sweet, mellowed tone. Erma's eyes were shining. "I wish 'd come here with Mother," she said softly. "No wonder she loved these things. I can just see them in their proper place downstairs." LaRue could see them, too. But Gladys sniffed daintily. "Tl take modern," she said haughtily. "I don't care for old things." She drew her skirt out of danger from dust, and caught possessively at Dr. Alan's arm, as they all trooped down the stairs and back into the shadow of the willow tree. Almost shyly, Joel begged, "If you're not too tired, Grandie, would you show us the old car?" Grandie looked into Joel's face, and said brightly, "Not a bit tired." His eyes twinkled as he led the boys to the garage which had once been a carriage house. "We used to call 'em Tin Lizzies, but they got us there, and back!" They disappeared in the dusty garage. Gladys sighed and relaxed on the chaise lounge with Dr. Alan sitting cross-legged on the patio beside her. Herb's chair was nearby, and LaRue settled into a chair not 324 too far away. She remembered about Mrs. Lawson's baby. She asked Dr. Alan how things were coming along. "Fine," he said, but his dark eyes were somber, "'but the little scamp seems determined to arrive a little early." They talked about babies for a moment, then Dr. Alan turned to Herb. "Have you made up your mind about going to the hospital? Dr. Frame and I feel sure that the new techniques in nerve operations...." He was explaining them earnestly when Gladys moved restlessly and raised her voice. "Darling, must you always talk shop? We're having a holiday!" Dr. Alan's voice hung in the air in the middle of a word. LaRue saw the hot flush that mounted to his forehead. But he said: ''Forgive me, Gladys. Sometimes I forget that the thought of operations makes you ill. Ill promise to remember." Gladys gave LaRue a wry little pout. "I 'can't stand the thought of... Of...." She shivered, said bluntly: "I suppose I shouldn't want to marry a doctor. But after we're married, Alan can keep his office and his home separate." N embarrassed silence followed her words. LaRue knew that Alan was glad to see Joel racing towards them. Joel's face was alight with pleasure. He went straight to his father. "That's some car, Dad! Grandie says it will be all nght if Eddie and I try to make it run." He hesitated. "Tm afraid my allowance...." "Tl give you the money," Grandie quickly. Joel shook his head. Said "T couldn't RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1959 take it." Then, as Grandie began to speak about loaning him the money, his head shook more vehemently than ever. "Dad doesn't approve of kids going into debt." Grandie considered, scratching his head. "Maybe you could work it out." He glanced about. "No wonder this house hasn't sold. If the lawns were cut, the shrubs trimmed...." Joel and Eddie were grinning widely as they shook the old man's wrinkled hand. "It's a bargain!" Erma, standing at Bob's side, spoke experimentally: "Maybe I could fix things inside. A little soap and water would do wonders. Bob could do the ladder work...." Grandie was beaming. "T'll get a brand new FOR SALE sign." He gave his grandson a keen little glance. "Now that that's settled, we might as well talk about that house Gladys wants to build in Maple Park...." Dr. Alan interrupted quickly: "We haven't quite made up our minds. I realize that J could make a lot of money, if I had my own office. But the thought of that new children's wing keeps running through my mind, and...." Before he could finish, Gladys said loudly: "Thanks, Grandie. I know exactly what I'd like the house to look like. I've been going over all the modern magazines. I even know where I'm going to place the furniture." Her words were so definite that Dr. Alan flushed again, paisafully. But Joel was shouting for Connie and Janice to pack their dolls. Everyone was relieved to have something to do. Connie and Janice ran eagerly (Continued on page 339) Magazine Honor Roll For 1958 Counselor Marianne C. Sharp HE General Board congratulates stake and ward, mission and branch Relief Society Magazine representatives, with their respective presidencies, for their sustained efforts in 1958, which resulted in an all-time high of 157,070 subscriptions to The Relief Society Magazine. This is an increase of 6,182 over 1957. This large increase reflects earnest and zealous work on the part of Magazine representatives and an awareness on the part of Relief Society members of the worth of The Relief Society Magazine in their lives and the desire to have it in their homes to be read by their family members. Letters constantly come to the General Board in which young mothers state that their mothers always had the Magazine in their homes and how much it means to them now to have the Magazine in their own homes. With over 193,000 members of Relief Society, we find that the subscription number equals 81% of the membership. However, since many non-Relief Society members subscribe to The Relief Society Magazine, the percentage of Relief Society members is probably not that high. There is a great difference in the growth that can come to two Relief Society members living side by side who attend Relief Society meetings together where one reads and studies the Magazine contents and the other does not. There is a whole area of influence and knowledge which remains closed to the one sister. It is a closed book. Not only does she deprive herself of valuable knowledge, enjoyment, and growth, but she also deprives her family, for as a mother gains saving knowledge, the benefit is felt by her family in her enlightened attitude and the added information she imparts to them. There is a great responsibility attached to the calling of a Magazine representative to convert Latter-day Saint women to subscribe and read the Magazine. In addition to selling a year's subscription, the Magazine representative may continue her interest in the sister to see that she is receiving and enjoying the Magazine. With new subscribers, especially, she can inquire if they have read certain articles and show a continued sisterly interest. With all the means of instruction and entertainment offered today, a Latter-day Saint woman must be sclective and Relief Society has the responsibility to point out the benefits to be found in The Relief Society Magazine, to bring an awareness that the entire contents reflect and are in harmony with the principles of the gospel. The Relief Society Magazine combines material on the varied aspects of the life of a Latter-day Saint woman as does Relief Society itself. As Relief Society is a unique organization in all the world, so the Relief Society Magazine is unique among magazines for women. As in the homes, so in stakes, certain patterns are set. In some stakes high goals of achievement are set and attained. 'The realization of Page 325 326 them becomes the pattern of the stake. 'This is attested by the fact that year after year many of the same stakes remain with the highest percentages. Some new stakes attain high goals from their beginnings. Others show remarkable gains and maintain their increased percentages. The General Board watches the progress of the Magazine subscriptions in the stakes with keen interest, feeling that if members subscribe, read, and study the contents it is some indication of the progress and strength they and their beloved Relief Society are gaining. For the twelfth consecutive year South Los Angeles has the highest percentage—222%. South Gate Ward of South Los Angeles Stake again leads the wards and has a percentage of 323%. The Western States Mission leads the missions with 114%. 'The highest percentage of a mission district was achieved by the West North Dakota District of the West Central States Mission with a percentage of 127. Sidney Branch of the Scottsbluff District RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1959 of the Western States Mission achieved the high percentage of 220. Special commendation is extended to these organizations. In 1958, there were 72 stakes which had 100% or over, and 19 stakes in which all wards achieved 100% or over. 'There are 247 stakes on the honor roll which is an in- | crease of 27 over last year. 'There are 1,912 wards on the honor roll, an increase of 58 over last year. There are 16 missions on the honor roll and 538 branches. The General Board extends its warmest thanks and appreciation to every Magazine representative whose unselfish service has enriched the lives of her sisters. Magazine representatives will be blessed for their efforts, for The Relief Society Magazine may exert a great persuasive power for good with its readers and, through magnifying their callings, Magazine representatives have performed a service and been the means of bringing enlightenment into countless lives. Honors for Highest Ratings Stake South Los Angeles (California) 222% Magazine Representative—Edna C. Stoutsenberger Ward South Gate Ward, South Los Angeles Stake (California) 323% Magazine Representative—Bertha Whitehead Mission Western States Mission—114% Mission Relief Society Magazine Representative—Daisy R. Romney Mission District West North Dakota District, West Central States Mission—127% Magazine Representative—Viola Willmore Mission Branch Sidney Branch—220% Scottsbluff District, Western States Mission Magazine Representative—Jean Goodell MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1958 327 Ten Highest Percentages in Stakes South Los Angeles........-:: s:: s2-scseceseeceseeeeeeeeeees222.... Edna C. Stoutsenberger Glendale..0......... Ceeceeesececcecceeeeneeeeeeeeeeeeeensenseenes 182.... Elsie Weber Burley..........---2-----cececceceessenceeccesceneennenseeeeesseenss 134.... Virginia Nichols ReXxDUIg.....-seceeeeeseeeeeeeeeceeeesceseenceteeseeenconseeeeeoeee131.... Beth Moore Inglewood....2....2e.. Eencececeeceeeeeceneceetneeeeeenenenenses130.... Janet C. Medina New York........--.-c-s--ceescesseneeseesteeneeeseeceeeeenescees 124.... Thyra Stoddard North Idaho Falls.............2: ssscsceeeseeeeeeeeeeeeeeees123.... Eva J. Wilkins Monterey Bay............2-.---ce: ceeceeceeceecceeeeeseeeeeeeeeee122.... Lena Millitt Oquitth ooo... Eect eeeeceeeeececeeceeeeceeeeeseeeeeeeeees 120.... Earlean W. McGee A]DUque4rque........2-c2c-ceeceeeeeeeceesceseneeeeeneeeeseencenes 117..--Della S. Miller Missions Achieving Ten Highest Percentages Western States.........2..2.:.: ceceeceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeees 114.... Daisy R. Romney Northwestern States........2..2.22:::: esesseseeceseeeeeeeees 102.... Effie K. Driggs Northern California.........2..220:22::22: eeceeeeeeeeeeees101.... Hazel S. Love Camadian -............ Ceeccceececeeceeececeeeeceeeeeeeeeeceneceeneeee101.... Leah H. Lewis Central States.0.......... Tceeeeeeecceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeneeeees 94...-Peggy B. Sears Califormia -....22.20.2.. Eeesceceeeeceeeceeeeceeeeeeeeeseeeeeeese 93.--. Lela L. Udall West Central States -.......22:2----cesceeseeeeeeeeeeeeetees gl....-Lucille R. Mills Eastern States............ Esseesceecceeceeeeeeeseeeeeeseneeees 89.... Florence S. Jacobsen Great Lakes..0.....2222..2. Cceeceeeeecceececeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeenees 86.... Vonda H. Christensen New England....0.0...2.22.-2222cescecceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee 86.... Alberta S. Baker Ten Stakes With Highest Number of Subscriptions No. No. Subscriptions Subscriptions South Los Angeles 2657 South Salt Lake 943 Glendale 1258 North Idaho Falls 938 North Davis 979 East Los Angeles 880 Ensign 947% West Pocatello 880 Highland 946 Burley 860 Ten Missions With Highest Number of Subscriptions No. No. Subscriptions Subscriptions Eastern States 1061 Northern States 885 Central States 959 West Central States 846 Northwestern States 942 Southern States 720 Great Lakes 934 Western States 707 Central Atlantic 898 East Central States 692 Stakes in Which All the Wards Achieved 100% or over American Falls...... Enid W. Thornton Norwalk............----Lorraine T. Brewer Burley.........-..---+--Virginia Nichols Phoenix North........ Rose Openshaw East Long Beach.... Margaret Bryan Pocatello...............-Verna Gridley East Sharon............ Edna M. Hansen Reseda............-2-+-++-Billie June Jube Glendale................ Elsie Weber Seattle _................... Laura C. Bronner Holladay...............-Lucille B. Crowther Shelley........2...2..0+-Merle Young Inglewood.............. Janet C. Medina So. Idaho Falls...... Violet K. Jaussi Kansas City............ Venna T. Witbeck So. Los Angeles...... Edna C. StoutsenMonument Park.... Sara Stone berger North Davis.........-Thora A. Martin South Salt Lake Hannah Dietrich 328 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1959 Nission Percentages on Glonor Rolf Western States 114 West Central States 91 North Central States Northwestern States 102 Eastern States 89 Northern States Northern California 101 Great Lakes 86 Gulf States Canadian 101 New England 86 East Central States Central States 94 Western Canadian 86 Central Atlantic California 93 Stakes by Percentages—1958 South Los Angeles = 2.22 Reseda 104 Los Angeles Glendale 182 San Fernando 104 Santa Monica Burley 134 North Davis 103 Columbia River Rexburg 131 Blackfoot 103 West Utah Inglewood 130 Bonneville 103 Bountiful North New York 124 Uintah 103 East Millcreek North Idaho Falls 123 San Diego East 103 Great Falls Monterey Bay 122 San Francisco 102 Portneuf Oquirtth 120 Santa Ana 102 Cache Albuquerque 117 San Bernardino 102 Emigration Long Beach 115 West Pocatello 102 Grand Junction Shelley 115 Highland 102 Kolob San Joaquin 115 Tacoma 102 Sacramento St. Louis 113 Woodruff 102 Cottonwood Holladay 113 Malad 101 Atlanta Cassia 112 St. Joseph 101 North Box Elder East Sharon 112 Calgary 102 Sevier Gnidley 112 Rigby 101 Olympus Seattle 112 Mt. Graham 101 Bakersfield Burbank 111 Palo Alto 101 Granger Redondo 111 East Phoenix 100 Lake Mead San Diego 110 Twin Falls 100 North Jordan East Long Beach 109 Liberty 100 Oakland-Berkeley Boise 109 Sugar House 100 Ashley Norwalk 109 Union 100 Wasatch Phoenix North 109 North Rexburg 100 Orlando Portland 109 Wilford 100 Granite Covina 108 West Boise 100 Franklin Bear River 108 Raft River 99 Ensign Kansas City 108 Pasadena 99 North Seattle North Pocatello 108 Moapa 99 North Tooele Monument Park 107 Cincinnati 99 Santa Rosa Weber Heights 107 Humboldt 99 Park Las Vegas 107 Weiser 99 Rose Park South Idaho Falls 107 South Bear River 99 Lake View Minidoka 107 Temple View 99 Young Pocatello 106 Grant 99 Idaho Bountiful 106 Nampa 98 Mt. Rubidoux Idaho Falls 106 Monument Park West 98 Orange County American Falls 106 Juarez 98 Valley View South Salt Lake 105 Yellowstone 98 South Summit Provo 105 East Rigby 98 Reno Taylor 105 Wells 98 Panguitch South Box Elder 105 East Mesa 98 Hayward 84 83 79 77 76 MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1958 Nyssa Bannock Washington East Provo Kanab Zion Park Mesa Phoenix Southern Arizona Spanish Fork Maricopa Mt. Jordan Sharon Ogden North Sevier Lethbridge Millcreek Taylorsville Big Horn Palmyra South Blackfoot Riverdale Juab Mt. Logan Tooele Star Valley Tucson University Springville St. George Yuma Nebo New Orleans Dallas Virginia San Luis St. Johns Butte Detroit Denver South Davis East Jordan Kearns Chicago Salt Lake South Ogden Cedar g2 g2 g2 g2 gil gl gi gl gi gi gl Salmon River Spokane Uvada Willamette Alberta Benson Lehi Teton Parowan Roosevelt Blaine Oneida Timpanogos Montpelier Walnut Creek Millard East Cache Deseret Lost River Ben Lomond West Jordan FE] Paso Grand Coulee Pioneer Garfield Emery Fresno Gooding San Antonio North Weber Florida San Matco North Carbon Bear Lake South Carolina Flagstaff Carbon Mt. Ogden Riverside East Los Angeles Wayne Beaver Davis Klamath San Juan Alpine Murray STAKES BY PERCENTAGES (Continued) Murray South Richland Logan North Sacramento San Luis Obispo Duchesne East Ogden Smithfield Utah Weber Snowflake North Sanpete Lorin Farr Bountiful South Hillside Santaquin-Tintic Orem West Summit Grantsville Midvale Farr West South Sanpete Missoula Gunnison Hyrum San Jose Morgan Houston Lewiston Lyman Orem Layton Nevada Canyon Rim South Sevier Honolulu Cannon Moroni Shreveport Kearns North Santa Barbara Oahu Bngham Young University * Utah State University* 329 *(Limited Participation ) Relief Society Alberta Albuquerque Alpine American Falls Ashley Atlanta Bakersfield Bannock Bear Lake Bear River Beaver Ben Lomond Benson Big Horn Blackfoot Blaine Boise Bonneville Bountiful Bountiful North Burbank Burley Butte Cache Calgary Carbon Cassia Cedar Chicago Cincinnati STAKES ON THE HONOR ROLL—1958 EnrollSubscriptions ment No. Pet. 664 560 84 856 416 117 1059 816 77 334 353 106 470 447 95 331 317 96 594 566 95 359 380 92 513 405 79 496 534 108 510 395 177 567 462% 82 587 495 84 915 818 89 572 588 1038 296 247 88 468 510 109 803 824 108 3895 418 106 437 425 97 597 665 111 640 860 1384 415 357 86 577 559 = 97 457 462 101 790 618 78 315 353 112 658 558 85 466 398 85 200 198 99 Magazine Representative Viola B. Wynder Della S. Miller Orale W. Scholes Enid W. Thornton Maryetta Wardle Pauline Gilbert Virginia C. Hodson Ida Sorenson Jean P. Budge Lottie R. Potter Beulah Wood Violet H. Cothrell Tess Christensen Christine Harvey Lucille Wareing Walnah E. Byington Effie Baxter Laura M. Brann Pearl M. Oldham Eunice H. Van Orden Maude S. McLatchie Virginia Nichols Harriet Millecam Alice D. Griffin Vernetta Reed Gertrude W. Edwards Claudia Martin Venice W. Prince Florence G. Andrew Dorothy Campbell Relief Society Columbia River Cottonwood Covina Dallas Davis Denver Deseret Detroit Duchesne East Cache East Jordan East Long Beach East Los Angeles East Mesa East Mill Creek East Ogden East Phoenix East Provo East Rigby East Sharon El Paso Emery Emigration Ensign Flagstaff Florida Franklin Fresno Garfield EnrollSubscriptions ment No. Pet. 676 659 97 444 427 96 755 816 108 266 280 86 893 691 7 946 813 86 746 611 82 393 338 86 439 334% 76 731 601 82 558 477% 86 A473 516 109 1185 880 78 777 759 98 357 847 97 679 515 76 629 6382 100 576 528 92 596 583% 98 405 454 112 409 333 81 739 5938 80 486 469 97 1003 947% 94 416 3820 177 441 350 79 786 743 95 540 4382 80 282 227% 81 Magazine Representative Mona H. Kirkham Mabel R. Baker Lucille C. Hales Opal Burch Sarah B. Strong Bernice H. Brown Leatha W. Bennett Myrtle M. Moffett Ora Holgate Ines B. Bergeson Vera Cowley Margaret Bryan Valerie C. Baisley Elva M. Brown Johann Hollingsworth Vivian Cantwell YOR "TI e109 Jane S. Watkins Dale Burtenshaw Edna M. Hansen Florence N. Pierce Dorthella Williams Adeline Jensen Anna W. Fox Ruth W. Palmer Gertie Mae Keller Phyllis W. Kingsford Martha B. Richards Lula Moore 330 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1959 Relief Society Glendale Gooding Grand Coulee Grand Junction Granger Granite Grant Great Falls Gridley Hayward Highland Holladay Humboldt Idaho Idaho Falls Inglewood Juab Juarez Kanab Kansas City Kearns Klamath Kolob Lake Mead Lake View Las Vegas Lehi Lethbridge Liberty Logan Long Beach Los Angeles Lost River EnrollSubscriptions ment No. Pct. 692 1258 182 527 546 A18 584 652 867 314 531 522 931 551 202 4ll 701 574 506 100 469 315 291 467 514 339 759 787 647 681 728 536 707 616 3038 419 448 403 508% 617 854 305 595 A462 946 621 200 383 739 744% 448 98 429 339 249 361 495 323 710 841 548 611 728 408% 815 601 248 80 81 96 95 95 99 97 112 92 102 113 99 93 106 130 89 98 91 108 86 17 96 95 94 107 84 90 100 76 115 98 82 Magazine Representative Elsie Weber Hazel Pratt Amy Kent Josephine Prinster Leona C. Campbell Wilma D. Wetzel Eliza G. King Glenna MacDonald Lila M. Holdaway Agnes M. Nelson Ruby M. Blake Lucille B. Crowther Sarah Jordan Elizabeth L. Stevens Erma W. Boyce Janet C. Medina Alligee L. Anderson Fannie B. Hatch Effie L. Sorensen Venna T. Witbeck Helen Clayton Dorothy Davis Hilda W. Cherrington Magda W. Potter Glenda Thompson Lila H. Leavitt Rosa Ashton Thelma Derochie Ila Hatton Ruby W. Amussen Margaret P. Bodine Margaret M. Nelson Elaine Aikele Relief Society Malad Maricopa Mesa Millard Millcreek Minidoka Moapa Monterey Bay Montpelier Monument Park EnrollSubscriptions ment No. Pet. 539 546% 101 657 597 91 899 820 91 611 507 88 645 577 89 622 6638 107 294 291% 99 276 3386 122 739 614 88 877 405 107 Monument Park West 598 588 98 Mount Graham Mount Jordan Mount Logan Mount Ogden Mount Rubidoux Murray Murray South Nampa Nebo New Orleans New York North Box Elder North Carbon North Davis North Idaho Falls North Jordan North Pocatello North Rexburg North Sacramento North Seattle North Sevier North Tooele 615 619 101 882 797 90 698 617% 88 638 497 78 682 685 93 484 373 7 632 484% 177 755 743 98 646 562 87 312 271 87 382 472 124 627 595% 96 465 368 79 947 979 108 764 938 128 371 358% 95 533 578 108 610 609 100 790 602 16 502 474 94 896 356 90 480 453 94 Magazine Representative Maude Y. Jensen Muriel Freeman Lola C. White Josephine M. Wadsworth Orel A. Greenig Idella Wilcox Era C. Jones Lena Millitt Lola McCammon Sara Stone Hazel S. Robison Cora B. Merrill Norene Greenwood Lola H. Gibbons Shirley E. Wade Hilda Peel Mabell A. Smith Beatrice M. Turner Ida N. Cafferty Leona S. Crouch Evelyn G. Tolbert Thyra Stoddard Etha John Parthenia H. Rhead Thora A. Martin Eva J. Wilkins Vonda L. Sharp Tura Hadley Ethel K. Archibald LaVee L. Smith Chelta D. Brown Rhea Mickelsen Mary M. McKellar MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1958 331 Relief Society North Weber Norwalk Nyssa Oakland-Berkeley Ogden Olympus Oneida Oquirrh Orange County Orlando Palmyra Palo Alto Panguitch Park Parowan Pasadena Phoenix Phoenix North Pioneer Pocatello Portland Portneuf Provo Raft River Redondo Reno Reseda Rexburg Richland Rigby STAKES ON THE HONOR ROLL-1958 EnrollSubscriptions ment No. Pet. 646 513 79 B47 377% 109 449 413% 92 732 697 95 654 589 90 3820 3805 95 674 562 883 504 603 120 802 281 98 849 331 95 6638 592 89 400 402 101 464 427% 92 767 720 94 362 303 84 738 733 99 445 405 91 404 439 109 586 473 81 494 524 106 670 727 109 454 440 97 473 497% 105 182 181 9) 738 816 111 647 598 92 496 514 104 609 810 131 695 531 76 778 785 101 Magazine Representative Nellie Opheikens Lorraine T. Brewer Vonda Huntington Vera Weindorf Chloe F. Summerill Lydia Russell Mada M. Larsen Earlean W. McGee Lucille B. Peterson Ermaleta I. Reene Paulla Willes Agnes K. Schwarz Lora Gleave Pearl E. Rohde Mary L. Stubbs Vera Jean N. Jones Florence M. Broberg Rose Openshaw Rura J. Woodall Verna Gridley LaPreal Johnson Ada L. Parris Wasel Washburn Alice O. Neddo Clarice Rentmeister Pearl S. Robison Billie June Jube Beth Moore Beth H. Rowe Ruey A. Ball Relief Society Riverdale Riverside Roosevelt Rose Park Sacramento St. George St. Johns St. Joseph St. Louis Salmon River Salt Lake San Antonio San Bernardino San Diego San Diego East San Fernando San Francisco San Joaquin San Juan San Luis San Luis Obispo San Mateo Santa Ana Santa Monica Santa Rosa Seattle Sevier Sharon Shelley Smithfield Snowflake EnrollSubscriptions ment No. Pet. 588 477 89 782 607 78 528 441 84 661 620 94 527 507 96 884 770 87 455 392 86 578 585% 101 145 164 113 198 168 85 8138 694 85 245 195 80 649 661 102 567 622 110 488 500% 103 599 621 104 496 508 102 605 695 115 655 506 77 487 420 86 1938 147 16 456 362 79 3887 395 102 854 833 98 475 448 94 491 550 112 842 805 96 578 522 90 689 793 115 685 518 76 645 485 75 Magazine Representative Edith W. Stacy Bess Davis Katie Duncan Marjorie J. Peck Arvilla Sorensen Agnes 8S. Pickett Glenda Pulsipher Nira P. Lee Louise Varone Anna Young Frances L. Kooyman Gladys Bremer Valeen M. Jolley Betty Hancock Julia Jenkins Cleo Hupp Gertrude P. Terry Elizabeth Miller Anne B. Porter Opal McDaniel Clara J. Nelson Harriet S. Zeitschel Elvira Bollschweiler Jane Jamison Edna Harris Laura C. Bronner Louise B. Sampson Norma Dee Jameson Merle Young Maud Goodsell Adele H. Ballard 332 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1959 Relief Society South Bear River South South South South South South South South South Southern Arizona Spanish Fork Spokane Springville Star Valley Sugar House Tacoma Taylor Taylorsville Temple View Teton Timpanogos Tooele Tucson Twin Falls Uintah ment 585 593 658 495 609 750 1197 Blackfoot Box Elder Carolina Davis Idaho Falls Los Angeles 404 901 425 324 630 Ogden Salt Lake Summit 472 526 710 883 654 660 285 770 496 738 458 447 821 456 No. 577 529 688 389 522 801 2657 343 943 EnrollSubscriptions Pet. 99 89 105 100 108 Magazine Representative Dorothy B. Kerr Agnes Cox Naomi P. Larkin Blanche Stuckey Gwen M. Horsley Violet K. Jaussi Edna C. Stoutsenberger Virginia P. Jensen Hannah Dietrich Susie D. Andrus Maud Post Virginia W. Gardner Pauline Bastian Donetta H. Anthon Dorothy L. Worthen Nellie J. Ehlers Nettie Blake Ruth 8S. Hovey Paula G. Wilson Mabel E. Snow Audrey Cordon Vera Matthews Jewel Halgren Belva Jones Hazel W. Stevens Stella Sadlier Relief Society Union University Utah Uvada Valley View Virginia Walnut Creek Wasatch Washington Wayne Weber Weber Heights Weiser Wells West Boise West Jordan West Pocatello West Utah Wilford Willamette Woodruff Yellowstone Young Yuma Zion Park EnrollSubscriptions ment 512 561 544 302 A475 330 531 723 668 321 777 387 510 864 542 989 865 No. 512% 49875 411% 256 442 285 441 688 613 249 588 409 505 845 540% 807 Pet. 100 88 76 98 100 82 Magazine Representative Mar Jean Westerfield Maud W. Johnson Bertha R. Memmott Vera Rowley Dorie N. Walton Cassandra L. Waddoups Barbara B. Green Leda Titus Mary E. Stimpson LaVird W. Balle Florence W. Wright Virgie P. Jensen Irene H. Winegar Edith H. Koelliker Myrtle B. Oborn Vivian Ray Tone G. Slaydon Edith Baum Amy Gerrard Mary Ann Lamoreaux Naomi B. Harris Ida Garrett Iva Sterling Effie J. Nowland Wealthy S. Heywood MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1958 333 334 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1959 MISSIONS ON THE HONOR ROLL—1958 Relief Society EnrollSubscriptions Magazine ment No. Pct. Representative California 466 = 434 93 Lela L. Udall Canadian 627 632 101 Leah H. Lewis Central Atlantic States 1175 898 76 Lovell W. Smith Central States Mission 1024-959 94 Peggy B. Sears East Central States 895 692 77. Marie C. Richards Eastern States 1194 1061 89 Florence S. Jacobsen Great Lakes 1084 934 86 Vonda H. Christensen Gulf States 503 395 79 Emma A. Hanks New England 770 660 86 Alberta S. Baker North Central States 593 497 84 Diana F. Child Northern California 550 557 101 Hazel S. Love Northern States 1065 885 83 Vera C. Stratford Northwestern States 928 942 102 Effie K. Driggs West Central States 926 = 8 46 91 Lucille R. Mills Western Canadian 653 559 86 Lila A. Arave Western States 618 707 114 Daisy R. Romney f When Deserts Bloom in Arizona Ruth H. Chadwick The rains had come to bathe the desert land And soothe and quench the burning pangs of thirst. The cooling raindrops washed the barren sand And gave new life to dying things they nursed. Revived, the plants in grateful recompense Stirred the inner powers God gave to them— Creation's need impelling confidence To bring forth flower and seed upon the stem. The white-belled yuccas raised their hooded heads While yellow-misted Palo Verde trees, Beside the plumes of ocotillo reds, Wafted desert sweetness on the breeze. The rains again had triumphed over gloom; A glorious sight—the desert was in bloom! FROM THE FIEL Hulda Parker, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relicf Socicty presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Relief Society Handbook of Instructions. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES; im.: ——_— By Photograph submitted by Mona H. Kirkham COLUMBIA RIVER STAKE (OREGON), PORTLAND SIXTH WARD, PRESENTS "SOME PURITAN WOMEN" FOR LITERATURE LESSON Left to right: Margaret Garlock, representing Mary Rowlandson; Elita Lind as Sarah Kemble Knight; Barbara Gilbert as Anne Hutchinson; Sharon Sims as Anne Bradstreet. Mona H. Kirkham, President, Columbia River Stake Relief Society, reports: "Costumes were made by the sisters, and the program was conducted by having the sisters interviewed so as to bring in their biographies, and then each one gave some of the poetry written by the Puritan woman she represented. We were happy to have Sharon Sims representing Anne Bradstreet. She was the model who posed for the painting of Anne Bradstreet which comes in the Brigham Young University literature packet for this year. Sharon is a convert to the Church and lives in our stake. She is active in Relief Society and was glad to wear her beautiful turquoise silk dress which was used in the original painting. The literature leader in the Sixth Ward is Lorraine Silcox, and the stake literature leader is Ruth S. Smith." Page 335 336 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1959 aie Photograph submitted by Hazel S. Love NORTHERN CALIFORNIA MISSION, MENDOCINO DISTRICT SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR DISTRICT CONFERENCE Front row, left to right: Mission Relief Society President Agnes Mae Pace; Clara Wolfe; Jeanette Allen; Jean D. Porter; Hazel S$. Love, President, Northern California Mission Relief Society; Katherine Davis; Grace Jones; Melba Scalmanini; Alma Grover. Second row, left to right: Mildred Cloud; Phyllis Southwick; Donna Gardner; Lucy Shupe; LaVaun Kinderknecht; Esther Mason; Lenna Hill; Pearl Evans; Lee March. Third row, left to right: Anna Sundman; Eloise Lewis; Ida Middleton; Elsie Christensen; Almida Britton. Sister Love reports: '""This picture was taken at the last District Conference held in the Mendocino District. At this conference the Singing Mothers furnished all the music for the conference and, although this district is small, they did an outstanding job, and we were very proud of them." Photograph submitted by Gwen J. Miner LOGAN STAKE (UTAH) RELIEF SOCIETY SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, November 23, 1958 Front row, left to right, in dark dresses: Mira Baker, violinist; Agusta Bailey, conductor; Alta Robinson, pianist; Virginia Rigby, organist. Second row, third from the left: Mildred Meikle, Second Counselor, Logan Stake Relief Society. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 337 Back row, seventeenth from the left: Lorna Bingham, Stake Secretary-Treasurer; eighteenth from the left: Gwen Miner, President, Logan Stake Relief Society. Sister Miner reports: "This chorus, made up of ninety-seven members from the Singing Mothers groups from the wards, furnished music for both sessions of the Logan Stake Quarterly Conference, held November 23d. The chorus was directed by the stake Relief Society chorister Agusta Bailey, with stake organist Alta Robinson at the piano." Photograph Submitted by Blanche S. George MILLARD STAKE (UTAH), FILLMORE SECOND WARD RELIEF SOCIETY SEWING CLASS Left to right: Ilene Cooper, President; Lona Huntsman; Ulala Mace; Gladys Warner; Mae Davies; Hortense Peterson; Leona Rickenbach, First Counselor and instructor in sewing; Ireta Bartholomew. Absent when the picture was taken were Nellie Lambert, Laura Phelps, Judy Melville, and Beth Whatcott. Blanche S. George, President, Millard Stake Relief Society, reports: "The eight women pictured above are beaming with satisfaction after completion of a sewing course in the Fillmore Second Ward Relief Society. Classes started Monday morning, January 26th, 1959, and continued through the week, with some of the women finishing up that week. Sister Rickenbach, the instructor, gave much valuable assistance in mastering the basic steps in sewing that were incorporated into a new 'Sunday dress' which each woman completed. The women were so pleased with their handiwork that already they are talking about another class." 338 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1959 agape Photograph submitted by Laura Shimp SOUTH LOS ANGELES STAKE (CALIFORNIA) RETIRING PRESIDENT ROSE B. ASTLE HONORED AT RECEPTION AFTER THIRTEEN YEARS OF LEADERSHIP Left to right: Rose B. Astle, retiring President; Laura Shimp, former First Counselor, now newly appointed President; Alta Davis, former Second Counselor, now First Counselor; Cula Magnussen, former Secretary-Treasurer, and now newly appointed Secretary-Treasurer. Sister Shimp reports: "In honor of the thirteen years of outstanding and devoted leadership of Rose B. Astle, a delightful reception was held at the South Los Angeles Stake Center by the Relief Society Stake Board members. In the receiving line with Sister Astle were Laura Shimp, May Hodge (also a counselor for nine years); Alta Davis, and Dorothy Rasmussen. The motif was the rose; gorgeous bouquets graced the lounge. Refreshments were served to more than two hundred callers. A book of memories, called 'Petals of the Past" was presented to Sister Astle by her last board members. Featured in the book were individual photos, each mounted on a rose, of the six counselors, two secretaries, and thirty-four board members, and sixty-cight ward presidents who served during the fruitful years that Sister Astle served as stake Relief Society president. Sister Astle has always been an ardent Church worker, always willing to go the extra mile. A sincere tribute for her untiring service was beautifully expressed by William Noble Waite, former stake president, under whom she served for many years." ' She Semple Winona F, Thomas The temple stands in glory on a hill Where its beneficence endows my soul With myriad blessings that I might fulfill My God-set mission and my self-set goal. The Silver Leash (Continued from page 324) about, Atlast barking at their heels. After a few minutes, Connie scolded him. "Nobody can pack with all that noise. Now I want you to be a good dog. I'm going to put on your leash." She slipped on his collar, fastened the leash and, as usual, he jerked it from her hands and went scampering across the patio. His leash tangled in the wheels of Herb's chair. The little dog was terrified to find it flying after him down the long slope. He ran faster in spite of Connie's cries. They watched in horror as the chair made its swift descent towards the busy highway. Gladys screamed shrilly and covered her eyes. It seemed eons before Joel, racing after the reeling chair, caught and stopped it. Atlast, free of the spinning wheels, returned penitently to Connie's side. LaRue found her face streaked with remorseful tears. "Oh, Herb, it was my fault. I shouldn't have made you come. [...." He quieted her with a gentle gesture as Connie flung her arms about his neck, crying: "Ah, Daddy, 'm so glad you're all right. I love you so much." She kissed him tenderly. Eirma kissed him, too, shyly. Joel shook hands in a fine, grown up manner, which made his father's face glow with pride. He circled them in his arms. "T love you, too, my darlings." It was a simple statement, but it held more than words could express. He lifted his head and met Dr. Alan's eyes. "A few minutes ago es ORGAN BOOKS for the Church Organist — AT THE CONSOLE—Felton............2.00 =... CHANCEL ECHOES—Felton..........2.50 ss CHAPEL ORGANIST...................-.-2.00 = 2 CHURCH MUSIC FOR THE SMALLEST ORGAN—Nevin...........1.50 —_ DEVOTIONAL ORGAN ALBUM— ASPEP o... Sccseceeecnceeeceeeneee 2.50 weeeee INSTRUMENTAL CHURCH SERVICE SELECTIONS— Vols. 1 Be 2 oeeiiceeccesceseeeceeeeeeeeea. 1.25 — NINETY THREE SHORT SOLOS....2.75 _—- ORGAN MUSINGS 20 150 — ORGAN MELODIES—Landon........1.50 ——— ORGAN IN THE CHURCH—Asper..2.75 _— ORGAN VISTAS uuu... Eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee 1 50 = ORGAN VOLUNTARIES— Vols. 1 & 2—Schreiner.......... Ea. 3.50 — REED ORGAN PLAYER................--1.00: TWO STAFF ORGAN BOOK........1.00 _ WARNER'S TWILIGHT INTER- 0) D) =<1.50 Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 15 E. Ist South Salt Lake City 11, Utah, Please send the music indicated above. (1 On Approval OO Charge OO Money Enclosed Name Address City & State momen oe * 145 NORTH UNIVERSMY, PROVOe! Salt Lake City 11, Utah Page 339 NORTHWESTERN TOURS Leave July Ist for Portland Centennial Tour via Columbia River Highway. Leave July 15th for Portland Centennial via Banff and Lake Louise, etc. HAWAII This beautiful tour leaves Salt Lake City, Utah, on Saturday, July 11, 1959. Fly via United Air Lines from Los Angeles. Visit all four Islands. HISTORIC TRAIN The original Historic Train leaves Friday evening, July 31, 1959, Salt Lake City, Utah, at 5:00 p. M. See Nauvoo, Carthage, Kirtland, Sharon, Vermont, etce., and witness the HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT. Historic Bus leaves Salt Lake City on August Ist. For free folders write or phone: VIDA FOX CLAWSON 216 South 13th East Sal Lake City 2, Utah Phone DA 8-0303 Mason & Hamlin The Stradivari of Pianos EVERETT PIANOS Finest Taned Spinet Piano Built THE WORLD'S FINEST Cable-Nelson Finest Low Priced Piano Built We specialize in all music for Relief Society Beesley Musi¢ Co. Pioneer Piano People 70 S. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1959 I would have given my life to walk. I'm no longer afraid. My children need me. I'll go to the hospital whenever you say." LaRue could feel Herb's love binding his children closer. She rememberd that Amelia had_ said that love could never die. Amelia's love lived within her children. Herb had found it again. He would never be lonely, alone. He was unafraid.... (To be continued) Spring s Golden WVrob Grace Ingles Frost Spring has woven a golden web And spread it over earth; It matters not which way I look, Of it, there is no dearth. All that was lost of loveliness, To winter's chill embrace, Is re-endowed with beauty By spring's effulgent grace. Sun in Bloom Eva Willes Wangsgaard Oh, do you know the Doronicum— The early daisy that holds the sun Of all the goldenness born of petal, Of summer sun, and precious metal, Its gleaming radii purest yellow? Uncertain air is bound to mellow, And every corner the daffodils Have left unsunned this daisy fills With radiant rising suns of gold Till spring is set in a sunny mold. Dr. Crawford Gates, composer, and Dr. Harold |. Hansen, director, study model of gigantic stage. 44 ° be ILA Sand in Thar Shoes A Spectacular Musical Play Based on the Mormon Battalion May 29, 30, June 1, 2, 3 BYU Stadium On a stage nearly as long as the football field, this gigantic show will present top vocal and dramatic leads, supported by a cast of 700. Thrilling music is all original. Choreography by Eugene Loring. Sound by Dr. Harvey Fletcher. Get tickets from your bishop, stake president, or ward representative or write directly to: BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY PROVO—UTAH Page 341 Adults $1.50 Children $1.00 Hope to see YOU Helps June 6-10, 1959 Provo, Utah ® Theology Lesson Helps (Doctrine & Covenants) ® Social Science Lesson ® Literature Lesson Helps © Work Day Ideas Brigham Young University 7 Leadership Week Workshops, lectures, and demonstrations especially designed to aid Relief Society Sisters © Religion and Genealogy Classes ® Bazaar Ideas ® Helps for Home Life © And many other features Clip and Mail |Last Name 'First Middle 1%Home Address City —= State $2.00 registration fee enclosed, payable to BYU Extension Services. HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT TOUR Leaving Salt Lake City, Utah, July 24, 1959. 23 Days. See Liberty, Carthage, Nauvoo, Adam-Ondi-Ahman, Kirtland, etc. Including Chicago, Boston, New York, Washington, Niagara Falls, and the SONG OF NORWAY Stage Show. NORTHWESTERN TOUR Leaving Salt Lake City, Utah, July 5th, 1959. Including Banff, Lake Louise, Vancouver, and Victoria. MESA VERDE Labor Day weekend tour. September 5-6-7, 1959. HAWAIIAN TOUR Leaving in November. For Itinerary write or phone: ESTHER JAMES TOURS 460 Seventh Avenue Salt Lake City 3, Utah Phone EM 3-5229 Page 342 e BEAUTIFUL e HANDY e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover—$2.50; Leather Cover—$3.80 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Up to 150 miles....... 150 to 300 miles... 300 to 600 miles... 600 to 1000 miles... 1000 to 1400 miles H 1400 to 1800 miles.............---.-20---0--, Over 1800 miles 5 Leave them at our conveniently focated uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-258] 33 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah Stake or Mission Year of Birth Birthday Co ngratulatio ns Ninety-six Mrs. EL. Nora SoRENSON HAMMOND Moreland, Idaho Ninety-four Mrs. JosEPHINE DICKERSON WEsT Pleasant Grove, Utah Mrs. Lena Guut MclInrosu Burlington, Wyoming Mrs. Harriet Lean Axton Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. JOSEPHINE Brown SucDEN Farmington, Utah Ninety-two Mrs. Emity Lowry San Bernardino, California Ninety-one Mrs. Otena Peterson Larson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Anna D. Parsons Brown Nephi, Utah Mrs. ANNA BERLIN ANDERSON OLSEN Gridley, California Mrs. Anna LEFGREEN DAHLSTROM Ogden, Utah Mrs. Emity J. Sippoway Vernal, Utah Ninety Mrs. Anna Larsen TONNESEN Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Annie LeicH Mace Salt Lake City, Utah EUROPE Special royal tours leaving in June and August. Economically yours. HAWAII Special deluxe tours leaving in April, June, or July. Vacation Hawaii — eight days, seven nights, transportation, hotel accommodations, sightseeing, only $275.00. SCENIC NORTHWESTERN TOUR Leaves June 27, 1959. Come join us on this wonderful vacation tour. HISTORICAL TOUR Leaves August 1, 1959, for the famous HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT. DISNEYLAND TOUR Student tour to Disneyland on August 2d through August 8th. Includes other sightseeing in California. For further details write or phone: MARGARET LUND TOURS P. O. Box 20 Sugar House Station Salt Lake City, Utah Phone IN 6-2909, AM 2-2339, CR 7-6334 emp lo Mla rriage Ann Barber Fletcher Who can say this love we share, Like winged bird, transcending sight, Ephemeral, like starry night, Will linger briefly, then take flight? He who lifts his hand and sows Looks to harvest what he grows! Death the end of everything? Of poets' words and songs to sing? Of laughing child; of swift embrace, And happiness upon the face? We planned for more than fettered wing, Or faded flower, or parting sting. Because we placed our trust in thee, We saw beyond mortality, And looked to span eternity! Page 343 uw TRAVEL ® TRAVEL @© TRAVEL @® TRAVEL ® TRAVEL ® TRAVEL ® TRAVEL ® TRAVEL 44 TRAVEL @® TRAVEL HAWAII 8 or 16 fun-filled sun-filled days. Deluxe hotels. Meals. Sightseeing trips and cruises. Visit 4 islands, L. D. S. Temple. Enjoy native festivities and Island Lealea (Fun). Depart any time or travel with groups leaving regularly. $259-$639 EUROPE 48 days — 14 countries: England, Scotland, Norway, Sweden, Denmark, Germany, Holland, Belgium, Austria, Switzerland, Italy, Monaco, San Marino, Lichtenstein. (June and September departures.) AMERICAN HERITAGE TOUR Along the Mormon Trail — visit Liberty, Carthage, Nauvoo, Adamondi-Ahman, HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT, Niagara Falls, OttawaMontreal, Quebec, New England, Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Washington, Mt. Vernon and other Mormon and American Historic Locations, L. D. S. YOUTH TOUR EUROPE 30 days — 11 countries. All expense, fine hotels, balanced menus, visit L. D. S. Branches. Cultural and Educational Sightseeing, Supervised Fun, Physician accompanying Tour. Limited Accommodations, apply early. Departs June 1959, ROBBINS TOURS INTERNATIONAL Compare Itineraries Compare Prices then TRAVEL WITH US Box 1514 Salt Lake City, Utah Phone EL 9-0959 TRAVEL @® TRAVEL THAVUL e@ THAVYUL e@ THAVUL e THAVYL e THAVUL e@ THAVUL e THAVYL e TWAVYL RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1959 LEARN TO TYPEWRITE! X h New Classes Begin Soon Adult classes for Relief Society and genealogy workers will teach beginning and advanced typing. Classes will run 6:30 to 8:00 p. M., Mondays and Thursdays. Individual help and instruction by professional teachers. Call for reservations and further information. LDS BUSINESS COLLEGE Phone EM 3-2765 70 North Main Salt Lake City 11, Utah GET FULL HOUSEPOWER UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. 1. FAMILY NIGHT FUN Shirley and Monroe Paxman This book abounds in games and "things to do" for family nights and for parties in the home that include friends of the family. This helpful book also points up the fact that families who play together have the rare opportunity of cementing family ties and of building wholesome attitudes toward life. 2.95 2. SEARCH and RESEARCH Noel C. Stevenson New and revised edition. Author of this valuable book on genealogical research lists each state in the United States with reference books, states officials under whose jurisdiction records are filed, and other sources such as wills, army registers, land rolis, etc., as well as sources in other countries where clues may be found for additional research. 2.95 ] 44 East South Temple 1 Salt Lake City, Utah Gentlemen: Enclosed you will find ( ) check ( ) money | order ( ) I have an account. Please charge. Amount enclosed | $ for encircled (numbered) books: | I citycoco Zone.... State... Residents of Utah include 2% sales tax. Lineeree Book Company 71 BR L-BL-194-2 3503 HOW TO MAKE YOUR LIFE INSURANCE MORE BENEFICIAL +. Career girls, married, single, or widowed, need insurance coverage. With more women working than ever before in history, this need becomes increasingly apparent. Yet often we think of insurance only in terms of the male members of the family. BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. T t A Beneficial Building, Salt Lake City, Utah | BE) } t; lJ 1) Please send me more information on ) ' x Career Opportunities Insurance. | Susumrance: Company I BI ¢ Virgil H. Smith, Pres. The need for life insurance coverage is especially great where a widowed mother carries the added burdens of the family head. Beneficial has several plans that are especially well adapted to the needs of career girls. Ask your Beneficial agent to tell you more about them. Salt Lake City, Utah VOL. 46 NO. 6 Lesson Previews JUNE 1959 2 pee e eee) ee (S é - is; Bere ah hee et ed My Thoughts Rneel Down Elsie McKinnon Strachan Here in this rose-blown afternoon, My thoughts kneel down to offer praise For this, the lowering month of June — Marked by the chicory's golden blaze, Marked by the lilac's fragrant gift.... Oh, Father, my grateful thanks for these, And for music of rivers, songs that lift From nests and lullabying trees, For winds that talk in the sun-warm grasses, For little crickets' toneless voices, For wild blue asters, and sweetbricr-air; Oh, thank you, Father, that everywhere Gladness spills from the joy of living — Immutable is thy loving—thy giving! The Cover: View of Cleveland, Ohio Photograph by Frank Muth, Free Lance Photographers Guild, Inc. Frontispiece: Jackson Hole, Wyoming, With the Grand Tetons in the Background Luoma Studios Cover Design by Evan Jensen Cover Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press From llear and Sar I really should find more time to write to people who abide in places I love, for as I write this note, I am carried away in memory into our beautiful Relief Society Building.... How we look forward to The Relief Society Magazine each month. I have read every issue from cover to cover for the past thirty-five years, but never before with so much anticipation, enjoyment, and satisfaction as I have done since being so far away from headquarters. It certainly is a medium which brings the sisters of the world close together. How beautiful the new covers are! They are more beautiful than I had dreamed they could be. —Velma N. Simonsen South Australian Mission Relief Society Victoria, Australia I have just finished reading Amy Viau's page "About Twilight" in the April issue of The Relief Society Magazine. How lovely it is!) A page of pure poetry. Amy Viau founded the Quill Pen Writers' Club in Santa Ana; she was also a member and past president of the Pierian Poetry Club. She died a few months ago, and we who knew and loved her miss her very much. We Santa Ana writers do appreciate and often mention the high literary standards maintained by The Relief Society Magazine. I especially enjoyed Vesta Lukei's touching love poem "This Year's Spring" also in the April issue. —Elsie McKinnon Strachan Santa Ana, California I offer my congratulations for our fine Magazine. I often wonder how there can be so much in such a slender Magazine. It is a pleasure to read the wonderful poems, stories, and articles. The covers are beautiful. They really add a lot to the Magazine—something like a new dress, after having worn the old a long time. The Magazine gives me a new slant on life and gives us all encouragement and a desire for self-improvement. —Katie Harris Lewis Malad, Idaho Page 346 I would like to express my gratitude for the story "Unto the Hills," by Helen Hooper, in the April issue of The Relief Society Magazine. The mother in that story was such a wonderful and courageous person, with such strong faith, I had to feel ashamed of myself for getting upset over minor difficulties. That evening when I read the story to my husband, I could see that he, too, felt deeply moved by it. I feel sorry for all the women in the world who are not blessed as I am to be able to subscribe to The Relief Society Magazine, —Millie Martindale Bossier City, Louisiana Thank you for the copy of the splendid April issue, with its beautiful cover and lovely frontispiece! I have read it from cover to cover already, though it came only this afternoon. I especially enjoyed "Great Grandmother's Notebook," by Arlene D. Cloward (story) and Vesta Lukei's fine poem "This Year's Spring.' It seems to me that the philosophy underlying every article and poem and story in the book is one of genuine, solid, down-to-earth truth. I only wish more of our country's periodicals took the same attitude! You never belittle small things, the home things, which, after all, are the real things. —Maude Rubin Santa Ana, California I want to express my appreciation for the beautiful new covers on the Magazine. I have been a reader of the Magazine most of my life and look forward to every issue. Every article, lesson, poem, and story is wonderful. Thank you especially for the Visiting 'Teacher Messages. I am grateful for every item. —Mrs. Martha E. Brokaw Stockton, California I would like to tell you how much I enjoy The Relief Society Magazine. 1 am a new convert of five months, and I have never before known life to be so beautiful. The gospel has changed my life completely. —Mrs. Anne Sheffield Winnipeg, Manitoba Canada THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - - First Counselor Louise W. Madsen - - - - = = - =. - Second Counselor Hulda Parker - - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Aleine M. Young Edith P. Backman Mary V. Cameron Edith S. Elliott Josie B. Bay Winniefred S. Afton W. Hunt Florence J. Madsen Christine H. Robinson Manwaring Wealtha S. Mendenhall Leone G. Layton Alberta H. Christensen Elna P. Haymond Pearle M. Olsen Blanche B. Stodderd Mildred B. Eyring Annie M. Ellsworth Elsa T. Peterson Evon W. Peterson Charlotte A. Larsen Mary R. Young Irene B. Woodford RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - - - - - 5 Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford VOL. 46 JUNE 1959 NO. 6 Contents SPECIAL FEATURES A Tribute to Fathers Florence Jepperson Madsen 348 The Great Lakes Mission 0.0... Preston R. Nibley 352 More Precious Than Rubies.. U................ Ae.. 369 Country Summer oii. EcececceeecencenceeeceececeeeeccecteceeseenencesectecccenserceeseeeeaeessceccsecseeecessacteccseceesesaneesRodello Hunter 373 Green-Willow Days...... Ee Shirley Sealy 379 casesPermella Haggard 414 Relief Society for Mothers and Daughters.. Dear Father. Peach-Tree Poem oo - sateccancestecseacs aces eteFrances C. Yost 358 One of Them...... Granny Will Be Wotiting 2... Cece ccc ceeeeeceenee sae eeceeceeneeessesceesneeneceneceeeceeeeeseseneessceeeeeseeceseensBetty Martin 382 -Margaret Russell 385 The Ladder of Love. The Silver Leash—Chapter 6............. Beatrice Rordame Parsons 391 From Near and Far oo. Eeeeececescsecsssssceesecesceesssssnceceneeneecessseessssensescsssesessesenseecsssnenscssecsessesesenssssssassstecaeacessesesaeaeesececeecetaee 346 Sixty Years Ago....364 Woman's Sphere... Eceseceeseeeceeeeeeeees Ramona W. Cannon 365 Editorial: The 129th Annual Church Conference -0.......2.-ceecscecececenceseseceeeeteseseeeeseeesVesta P. Crawford 366 Notes to the Field: Program for the November Fast Sunday Evening Meeting 0... 368 Hymn of the Month — Annual List.... 368 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities Hulda Parker 395 Birthday Congratulations.0......:.:: eseccceeceeeeee / 416 FEATURES FOR THE HOME Recipes From the Great Lakes Mission Vonda L. Christensen 37) A Handy Pincushion oo. Cecccceceseececseecescsseccsenesseeceseceeeeeeceeeeeees suoeeLlizabeth Williamson 381 A Challenge to Mothers ee........4...... Leona Fetzer Wintch 386 Carlota de Yalibat's Unique Hobbies 00... Eects - 390 The Pansy-Picker Cr eo. EaeVernessa M. Nagle 401 Lesson Department — Previews for 1959-60 Theology — The Doctrine and Covenants... A ee, Roy W. Doxey 402 Visiting Teacher Messages — Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants Christine H. Robinson 404 Work Meeting — Physical Safety Factors in the Home. Charlotte A. Larsen 406 Literature — America's Literature — A New Nation Speaks Briant S. Jacobs 407 Social Science — Spiritual Living in the Nuclear Age Blaine M. Porter 408 POETRY My Thoughts Kneel Down — Frontispiece 22... Eee cccscecesceceececceeececeeeceeeesElsie McKinnon Strachan 345 The Handcart Child, by Orvene B. Holman, 356; The Superstition Mountain, by Ruth H. Chadwick, 357; Lilac's Journey, by Lula Walker, 363; For Grandmothers Who Baby Sit, by Camilla Woodbury Judd, 370; Heart of a House, by Ethel Jacobson, 372; Blue Morning-Glories, by Josie B. Bay, 378; The Hummingbird, by Winona Frandsen Thomas, 38]; If This Is Peace, by Eva Willes Wangsgaard, 387; So Thought Unfolds, by Maude Rubin, 389; Heritage, by Viola A. Cornwall, 390; Where the Gull Goes, by Gwen Marler Barney, 410. PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Copyright 1959 by General Board of Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Editorial and Business Offices: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah: Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy; payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 8, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1108, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Page 347 The Wedding-Ring Tree oon... Ceecescssesesessessesessecseeesecseatenceecaccscnseseceesecsesenssaceesece Notes on the Authors of the Lessons ooo... Cceceeccecececcecessesssseseneesenseneceenenecesceseneeseeececes Helen S. Williams 388 4)1 A Tribute to Fathers Florence Jepperson Madsen Member, Relief Society General Board NXIOUSLY, we wait through A the last weeks of chilly winter to greet the lovely, magical days of spring — days that bring sunshine and warmth to the earth, and usher in a newness of life, that give hopeful signs and promise of forthcoming prosperity. No season could be more appropriate, nor a month better chosen, than that of May in which to pay tribute to our precious mothers. 'The very air we breathe is filled with the fragrance of buds and flowers and "there is beauty all around." Father's Day comes in June, the first month of summer, when days are longer and warmer, and when there is a profusion of bloom everywhere. In this choice and picturesque setting, we pay tribute and honor to our wonderful fathers. Very early in childhood we are taught to say the word "Father," and to speak it reverently when offering our first simple prayers to Heavenly Father. By this means we learn to communicate with our Divine Creator, and to hold sacred his holy name. Likewise, we learn to address, or speak of our earthly father, whose name we bear, with due esteem and sincere appreciation. For the Lord hath given the father glory as touching the children... The glory of a man is from the honour of his Father (Ecclesiasticus 1:7). We honor our dear fathers on their "special" day — and on all days. We respect and support them Page 348 in their important position as head of the family. Among the many responsibilities that are theirs, we mention but a few basic ones: © supplying the daily physical and material necessities of life; giving direction and guidance to the spiritual needs of the family; offering support to community projects; and rendering service to the Church. Fathers who thus assume and discharge graciously such responsibilities grow in understanding, sympathy, and kindliness. They fulfill the scriptural injunction to "Govyern your house in meekness, and be steadfast" (D & C 31:9). These words of instruction given in a revelation through the Prophet Joseph Smith to Thomas B. Marsh, in the year 1830, are as timely and significant today as they were then. Children reared in a home environment of peace, understanding, and love are given the opportunity of developing normal physical, mental, spiritual, and emotional strength. 'This prepares them to meet and solve, without frustration and discouragement, many of the problems they will encounter in daily life. Robert Schumann, one of the world's great composers and critics, asked this question: Can we not have our heaven on earth, if we take a simple, sober view of life, and are not unreasonable in our demands? This question might be consid- A TRIBUTE TO FATHERS ered to be answered by President David O. McKay in_ his book, Gospel Ideals (page 490) as follows: I know of no other place than home where more happiness can be found in this life. It is possible to make home a bit of heaven; indecd, I picture heaven to be a continuation of the ideal home. The pattern of righteous living exemplified by the father is ever a guiding and determining influence in the lives of the family members. His love was like a shelter round us, A guardian there to bless The children and the hearth of home In strength of tenderness.... —V. P. C. A word picture is drawn in the preceding lines of one whose name six children bear, two sons and two daughters surviving, who honor their father's name, that of Samuel Hans Jepperson. The example and influence of this great man will always be remembered and _treasured. [X the humble tribute I shall pay to the memory of my beloved father, and in the bricf sketch highlighting characteristics and events in his life, there will be portrayed a likeness of other noble fathers who have walked, or who now walk along similar paths of worthy endeavor, and in whom many of the same admirable qualities are to be found. The parents of my father, Samuel Hans Jepperson, heard and accepted the gospel message in their native country, Denmark, in the year 1853. Like many other converts whose lives had been changed through this message of truth and light, a desire burned deep in their hearts to go to the New Land, America, then on 349 to Utah, where they could live among those of the same faith. After four years of planning, working, sacrificing, and saving, the parents with their child, Samuel, age three, made the long voyage to America. In Iowa City they joined the saints, who were being organized into a handcart company preparatory to making the "trek" to Utah. In this hazardous mode of travel they encountered many hardships during the three months it took to make the journey. Nevertheless, though travel-worn and weary, they arrived safely in the new Territory. With undaunted courage and faith, they went forth to meet the varied challenges in their new environment, Within a year the family moved into the settlement of Provo, where a work project was being started and where there was opportunity for employment. Growing up, as he did, in a pioneer settlement, Father learned early in life to work with his head, as well as with his hands. He helped to design and make implements and the pieces of furniture they needed. At an early age Father gave evidence of pronounced talent in music and art. Born with the soul of an artist, he longed to capture from nature the beauties of sight and sound that were all about him, and to find a medium through which to reproduce and express these beauties. But pioneer days were days of survival; and time and strength must be spent in grubbing sagebrush and clearing ground so crops could be grown. The years moved on and, although there were yet many of the family needs that could not be sup- 350 plied, and frugality must be maintained, still, life became a little less strenuous for them. 'The ground was more fertile; crops could be produced more easily, and there was, occasionally, a little leisure time to enjoy. ATHER earned his first violin, when a lad of thirteen. The gentleman who owned the instrument bargained with the boy to haul four loads of logs for him from the canyon in payment for the very precious violin. Since there was a lull in the season's work, permission was granted the boy to take the oxen and wagon. Plans for the trip were about completed, when the anxious mother exclaimed, "But, my boy, you haven't any shoes!" 'To a boy whose whole heart was set on getting a violin, what did shoes matter? Unafraid, and with jubr lant spirit, he went into the canyon, barefooted, brought out the logs, and claimed the violin. We children often wondered how Father, through those strenuous pioneer years, ever kept alive his desire and inner urge to express his great talents; however, he did, and his mature years were rich with the fulfillment of his most cherished dreams. Father was fortunate and greatly blessed in the choice of his life's companion, Minnie Johnson Jepperson — our mother. She was talented, unselfish, and appreciative, and recognized the many talents and genius in her husband. No sacrifice was too great to make, if it promoted his artistic talents and interests. She was a devoted companion, helpmate, and inspiration throughout his life. A woman with a great soull RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1959 Father was by nature a refined and cultured gentleman. He was honest, considerate, sympathetic, and affectionate. Words of criticism or fault-finding were never voiced by him. He was unselfish, generous, and appreciative. He loved his fellow man and was ever ready to help him. One of the most outstanding qualities of my father was his deep-rooted spirituality and his implicit faith in his Heavenly Father. In times of sickness and trouble he knew where to go for inspiration and help. He _ had learned the value and power of prayer. His talents, including art and music, were freely used in promoting Church and civic projects. No call was ever made of him to which he did not cheerfully respond. Father had a delightful sense of humor. He would tell some interested listener a story about pioneer days, and, with a twinkle in his eyes, would end the story by saying, "The trek across the plains was very hard, but I crossed by pull-man." THE happiest hours of our childhood were those spent together as a family, playing in our home orchestra, or out on a picnic and sketching party. As Father went about looking for a scene to paint, we children followed along and made our selections. Sometimes we complained because the scene we had chosen was spoiled by a fallen tree, an old stump, or, perhaps, by an ugly shed near to it. Smiling at our complaints, Father would explain that one can put into a painting just what he wishes to have there, and leave the rest out. Life is much the same, he said. Through the artist eyes of my A TRIBUTE TO FATHERS Father, we were taught to see the inspiring scenic beauties of nature; to observe and appreciate the color variations, shapes of shadows and cloud formations; to enjoy each seasonal change and to note the particular splendors peculiar to each season, namely: winter with its vast whiteness; spring in its delicate shades of green; summer with its deeper pastel colors; and autumn with its reds, yellows, and gold. Father possessed great ingenuity. He could make most anything, from a toy to a harp. How we loved those homemade toys, and we learned to play the harp! Yes, he developed his musical talents parallel to those of his art. He had both a theater and a dance orchestra, and he organized and conducted the Provo City Band for over thirty years. One of the treasured and lasting memory pictures of ours is that of Mother rendering a contralto solo, Father playing the violin obbligato, and we children accompanying them on our various instruments. We love music for... The garnered memories, the tender feelings it can summon at a touch (L. E. Landon). Father expressed his art talent, principally, in the medium of landscape painting. Among his paintings are to be found a large variety of subjects. Of particular significance are those of historic interest, which he re-created from the numer- 351 ous dramatic stories he heard from pioneers through the years. 'Those of special interest are: The Handcart Company The Covered Wagon Train Fort Provo The Indian's Happy Hunting Ground With our walls adorned with his beautiful art creations, into which a part of his very soul has gone, he is ever with us! Nature, the wonderful handiwork of God, never ceased being a great miracle to my father. Much of his time was spent out in its vast expanse, observing its many wonders and catching its fleeting moods. 'To him it was a very sacred place where one could go and feel very close to his Creator. The words of a friend, Professor Harrison R. Merrill, regarding my father are fitting: But the best thing he did cannot be counted in money. He was a light shining in the wilderness to many other artistic souls who might not, except for him, ever have been developed. He gave to a raw and more or less uncouth frontier a little soul-heat from which whole communities have been warmed. Although we can never fully pay our debt of gratitude to our fathers, we can pay a little on the interest over the three hundred and sixty-five days of the year. Let us revere our fathers on this special day, and through our deeds, bring honor to their names. Hear, ye children, the instruction of a father, and attend to know understanding. For I give you good doctrine, forsake ye not my law... (Proverbs 4:1-2). She Great oLahes I lisseah Preston R. Nibley Assistant Church Historian HE First Presidency announced, on October 14, 1949, the formation of a new mission, to be known as the Great Lakes Mission. Three states, Michigan, Indiana, and Ohio, were taken from the Northern States Mission, to form the new mission. Carl C. Burton of Salt Lake City was chosen as the first president. Headquarters was established at Ft. Wayne, Indiana, where a new mission home was purchased. The membership in the new mission was given as 6,563. The Detroit Stake was organized from the Great Lakes Mission in November 1952, under the direction of Elders Ezra Taft Benson and Henry D. Moyle of the Council of the Twelve. Wards were formed in Detroit, Toledo, Dearborn, Ann Arbor, Pontiac-Royal Oak, Flint, SaginawMidland, and Lansing. Branches included were Jackson and Selfridge, and also three branches from the Canadian Mission, Windsor, Sarnis, Chatham. President Burton was released as president of the Great Lakes Mission in June 1953, and was succeeded by Lorin L. Richards. President Richards Courtesy Michigan Tourist Council Submitted by Vonda L. Christensen BLOCKHOUSE OF HISTORIC FORT MACKINAC MACKINAC ISLAND, MICHIGAN This sentinel of history has kept faithful watch over the Straits of Mackinac since 1780. Page 352 THE GREAT LAKES MISSION 353 Courtesy Chamber of Commerce Fort Wayne, Indiana Submitted by Vonda L. Christensen STATUE OF GENERAL ANTHONY WAYNE, FORT WAYNE, INDIANA The city of Fort Wayne was named for this general who built the wooden Fort Wayne which was dedicated in 1794. The place was incorporated as a town in 1829, and as a city in 1840. Served faithfully until December 1956, when he was succeeded by Ruel E. Christensen, who presides at the present time. A second stake, the Cincinnati Stake, was formed from the Great Lakes Mission in November 1958, under the direction of Elders Mark E. Petersen and LeGrand Richards of the Council of the Twelve. Wards were formed in Cincinnati, Dayton, Fairborn, Hamilton, and Springfield, in Ohio, and Covington, in Kentucky. There are also the Georgetown and Middletown Branches in Ohio. At the end of February 1959, there were 9,677 members of the Church in the Great Lakes Mission, located in fifty branches. Fifty-seven Relief Society organizations, with 1366 members, were reported in December 1958. Vonda L. Christensen presides over the Great Lakes Mission Relief Society. Note: The cover for this Magazine is a "View of Cleveland, Ohio:" See also "Recipes From the Great Lakes Mission," by Sister Christensen, page 371. Dear Father Mabel Law Atkinson 66 HERE, Mary Emma, is si this clean enough to suit you?" Eighty-two-year-old Cyril Roberts looked about his kitchen as he spoke. Looked at the clean, old-fashioned, coal-burning range, the clean breakfast dishes placed in the old-fashioned oak cupboard, with its mirror at the back of the mid-section buffet, at the clean-swept linoleum, and at the geraniums blooming on the clean window sills. But there was no Mary Emma to answer, and there had been no Mary Emma for thirty-six years, that is no Mary Emma to be seen or heard, but, somehow Cyril always felt her nearness, and this sort of make-believe companionship—if you would call it that—kept him from being too lonely, and, as he often admitted to himself, kept him doing his best and keeping the home neat and clean. Cyril Roberts had lived alone since his last daughter had married. That is he was alone except when some of his children and grandchildren were visiting him or he was visiting them. This particular June morning, he felt his aloneness a little more keenly than usual. Perhaps it was because tomorrow was Father's Day, and he longed to hear the laughter and noise of his seven sons and two daughters, as he and Mary Emma had those years ago together. "Well, Cyril Roberts, better get to work," he said aloud to no one but himself. "Through your long days and years of being alone, work Page 354 has been your salvation. There is plenty to do, goodness knows! Get your gouty old hands busy." Slowly he moved the fingers of his hands, gnarled and knotted with their years of hard work and exposure to the elements. He opened and closed them to relieve their _ stiffness. "There, that's better. 'They move real tolerably now, and without too much pain and don't seem to tremble so." He left the house and went to his workshop in the back yard. It was sheltered by a giant box elder like a great green umbrella. In summertime he worked under this tree, save when he needed to use the equipment in the shop. He was making a teeter for his grandchildren now. This morning he would saw and carve the horses' heads to be put near each end of the long, thick plank for the children to hold to as they teetered. One would have marveled at his skill, watching his trembling old hands as he worked surely and confidently at his task. He worked steadily for an hour, then sat down to relax on a garden seat he had fashioned from a stump. His eyes, focused far away, held a rather sad and nostalgic light as he said, "Seems I hanker to see the children this morning. Feel more lonesome than usual. Let's see, haven't seen any of them since Memorial Day. They all came then to put flowers on their mother's grave." He wiped away a tear, blew his nose vigorously, then continued, "There now, I feel better. DEAR FATHER Cy Roberts, you should be ashamed of yourself. Do you realize it's only been three weeks since Memorial Day? How often do you expect them to come, I wonder? Guess I must be getting old and letting senility creep in. They have their own families and can't be expected to spend much time on an old fellow like me. But they're geod children, every one of them. Sometimes I wonder how they turned out so well with Mary Emma being gone." He sat silently for some time, the faraway look still in his kindly, dimming old eyes. YRIL was startled from his reverie by the merry whistle of the postman, and his cheerful voice as he called, "There you are, Grandpa." (He was Grandpa to most of the villagers.) "Say, that's a splendid horse's head you're making. Which of your grandchildren is this for?" "Oh, this teeter-totter is for Edwin's children. I just finished the little table and chairs for Ellen's girls last week. Like to see them?" Grandpa led him into the shop and explained, "The paint isn't dry yet, not quite. And here's the little cupboard for Mattie's kiddies. This rocking horse is for Tom's. I've still got to finish this doll cradle for Dick's girlies, then I'll have made something for each family of children." "Wonderful!" was the postman's comment. 'Then, what will you do to keep busy?" "I don't worry about that. Not at all. I've decided to make each of my boys and girls something that's needed in their homes. When that project is finished, I'll start all over 355 again for the grandchildren. 'There's no end of toys I can make for them. I'm glad I have my craft to work at. Used to do blacksmithing as well as carpentry work. Loved to build barns, sheds, and even built a few homes; but now I'm content to putter at little things." "I don't see how you do it, Grandpa. It's a miracle what you accomplish with your crippled hands. But there's no crippling of your mind, that is certain." "No credit or praise is due me. I just do what I can each day to keep happy. Idleness is misery. You know before Mary Emma left me, when we both knew she was going, I said, "What will I do, Mary Emma, without you? How can I go on alone?' She smiled and answered, 'Keep busy, Papa. Do things for the children and later for our grandchildren as they come along. If ever you feel you can't go on another minute, do something for somebody else. Then you'll be happy." My own Mary Emma charted my course for me, and it has worked. It has worked, my boy, only right now I am lonely for my boys and girls. Been thinking about them all morning." "And they are thinking about you, judging by the nine letters | came to give you. I must be on my way. Happy reading, Grandpa." "TEARS rivered Cy's wrinkled old cheeks as he looked at the letters, one by one. They had all been thinking of him, perhaps even now they were thinking of him. Of course, that was the reason for his longing to see them. Which should he open first? He fingered each lovingly, then decided 356 on Edwin's, since he was the oldest. With fingers trembling with joy, as well as the infirmity of age, he broke the seal, and read: Dear Father, All nine of us, your children, with our children will be with you Sunday for Father's Day. We made this appointment among ourselves on Memorial Day. And that is not all. You should receive nine letters of appreciation, if all have remembered their pledge. "They remembered, my boy! 'They remembered!" Grandpa wiped his eyes then read on: In beginning my letter, I want to say this: There is something inherently fine about a man who can successfully keep a family together and be father and mother both, and rear his children to be honorable citizens and active Church members. And this is what you have done, Father, and you have done it remarkably well. A dry sob arose in the old father's throat, as he continued: We, your children, will never forget the gospel truths you taught us, the truths you, yourself, lived. We love you, Father, for bringing us up in love and kindness and firmness; and for keeping alive in our hearts our sweet, gentle little mother, who, although she has been gone for so many years, is very much alive to all of us. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1959 You have been young with us, Father. Remember how when we had done a few rather destructive pranks that, after you had counseled against them and showed us our errors, you would relate to us the foolish capers you did in your own youthful days, such as racing with sleighs and teams. You know, such stories made us feel we could get close toe you, and made us desire to live as you advised. They made you our best pal. Do you remember the summer you broke your leg just as the haying season began? How "three weeks later you were mowing hay with your leg in a sling tied to the mowing machine? You have always been and still are a courageous man. I am proud to be your son, and shall try to be to my children what you have been to me. You are a bulwark to us still, and we need you. Thanks for everything, Father. I could go on and on, but will see you Sunday, so goodbye for now. With love and appreciation, Edwin and Family Cyril Roberts was silent for several long moments, reliving past joys and meditating on the richness of his wealth. Why, his life had been filled with joy! So many happy memories, so many blessed hopes for the future, and he was needed still! Gratefully he opened the letter from his second son and began to read. She Handcart Child Orvene B, Holman Oh, wagon girl, you cradled dolls of rag, With button eyes and colored yarn for hair. And, wagon boy, with dust you played your tag, And kept the pace of wheels when skies were fair. You snuggled on your quilts outside the carts, And whispered, even laughed, when day was done, I wish I knew what dreams were in your hearts On nights when stars and desert seemed as one. THE SUPERSTITION MOUNTAIN, ARIZONA She Superstition Nountain Ruth H. Chadwick Against the morning's opal sky You lift a perfect silhouette. Your spires and pinnacles hold high Their scissor-edged horizon, yet Your firmly molded baseline stands Securely anchored to the carth, While jutting cliffs and desert sands Shroud secrets muted from your birth. Exciting tales and Dutchman's lore Have cast weird spells on avid men. But I'm content, and what is morc, I've found your treasure once again; Not hidden gold and precious stones, Nor phantom dreams that lead astray, But artistry's bold overtones That lift my soul to greet the day. Page 357 Peach-Tree Poem Frances C. Yost ONNIE Ziebarth turned hesiC tatingly at the principal's office door. Mr. Conklin had asked her to come to do some substitute teaching. She wondered what grade and for how lcng. "Good morning, Mrs. Ziebarth, for the rest of the term, the seventh grade." Phil Conklin was noted for getting to the point. "The former teacher suddenly decided to wed and honeymoon. With your experience, you won't have any trouble, Mrs. Ziebarth. But there is one problem child, Chuck. I believe his name is Charles Moffitt." "Subnormal, I assume." "No, the problem isn't that simple. This Chuck Moffitt is smart enough. He doesn't attend regularly, and lacks interest. I might tell you, his mother's a widow. Chuck is the oldest of six children. They have a farm up in the Cove. Chuck does a man's work even though he is but fourteen. I hope you can do something for Chuck, he needs school badly, Mrs. Ziebarth. He and the last teacher didn't get along well, sorry to say. "Oh, another thing, the Literary Guild sponsored a poetry contest in the school. You know the type of thing, every child is compelled to enter and they hope to discover a Longfellow ora Keats. Mrs. Ziebarth, here are the seventh grade poems. You are to go over them carefully, pick the best, and award the book prize at the forthcoming school assembly. Simple as that." "Simple! Mr. Conklin, I may be qualified to teach, but I'm not qualiPage 358 fied to be a poetry critic. Couldn't someone else judge these verses?" "It's part of the job, Mrs. Ziebarth." Then Phil Conklin winked and added, "I sincerely trust you will be amused, if not enthused with — your seventh-grade poets." Connie smiled, too. "I'm sure I shall be." She picked up the sheaf of verses and turned on her heel and left the office. Connie found the seventh-grade students were as Principal Conklin had stated, average, and eager to learn for the most part. The problem child, Chuck Moffitt, was not in attendance the first day. Perhaps it is just as well, Connie thought, Pll get adjusted to the other students and tackle the big problem when he gets here. The clock finally struck the hour of twelve, and the students raced from the room. Connie sighed, "Might as well look over the verses while I eat my sandwich. 'The more work IJ can do here at school the less I'll have to do evenings." "My Pet Turtle," by Peggy Stone. "Although I'm poor, I went to the store. I bought a turtle, I named her Myrtle." Clever, if she had stopped here, Connie thought, but the next eighteen lines were... Terrible. Connie picked up the second theme: "My Horse," by Fred Hawks. I guess this is normal work for seventh grade, but a diet of doggerel is hard to take. Connie bit into an apple for a refresher. If I could only find one with promise. "My Dog Mitzy," by Mike Teer- PEACH-TREE POEM link. In fourteen lines Mike told how he came to have his dog, and how he had taught him tricks, and the love the two had for each other. Well this is some better at any rate, Connie mused, setting it aside, then continued through the pile of poems. HEN it was she came to one titled: "My Peach Tree." Well, someone has bothered to use a pen and write legibly. Neatness should count here as much as with a theme, and no misspelled words! Go to the head of the class whoever you are! What! No byline! Such modesty! Then it was Connie noticed the name in the upper left-hand corner of the page, Chuck Moffitt. MY PEACH TREE Spring has touched my little tree; My peach tree has bloomed. Blossoms lavendery-pink Delicate perfumed. Yesterday it was obscene Standing there neglected. Now poised like a ballerine, Beauty is reflected. With a Cinderella grace, Peach tree wears a dress of lace. This stands out like a prince among a swarm of wild beasts. Connie glanced up at the clock. It's time to start the afternoon grind, better stop with the peach-tree poem while I have a good taste in my mouth. [ll finish this work tonight. 'There's no question thus far who gets the book prize in the seventh grade. Chuck Moffitt's poem is away out in the lead. During the afternoon, as the students prepared their assignments, her mind kept going back to the peach-tree poem. She found her- 359 self remembering complete lines. Since Chuck has the makings of a poet, I'll try to reach him through the poetry channel. I hope Chuck Moffitt comes to school tomorrow. I can hardly wait to meet him. Bi A gangling boy, with a bored look on his countenance, sauntered into the schoolroom, minutes late the following morning. At sight of a new teacher his shoulders straightened, then, as if he were thinking, she'll be no different, he resumed his slouch and took his seat at the back of the room. "So you're Charles Moffitt." Connie Ziebarth smiled. "Just call me Chuck," he mumbled into his shirt. "We missed you Chuck." "Had to get the spring grain planted Miss...." "Tm Mrs. Ziebarth, Chuck. I used to live on a farm, years ago. I like farms. Do you have most of your spring planting done now?" "I finished last night." He smiled triumphantly, yet shyly. "Good work, then you'll be able to attend quite regularly for the rest of the term, Chuck?" "Well, it's hard to say. If nothing goes wrong at the ranch... Perhaps." 'Then he looked up and queried, "You going to teach the rest of the year?" "Mr. Conklin asked me to." The morning progressed beautifully. English, spelling, arithmetic, science, took their respective places. Chuck Moffitt participated in every class, but with an abstract attitude. His vocabulary was outstanding for the seventh grade. Connie thought, he's much too mature for this group. Yesterday, 360 That's why he lacks interest. She wanted to talk more with Chuck, compliment him on his fine poem, and offer to lend some poetry books she had, and to ask him if he had written other poems besides the peach-tree poem. When the noon bell rang, Connie made a point to be at Chuck's desk. "Chuck, can you stay a moment? I'd like to speak to you." Connie halfway expected him to bolt and run with the others. "Okay," he mumbled, as he watched the others leaving the room. "Do you raise peach trees on your farm, Chuck?" "T've been babying one along, just outside my bedroom window. It bloomed this year, just like the poem says." Well, Connie thought, we've arrived at the subject of the peachtree poem much quicker than I had anticipated. "Of what does a peach tree remind you, Chuck?" "Why, Mrs. Ziebarth, just like the poem says, it reminds me of a ballerina dancer, as it shimmers and sways. Mom and I once went to a dance festival and a tiny slip of a lady danced the ballerina. Our peach tree is dainty like that, Mrs. Ziebarth." "Thanks for staying and talking with me, Chuck. Want to make a run for the cafeteria and get in line with the others in the class?" "T sure am hungry." He smiled broadly and was gone. Alone at her desk, Connie chided herself. Why didn't you ask him right out if he wrote the poem, instead of hedging? Connie never remembered coming in contact with anyone just like RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1959 Chuck Moffitt before. Yet she had to admit he was a challenge. No wonder the former teacher suddenly decided to get married in mid-term and quit teaching. HAT same evening, in the quiet of her own room, Connie Ziebarth went over the seventh grade poems for the final judging. She must be fair about this. Again Chuck's poem stood out far better than any of the others. It was beautiful in feeling and full of imagery, and the best in accent, rhythm, and thyme. Yes, she must admit it, the poem seemed too good to be Chuck's. Yet Chuck wasn't an ordinary boy. He was alone much of the time in the fields, he could study nature, he had an imagination, a vocabulary. He just might have written it, but could she be sure? She must know before the school assembly next week. She must not make a mistake, giving the prize to someone undeserving of it. Connie shut her eyes, only to see a blossoming peach tree. I've spent more than enough time judging verses, when I see them with my eyes closed. I believe I'll ask one of the other teachers to help judge. Perhaps I have been partial. For relaxation before bedtime, Connie picked up the latest issue of a magazine and started thumbing through, reading the poetry at the end of each page. Toward the back of the magazine she stopped short, "The Peach Tree!" 'There it was in black and white. Her eyes traversed the ten short lines. It was the same, not a single word had been changed! What was the word for literary theft? Plagiarism! 'To PEACH-TREE POEM commit plagiarism was equal to stealing. Slowly Connie withdrew — the peach-tree poem from the others. Her impulse was to tear it into shreds. But what good would that do? This boy must be told. This time she wouldn't hedge about her duty. She picked up her pen and wrote across the bottom of the page: plagiarism. "This poem, as you very well know, was copied verbatim from a current magazine. Borrowing written work from another is called plagiarism, which is one form of stealing." "Well, that settles it. 'The prize will go to Mike Teerlink for his verse 'My Dog Mitzy!'" Connie Ziebarth slipped off her robe, turned out the light, and crawled into bed. She couldn't remember when she had ever been so tired. No, this thing she felt wasn't tiredness. It was deep-down disappointment, which shriveled her heart. Try as she would, she could not dismiss the thought of the boy living up in the Cove, doing a man's work and taking care of his widowed mother and five little brothers and sisters. He had looked her straight in the eye and had told her he had a peach tree, and that it bloomed, and reminded him of a ballet dancer. Had he lied about these things, too? Tomorrow was Saturday and she would drive up the Cove and check on a few things. Wo oe ok THE day dawned clear and bright. Spring was scented with lilacs, and laden with bridal wreath. A perfect day for a ride, but Connie dreaded the task before her. Yet before she left, she must clear her 361 conscience. She withdrew the peach tree poem. She had been harsh, overwrought, and disappointed last night. Words on paper were cold and cruel and lived long in the memory. What she must do she would do verbally. Carefully with scissors, Connie trimmed her note from the bottom of the peach-tree poem. Connie backed her car from the garage and drove straight toward the Cove. The car itself seemed eager for the drive and purred merrily and mockingly. At this early hour even the bird calls held a rhythm, a bit of poetry in each throated sound. 'The Cove seemed to wear a blossom on every stem. Ordinarily, Connie would have been compelled to stop and gather a bouquet of wild flowers growing along the wayside, but she must not stop. She had a job to do, and loathsome as it was, she must see it through. She tried to decide just how to handle the problem. Would it be best to tell the whole sordid story to Mrs. Moffitt? A mother should know of her son's doings, his stealing. Or would it be best to speak to Chuck himself? What if the mother and the boy met her at the door? My it's a long way to the Moffitt ranch. No wonder Chuck comes late so often, with cattle to feed and cows to milk before he comes. Connie's car rounded a curve in the road, and a hidden valley opened before her. A man on a tractor was plowing in the field. Why it wasn't a man, it was Chuck himself! This was his environment, here on his own farm he drank true harmony in the fields he loved. Yes, it was best to put the question to him here 362 and now. He was too much the man to tattle to his mother. His mother's heart must never know the hurt her own had known last night. She stopped the car. Chuck, seeing her, waved, turned off the tractor, shook the dust from his hat, dusted his face with his handkerchief, and walked through the freshly plowed field to the fence, then like a deer sprinted over, and up to her car. "Nice of you to drive up, Mrs. Ziebarth. We don't have much company here in the Cove. Mother would like to have you stay for dinner. I believe she's cooking some friers and rhubarb pie." Connie had steeled herself to speak openly to a seventh grader, but this man of the field, who had invited her to dine at his table, how could she call him a thief to his face? Perhaps the note at the bottom of the page was best after all. "You will stay won't you, Mrs. Ziebarth?" he repeated his invitation. "Chuck Moffitt, you're tempting me!" Connie laughed in spite of herself. She had to admit Chuck was pleasantly interesting. But she must... She simply must state her problem. She could not live with it a moment longer. "Chuck, I was reading in a magazine last night. I came upon the peach-tree poem." "You did, Mrs. Ziebarth! You liked it, too, didn't you, Mrs. Ziebarth?" His voice was enthusiastic, with never a trace of guilt. "Chuck, the poem contest was for original poems. Didn't you understand?" "I knew we were supposed to write a poem of our own. 'Teacher RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1959 gave us some time in class. I could hear the kids all around mumbling about turtle and Myrtle, Mitzy and ritzy, a horse of course, and cats and bats. That's not féal poetry, that's jargon. So I just looked out of the window and thought about how pretty the Cove is, and about beautiful poems I have read, then the time was gone." "Why didn't you take your assignment as homework?" "I did figure to, honest I did, but when I finally finished the chores it was so late, and I was too tired to think." "Chuck, I guess you know signing your name to someone else's poem is a form of stealing." To look Chuck squarely in the eyes now, was most painful. HUCK looked her squarely in the eyes when he gave his reply. "I didn't sign my name. I didn't say I wrote it. I just handed it in as an assignment, with my name in the upper left-hand corner. Teacher said if we didn't hand in a poem by morning, we would get a failing grade in English. I just have to pass. I can't stand seventh grade another year." 'When I talked to you yesterday, you said you had a peach tree growing in your yard." "That's the truth, I have a peach tree. It's in bloom, V'll take you up there this very minute." "That isn't necessary. I do believe you, Chuck. You must read lots of poems or you wouldn't appreciate one like the peach-tree poem." "Oh, I like poetry all right, real poetry. I get books from the library. I read Milton's Paradise Lost, and I especially like Scott's PEACH-TREE POEM Lady of the Lake, and Tennyson's Idylls of the King." No wonder this boy was bored with cat and bat rhymes. "Chuck, do you like school?" "Well, I can't say I honestly do, Mrs. Ziebarth, though it's been lots better since you came. Those lessons bore me so much. I'm always glad to stay out and work on the farm." "How would you like to be in high school?" "T want to get in high school, but the teacher told me that I probably wouldn't be promoted, I didn't come enough, and didn't pay attention." 363 "Chuck, I think I could arrange for you to take the eighth grade examination this year. If you pass, and I'm sure you will, you could start high school in the fall. Would you like that?" "Would I like it?" Then his face faded. "But what if I don't pass?" "TI tutor you this summer, and you can take the test again before school starts." "Do you really mean it?" "T really mean it." "Say, you know those first little peaches from my tree, well, they're yours, Mrs. Ziebarth. They will be little peach poems of my own creation." <> Lilacs Journey Lula Walker She cherished it like miset's gold Across the plains through heat and cold, As wagons wound the tortuous road; Nor tossed it out to ease the load— This lilac root for her new home. She hoped to find some rich dark loam To pamper it. Her faith was strong Though westward trek be cruelly long, That sometime, in her cabin room, She'd catch the scent of lilac bloom. Steadfast she'd hold, keep root alive Against the day they should arrive To set it out, this fragile thing— Reminder of an Eastern spring. Sixt Y Yea rs Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, June 1, and June 15, 1899 "For THe RicitTs oF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN or Aut Nations" QUEEN VICTORIA'S BIRTHDAY: 'Torrents of rain ushered in Queen Victoria's birthday.... Windsor, where a general holiday is being observed, was decorated with flags and the church bells were rung... A serenade by the Windsor and Eton choral societies was given.... The scene was picturesque. They all sang the national anthem... Finally the Eton boys gave three lusty checrs in honor of Her Majesty.... A pretty incident was the presentation to the queen... By each of her grand and great grandchildren now at the castle, of a tiny bouquet of flowers. These descendants... Who were deeply touched, also kissed her. Jler Majesty also attended the birthday service held at the chapel Royal.... Birthday celebrations were held throughout the provinces. The ships in the different ports were dressed for the occasion.... —News Note A WINDY DAY (IN IDAIIO): The fourth of May was the day appointed for a reunion at Idaho Falls, a reunion of the Relief Society workers in the Stake. In spite of the dreadful storm that prevailed the meeting house was comfortably filled. For my part, I would have given up the idea of driving the seven miles there, but for the fact that I had promised to call for two other sisters on the way; so for that reason, and as I had my picnic all prepared, I thought I would venture, hoping that the storm would diminish before long. However, when I came within two miles of the Falls, the clouds of dust were so thick and dense that twice I could not see the horses' heads, and could not tell whether they were keeping the road or not. I do not know when I was so surprised at anything as I was to see a few young mothers with babes in their arms at that meeting.... —Little Sister AT THE FALL OF THE CURTAIN Four anchors I cast out, Patience, Faith, Hope, Love! O wisdom infinite! O light divine! How can I feel one fluttering doubt with anchors such as these cast out? —L. M. H. MRS. ADDISON PRATT, A WOMAN MISSIONARY ON HER WAY TO THE SOCIETY ISLANDS: We have music in the camp [on the Wyoming plains], two violins and a flute. Besides there are many singing birds in this country which delighted me very much. The evening was spent in singing hymns and spiritual songs. Hfow comforting to have prayers in this lonely spot of earth! What an idle life to travel with ox teams! And yet no other would do so well on such roads. I gaze around me; see the wagons all coralled; cattle lying down at night. Scenes of other days come vividly to mind. What wandering pilgrims we have been! —From Mrs. Pratt's Account of Her Journey RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE IN EMERY STAKE: _ Sister Caroline Larsen, Castle Dale, reported the socicty in a prosperous condition.... They had sixty bushels of wheat, a number of quilts and considerable carpet rags on hand.... —Mrs. Stevens, Sec. Pro tem. Page 364 ICHIKO SHODA, a= sweet, modest, intelligent, talented Japanese girl, became the bride of Crown Prince Akihito of Japan on April 10, 1959, the only commoner to wed a royal prince in more than 2,000 years. 'This event has shattered other traditions: the prince chose his bride; and he married for love. (He met Michiko on the tennis courts, and lost a game and his heart to her.) Except for the ceremony, the couple wore western clothing for the wedding. MBs. ELIZABETH GRAY VINING, of Philadelphia, who tutored Crown Prince Akihito of Japan for four years after World War II, was the only American present at the wedding. ISS A. MYRA KEEN, Assistant Professor of Paleontology at Stanford University, is the author of Sea Shells of Tropical West America, dedicated to the amateur sea shell collector who wishes to identify molluscan material from the Panamic marine provine, which extends from the Gulf of California to Columbia, South America. This book is the first attempt to list and provide illustrations of most of the sea shells which occur in this large province. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon INDA BABITS, teen-age New York composer, who played her "Western Star Concerto" in Salt Lake City, Utah, at the annual Days of '47 pops coacert in 1958, has presented to Salt Lake music teachers, for their courtesies to her, her latest composition, "Sego Lilies," which was inspired by her trip to Utah. Miss Babits won the John Golden award of $1, c00 in New York last summer for her piano suite "Clinton Corner Delancey." FPA L. FURNESS and GERTRUDE A. BOYD, of the University of Wyoming, through a grant in aid from the University of Wyoming Graduate School Council, have made an interesting survey of all available material on the subject of the poor spelling of American high school graduates and college students. They have narrowed down the "spelling demons" that overthrow students most frequently to ninety-eight words. This would be a list for everybody to possess and study. MASJORIE WORTHINGTON, in her recent biography Miss Alcott of Concord (Doubleday), tells the life story of the author of Little Women, based on the journal which Miss Alcott carefully kept from childhood. INSTITUTE OF RELIGION, = 4802 SOUTH REDWOOD ROAD SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 84102 EDITORIAL cm2 VOL. 46 JUNE 1959 NO. 6 She sooth Annual Church Conference THE 129th Annual Conference of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was held in the historic 'Tabernacle in Salt Lake City, April 4, 5, and 6, 1959, with President David O. McKay conducting all the general sessions, and with all the General Authorities present. Radiant spring weather greeted the throngs attending conference, and the messages of reassurance, hope, and spiritual advancement welcomed those who joined together in prayer and rejoicing. The combined choruses from Brigham Young University, the 'l'abernacle Choir, the Choir Men's Chorus, and the Ricks College Choir furnished music for the meetings. 'Twenty-seven television stations and twenty radio stations throughout the Nation carried the proceedings to listeners who shared the prophetic counsel and the Spirit of our Heavenly Father. RESIDENT McKay recalled the anniversary of the restoration of the gospel and its meaning to all generations of mankind upon the earth: I think it would be well for us to have in mind the fact that one hundred and twenty-nine years ago... In the house of Peter Whitmer, Sr., in Fayette, Windsor County, New York, six men bowed in solemn prayer to their Heavenly Father, and proceeded in accordance with the previous commandment to organize the Church.... They administered the sacraPage 366 ment. They reported that the Spirit of the Lord was manifest in a very great degree. Some of the brethren prophesied. All praised the Lord and rejoiced exceedingly.... It will be well to have in mind. That only a little over a century has passed since those six men by revelation organized the Church. The dominant theme of the conference was the advent of Jesus Christ and his message to the world, his gospel of righteousness and salvation, and its eternal import in the lives of all seekers after truth. Emphasis was placed upon the spiritual influence and the responsibilities of those who have accepted the gospel to live its principles and to spread its everlasting tidings of joy to the world. In his address on Sunday, April sth, President McKay addressed the thousands of listeners on the subject "Our Father's Glory Is in the Salvation of His Children." Our beloved President spoke of truth as a) to the right as we see it... It is courageous living of our lives in harmony with our ideals; it is always power. With the ideals of right living before him, no member of the Church can continually violate the Word of Wisdom with impunity.... One never develops character by yielding to wrong The mission of the Church is to proclaim the truth of the restored gospel, to uplift society that people may mingle more amicably one with another; to create in our communities a wholesome environment in which our children may find strength to resist temptation and encour- EDITORIAL agement to strive for cultural and spiritual attainment. It is the binding duty of leaders of youth, and particularly mothers, by example to make ineffective the influence of designing men who would make profit out of them fellows.... The restored gospel is a rational philosophy that teaches men how to get happiness in this life and exaltation in the life to come. The mission of the Church is to establish the kingdom of God upon the earth.... RESIDENT Stephen L Richards spoke 'to the question "What Does It Mean to Be a Christian?" After describing some of the essentials of a Christian life, President Richards declared: "The gospel as a power unto salvation must embrace not only all the Christlike characteristics of living, but the means essential to salvation." I believe... That a careful survey of all pertinent scriptures, as well as the whole history of Christ's work among men, will demonstrate that only by the complete acceptance of the Christ as our Lord, and subscribing to all the conditions and requirements of his holy gospel, including its sacred ordinances governing induction into his kingdom, can a man fully justify a claim to the honorable distinction of being a Christian.... It would seem beyond question that there could not be more than one kingdom of the Lord. So the concern of all who seek Christian salvation must be: Where is that kingdom? Where is it set up in the earth that men may come to it and receive its transcendent blessings?... I am convinced beyond the shadow of a doubt that his gospel has been restored in its fulness with all its ordinances, and the powers authentically to administer them in these last days. PRESIDENT J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Reviewed in detail the resurrection of Jesus and the meaning of that event to mankind. President Clark spoke of those faithful men and women who were privileged to behold the resurrected Savior and hear his words of assurance and 367 blessing. "This is Easter time," said President Clark. "The celebration of the resurrection has just passed, and sometimes there is a tendency to think that thereafter the Lord ascended and we have nothing more to do about it." In summarizing the teachings of Jesus, after his resurrection, President Clark said: Finally, he called them together again on a mount in Galilee, the disciples, and at that time he gave them the great commission, "Go ye into all the world, and preach the gospel to every creature...." Those are the words of the Christ. Then he told them of the signs which should follow them that believed. We, brethren and sisters, are the recipients of the great blessings that attach to the work of the Last Dispensation. We are also the obligees of the great responsibilities which have been placed upon those whom God has called to lead this Last Dispensation.... The Lord is good to us. He is giving us direction if we will take it. I urge you to bring your thoughts back from space... About which we know nothing in comparison with what there is to know —and fix our minds upon the great powers and authorities which we have as members of the Priesthood, representing our Heavenly Father, endowed with a portion "of his authority to work out his purposes, not ours. At the closing session of conference, President McKay expressed his fervent hopes and prayers: "God help us to be true to our responsibility and to our callings, and especially to the responsibility we bear as fathers and mothers of the children of Zion — heaven's treasures given to us. O Father, bless those who hold this Priesthood, who have been married in accordance with thy instructions, and God help all to take advantage of this eternal biessing, that we may be united together and with thee forever...." —V. P. C. WYoteds. TO THE FIELD Program for the llovémber Chast Sunday &vening Meeting "THE special program for the Sunday evening meeting on Fast Day, November 1, 1959, "Relief Society Strengthens Testimony," has been mailed to stake and mission Relief Society presidents. We urge that these programs be distributed to the wards and branches without delay. -— > Hymn of the Month—Annual List July 1959 — June 1960 The Church-wide congregational hymn singing project, inaugurated by the Church Music Committee, will be continued during the coming year, and all auxiliary organizations have been invited to participate. The purpose of this project is to increase the hymn repertoire of Church members and to place emphasis on the message of the hymns. Stake Relief Society choristers and organists are requested to give assistance at union meetings to ward choristers and organists in carrying out this project. An analysis and story of the hymn will be printed each month in the Church Section of The Deseret News. _ Following is a list of hymns approved for the twelve months July 1950 through June 1960: eee No. July Savior, Redeemer of My Soul Wuuitnry-DEan 155 August Hail to the Brightness HastIncs-Parry 182 September Oh Hark! A Glorious Sound — Rosinson-AsPER 134 Is Heard October Welcome, Welcome Sabbath Bartrp-BEESLEY 190 Morning November Stars of Morning, Shout DuruHAn 164 for Joy December With Wondering Awe — eeeeeeseneeeeeeeeeeseeeeeeeeeees 209 1960 January God of Power, God of Right = Brnnerr-Cannon 36 February Redeemer of Israel Pueps-Lewis 195 March Truth Eternal PRATT-SCIHREINER 189 April Prayer Is the Soul's Sincere MonrcoMERyY-CARELESS 220 Desire May Sing Praise to Him SCHULTZ 158 June Zion Stands With Hills KELLY-SMYTH 212 Page 368 Surrounded More Precious Than Rubies More Precious Shan Rubies VIRTUOUS young man pledges his love and fidelity to the girl of his dreams with a precious stone... A diamond. And the happy girl treasures the gift as she would her life, promising, in return, her own fresh, virtuous love in marriage. The ring — with its precious gem — becomes a symbol of fidelity for the engaged couple... And a reminder of the priceless value of virtue in them both. Solomon said it centuries ago: "A virtuous woman... Her price is far above rubies...." For man it is equally true. Page 369 A latter-day hymn writer composed these beautiful lines: Cherish virtue! Cherish virtue! God will bless the pure in heart. Cherish — how beautiful and meaningful the word: to hold dear; to trust or keep with tenderness. And virtue: integrity of character; uprightness of conduct; chastity. The Prophet Mormon, in his last affectionate message to his son Moroni, called virtue and chastity "the most dear and precious of all things." eden prophets have reaffirmed this eternal truth. So, young people of the Church, if you would deserve the confidence of the clean young man or young woman you someday hope to marry — if you would enjoy the fullness of happiness which belongs only to the pure in heart, be clean, be chaste. BE HONEST WITH YOURSELF >< For Grandmothers Who Baby Sit Camilla Woodbury Judd We must remember to keep well-filled cookie jars, Some dough to fashion men of gingerbread; Treasures to cuddle, eyes joy-lit with stars For little ones who would be tender-fed. There must be eager faces at the door And loving arms to lift for an embrace, A legacy of patterned story lore And picture books to light a little face; A game of make-believe for wee pretender, Band-aids for wounds, a kiss for weepy eyes, Old curtain lace to trail in gold-heeled splendor, And rocking chairs for bedtime lullabies; License to spoil a bit, reprove when rude — Much patience and a prayer of gratitude. <> Grra tum Magazine Honor Roll Percentages for 1958 Attention is called to the correct figures for this report: Relief Society EnrollSubscriptions Magazine ment No. Pct. Representative San Juan Stake 564 506 go ~—— Anne B. Porter Weber Heights Stake 365 409 112 Virgie P. Jensen 370 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1959 Recipes From the Great sakes Mission Submitted by Vonda L. Christensen BAKED BEANS 2 Ibs. Navy beans % Ib. Bacon 1 tsp. Soda 3 tbsp. Mustard 2 qts. Water salt and pepper to taste 2 medium-sized onions 1 bottle catsup: % c. Light brown sugar 1 small can tomato puree Soak the beans in water overnight. In the morning boil them for twenty minutes in water and soda. Drain and wash the beans in cold water. Put them in a baking dish and add onions, sugar, salt, pepper, mustard, catsup, and tomato puree. Cut the bacon into small cubes and spread over the top of the bean mixture. Cover well with water and place in the oven with temperature turned to 250 degrees. Cook about six hours, adding water occasionally if beans become dry. IceBox PupDING 1 medium-sized angel food cake Cream Filling: 1 pt. Milk 2 eggs 1 ¢. Sugar % tsp. Salt 2 tbsp. Cornstarch 1 pt. Whipping cream Put one and one-half cups milk in kettle to boil. Add sugar, salt, and cornstarch (which have been dissolved in one-half cup cold milk) to hot milk. Beat eggs and add to mixture and cook until thick. Cut up cake. Put layer of cake on bottom of refrigerator tray, then pour filling over cake, then another layer of cake, and another layer of filling on top. Put in icebox until wanted for serving. Then whip cream and spread on top of pudding. Rinxtum Dippy 2 cans tomato soup % lb. Cheese 8 slices toast Place tomato soup in kettle. Do not add water to soup. Cut cheese into soup. Cut toast into halves. Place in long, deep dish (2 inches high). Pour tomato soup over toast. Season with salt according to taste. Serve hot. Very good for lunch. Makes six servings. CHEESE STRATA 12 slices bread 4 eggs % Ib. Cheese % qts. Milk 1 tsp. Salt Use baking dish about 10 to 12 inches long. Butter heavily. Cut crust from slices of bread. Line pan or baking dish with half slices of bread. Cut cheese in slices. Add a layer of cheese then add the bread over the cheese. Break eggs into milk, add salt, and beat lightly. Pour over bread and cheese. This must be prepared four or five hours before baking. Set in pan of water and bake forty to forty-five minutes in 350° oven. Page 371 372 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1959 SPANISH RicE ¥% |b. Bacon salt and pepper to taste 1 large-sized onion, chopped 1 no. 2% can tomatoes 4 c. Boiled rice Cut bacon into small chunks and place in frying pan with chopped onion. Fry until light brown. Add rice, tomatoes, salt, and pepper. Put in baking dish and bake at 350° for forty-five minutes. SCALLOPED TOMATOES 1 no 2% can tomatoes 3 or 4 slices bread 1 green pepper 1 tbsp. Butter 1 medium-sized onion 1 tsp. Salt 1 Cc. Sugar % tsp. Pepper Put tomatoes in baking dish. Add green pepper and onion (cut up), butter, salt, sugar, and pepper. Break bread into chunks and put into tomatoes. Bake one hour in 300° oven. GLoriFIeED RicE 4 c. Cooked rice % c. Marshmallows cut up "2 ¢. Sugar 1 tsp. Vanilla 1 small can crushed pineapple 1 c. Whipping cream Place cooked rice in a bowl. Add sugar and marshmallows and drained pineapple. Then add cream which has been whipped until very thick. Add vanilla, and chill mixture in refrigerator. Do not freeze. Heart of a House Ethel Jacobson The kitchen's the heart of a house. And all day long the kitchen The first thing in the morning Announces, "Help yourself!" Its heavenly aromas To any busy workers Are a most delightful warning Who want a lift, a break, To any lJaggard sleepers And to kiddies, fresh from classrooms, That blueberry buns await, So hungry that they ache. Or maybe orange muffins, And it's tisky to be late. Then dinner's cheery bustle Is shared by the whole brigade. At lunchtime, steaming trayfuls The kitchen's the heart of a house— Are on the snack bar shelf. To the last lone midnight raid. Co un try Su mmer Rodello Hunter I couldn't say just when we first knew about the secluded little spot. We must have been very young, because my first memorics include it, just as they include Beverly, with her grave practicality, and Beth, whose wild enthusiasms and rebellion against conformity added excitement to what might have been something close to a life of boredom. Especially, I remember that one summer. Almost every afternoon the three of us would meet under the twisted oak tree. It had stood for so long that it was bent like an arthritic old woman, its branches sagged and hunched under the burden of years. Its veined and knotted roots reached out and clutched the earth for support. We had named the creek Willow Run for no other reason than that we liked the sound of the name. It gurgled past the tree, and scolded in frothy impatience a root which dared impede its determined progress. Delightfully out of range of pursuing parental voices, we would lic on our backs and listen to the soft rush of the water and the chiding of a disturbed chipmunk in the trees above us. Thus situated, we would discuss with unvaried seriousness... Life. To the south and west, the mountains curved, mysteriously purple, ignoring with dignity the subtle attempts of cloud fluffs to caress them. 'To the west, within walking distance, were red ledges of sandstone, lesser in height than their eastern brothers, but none the less awesome in their brilliant pinks and reds and auburns. Farther to the south, and forming the last arc of the circle, more mountains rolled easily on their sides, incurious and uncaring, driven into sleepy aloofness by the summer haze. Directly behind, and hidden by the upward slope of our grassy bank, was a lucerne field, and the drone of the rotating mower filled our frequent silences with comfortable thythm. Only the occasional slow "'clip-a-clop'"' of a team and wagon, or the faster "clippity, clippity" of a loping horse and its unseemingly hasty rider disturbed the somnolence of the dusty road. A too-inquisitive bee would sometimes flick us into concerted movement, but this happened rarely. Tirelessly, we watched the clouds form into masscs above us and then gradually vanish into trailing untidy wisps to be swiftly swept away by a neat broom of wind. We inhaled the sweetish scent of fresh-cut hay and listened to the myriad sounds which formed the country quiet. We felt full of power and invincibility and high integrity. The ominous creeping headlines of the evening papers were just enlarged type on a background of gray newsprint, and the impending danger of death and destruction were very far away. Our world was calm and serene. We felt the hovering guardians of the mountains around the cuplike rim of the lush little valley, and we wondered at those who feared. Bracing our backs against the tough, enduring bark of the oak tree, we watched ants scurrying up and down the vertical cracks in its trunk working in a frenzy of preparation for the coming winter. Silly ants! Winter was such a long way off! We had all the time in the world, all the never-ending, lazy time in the world. We posed hypothetical problems and solved them with wise solemnity. We mapped our lives in exact detail and were absolutely certain of the map's accuracy. From these superior heights we shook our heads in dismay at "those who should have donc, but didn't." Even our little world could be upset, though. One night a mountain lion was discovered crouching in our old oak, and it was with trepidation that we went back, but there was no other place with quite the same aura as our "Willow Run." The ground was scuffed a bit from the trampling feet of the hunters, and there were claw marks on the oak's roughened skin, but in a few days it was the same again. Perhaps the old tree conferred on us the sagacity of its age, or possibly it was the timelessness of those long peaceful summer days, but we were very profound... We were seventeen. Page 373 One of Them Christie Lund Coles ATRICIA steadied herself by the sink. She was tired and a little blue — not being able to do all the things she had planned for the day. She should have learned her limit, but she did not realize it until she reached the point of exhaustion. Pulling her one crippled leg, she reached a chair and sat down. Blaine would be home, and she still had the bathtub to scour, and supper to get into the oven. As Patricia rested, she knew her discouragement was not merely for not finishing her schedule. It was more for the feeling of strangeness in the neighborhood, how the neighbors treated her — as though she were an object of pity, not one of them... Just because she had had polio! She clenched her fist, and noted the strength she had had once. She told herself, "You foolish girl. You're so much better." But the words didn't help too much now. They were just words she had told herself many times. After awhile, one got tired of giving oneself pep talks. 'Tired of having to do so. But, after a moment of resting, Patricia was ready for the potatoes and the meat loaf. If she didn't get the bathtub scoured she could do it later when she took her own bath. Blaine would understand. If he noticed it, he would even do it himself. Still, that was what she didn't want. She didn't want the other young women saying, "Her husband has to do her work for her." Of course, she knew that many of Page 374 the husbands helped with dishes at night, and even prepared meals if their wives were ill, but it was different when they didn't actually have to. Pe | When the potatoes and meat were in the oven, Patricia set the timer, and, glancing up, caught a glimpse of herself in the mirror over her little desk. Her hair was slightly disheveled, and her nose more than a little shiny. And she knew it was more important that she look as pretty as possible when Blaine came home than it was that everything be done.;. He was about the handsomest man on the street, big and broad and dark, with eyes. That danced when he spoke, and a mouth that was made to smile... She, couldn't understand how he had fallen in love with her. But he had. He had. He had come as a messénget of love, hope, and promise,. When things had looked the, most hopeless for her. As Patricia' sat: at fier small vanity, with the blue ctetoiine flounce, and the glass top, she, combed' her auburn hair and teihetnbered how it had all come abo, She had met. Blaine while visiting friends in Idalio, He had come to her uncle's hotisé to see her cousin Jim, who had inttédticed them. She had been sitting at the piano the day Jim brought him in. Blaine couldn't tell that shé was crippled then, and he had siniled at her happily, asking, "Did I hear 'Claire de Lune' coming thtough the window?" ae PES "Yes," she had answered, a little st ONE OF THEM shyly, since her experience with boys had been rather limited to those of her own family. "Would you mind 'playing it again? It's my favorite." "T like it, too," she had assured him, smiling, feeling at ease with him, but wondering if the smile would change when they brought the wheel chair in (her mother was greasing it while she played), and Blaine would see that she almost had to be lifted from the bench to the chair, and wheeled about as a child. ATRICIA'S hands—which piano playing had strengthened since she had been able to practice again —pressed harder upon the keys, then automatically slowed as the melody became pensive, gentle as moonlight falling on-a summer night. Blaine was asking, "Why didn't you tell me you had such an attractive cousin, Jim, and such a talented one?" "IT don't know," Jim answered, clumsily. "She lives in Salt Lake, you know." "And so?" asked Blaine, his dark eyes, dancing, teasing. "And so, if we don't get out for that tennis match, we won't get the court. Come on." Patricia held her breath, fearing that the young man was going to ask her to go along, but he only looked down at her, to say, "I'm so glad to meet you... Finally. See you later." "Yes," she whispered, hearing the sound of the rubber-tired chair coming from the kitchen, almost praying that he would be gone before her mother walked in with it. 375 And he was. The door closed just before her mother came in, smiling her wonderful, never-failing smile. She said, "That last melody was the best yet. You're really getting to shade and modulate so much better. I think it might do you good to take a few students in the neighborhood, as your teacher has suggested." "Little ones," almost bitterly. But her mother didn't notice, she nodded, "Of course, little ones." "T think I'd like to rest for awhile," Patricia almost whispered the words. Her mother, sensing her mood, as she always seemed to do, smiled and made small talk as she helped Patricia into the chair, and wheeled her toward the bedroom. That same evening, Patricia was sitting in the living room with her aunt and uncle and mother and father, when the front screen opened and she heard voices—male voices. It was Blaine and Jim. They came into the room. Blaine's eyes immediately came across the room to her. She felt them even if she didn't exactly look at him. He was smiling, but it was different now, as he spoke, saying, "Hello, Patricia. You look so pretty with that lamplight on your hair." "Thank you," she told him, feeling a bit resentful — as she always did when she thought people were going out of their way to be kind. The girl added, LAINE shook hands with her father and the others and came over to her. He seemed older than he had that afternoon, more mature. And when they had all talked awhile, he suddenly faced her fam- 376 ily, saying, "Do you know, I don't think we use the power of the Priesthood as much as we should. I feel sure Patricia is going to get well and walk again." As they administered to Patricia, chills went through her entire body, even into the leg which seemed so lifeless. Deep in her heart, in every fiber of her being, Patricia felt that she would walk again. Before she left Idaho she knew that she loved Blaine with all her heart, and what was more wonderful than all, she knew that he loved her. When he said goodbye, he kissed her gently saying, "You are the most beautiful woman IJ have ever seen. If I had to carry you the rest of my life, I would marry you. But I won't. Keep prayerful and have faith, and someday, you will walk." It was less than a year later that she was able to walk and they were married in the holy temple. Her marriage had been good, and Blaine always tried to treat her as casually and normally as if she had two good legs. However, he advised, "We mustn't hide your handicap or ignore it. It is something we must live with, and accept while we are thanking God that we have each other...." Blaine didn't say anything about children, but as Patricia grew stronger she began to hope they might have a child. Patricia finished combing her hair, hearing the children in the street playing, and a mother calling her young child in to dinner. She closed her eyes and prayed almost audibly, "Oh, Father, let me be a mother, too, let me become as one of these women who are my neighbors." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1959 She taught their children piano lessons, and often gave them cookies and punch, and played with them. Why couldn't she become as one of the mothers? The last hair was in place, her nose was powdered with the thinnest skiff of powder, when she heard the front door open and Blaine calling her — as he always did when he © didn't see her immediately. "Where are you, honey?" he called in his deep, happy voice, "where are you?" "Tm in here, Blaine. A minute." "Never mind, I'll come and get you." It didn't take him long to come through the small house into the bedroom, where she was standing, ready to walk to him. But she had no chance, for he was beside her, and swept her into his arms and was carrying her from the room. Be out in ER mood extended to him. Of a sudden, she said, "You really don't have to carry me, you know." "Oh, don't I, though?" he asked, mockingly, seeming unusually gay. "No," she insisted, "remember, | can walk now. Not too well, perhaps, but I can walk." He caught the caustic note in her voice and said softly, "I think any man has a right to carry his wife in his arms, especially when that wife is going to be a mother." "What do you mean?" she asked softly. "What are you talking about?" "I mean, my darling, that I met Doctor Sims, and he told me the news. He said there was no reason in the world why you shouldn't get ONE OF THEM along very well. Just be a little bit careful. Oh, honey, why didn't you tell me?" She buried her tear-wet face on his shoulder, sobbing, sobbing, "Oh, I was so afraid, afraid it couldn't be." "Well, it could and it is. Now, just for tonight, let me put you here on the couch and serve your dinner to you. Yes?" "Yes" she nodded, dabbing at her eyes with the inadequate hankie from her apron pocket. The next morning she felt radiant. She was going to have a child! Her very own child. She would stir up a batch of her favorite brownie recipe, make some of her best fruit nectar, and invite her neighbors over for an afternoon of sewing and visiting. Maybe they thought she was being aloof, wanted to be alone, that she really wasn't able to take much part in things. She called each one in turn — Carley Street, Faye Rich, Jan, Sue, all of them. Everyone accepted, some seemed surprised, others enthusiastic. 'That afternoon at two o'clock Patricia saw them coming down the strect in groups from both directions. She felt a little pang when she saw that Ruth Marlow wasn't there, for she was one for whom she felt she could feel a real friendship. When all the women had arrived and had insisted on helping to bring in extra chairs, they spoke of how artistically her house was decorated, and were surprised to learn she had done most of it herself. At their surprise, she told them, "It's not difficult to sew on an electric sewing machine, even if one leg won't co- - operate too well." They laughed, surprised that she 377 spoke of it so casually, and they were off to a good visit, sewing and talking. When Patricia served the brownies they all asked for her recipe, Sue saying, "Mine never taste quite like this, yum." They were almost ready to leave when someone remembered to tell her, "The reason Ruth didn't come, she has a sick little boy." T seemed she had no more than said it than the telephone rang and Patricia answered it. The frantic voice of Ruth on the other end of the wire cried, "Patricia, I know the girls are all at your place, and I'm frantic. Jimmic is so sick. He's choking and can't get his breath. Someone has to come, I can't get the doctor." Patricia answered calmly, "Ruth, he will be all right. TU be right over." "Hurry," the young woman cried, "hurry!" Patricia knew that if the others went, too, the confusion would be hard on Ruth and the child. She said, "Ruth's boy is quite sick. There's no need for all of us to rush over, it would only complicate things. I know what to do until the doctor comes. I'll go right over. One of you call for an ambulance." Faye Rich, who was calm and matter-of-fact, said quietly, "Patricia is right. I'll go with her. You others will be called if you can do anything." Sue cried, "But couldn't one of us go instead of Patricia, she really shouldn't...." Patricia was already at the door, starting down the steps, pulling her leg a little. She called over her shoulder, "Oh, yes, she should. I've 378 seen enough sickness that I don't lose my head, and I know what to do." Once in the house, Patricia and Faye worked perfectly together as a team, Patricia telling Faye what to do. "T think he will be all right, now," Patricia finally told them. Even as she said it, the boy stirred, tried to turn his head, and, finally, opened his eyes to see his mother and said, "Mommie...." Ruth gathered him to her, her tears falling in grateful and wonderful relief. "Oh, thank you, thank you," she whispered looking up at the two of them, "I didn't know anyone could have such wonderful friends." Patricia breathed deeply, putting her hand on the dark head. She had called her friend. And she knew that forever after the two of them would be very close. As Patricia and Faye came out of Ruth's house, they could see the other girls a little way from the house. They started toward them, but Faye stopped Patricia to say, "Tm not very good with words. But you were wonderful. And _ there's RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1959 something I've wanted to tell you for weeks. You know the day that Kim came home from her lesson and had a copy of that song you had written called, 'Give God a Chance' mixed in with her music...?" Patricia said, "Yes...." "Well, my mother had just been dead for three months, and I didn't seem to be able to get over it. I just kept grieving. 'Then, I read those words over and over... 'Give God a chance to heal your heart. And so on, and they seemed written especially for me. I kept saying them over and over. Finally, I was able to pull myself out of it. I wanted you to know." "Thank you," Patricia whispered, and she could have added, "they were written for myself," but she didn't, she merely went forward as if her leg didn't drag at all, to meet her neighbors and her friends, and tell them in confidence and wonder that she was going to have a child, that she was really going to be one of them. Patricia knew, suddenly, that one must not only give God a chance, other people must be given a chance as well. Blue MlorningGlories Josie B. Bay Oh, the glory of the morning When morning-glories rare Lift their heads in satisfaction While they drink the dew-kissed air. They are filled to overflowing, With cups of heavenly blue, And they say to all who listen "Let me share my cup with you." GreenWillo W Days Shirley Sealy N my home, we all enjoy free agency. My mother and father are firm believers in free agencyNot since the green-willow days have 1 been forced to do anything. 4 know what the green-willow d arc, don't you? That is the time in your life when you are still too young to understand reason, and our mother uses 4 little green willow to help you make up your mind. My mother used a little green willow, she explained, because it would sting nicely but would never In this way che was always SUrC of the safety of her children, if she happened to be a little overexcited when it became necessary to use the willow. Can't remember ever feeling that willow. 1 suppose I must have felt its sting at one time OF another, or I wouldn't have had such great respect for it. But I do remember spending quite a lot of time looking at it as it sat quietly on the top of the refrigerator or the stove; and I was ever mindful of its presence. Mother had another rule of free agency that went with that little willow. We each had to get our own. That way We could choose the size and length of the stick. Otherwise, cause by the time we hunted for the right size and type of willow, we usually had forgotten what it was that we didn't want to do. My eldest brother maintains he was willowed more than all of the rest of us put together. That's why he turned out better. Mother was quite young then and more set on has ing a model child. She was always glad in yeats to come that she had trained him so well. He helpfully kept the rest of us in line. But, thinking back, even then, it was free agency: decide to do the thing that was right, ot feel the sting of the green willow. We always had out choice. It was free agency that helped us to develop our talents. Mother was q believer in the talents. She was always so happy when we showed even the slightest aterest in the arts. I remember when my sister wanted to study plano. She innocently asked, one evening, if she could study music and learn to play the piano. Mother was S° enthusiastic. Withvn a month we had a piano, au sister Ellen was studying like mad. Ellen wanted to play the piano in the worst way, put she didn't want to practice. Towever, it was 4 matter of free agency: She could either practice her piano a reasonable time every day oF stay home from her Saturday shows; and of course it just wasn't logical that she had time to visit her friends if she had no time to practice. Filen was blessed, knowledge of She is now al ac t Of all the things 1 did at home, '4 dishes the worst. You know how it ls; you wash and rinse, wash and rinse, the water gets greasier, and yout hands get wrilkled and.. 380 it is. I could never find an end to dishes in our house. With seven children, we used a lot of dishes. I was born third in line. My eldest brother didn't think he should have to do any girls' work when he had five sisters. My eldest sister was always busy doing things like making salads for dinner, or sewing, or ironing and scrubbing. All the fun things. Third children, especially if they are girls, should never be born. There isn't anything for them to do but wash dishes. Once I hit upon a real gem of an idea as to how to get out of the dishes. Immediately after dinner I became very ill. Stomach pains, headache... The works. Mother was so thoughtful and tender, so loving and concerned. She immediately put me to bed and insisted I stay there until morning. She loved me very much and didn't want to take any chances. And she knew I wasn't feeling well by the look that came over my face when I eyed that table of dirty dishes. When I protested, she commended me for my bravery, but thought I was much too ill to get out of bed. It was frec agency all the way. I could admit the deceit and do the dishes or remain silent and stay in bed. "THEN there was the time I wanted to attend a show on Sunday afternoon. A _ perfectly handsome dream of a boy asked me to go. It was a nice spiritual show. I thought that fact might influence Mother, so I told her that part first. She was so thrilled! Her comments were so enthusiastic you'd have thought he'd asked her to go. Her reply was full of excitement for my good forRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1959 tune, and she said: "Darling, that's wonderful. I'm so happy to know you're interested in good pictures. It's nice to know you're so popular, too. Is Sunday the only day the picture is playing?" In all truthfulness I had to tell her "No." To which Mother replied with more enthusiasm than ever: ""That's extra special nice. Now, you won't have to give up all the blessings of the Sabbath Day, will you? What day is this nice young man taking you to the picture, honey?" Again, it was free agency. I could either admit that this nice young man wasn't exactly perfectly, which I was sure he was, or let her go on believing that her swect little daughter hadn't even thought of giving up the blessings of the Sabbath Day. Sometimes Mother carried free agency too far. Like the time I had a baby tending job and the girls dropped by to take me skating. I thought maybe it would be all right to send my younger sister to baby tend for me, and I could go skating with the girls. My Mother's reply was in the gayest of words. "That might be nice for both of you. Susie wants a little spending money, and you want to learn to skate better. Of course," she continued just as I was beginning to feel all happy inside, "Mrs. Backman did ask for you when she called. And of course she's expecting you. She had probably planned on a big evening out, knowing she wouldn't have to worry as long as you were with her children. But you have to make up your own mind, dear. Do what you think is best. I'm sure it will be the right thing." GREEN-WILLOW DAYS If she had just demanded that I stay or that I go; I could have had a delightful time arguing the point with her, but what can you do in the face of such free agency? I'm aware that in this country we live ima democracy. It's important to learn to make wise dccisions. I'm happy to relate that, due to such liberal parents, such believers in free agency, I have learned to enjoy the good things of life. I have grown up knowing that if one is to have money to spend, one must work. To give the illusion of being beautiful is a matter of style, good taste, clean living, and good health habits. To be a good hostess one must 381 know how to cook, think of others, borrow enough chairs, make a fire, and know how to feel and look happy when one would much rather shout and throw things. To be loved one must give more love than she receives. I have a lot to do yet, I have a long way to go. But I have Iearned all these things following the rules of right that free agency taught me. Everything that is dear to me I owe, with gratitude, to my loving parents who are such firm believers in free agency, and to those memorable green-willow days that started me off in the right direction on a wondrous path to true happiness. -< >< She Hummingbird Winona I'randsen Thomas Tt takes an eye that's infinite To watch a hummingbird in flight And sce the jewels on his wings Before he rockets out of sight. My eyes are only finite oncs. The bird knows that. In recompense He left off standing in the air And rested on my wire fence. A Ha ndy Pincushion Elizabeth Williamson Ne a new pincushion for your sewing machine? Use a picce of cellulose sponge. Fasten it on the machine with Scotch Mighty handy. Saves a trip to the sewing basket drawer for pins and thumbtacks? When you need a pin in a hurry. Tape. And why not have one in a kitchen Granny Will Be Waiting Betty Martin MY WILLIS poured some warm milk in the old mother cat's bowl and stood watching the cat lap up the milk hungrily. "Tt is a lonesome old life isn't it, Tessie, old girl?" Amy mused, half to herself and half to the cat. Amy was a short, slender woman - in her early sixties with shiny gray hair that waved softly back from her face emphasizing her gentle, delicate features. Her kindly blue eyes and her sparkling smile were evidence of her lovely countenance. All who knew Amy loved her and sought her friendship. Yes, it is a lonesome old life, thought Amy. Now that she was at the age in life where she should be enjoying her grandchildren, she had none. Her only son had been killed during the war, and her beloved husband, Sam Willis, had been dead for four years. She had been alone in the large old house on Oak Street since that time. Her sister Clara, who was also a widow, had wanted her to come and live with her in Elmdale, fifty miles away, but Applegate was Amy's home town, and these were her people. She would be even more lonesome in Elmdale. Amy and Sam had placed all their hopes in their son Tim, when they learned they would be unable to have any more children. The ache that filled Amy's heart was consoled by Tim. They had given him every advantage that they as loving parents could, and 'Tim had responded in a way befitting a son who is sinPage 382 cerely aware of the sacrifices that his parents are making for him. She had thought that Tim would one day marry and bring his children home to visit.., Amy was jolted back to reality by the slamming of her neighbor's door. It is that little Dougie boy again, Amy thought. Honestly, that little boy is the liveliest little fellow I have ever seen. Amy had been warned about the little five-year-old (he was commonly referred to as that wild little Jessop boy) by some of her friends. Dougie's mother, Lillie Jessop, had been a widow for two years, and she had moved next to Amy only a week ago. Everyone sympathized with Amy, to be living so near to the Jessops. "Tt isn't that Dougie isn't a smart little fellow," they told her. "It is just that Lillie won't take the time to discipline him, and he runs wild all the time." Amy thought they were exaggerating, but within the short week Lillie Jessop and Dougie had lived there, Dougie had ripped out her prize petunias, pulled up the onions in the garden, and ripped her newspaper to shreds two mornings in a row. Amy hadn't said anything to Dougie's mother, because she believed that a person should try to get along with her neighbors. However, every time Amy heard a noise, now, she jumped. She was afraid to look outside for fear that she would discover some other mischief that Dougie had been in. GRANNY WILL BE WAITING HI Jessop's back door slammed shut once more, and Amy surmised that Lillie Jessop was turning Dougie loose to do as he pleased. Maybe I shoud go see Clara, Amy thought wearily at the anticipation of putting up with Dougie's mischievous tricks. But then I just might not have a house left when I return. Amy put the cat outside and then busied herself about the house. She always tried to keep active; she would not allow herself to indulge in self-pity. She had seen many fine people become enslaved to pity and lose their friends. Amy would not even allow her friends to pity her. She and her good friend, Mildred Carlyle, always spent one evening a week together. They would go out to dinner and a show, or they would have dinner at one or the other's home and spend the evening recalling many happy memories. Amy was very thankful for these memories and for the good life that she had had. Naturally, she could not say that she wasn't lonely, but she felt that she must do her best to make her life rich. She did not expect to cease being lonely for her loved ones. 'To cease being lonely for them would be, to Amy, to forget them, and this she could never do. Her friends, her Church, and _ her everyday tasks, all helped to fill the gap in her life. Amy stirred up a cake, put it in the oven to bake, and then, with renewed gusto, went about her cleaning. She had always prided herself on her ability to accomplish her houschold tasks in a systematic and efficient manner. Many times when a problem was 383 pressing her, she would find some tedious job which required considerable physical exertion and throw herself into the work with such effort that soon the problem which had been perplexing her grew fainter and fainter. 'Then, after finishing the work, she would find that she could think much more clearly after giving her mind a rest. She had often told her friends, after losing her husband, that there was nothing like good, hard work to help relieve the tensions that build up inside a person. Having finished her cleaning, Amy began to ice the cake, when she heard a rap at the door. "Why, Dougie, hello there; what are you doing with the cat?" Dougie looked up at her with twinkling blue eyes and a winning little smile that turned Amy's heart. Her son used to look at her like that, and Dougie's hair was blonde and curly as 'Tim's had been. "Tessie was in the road, Mrs. Willis; I thought she would get runned over," Dougie replied as he gazed curiously into the house. Oh my, Amy thought, the little rascal just wants to come in and look around. But then he is just a little boy. Amy opened the door. "Thank you so much for bringing Tessie back. I surely wouldn't want anything to happen to her. You're a good little boy, Dougic. I guess that I should have you tend Tessie for me, shouldn't [?" Dougie looked past Amy to the table where she had been icing the cake. "Mommy never bakes cakes," Dougie said with his blue eyes twinkling again. "Why, Dougie, would you like to clean out the frosting bowl after I 384 finish icing the cake? Then, Tl cut you a piece of cake, and you can have a glass of milk, okay?" MY recalled how 'Tim had always loved to climb up on the old stool and watch her ice a cake. Chocolate cake had been his favorite. "Chocolate cake is my favorite, Mrs. Willis," Dougie said, intruding into Amy's thoughts, as he climbed up on the stool by the table. He chatted to Amy about his pet bird, the fact that his Daddy was never coming home any more, and many things which Amy doubted very much that Lillie Jessop would want to be known. Amy couldn't help but smile at herself. If only adults could be as honest and outright as a little child, the world would be a much more pleasant place in which to live. It was so pleasant to have Dougie with her that Amy dreaded to send the little boy home. She would have enjoyed having him spend the day with her so much. "Maybe you had better go home now, Dougie; your Mommy will be worried about you." She helped the little fellow down from the stool and watched him walk assuredly to his home. After Amy had had her lunch she decided to lie down for a few minRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1959 utes, and when she awoke and went out into the living room, there lying on the couch with 'Tessie in his arms, both sleeping peacefully. Was Dougie. He stirred slightly, opencd his eyes and smiled at Amy. "T was tending Tessie for you," he said. Amy smiled back at Dougie and | sat down on the couch beside him. Without warning Dougie suddenly threw his arms about her, saying, "I love you Mrs. Willis, and I want you for my Granny." Tears of happiness welled up in Amy's eyes as she gently held the little boy in her arms. "Of course, Pll be your Granny, Dougie. Now we had bettcr take you home." "Okay, Granny, but I'll come back tomorrow," Dougie assured her as he marched triumphantly out of the house, stopping only long enough to give Tessie an affectionate pat. Amy had never been happier, as she followed Dougie to the door. "Yes, Dougie, you come back tomorrow; Granny will be waiting." People passing through Applegate would consider it a typical small town, that is, if they bothered to consider it at all. To Amy Willis, however, it was her town and her people. And Dougie, she thought, had called her Granny! & rratum Recipr ror Boitep Raisin CAKE In the recipe for Boiled Raisin Cake, page 176, The Relief Society Magazine, March 1959, the amount of flour should be 2% cups instead of % cup as printed. She Ladder of Love Margaret Russell AM a mother. I have a daughter. A little girl with a round head and a fuzz of hair and a mouth and nose and a blue-black stare. I can see Calvin in her forehead and cheek bones, but her chin is mine. And I become for a moment a Biblical cup, overflowing with awe and wonder and a welling, swelling sense of fulfillment. And I turn my head that the other mothers may not see and desecrate my emotion.... I remember a doll I loved as a child, a hairless, armless creature that I washed and dressed and wrapped in a blanket and held, at mealtimes, to my breast. And I remember my cat 'Timothy. 1 remember the warmth of him as he lay in my lap, the throb and arch of his body when my hand moved along his back. And I remember lifting him to my face and looking long and searchingly into his eyes, seeking for I knew not what. And I remember standing within the circle of my mother's arms with the grass at my feet and the sky overhead, and trying to purr. And I remember the wild excitement of being flung high into the air by my father and the joy of being held close afterward. And I think of the dearness of Calvin and the vital, pouring warmth that we share. I turn again to my daughter. And touch a tiny, translucent finger. And experience a new kind of love. A sort of apotheosis of the feeling I have for Calvin when he is tired or discouraged. And I know we have created something very precious, Calvin and I. Something to cherish and love and care for. A daughter.. A daughter... A daughter.... The nurse says, "I must take her back now, Mrs. Davis." And I cry, "Oh, please! No! Not yet...." But she smiles and reaches out purposefully. So I drop a kiss on the Calvin-like forehead and let the little fingers curl around one of my big ones until they are pulled away. And the room is quiet and relaxed and peaceful. I sleep in a crystal pool of happiness. Please * K K K OMEONE takes my hand, and I know before I open my eyes that it is Calvin, and that he is sad. And my crystal pool of happiness is roiled by a stick of foreboding. "The baby!" I whisper, while my heart pounds. "The baby...." Calvin's face is twisted, the doctor's grim. They push my bed out of the room and down the hall to another, smaller room. And they tell me that the baby is dead, that the few minutes I had with her are all I will ever have. And I reject their words. With all the strength of my being I reject them. I turn myself into a hard little ball that nothing can penetrate. Because I am a mother, and I have a daughter. A sweet, living baby whose tiny, delicate hands are going to grow plump and dimpled. Page 385 386 And dig dirt. And accept a diploma. A ring. I hear Calvin weeping, and I reject that, too. Let him cry. Let him be hurt. Let him suffer alone. Because I cannot comfort him without acknowledging a horror that cannot, must not be. And grip a pencil. And _ wear RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1959 blackness, oblivion. But instead I see again my armless, hairless doll; my sleek, throbbing Timothy; my parents; my husband; my child. And love stirs within me and will not be denied. I hold out my arms to Calvin and to grief. And as he buries his head on my shoulder I know that this, too, is' I squeeze my eyes shut, seeking fulfillment. A Challenge to Mothers Leona Fetzer Wintch GELF fulfillment, the very core of life, is realized as we give of ourselves. It answers the question asked since the days of Eve, "What do you want out of life?" I can hear our Church leaders say, ""Women make their greatest contribution to the Church and the nation, as mothers and teachers." Making this contribution also brings the self-fulfillment we seek, if we work with skill and knowledge, and dedicate ourselves to the lofty calling of motherhood. This requires more than part time, rushed care of children. When Karl G. Maeser said, "Don't be a scrub," he meant, "Don't be mediocre. This is a time for greatness." But how can our children ultimately find their way to do great things, without the constant tutelage of their mothers? When many mothers leave small children to work for added earnings and satisfactions, not because of necessity, we need to ask another pertinent question, '""What are the basic needs of children?" In supplying more wants, children are often encumbered by more "things." When we make it too soft for them, their strength and struggle fade, and we defeat ourselves. No matter how elegantly children are dressed or how luxurious the rugs are in the home, personalities and character will not grow and flourish without a healthful climate in the home which meets these basic needs: Children need to love and to be loved. They need to belong to a family and to friendship groups, because the feeling of being alone withers and warps human beings. They need security, protection, and stability. They need to do at least some things well, and receive praise and approval. 'They need new experiences, and fun. Children should be taught early and often all we know of the right way of life, and they should be helped to find this pathway. In all these matters we find direction in a knowledge of the gospel, which some have called a map of the spirit. This is something for which we cannot phone to the corner store for delivery, nor will it materialize over the bridge table or the best seller. It is found in the continued quest for wisdom, in prayer, in temples, in classrooms, in association and conversation with the Lord's people, and in living the commandments. With this spiritual map, we envisage the unbounded possibilities of the human spirit. As mothers, we have the prime privilege of arousing in our children a thirst for truth. While it is a privilege, it is also our duty to teach them to seek and love the everlasting things. Even in early life, they should know some of the fundamental truths about which there is no equivocation: that God lives, and that he loves his children, that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God; that he is our Savior, and became the A CHALLENGE TO MOTHERS 387 first fruits of the resurrection; that we, too, will be resurrected; that our good deeds will be rewarded, and that we will have to account for evil doing; that we had an antemortal existence; that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, and that he saw the Father and the Son, and was directed to restore the gospel in its fulness; that the Decalogue is as efficacious now as when given to ancient Israel, that the heavens are open, and that our progression is eternal.* When we inspire our children to pursue truth, we help them prepare themselves to give something worthwhile to the world, and to give of themselves. The Master's teachings are pervaded with the spirit of "It is more blessed to give than to receive." It is the antithesis of, "What, and how much can I get out of the world?" Or, "How can I bring friends and importance to myself?" But it says, '""What can I give to the world?" If space-age educational demands are met, schools will have to return to the home some of its functions. Mothers must help in the planning of a better world. Good and great men have always built upon the foundations laid in the home. For those of us with small children, our path is clear. Mothers, whose children are married, can devote thought and time to grandchildren, to little neighbors, or to other children who come "under the wing." To have the capacity to arouse in our children a thirst for truth, is a high achievement. It is no mean task, and it does not fit into the doldrums found at some firesides. It requires divine aid and straight thinking. It challenges our courage, faith, vision, resourcefulness, persistence, and multitudes of virtues. But on the way, and in the end, it brings self-fulfillment, and the good life, too. *Note: For a comprehensive treatise on ultimate truths, see "B. Y. U. Inaugurates New President,' Church Section, Deseret News, November 17, 1945, Charge given new President, by President J. Reuben Clark Jr. Jf This Is Peace Eva Willes Wangsgaard So this is peace, reclining on a hill In oakbrush shadows, coolness summer-kissed; Feeling the pendulum of time distil Pure crystal moments in a golden mist; Watching an ant bring home its housefly load Through forest trails of drying Jimson wecds, Counting the cirrus cars on azure roads, Gathering clover balls and mallow seeds. While far away there wags an anxious world With hearts too eager and with hands afraid, The whispered tenderness, the hot word hurled Against a cord too tough, the too-thin blade. No battle rages here and no offense. If this is peace, peace is indifference. Hal Rumel DECORATIVE ARRANGEMENT BY FLORENCE C. WILLIAMS She Wedding-Ring Sree Helen S. Williams OW often have we wished for a new and novel idea for an announcement party for a bride-tobe. With a piece of scrub oak set in Page 388 a round wooden base and sprayed with white enamel, Florence Williams made a lovely wedding-ring tree. For just such a party she fastened golden curtain rings, finger THE WEDDING-RING TREE size, tied with pale pink satin ribbons to all the branches of the tree. Each ring hung from a bow knot with streamers about three inches in length. For place cards she tied a golden ring to a white folded card with a pink bow and wrote the name of the guest in gold ink. Every guest at the party went home wearing her golden wedding band as a souvenir. At the side of the wedding ring tree, Florence placed one of her beautiful flower trees. 'These can be made with any kind of artificial flowers and are lovely on tables or mantels or to use for centerpieces for parties, for they can be made any size and of any color. The stem is a dowel which can be bought at any carpenter shop. It should be in proportion to the pot and the flower ball. For example, a six-inch ball of styrafoam would take a one-fourth to one-half inch dowel stem, a nine-inch plasta-foam ball would require a one-inch dowel. The dowel is set in a pot of plaster of 389 Paris and is painted any color to harmonize with the flowers used. The flower tree pictured ls a white dowel and the styrafoam ball is coyered with tiny white velvet blossoms. The dowel or stem is wound with small green leaves that have been wired with fine florist wire around it. These flower trees are beautiful made of roses or any other kinds of flowers. Florence has two largesize ones standing on her mantle. She calls them her rose trees, and they are made in shades of pink in satin and velvet artificial roses. The flowers are held in place with pins stuck through them into the styrafoam and the flowers must be close enough completely to cover the ball. At this announcement party Florence presented the white velvet flower tree to the guest of honor as her announcement gift. Nothing could be lovelier or more bride-like as a reminder of the wonderful time she had on this her special day when the announcement was made that she was a bride-to-be. So Shought Un folds Maude Rubin As cereus petals open in the night, So thought unfolds in solitude and peace; Its flowering need not wait the early flight Of morning larks — but, held in quiet's lease, Its fragile beauty, opening serene And pure as alabaster, soft as dove, Illumes the problem darkness with a sheen Gentle as whispered prayer, as bright as love! CARLOTA DE YALIBAT Carlota de Yalibat s Unique Hobbies CARLOTA de Yalibat, Coban, Guatemala, embroiders unusually beautiful blouses in designs native to her country. The blouse Mrs. De Yalibat is wearing in the picture is made of white material woven on a hand loom by the women of her community. The border on the sleeves and around the neck is the work of Mrs. De Yalibat. The embroidery is done with rayon floss in vivid colors on a design of violets, orchids, butterflies, peacocks, and other motifs. In her hand Mrs. De Yalibat holds another example of her unique hobbies — a Christmas greeting made of straw matting on which are sewed Indian figures, Christmas trees, poinsettias, and other designs made of cloth. Another hobby in which Mrs. De Yalibat excels is the growing of numerous potted plants. Shown in the picture are various potted succulents and some lovely orchids. Mrs. De Yalibat, mother of four daughters, is president of the Coban Branch Relief Society, Guatemala, Central America. Herita ge Viola A. Cornwall Roots anchored well in love Will leave the spirit free To soar above the commonplace And grow eternally. Page 390 The Silver Leash CHAPTER 6 Beatrice Rordame Parsons Synopsis: LaRue Harding, an orphan, who has lived since childhood in California with an aunt, goes to Fivelakes, Arizona, after the death of her sister Amelia. She tries to help and encourage her brother-in-law Herbert Vetterly, who is confined to a wheel chair. His children gradually come to accept LaRue as a friend and as a member of the family. She meets Dr. Alan Rutherford, a surgeon at the Jonas Harding Hospital, and his fiancee Gladys Drew. "Grandie,' Dr. Rutherford's grandfather, takes a liking to LaRue. ITHIN three weeks after his \¢ operation, Herb had taken one or two shaky steps. Dr. Alan and Dr. Frame were pleased. Dr. Alan told LaRue: "Time, and Herb's own desire to be on his feet, will complete the cure. The operation is a success." LaRue was grateful. She had not been as happy since she came to Fivelakes. The children insisted she go to the hospital with them at visiting hours. Watching them with Herb made her heart glow happily. They had grown so close to their father. Each time they went, Dr. Alan came to the room for a chat. LaRue had seen him daily, and she had grown to like and admire him very much. He was a fine doctor, a fine man. "T don't have to ask how you feel, Herb," he said teasingly. He stood there, tall, handsome, in spotless white, a stethoscope draped about his neck, "Like a million!" cried Herb. "A million, million!" Herb had changed so much. His laughter came more easily. He made a place for Connie on the bed beside him. Erma said in a grown-up voice, "We're having a time keeping him in bed, Dr. Alan. If he had his way he'd be out there on the lawn, romping with Atlast!" Herb's grin was wide. "Why not? I have Atlast to thank for a lot of things." Connie, quick to defend her pet, cried soberly: "Daddy, Atlast didn't mean it. He just didn't behave very well, I guess." Herb patted her hand. "Of course he didn't mean it, darling." "He did us all a good turn," said Joel, and the glance he gave his father was man-to-man. Connie looked serious. "We have Atlast to thank. And Dr. Alan. And Dr. Frame. And the nurses, and everyone!" She stared thoughtfully at the white bedspread, and added quietly: "LaRue, God did hear our prayers. He did give us what was best for us." A short while ago, LaRue knew, Erma and Joel would have scoffed at Connie's childish thoughts. But now they only gathered closer to their father's bed, and LaRue knew that unshed tears of thankfulness were burning close to their lashes. Dr. Alan went to the door and spoke over his shoulder in a light, yet authoritative tone, "Mr. Vetterly, you listen to those children. Page 391 392 They know what's good for you. When they decide that you are well enough to romp with Atlast, they can ask my advice and maybe... Just maybe, I'll let you out on the lawn." He added under his breath, so LaRue could hear: "They are pretty nice people." LaRue nodded, her eyes shamelessly damp. "I think so," she whispered, knowing how much they had come to mean to her. "They get their niceness from their mother," said Dr. Alan very softly. Herb who caught the words, smiled tenderly. "Amelia was a wonderful person," he said. It was the first time, LaRue realized, that he had spoken his wife's name without a painful pause. But they could all feel Amelia's influence among them, warm, affectionate, real. She had given her love to Herb, and to her children, her sweet, enduring love. Now the children were sharing that love with their father. He had lost Amelia, but he had not lost her love. LaRue knew, as they sat there listening to their father's little jokes about his "plaster jacket," that it was good for them to laugh. It would be a long time before Herb would be entirely well. But the children faced that knowledge without fear. It was enough for them to know that their father had found the promise of a good, full, busy life. They were content. When the nurse came to shoo them out because visiting hours were over, they left the hospital and strolled slowly home through the beautiful summer afternoon. LaRue remarked about how many times she had walked by herself, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1959 frightened, lonely, very much alone. Connie, skipping along at LaRue's side, caught at her hand. "Poor Auntie LaRue!" Erma said, shyly: "We didn't treat you very well, did we?" LaRue wouldn't agree to that. "Perhaps some of it was my own fault. I felt awkward...." "No," said Erma decisively, "we were horrible to you." She thought a moment, then said: "I'm sure neither Joel nor I understood just why we wanted to hurt you. Perhaps it was in retaliation for the way we'd been hurt in losing our mother. And our father!" LaRue put her arm about Erma's waist, and drew her close. "'Let's not think about that," she suggested softly. She turned the conversation as they came to the knoll upon which Hillhigh House raised its fine, old head. She knew that they all had a terrible mental picture of Herb's chair racing down the slope. To dispel it, she cried, "I'm sure the old house is lonely. Shall we go up and pay a call?" The children took her suggestion eagerly, laughing at the idea that a house could be lonely. They climbed quickly to the brick patio and looked across the valley to Blue Lake. The opening of the Founding Festival was drawing near. 'The scene below them was one of excitement and gaiety. 'lhe peppermintstriped tents were gay with banners. The framework for the fireworks made the little island seem populated by odd little houses. ARUE drew in_ her remembering how breath, she had THE SILVER LEASH promised herself that she would be back in San Francisco long before the fireworks scattered their fiery stars to the heavens. Yet she was reluctant to leave. She thought of herself as a queer, vacillating person. A person who could not make up her mind! Now that Herb was getting better, she was free to go. All she had to do was repack her suitcases and buy a ticket. Yet she couldn't make up her mind. As usual, Grandie was sitting on the front porch of the house, letting the cooling breeze drift through his snow-white hair. He was pleased to see them, and showed them a paper-wrapped packet which he had brought along. "Now, maybe," he declared as he unwrapped his bundle, "the old house will sell!' It was a large, shining black and gold sign with the letters FOR SALE printed plainly upon it. LaRue looked approvingly around. Eddie and Joel had cut the weeds, mowed the lawn, and raked up the willow leaves which had carpeted Connie's and Janice's playhouse. It was certainly a vast improvement. When Joel took the hammer which Grandie had brought with him to remove the old sign and hang the new one, Erma spoke wistfully. "It seems a shame to see the old place go to strangers. I wish Daddy was rich. Then I'd ask him to buy it and... Well, maybe we could restore it, and... And make it into a museum or something." Connie's brown braids bounced excitedly as she cried: "Tourists would pay to see it, especially if it was fixed like the good old times!" The old man beamed. "I'd like to see the old house as it was. Yes, 393 Joel, it was a good way of life. Yet today is the good life. 'Tomorrow, too, will be good, if we keep on building." Huis eyes were mellowed with memories as he looked at the old house. All at once, he took the sign from Joel's hands and said: "This house belongs to Fivelakes!"' "Sort of community property," agreed Joel smiling. "Belongs to all of us," added Connie brightly. Joel's face fell. Lot of fixing up." For the first time, LaRue found her voice, yet she was scarcely aware that she was saying, "I could help! I've got a little money in the bank. I'd like you to let me share in...." "Why, Aunt LaRue!" Connie's eyes were wide, astonished. "You're going back to San Francisco!" Before LaRue could speak, Erma put her arm about her aunt's waist, and said: "No matter where Aunt LaRue lives, she'll remember this old house. She loves it, now, just as Mother used to love it." She was silent for a long moment, then she said: "Maybe others will want to contribute...." Grandie interrupted: "I'll see that there's plenty of money." Joel shook his head. "People will want to have a part in this. They'll want to preserve the history of Fivelakes." Grandie knew he was right. He said quietly: "I'll do my part. At least, I can help with the humps and bumps." Connie, who was actually learning to be silent when others were speaking, waited until his words had died away. 'Then she said, "We could put up one of those... Those...." "Tt will take a 394 "Plaques!" interjected Erma informatively. "One of those plaques," finished Connie patiently, "with a name on it." "Hillhigh House!" said Joel, experimentally. "The Harding Museum," said LaRue thoughtfully. RMA'S face was lighted with a lovely, inner glow. Her lips curved tenderly as she suggested: "The Amelia Museum." The name was what they had been seeking. They were delighted. LaRue whispered, almost to herself, "Amelia would be so proud." They stood there as the sun crept slowly over the edge of the knoll, bathing the old house in golden light. The dormer windows glowed like smiling eyes. Erma, already busy with plans, said: "Grandie, you'll have to tell us just how the old house looked when you were a little boy. Just what kind of wallpaper they used, just what...." "T can do better than that," stated the old man proudly. "I can show you pictures. 'Those trunks in the attic are filled with scrapbooks. There are bits of wallpaper, swatches of material. There are letters. Clothes. A thousand little things to tell the story of Hillhigh House." Connie clapped her hands and wanted to go immediately to the attic to look. But the sun was almost out of sight, and it was time for dinner. They walked Grandie to his red-brick cottage and then went on to the white bungalow with the maroon trim. LaRue listened to the chattering that went on about her as they strolled along. She had never seen RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1959 more enthusiastic people. Once Erma said: "Daddy can be the architect. I'm sure he'll be glad to get back to his drawing board." "But," said Joel, blankly, "we're not going to rebuild the old house. Just restore it." Erma was not impatient. She spoke quietly, as they turned into their own walk.. "There have been a lot of changes in the old house during almost a hundred years, Joel. People tore out walls, put new ones in. But we want the house to look exactly as it did so long ago." Joel nodded and opened the door. As LaRue followed the children inside, she felt a little sad. It would be a long time before the Amelia Museum would be ready. She found herself wishing that she didn't have to go back to San Francisco. Once she had thought of the neat apartment there, as a refuge. But she had no need of hiding, now. Her fears were gone. The apartment seemed as distant as the stars. Almost a part of another world. I'd like to stay until the house is finished, she thought, wistfully. Then remembered her position in the bank. Her leave of absence was up shortly after the Founding Festival. She must go back to her job. I don't really belong here, she told herself. I'm no longer needed. Amelia's family is all right. 'Their future is bright. As soon as Herb can get along without me, I'll go back.... She had meant to finish the sentence with the word home. But she did not say it. It was hard to think of any place in the world, except Fivelakes, as home! (To be continued) FROM THE FIELD [~ Hulda Parker, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Ficld" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Relief Society Handbook of Instructions. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES: 4 Sa Photograph submitted by Margaret W. Clarke EAST LOS ANGELES STAKE (CALIFORNIA) ANNIVERSARY SOCIAL AND: VISITING TEACHERS CONVENTION, March 17, 1959 Left to right: Lilly Davis, stake visiting teacher leader; Doris C. Echols, chorister; Flora B. Hansen, organist; Margaret W. Clarke, President; Genevive Anderson, former president, East Los Angeles Stake Relief Society; Ruby Choate, former president, East Los Angeles Stake Relief Society; Ruth H. Brown, Second Counselor; Rea Jorgensen, First Counselor. Sister Clarke reports: "Tuesday, March 17, 1959, the East Los Angeles Stake Relief Society presented a special anniversary party and visiting teachers convention. All past and present ward and stake Relief Society presidents were honored. Each of them was presented with a corsage and a pen engraved with the words: 'Relief Society Anniversary, March 17, 1959.' A seventy-two voice Singing Mothers chorus from the twelve wards in the stake sang beautifully and helped to make the presentation 'A Light Shining' one of the finest programs ever presented. Lilly Davis, visiting teacher message leader, directed the presentation. Doris C. Echols directed the chorus, which was accompanied by stake organist Flora B. Hansen. As the sisters entered the room, they beheld a large and beautiful reproduction of the Relief Society emblem, made by Counselor Rea Jorgensen. To the right were four large tables beautifully decorated with flowers and decorated cakes, commemorating the 117th anniversary of the organization of Relief Society. From these tables, following the program, approximately 750 sisters. Were served a lovely buffet luncheon under the direction of Second Counselor Ruth H. Brown." Since this photograph was taken East Los Angeles Stake has been divided and the new Whittier Stake formed. Rea Jorgensen is president of Whittier Stake Relief Society. Page 395 sai ot: bmitted by Lily D. Kama aaa. Photograph su OAHU STAKE (HAWAII) RELIEF SOCIETY CONVENTION January 31, 1958 Left to right: Marion Pokipola, First Counselor, Oahu Stake Relief Society; Elizabeth Keawe, Secretary-Treasurer; Victoria Kamakaokalani, Second Counselor; General President of Relief Society Belle S. Spafford; First Counselor Marianne C. Sharp; President Oahu Stake Relief Society Lily D. Kama. 3 pI EEE mie Photograph submitted by Edith C. Bennett SHARON STAKE (UTAH), OREM TWELFTH WARD RELIEF SOCIETY BIRTHDAY PARTY, March 17, 1959 Seated, left to right: Bernice Young as Sarah M. Cleveland; Thaola Tucker as Emma Smith; Bula Swenson as Elizabeth Ann Whitney; Robert Oliphant as John Taylor; Floyd Johnson as the Prophet Joseph Smith; Rulon Craven as Willard Rich- 396 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1959 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 397 ards; Dixie James as [lvira A. Coles; Dorothy Weight as Eliza R. Snow; Hanna Jolinson as Phebe M. Wheeler. Standing, left to mght: Angie Warner as Phebe Ann Hawkes; Helen Peery as Sophia R. Marks; Essie Howard as Desdemona Fulmer; Isabell Watters as Sophia Packard; Druceal Oliphant as Sophia Robinson; Beth Smith as Martha Knight; Emma Bown, director; Lavern Shecley as Margaret A. Cook; Joyce Bown, a singer; Ruth Carruth as Philinda Merrick; Cleo Webb as Leonora Taylor; Veneese Woffinden as Sarah M. Kimball; Luela Edholms as Elizabeth Jones; Matelda Elliott as Bathsheba W. Smith. Edith C. Bennett, President, Sharon Stake Relief Society, reports: '"This picture was taken at the Orem Twelfth Ward Relief Society March 17th birthday party. It was so very charming that we had it presented as the opening exercises in our union mecting which was held the same week. The script was written by one of the 'Twelfth Ward Relicf Society members, Emma Bown. It depicted the organization of the Relief Socicty." Photograph submitted by Jane Larson GRAND COULEE STAKE (WASHINGTON), MOSES LAKE WARD VISITING TEACHERS RETAIN HIGH RECORD AND MAKE OUTSTANDING ACCOMPLISHMENTS Ward Relief Society officers, standing, back row, beginning eighth from the Icft: Secretary Agnus Goodrich; First Counselor Marlyn Stevens; Second Counselor Ardith Baker; work meeting leader Fern Zirker. Beatrice Merrill, President, Moses Lake Ward Relief Society, was absent when the picture was taken. Jane Larson, President, Grand Coulee Stake Relief Society, reports: ""These visiting teachers, who have achieved a one hundred per cent teaching record for the past three years, made quilts for the annual ward bazaar held in October 1958. Each of the twenty-four districts was responsible for making a top for one quilt and quilting it. The linings and the fillings were furnished by the Relief Society. Thirty-seven quilts were made and turned in to the bazaar, and all were sold. The project was to assist in raising funds for the new Grand Coulee stake and ward house. Proceeds from the sale of the quilts went into the building fund." 398 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1959 ea et! Photograph submitted by Vonda L. Christensen GREAT LAKES MISSION, NORTH OHIO DISTRICT SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR DISTRICT CONFERENCE Front row, left to right: Bonnie Dalton; Velma Capener; Faye Connell; Vera Stouffer; Margaret Wallis; Delma Stonely; Margaret Denton, pianist; Helen Ray; Naomi Snow, chorister. Second row, left to right: Delphia Jean Winters; Martha Starker; Lillian Jarrett; Phyllis Walker; Katherine Edwards; Barbara Patton; Marilyn Morrison; Mary Lynn Baer; Carol Richenbach; Arlene Walsh; Marie Grose. Back row, left to right: Ruth Laney; Rebecca Miller; Fleta Wilson; Barbara Pont; Geraldine Squire; Pat Behrend. Vonda L. Christensen is president of the Great Lakes Mission Relief Socicty. Photograph submitted by Madge Christensen NEBO STAKE (UTAH) VISITING TEACHERS HONORED AT SOCIAL February 21, 1959 Front row, left to right: Ruth Lyman; Fredrica Wyler; Estella Jensen; Stena Daniels; Leah Waters; Ella Sabin; Minerva Mayers. Second row, left to right: Flora Reynolds; Susan Ashby; Eva Crook; Alice Hill; Adelia Dixon; Geneva Wilson; Lillie Mitchell. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 399 Third row, left to right: Pamilia Mayer; Laura Elmer; Leilia Beck; Ruby Richardson; Geneva Sullivan; Ella Cowan. Fourth row, standing, left to right: Laura Cloward; Ella Anderson; Vera Francom; Minnie De Pew; Rebecca Twede; Tessie Dtisscl. Madge Christensen, President, Nebo Stake Relief Society, reports: '""The feature entertainment was the dramatic presentation called 'A Light Shining.' Assisting in this part of the program were: Rebecca Twede, Hazel Baird, Priscilla Baird, Madeline Minnick, Gladys Clayson, Olea White, and Faye Elmer. Floral decorations and table settings carried out the Relief Society colors of blue and gold. Carnations were presented to those women who have served thirty-five years or more as visiting teachers. The stake board furnished special music for the program and served refreshments. All arrangements were under the direction of our visiting teacher message leader Phyllis Moon." Photograph submitted by Hope S. Beus RIGBY STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY, RIGBY FIFTH WARD PRESENTS "SOME PURITAN WOMEN" AS JANUARY LITERATURE LESSON Seated, left to right: Donna Harwood, Secretary; Agnes Poulsen, Counselor; Vonda Rising, President; Pearl Eckersell, Counselor; June Bishop. Standing, left to right: Arberella Adams, literature leader; Donetta George; Katheryn Warner; Pauline Jones; Phyllis Wood as Mary Rowlandson; Elva Schuppenies as Sarah Kemble Knight; Stella Brossard as Anne Bradstreet; Lettie Call as Anne Hutchinson. Hope S. Beus, President, Rigby Stake Relief Society, reports: "Some Puritan Women' was the literature lesson for January which called forth this picture of participants and ward officers in the Rigby Fifth Ward. In addition to costumed characters and officers, there are shown those who assisted with narration, music, and quotations. The table holds heirlooms representing American culture of an early day. The picture holds added interest for the members of Rigby Stake because it includes Lettie Call and Stella Brossard, two veterans in Relief Society work. Sister Call served six years as counselor to Elizabeth Hart in the stake Relief Society, and twelve years as president. She has completed twenty-two years of visiting teaching. Sister Brossard was a member of Rigby Stake Relief Society Board for a total of twenty-seven years, serving with three presidents. For twenty-one years she served as secretary. She has also worked in ward positions. Both women are known and loved throughout the stake. Their love for Relief Society has never lagged, as witnessed by the fact that at the age of seventynine years (for both) they still express an active interest." 400 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1959 Photograph submitted by Vida P. Bennett FLORIDA STAKE HONORS FORMER RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS AT MARCH 17th ANNIVERSARY OBSERVANCE Left to right: Hazel C. Coleman, Secretary, Florida Stake Relief Society; Ruth Boone, Second Counselor; Effie Meeks, former president, Florida Stake Relief Society; Vida P. Bennett, President, Florida Stake Relief Society; Alzada Chase, First Counselor. Sister Bennett reports: "Our president and her counselors paid tribute to each of the three former presidents at a luncheon March 17th. Only one former president was able to attend the observance; the other two were ill at the time. This anniversary observance was a lovely stake affair, and the program was very inspiring.... Beautiful musical numbers were featured. 'The four-tier birthday cake was decorated with china sea gulls and topped with a china pioneer woman. Over 100 sisters enjoyed this anniversary, and we were honored to have the stake presidency in attendance." Photograph submitted by Cora S. Hogan IDAHO STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY RETIRING PRESIDENCY HONORED AT SOCIAL FOLLOWING TWELVE YEARS OF INSPIRATIONAL SERVICE Left to right: Zina H. Balls, First Counselor; Elizabeth W. Hatch, President; Myrtle E. Call, Second Counselor. Cora S. Hogan, newly appointed President, Idaho Stake Relief Society, reports: NOTES FROM THE FIELD 401 "These sisters have an outstanding record of Relief Society service. Sister Balls served seven years as a ward counselor, six years as ward organist, four years as a Relief Society class leader, and twenty-five years as a visiting teacher. Sister Hatch was a ward Relief Society secretary-treasurer six years, a class leader ten years, stake secretarytreasurer twelve years, and a visiting teacher for fourteen years, making one hundred per cent visits, before her twelve years as stake Relief Society president. Sister Call worked as a ward Relief Society counselor for two years, and was a visiting teacher for seventeen years, with a record of one hundred per cent visits, before she became a stake officer in 1946. A social was held in honor of these sisters, with an attendance of about two hundred. The retiring presidency and five board members were each presented with a book as a token of love and esteem for their many years of devoted leadership." She Pansy-Picher Vernessa M. Nagle N our little town we have a Mary and a Martha. But what town doesn't have? From each I have garnered wisdom, a degree of tolerance and patience, lessons in community service, and faithfulness to the teachings of the gospel, and from one, a smattering of humor. But the philosophies of our Mary and our Martha are in such sharp contrast that I am frequently challenged in my interpretation of the antitheses of their idealogies. Our Martha is efficiency personified. She prides herself on the whiteness of her wash. Hers is the first to appear on the clothesline come Monday morning. Her home is immaculate; her children attired with perfection of detail. She is neighborly and kindly, but occasionally a bit critical of the less efficient. Yet her disciplined mode of life does not get in the way of her thoughtfulness in time of sorrow and her awareness of the unfortunate about her. Our Mary has been known to hang a wash on the line at a most unorthodox hour. Her home shows signs of family living, but there is a solidarity of the group that is heart-warming. She was once discovered, to her mortification, by our Martha, sitting on the floor of her living room, sans dignity, sans dishes washed, cutting out paper dolls with her young family, whose ecstasy in the experience was little affected by the intrusion. Her tolerance with the erring one is so worthy of emulation and her personality so comfortable that she is compelled to listen to neighborhood woes, when she actually should, according to local codes, be laundering the dusting cloth. When our Martha recently suggested to our Mary, rather pointedly, that her sheets would appear more attractive on the line if they were stretched a bit more uniformly, Mary smiled apologetically, remarking in her sweet, confident way, "I suppose I really am a trifle absent-minded this morning, for after I had hung my last sheet on the line, I dawdled a bit. You see, I stopped to pick a pansy." We need more pansy-pickers in today's society to slow down the tempo of our hectic living. Pansy-pickers are kindly folk. Their genuineness and sincerity radiate. They are those who have found that "The beauty which old Greece or Rome sung, painted, wrought, lies close at home" (John Greenleaf Whittier). steam 2s Sheology—The Doctrine and Covenants Preview of Lessons for 1959-60 Elder Roy W. Doxey HE revelations for study in this third year's lessons on The Doctrine and Covenants were teceived by the Prophet Joseph Smith not long after the Church was organized, and during a period covering less than a year. With the embryo kingdom of God upon the earth, the Lord gave instructions on how his Church should function at that time, both as to the Priesthood bearers and the obligations of membership. Some of these important truths were learned from last year's lessons. Opportunities were now present for men to be called into the missionary work of the new dispensation. 'The Prophet Joseph Smith was to devote more of his time to the building up of the kingdom of God. 'The newborn Church increased in membership very rapidly, particularly in Ohio. Among the converts were men who subsequently became leaders in the Church. This was also a period when the Lord gave a greater understanding of his plan of salvation. We have Paae 402 learned from revelations already studied that fundamental ideas and doctrines were made known in preparation for the restoration of the Church upon the earth. As the kingdom grew in numbers, more revelations were given to provide further enlightenment concerning "the true points of my [Lord's] doctrine.'" The world had long remained in a state of apostasy, but now the light of the gospel was beginning to shine forth that all might eventually enjoy its teachings. 'The Lord wanted his people to understand their relationship to him. It was time for the members of the kingdom to know, in part at this time, that there were events of the future which had to be emphasized in the missionary work. These messages consisted of warnings, reproofs, encouragement, and hope. Those who enjoy biographical studies will find in this series of lessons an opportunity to learn lessons of great worth from men who became stalwart defenders of the faith. On the other hand, men LESSON DEPARTMENT whose actions did not always conform to their rich opportunities for full eternal advancement come into discussion, and important lessons are to be learned from their lives. Some lives are to be emulated while others serve to indicate the pitfalls that occur along life's journey. For the class leaders of these lessons it would be well to avoid the temptation to emphasize biographical material in a lesson at the expense of great doctrinal truths and moral lessons. Beginning with the first lesson, we learn the value of membership in the Church and of the necessity to be a true follower of the Savior. After membership, there come the servants of Satan to dissuade one from the course of perfection. These should be detected, labeled, and understood for what they are. Ina world beset with many beliefs of men, members of the kingdom are given opportunities to understand their true status in life, together with that of the Lord's other creations. Problems of life are always present, but the light of the gospel gives us, if we will but follow that light, answers of hope and encouragement. The Lord's point of view, as he has made it known, is of paramount importance to the members of the Church. The foregoing items suggest the general content of this year's lessons. For general objectives of this course on The Doctrine and Covenants reference should be made to either the June 1957 or June 1958 issues of The Relief Society Magazine. The 1959-60 series of lessons have been given the following titles and objectives: 403 Lesson 17—"Magnify Thine Office" (D & C, Sections 23 and 24) Objective: To show the necessity of magnifying one's calling as a member of the Church and also in a position in the Church. Lesson 18—*... Thou Shalt Not Command Him Who Is at Thy Head..." (D& C 28:6). (D&C, Sections 28; 43:1-7; 27:5-18) Objective: To show how a Latter-day Saint may judge whether or not a person who professes a revelation for the Church represents the Lord. Lesson 19—Some Future Events (D & C, Section 29:1-29) Objective: To indicate the emphasis which the Lord has put upon future events. Lesson 20—Spiritual Creations (D & C, Section 29:30-50) Objective: To indicate the importance of fundamental gospel teachings given to Adam relating to the Lord's spiritual creations, and some of their implications. Lesson 21—Lessons in Obedience (D & C, Sections 30 and 31) Objective: "Be faithful unto the end, and lo, I am with you..." (D&C 31:13). Lesson 22—And the Kingdom Grew (D & CG, Section 32, 33, and 34) Objective: To learn ways by which the kingdom of God grew in the beginning of this dispensation. Lesson 23—A Trial of Faith (D & CG, Sections 35, 39, and 40) Objective: To understand that only those who live the gospel will receive eternal life. 404 Lesson 24—The Great I Am (D & CG, Sections 36, 37, and 38) RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1959 Objective: To understand the position of Jesus in the plan of salvation and of his concern for his saints. Ussiting Seacher ITlessages— Truths to Live By From The Doctrine and Covenants Previcw of Lessons for 1959-60 Christine H. Robinson N these latter days, we are signally blessed to have for our guidance and instruction the words of the Lord given to his prophets not only anciently, but also in modcrn times. 'The Doctrine and Covenants contains the word of the Lord given to us in this day, through his Prophet Joseph Smith, and, as stated by President Joseph F. Smith, "... Contains some of the most glorious principles ever revealed to the world..." (Eighty-Fourth SemiAnnual Conference, October 1913, page 9). Our visiting teacher messages for the year 1959-60 are, as for the past two years, taken from this modern day scripture. 'These messages are written for you and for me and apply with equal impact to all. They furnish us with the key to right-conduct patterns, which, if followed, will assure us happiness in this life, and will, eventually, lead us back into the presence of our Heavenly Father. This year's messages "Truths to Live By From The Doctrine and Covenants" place great emphasis on the application of the Lord's words in righteous living. We are reminded that we will receive the companionship of the Lord's spirit and the rich blessings that result, only if we live in accordance with the gospel plan. We are instructed that it is important to receive the Lord's word, but equally important to put his word into effect in our lives. In this year's messages, the Savior admonishes us to seck for wisdom. He reminds us that wisdom comes from the Lord who will give it to us liberally, if we ask him with unwavering faith. These messages point out that meekness and steadfastness are important virtues to acquire and exercise, if we would be an influence for good. They further declare that the Lord has given us the holy scriptures for our enlightenment and instruction. However, they stipulate that, if we would benefit from the scriptures, we must know them and put their teachings into effect in our lives. In these '"Truths to Live By," we are admonished to put on the armor LESSON DEPARTMENT of Christ as a protective shield against the destroying influences and temptations ever present in our lives. We gain a better understanding of the true meaning of brotherhood. We learn that brotherhood is built on the foundation of respect for, and understanding of others. Furthermore, the Lord counsels us continuously to seek for a knowledge of his truths and conscientiously follow his teachings, if we would be a free people. The messages and their objectives for the year 1959-60 are as follows: Message 17—"... Take Upon You My Whole Armor, That Ye May Be Able to Withstand the Evil Day..." (D & C 27:15). Objective: To show that only when we protect oursclves with the whole armor of spirituality can we be sure of the constant companionship of the Lord's Spirit. Message 18—''And Again I Say Unto You, Let Every Man Esteem His Brother as Himself"? (D & C 38:25). Objective: To understand the true meaning of brotherhood. Message 19—"He That Receiveth My Law and Docth It, the Same Is My Disciple..." (D & C 41:5). Objective: To show that in order to enjoy the blessings and associations of the Lord's Spirit, we must keep his commandments. Message 20—"Therefore, He That Lacketh Wisdom, Let Him Ask of 405 Me, and I Will Give Him Liberally and Upbraid Him Not" (D & C 42:68). Objective: To show that wisdom comes from God and unless we kcep his commandments, regardless of our learning, we cannot gain wisdom, Message 21—"Wherefore, Hear My Voice and Follow Me, and You Shall Be a Free People..." (D&C 38:22). Objective: To show that freedom can only be secured by hearing and following the Savior's teachings. Message 22—"And The Book of Mormon and the Holy Scriptures Are Given of Mc for Your Instruction..." (D & C 33:16). Objective: To show that only by studying and knowing the scriptures and by putting them into action in our lives can we benefit from the Lord's instructions, Message 23—"... Govern Your House in Meckness, and Be Steadfast" (D & C 31:9). Objective: The virtues of meekness and stcadfastness applied in our lives and homes will result in an influence for good. Message 24—"Be Faithful Unto the End, and Lo, I Am With You..." (D & C 31:13). Objective: Only by enduring to the end can we be with our Father in heaven and hope to reap his choicest: blessings. Vork IT leeting—Physical Safety Factors in the Home Preview of Discussions for 1959-60 Charlotte A. Larsen N past years we have discussed various aspects of homemaking which contribute to the health and happiness of the family members. The discussions have included many important subjects: such as finances, home management, beautification, and saving of time and energy. Of great importance to the wellbeing of those residing in the home is a knowledge of the basic rules, procedures, and practices of safety. Whose responsibility is safety? The responsibility lies heavily on my shoulders, on your shoulders, on the shoulders of cach individual in the community. Safety is everybody's business and can only be fully realized when each individual assumes that responsibility himself, and learns and carries out the rules for safety. Safety begins with you in your home and with me in my home. Only when everyone feels that safety depends on him alone, only if everyone feels that he has a responsibility to others, can we hope to avoid accidents. This tule cannot be learned too early. Only when it is learned in childhood will it be carried out in adulthood and keep the person safe throughout his life. The mother in the home is the "Safety Director." Mothers, by taking time to think about safety in the home and by sharing in the discussions with the children, can Page 406 help them to become more conscious of hazards in the home and on the street. 'This education is primarily a function of the home. Young people and adults become much more safety conscious if, occasionally, the family gather together for a safety council meeting and delegate responsibility to each member of the family. As each individual, then, goes beyond the home, the lessons taught around the family council table have definite effects on his behavior. They will do much to establish the nght attitude towards removing hazards and learning how to live safely with those that cannot be removed. The discussions for the year 1959- 60 are as follows: Discussion 1—Child Safety Discussion 2—Electricity Discussion 3—Fire Hazards Discussion 4—Household Hazards Discussion 5—Hobby Hazards Discussion 6—Safety Precautions in Medicine and Household Items Discussion 7—Food Care and Preservation Discussion 8—Simple First Aid Helps Sb tterature—America's Literature — A New Nation Speaks (Textbook: America's Literature, by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes, Dryden Press, New York) Preview of Lessons for 1959-60 Elder Briant S. Jacobs VEN after a quarter of a century had elapsed following the momentous days of 1776, when the thirteen colonies first became a separate Nation, they were still separate from each other within the whole. After the first extended period of shooting ended, a second revolution within the budding Nation occurred. A war fought with words rather than with rifles, according to 'Thomas Jefferson, the revolution of 1800 was as severe as the first one. Once the unity achieved in fighting a common foe had passed, the diverse interests and beliefs sought to have themselves proved through controversy and trial. Many of the knotty problems which arose are eternal ones, always to be faced, never to be resolved finally. Before 1775 no one sought separation and independence: how could goals be sought of which no one had yet conceived an inward vision? From about 1773 on, however, to such perceptive minds as Benjamin Franklin, the disagreeable possibility of rebelling against the dictates of English Parliament and King became first a remote alternative, then more and more often mentioned until events on both sides made it finally a necessity. But it was forced upon the colonists, forced not so much by the acts of Mother England as by their own English-bred estimates of what man's rights were and what his government's relations to him should be. In many ways the period was the most imaginative, dynamic, and creative in our national history, not in culture, polite literature, and the arts, but in erecting the solid uses of land, property, education, government, and religion which ever since have been the foundations upon which our sustaining institutions and philosophies have been built. Once these were hewn out in the rough and laid solidly in place, the maturity which comes with the years would produce our great literature of ripeness; meanwhile practical writings produced by practical pens recorded for our eyes a living cross section of an emerging Nation. Save for Byrd and mildly for Franklin, the writers comprising this year's course wrote because the compelling and immediate truth must be told now; the impact of their telling it upon the present was necessary to help shape the events of the moment. 'Thus these writers gain their power through condensation, directness, and immediate application of their subject material to their surrounding realities. Or, in other words, this year's writers are not imaginative, but American. The lessons and objectives for the second year are as follows: Page 407 408 Lesson 9—Introduction: Light and Fire Objective: To sketch the background for changes in the American mind before and after the Revolutionary War. Lesson 10—Benjamin Franklin, Printer (1706-1790) (Text, pp. 95-122) Objective: To review some of Franklin's contributions to the American character. Lesson 11—Dr. Benjamin Franklin, Retired (Text, pp. 95-122) Objective: To review Franklin's literary versatility and so better appreciaate his native endowments. Lesson 12—Two Early American Quakers: Penn and Woolman (Text, pp. 123-127) Objective: To understand more fully the Quaker contribution to the American mind and culture. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JSUNE 1959 Lesson 13—Two Eighteenth - Century Observers: Byrd and Crevecoeur (Text, pp. 73-83, 127-136) Objective: To contrast two evaluations of early American character. Lesson 14—Thomas Paine, Revolutionist (Text, pp. 137-148) Objective: To evaluate Thomas Paine's contribution to the ideal of freedom. Lesson 15—The Federalists and the Great Transition (Text, pp. 24-32) Objective: To make preliminary acquaintance with the Federalistic concepts of man and government as written by Timothy Dwight and Alexander Hamilton. Lesson 16—Thomas Jefferson (1743+ 1826) (Text, pp. 149-154) Objective: To understand and appreciate Jefferson's contribution to the American way of life. Social Science —Spiritual Living in the Nuclear Age Preview of Lessons for 1959-60 Elder Blaine M. Porter Course Objective: To consider the ways in which we can increase our emotional and religious maturity and develop the personal characteristics which will enable us more fully to live the abundant life as prescribed by Christ. HETHER we like it or not, we are confronted by the necessity of re-evaluating many of our personal and social attitudes and practices in terms of new environmental and cultural conditions. These new conditions were dramatically ushered in by the first use LESSON DEPARTMENT of the atomic bomb on Hiroshima in August 1945. This has been followed by the development of hydrogen bombs, jet airplanes, and the satellite age, beginning with the launching of Sputnik I on October 4, 1957. Now with satellites circling the earth and being fired past the moon and sent into orbit around the sun, we are forced to wonder what almost unbelievable accomplishments are to follow. As a result of these spectacular events an attitude of unrest has begun to pervade our personal and social thinking. We are suddenly frightened as we realize that man now possesses the power and mechanical devices to destroy himself physically. More serious than the prospect of nuclear war is the likelihood that we may fail to defend and perpetuate what remains of civilized and happy living. A society not nourished by unwavering devotion to the values of the spirit will surely go down to ruin. Certain reappraisals have taken place as a result of these frightening events of our time. One might question whether or not these reappraisals have been carefully and objectively conducted, or if they have taken place in a state of anxiousness and frenzy. It seems unthinkable that training and _ research in the area of physical sciences should be expanded regardless of the cost. 'Technological superiority alone will not determine the winner of the world conflicts which may lie ahead. It is more likely that world conflicts will be finally won only by nations of free men who are free to think for themselves and who have developed the capacity to think and live in a mature fashion. 409 One might seriously question the adequacy of a society which has demonstrated its ability to preserve its existence but has done so at the expense of sacrificing its ability and willingness to formulate and defend cultural and spiritual values. Wisdom, ethics, understanding, sympathy, unselfishness, kindness, purity of motive, love of justice, love of one's fellowman—these are the emotions and _ attitudes for lack of which our spiritually undernourished age is languishing.... These unlock the door of human happiness. 'These have the power to subordinate our science and our discovery into benign instruments for the service of mankind (Jensen, Ellis E., "Our Undernourished Philosophy Department," Phi Kappa Phi Journal, Summer 1958, pp. 23-24, used by permission). The challenge of living spiritually in a nuclear age is before us, and it is quite possible that the success which we achieve in this direction will be of far greater significance in determining the peace of the world in the future than will the accomplishments of being in first place in the satellite race. It will be the purpose of the series of lessons on "Spiritual Living in the Nuclear Age" to consider the ways in which we can increase our emotional and religious maturity and develop the personal characteristics which will enable us more fully to live the abundant life as prescribed by Christ. The importance of this latter achievement lies not only in the significant role which it can play in establishing a peaceful world, but also in the contribution it makes in helping us experience more gracious and happy living as we move toward our goal of perfection. An attempt will be made to pre- 410 sent the lesson material so that it will seem sufficiently specific and tangible to be of practical use and not in the realm of theory and abstractness. However, it should be remembered that we cannot be led by the hand all the way and have someone point out each step. The challenges of our time and of the gospel of Jesus Christ require a maturity of developing an understanding of principles and a capacity to interpret and apply these principles to our own unique situation. We wish you happy adventuring through the following lessons: Lesson 1—The Spiritual Road Objective: To appraise present world conditions and to chart a course for the spiritually minded person living in the nuclear age. Lesson 2—Developing Emotional Maturity Objective: To gain an understanding of what emotional maturity is and how it can be evaluated. Lesson 3—The Role of Emotional Maturity in Spiritual Living RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1959 Objective: To analyze some of the factors influencing development of emotional maturity; and to develop an appreciation of the importance of emotional maturity in living the fulness of the gospel. Lesson 4—The Individual and Religious Maturity—Part I Objective: To consider some criteria of religious maturity and the role of religious maturity in spiritual living. Lesson 5—The Individual and Religious Maturity—Part II Objective: To consider some criteria of religious maturity and the role of religious maturity in spiritual living. Lesson 6—Creative and Spiritual Living—Pathways to Peace Part I Objective: To explore the ways in which creative and spiritual living can add to the abundance and richness of life. Lesson 7—Creative and Spiritual Living—Pathways to Peace Part II Objective: To explore the ways in which creative and spiritual living can contribute toward building a world of peace and good will toward men. Where the Gull Goes Gwen Marler Barney High as I want to go Is where the gull flies in slow turning Away from what I know, from call and care. But look below and bird swiftly wheels to nest As I to bungalow. Notes on the Authors A Vl C AY z of the Lessons SON [} QS BSS Zz; WAS yr a TH year two new writers are SS represented among the authors Ke 7 = of the lessons and introduced to S w readers of the Magazine. BiographBE be ical sketches of Elder Blaine M. A Porter and Charlotte A. Larsen follow. ORGAN BOOKS LAINE M. Porter, author of the for the Church Organist social science lessons "Spiritual...... AT THE CONSOLE—Felton............2.00 Living in the Nuclear Age," was |.----- CHANCEL ECHOES—Felfon..........2.50 born in Morgan, Utah, the second } ---- CHAPEL ORGANIST......---nl-------0--+2.00 - CHURCH MUSIC FOR THE son of Ernest and Edna Brough SMALLEST ORGAN—Nevin......... 1.50 Porter. He graduated from Morgan a. DEVOTIONAL ORGAN ALBUM— High School and Morgan L. D. S. SOE a teecececsccnc= nan eoeOror2.50 Seminary. He attended Utah State | ~~ OR ale ee USER: University and Weber College i ool |? Co) nnea. 1.25 where he was in the first graduat- |...... NINETY THREE SHORT SOLOS....2.75 ing class from the Institute of Re- | ~.... ORGAN MUSINGS......-seeeeccceeeceee 1.50 | ligion at Weber College. A ORGAN MELODIES—Landon........ 1.50 |. Dr. Porter served in the United | --- ORGAN IN THE CHURCH—Asper..2.75 ff States Air Force as a pilot during | ~~~ eI NUD ie 2 etcloskel World War II, during which time [~~ ake See_ag" he was awarded both US and RAF [|_| REED ORGAN PLAYER..................1.00 wings. He returned to Brigham |... TWO STAFF ORGAN BOOK........1.00 } Young University, where he received J...... WARNER'S TWILIGHT INTERhis Bachelor's and Master's Degrees. A <a aeee His Ph. D. Was received at Cornell Music Sent on Approval University, Ithaca, New York. He Use this advertisement as your order blank was a member of the faculty at lowa | | Daynes music COMPANY State College for five years, and, |! Sciriabe Ciy'11, Utah since the fall of 1955, he has been Please Caos the music indicated above. Professor and chairman of the De || Fle Gl Money Gficiosed partment of Human Development Wiaere and Family Relationships at Brig- | | address! Ham Young University. | City & State He served in the Sunday School — © i arn superintendency at B. Y. U., was Mice | Sunday School superintendent in Daynes USEC the branch at Ames, Iowa, and a ILATLALITATLL 74 member of the stake YMMIA superapueaticie: eae an Lake a Woe intendency in Long Beach, Cali- | Page 411 412 Vida Fox Clawson Travel Service Recognized... For Experience, Integrity, Service. For the best in travel since 1933 Special all-expense tours now forming to: HAWAII, NORTHWEST, EUROPE, THE ORIENT, and MEXICO Original Historic Tour includes the PAGEANT AT THE HILL CUMORAH. Departs on August 1, 1959. For free folder write or phone: VIDA FOX CLAWSON 216 South 13th East Salt Lake City 2, Utah Phone: DA 8-0303 fornia. He recently served as chairman of a special research and advisory committee for the General Boards of the Primary and YWMIA. He is presently a member of the East Sharon Stake Sunday School board. He is a member of the executive committee and board of directors of the National Council on Family Relations and chairman of its section on marriage counseling. He served as the president-elect of the Iowa Council on Family Relations, and Vice-Chairman of the section on Family Relations and Child Development of the American Home Economics Association. He married Elizabeth Taylor of Spanish Fork, Utah. They have four children, Claudia, Roger, David, and Patty. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1959 CHARLOTTE A. Larsen, author of the work meeting lessons, "Physical Safety Factors in the Home," has been a member of the General Board of Relief Society since 1953. One of nine children, she was born in Logan, Utah, a daughter of John H. And Anna Fliason Anderson. She attended Brigham Young College and Utah State Agricultural College. She married Joseph Reuben Larsen, and they are parents of five children, four of them living: Dr. L. C. Larsen, Salt Lake City chiropodist; Mrs. Bernice Larsen Robbins; John A. Larsen, Assistant Principal, West High School, Salt Lake City, Utah; and Dr. J. R. Larsen, Jr., Professor of Entomology, University of Pennsylvania. A daughter LaFaye Larsen died at the age of nine years. 'There are sixteen grandchildren and two great-grandchildren. The family members are all devoted to the Church and take an active part in it. Sister Larsen has been a Relief Society worker for more than thirty years, and has also worked in the other auxiliaries of the Church, including the position of drama director in Yale and Yalecrest Wards, Salt Lake City, Utah. For many years she was a teacher of private groups in dramatic arts and public speaking. At present she is Second VicePresident of the Salt Lake City Safety Council, and for four years she has represented the General Board of Relief Society on this council. For biographical sketches of the authors of the other lessons, see: Elder Roy W. Doxey, author of the theology lessons, The Relief Society Magazine, June 1957, page 410. TATTERSALL CULOTTES in no-iron plisse with an easy zip front, action back. Red/black, blue/black, 12 - 20, 14-24%. GOLFER in ever-glaze minicare cotton with action backand hs sleeves. Blue, pink, Oe awn ok S brown, 12-20, 14'4- We at 242. ZCMI DAYTIME DRESSES Downstairs Store Mail orders to: MARGOT MANNERS, ZCMI, Salt Lake City 10, Ut. 1 1 Please send the following dresses at 3.98 ea: ( ) Cash ( ) Charge ( ) C. O. D. I 1 ' 1 1 Style Quan. Size Color £. Name ee nl Xo Col d-\ 5 re City....... Eeeeeecceeeeeeeeeseseeee Zone........ State... Item, 10¢ each additional. Utah residents add | 2% state tax. | Postage outside of Salt Lake City — 29c first 414 HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT TOUR Leaving Salt Lake City, Utah, July 24, 1959. 23 Days. See Liberty, Carthage, Nauvoo, Adam-Ondi-Ahman, Kirtland, etc. Including Chicago, Boston, New York, Washington, Niagara Falls, and the SONG OF NORWAY Stage ow. NORTHWESTERN TOUR Fifteen Days. Leaving Salt Lake City, Utah, July 5th, 1959. Including Banff, Lake Louise, Vancouver, and Victoria. Also an eight-day tour to Banff, Lake Louise, Coeur D'Alene. MESA VERDE Labor Day weekend tour. September 5-6-7, 1959. HAWAIIAN TOUR Leaving in November. Tours leaving every month. For Itinerary write or phone: ESTHER JAMES TOURS 460 Seventh Avenue Salt Lake City 3, Utah Phone EM 3-5229 ®@ BEAUTIFUL eo HANDY e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover—$2.50; Leather Cover—$3.80 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles.0.. 35 150 to 300 miles.......... U... 39 300 to 600 miles 45 600 to 1000 miles uuu. 54 1000 to 1400 miles 64 1400 to 1800 miles ou.... Over 1800 miles oe... Cece.87 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-2581 33 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1959 Christine H. Robinson, author of the visiting teacher messages, June 1957, page 412. Elder Briant S. Jacobs, author of the literature lessons, July 1949, page 471. Relief Society for Mothers and Daughters Permella Haggard Y heart is full of thanksgiving for the beautiful memories I carry with me of my early training, and for the habits acquired as a small girl When we were young, we children went to Relief Society with mother. She never knew what it was to stay home because it happened to be nap time. For that one day, we skipped our naps. Biby-sitters were not heard of then. Everyone went and took their little ones — and for this I am grateful. Now that I am older and have a grown daughter with four little ones of her own, I can see how important good habits can be when children are young. I respect and love my mother for setting the proper example for me, and now my daughter, in turn, has the habit of going to Relief Society, not because she thinks she should, but because she wants to. And how did she acquire that habit? Because while she was young and at home, she saw the great good Relief Society had done for me. In one of her recent letters she wrote about walking to Relief Society and taking her babies. Her car was tied up for the day, but that didn't keep her home. In turn, her children are getting the habit and know what Tuesday has in store for them. Every young girl should have praise and honor for her mother and encourage her to go to Relief Society meetings and perform her duties. The things she learns there help her to be a better mother and wife. Life is like climbing a mountain. You know full well that on reaching the top there will be unfolded to you blessings of which you never even dreamed. But, as you struggle upwards, pebbles get into your shoes and hurt your feet, briars tear and scratch you, and, suddenly, you trip and fall, having been unaware of a hidden rock in the ground. This can be compared to difficulties we meet with in everyday life. The pebble which hurts our foot is that little desire not to do all the things we know we should, thus hurting us spiritually and physically; the briar which scratches and tears is an unkind act to those who are trying so hard to encourage and lead us along the right path. And the hidden rock could be the criticism we make of our leaders. But the stout of heart, obeying the Lord's commandments despite their many weaknesses, follow the path with increased love and obedience. HE Relief Society was organized to raise human life to its highest level, and, surely, it does just that for all those who will let it. Most people need improvement, but the place to begin is with ourselves. Sometime when you're feeling important, sometime when your ego's in bloom, sometime when you take it for granted you're the best qualified person in the room, sometime when you feel that you are indispensable, just remember, none of us is indispensable, but we do want to leave a good impression in the hearts of all those who know us, and we can do that by developing ourselves spiritually. Relief Society offers this development. I am sure all of you sometime have seen the beautiful flowers blooming on the hillside in the springtime. Maybe several years go by without a single blossom. What is the reason for this? Seeds aren't planted just certain years. It takes God's refreshing and life-giving rain and lots of sunshine to make these seeds develop and mature into beautiful plants and flowers. I firmly believe that the Relief Society can help our members bloom into beautiful flowers. Our lessons in theology where we learn our Lord's work; in culture where we study the best of the world's literature; in music where we gain an appreciation of this lovely gift; in social science which we can apply to everyday affairs; in work meetings which provide an opportunity for our young members —— all these things can act as God's rain and sunshine upon our members. 'The seed is planted in each of us and with an earnest desire on our part, God will make it bloom. I used to think, what a nice person I am. So many wicked things I didn't do. But now that I have grown older, I sigh to think of the many good things I didn't do. I make a special note on important things to do and, although I struggle every day, I never get quite through And so it goes from day to day, forever without end, no matter how much energy I constantly expend. RELIEF SOCIETY FOR MOTHERS AND DAUGHTERS 415 416 HAWAIIAN TOURS Leave once a month. Prices start from $275. Please inquire about these wonderful tours to Hawaii. HISTORICAL TOUR Leaves August 1, 1959, for the famous HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT and visiting! Many cities including Chicago, New York, Washington D. C., Boston, Niagara Falls, Canada, and many other Historical places of the Church and country. SCENIC NORTHWESTERN TOUR Please write for information concerning this tour. For further details write or phone: MARGARET LUND TOURS P. O. Box 20 Sugar House Station Salt Lake City, Utah Phone IN 6-2909, AM 2-2339, CR 7-6334 LEARN TO -TYPEWRITE! New Classes Begin Soon Adult classes for Relief Society and genealogy workers will teach beginning and advanced typing. Classes will run 6:30 to 8:00 p. M., Mondays and Thursdays. Individual help and instruction by professional teachers. Call for reservations and further information. LDS BUSINESS COLLEGE Phone EM 3-2765 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1959 But then sometimes I wonder as I tackle something new, how would I feel if I had no important thing to do. Relief Society is important. It is here for all to enjoy — young members as well as the older ones. Come and see for yourselves. May the Lord bless all of you with the earnest desire to serve and the: time and ability to do it. A> ~<-- Birthday Congratulations Ninety-five Mrs. Hannan S. JONES Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-four Mrs. EvizABETH Mone FELIx Logan, Utah Ninety-two Mrs. ANNIE E. Ciark Morrett Smoot, Wyoming Ninety-one Mrs. Georcina Toone ConpDIE Ogden, Utah Mrs. BopELL CurisTINE [H]ANSEN JENSEN Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety Mrs. Frepa vON Hake Santa Monica, California Mrs. Mare Rutru Spruce DrumMMOND Sacramento, California Mrs. Emity Cowrry Bencu FowLerR Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Nancy MatHews Shelley, Idaho ALVINA GLATTLE WEBER Chicago, Illinois 70 North Main Salt Lake City 11, Utah FAMILY NIGHT FUN Monroe and Shirley Paxman Here's a book that provides many planned activities to enliven family nights and family parties — cement closer ties and build wholesome attitudes in young lives. 2.95 RELIGION and THE PURSUIT of TRUTH Lowell L. Bennion Dr. Bennion recognizes many of the problems confronting university and other students of the sciences and liberal arts and, with understanding, shows how all knowledge supports gospel truths. 2.79 | Reseret Book Company —_ —_ — "| 44 East South Temple | Gentlemen: Enclosed you will find ( ) check ( ) money order i ] ( ) I have an account. Please charge for encircled (num- | I I bered) books: 1 2 Salt Lake City, Utah Name | ee ae........ | vt ' is ~, ee a PK~10-95-308G51 "sree JAN 69 P| % Freslu, Trogon ov Phesowedl.... Agers Ne. 4: 44 ®. Ra nee a ele rN <. Bey Strawberries are so-o-o good!, Strawberries are so delicious and can be eaten in so many different delicious = ways that it's no wonder they've always been such a family favorite.. Used in fruit cups, fruit salads, gelatins, ice cream, cobblers, pies, short cake, or just with cream and sugar, strawberries add appeal to any meal. 10 ton Preserved or made into jam, you can enjoy them all year round as ie | spreads, or as toppings for pancakes, puddings and ice cream. And of course strawberries and U and I Sugar go hand in hand. Make sure you're prepared ' SUGAR for the big berry season ahead: check up on your sugar supply now. "Fine cnaveuaten And remember: you can't buy a finer, purer sugar than home-produced U and I Sugar. SS MAGA ZINE The RELIEF SOCIETY ou i pee we 3 1) | a | 4 14 | | 4 4 iq i 4 | 4 a q 7 q 3 q =VOL. 46 NO. 7 Lessons for Octebe: JULY 1959 Summer Cry Christie Lund Coles Bathe me in beauty, World, Immerse me in your color and your sound. Let all your greening hills envelop me In loveliness immaculately found. Weave me in wonder, World. Let all your leaf-spun magic be a veil Encasing me this hour in turquoise light, Where nothing dark nor doubting can assail. Mould me in music, World. Circle me with chiming lilt of bird. Let me be part of the most quiet sound, My being song with all that it has heard. Sate me with summer, World, With tall, cool grass, with petal, and the high Clouds moving endlessly. Let me be one With the silent signature of sun and sky. The Cover: Capitol Building, Baton Rouge, Louisiana Photograph by Fred H. Ragsdale, Free Lance Photographers Guild Frontispiece: Landscape Near Lake City, Colorado Photograph by Don Knight Cover Design by Evan Jensen Cover Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press From Near and Sar I enjoyed very much the article "Would You Write Poetry?" by Sylvia Probst Young in the May issue of the Magazine. It appeared to me as one of the best I have read on the subject. It is satisfying to know that at last I have succeeded in writing a story worthy of publication in the Magazine ("Gem of the Hills," May 1959). I have received many compliments on it. —Lydia M. Sorensen Utah Emery, From deep in the heart of Texas, I'm lost without my Relief Society Magazine, as the cowboy without his boots! Being so far from the headquarters of the Church, we here need all the words of wisdom and inspiration we can get via our Church publications. The good, clean, wholesome stories, and other features of the Magazine, are a welcome relief from the world of everyday tension and rush. —Mrs. Beatrice Foster Arlington, Texas Mr. Hale and I have returned to Japan, and will be here for one more year. I very much appreciate the Magazine.... I study the lessons by myself, but enjoy the Magazine always, and it seems like a breath of home when the Magazine arrives. I use the recipes to teach my young Japanese friends how to cook. We have made the "Orange Date Nut Bread" (from the January issue). The girls are very much surprised that a religious Magazine has so much material for everyday living. —Miriam C. Hale Nagoya, Japan I feel that I have missed a great deal by not being brought up in the Church, and am deeply thankful to be able to read material in the Magazine to help me in trying to rear a child who will be a credit to the Church. I look forward to each issue and often read portions aloud to my husband, so that he, too, can share the amg ext poems, stories, and articles. The recipes help me to make meals more interesting. —Millie Martindale Bossier City, Louisiana Page 418 I have read the Magazine since I was a child in my mother's home and have enjoyed every story and lesson just a little more than the last. It is really wonderful to have a good Magazine coming into our home now when there is so little material of similar calibre available. —Loray C. Randall Compton, California I surely enjoy the Magazine and receive much inspiration from it. 'The wonderful messages that reach me while reading the stories and articles help me so much in the role as a wife and mother. —Sharon B. Ballif Phoenix, Arizona My mother-in-law was so kind to send me The Relief Society Magazine for our stay here in the Netherlands while my husband is studying plant breeding at Wageningen. I am grateful for the Relief Society organization and my membership in it. Here in our small branch of the Church I meet with six other members for our meetings. I ride my bicycle to these meetings. The Magazine has so many faith-building articles. I read it from cover to cover and then pass it on to the Relief Society president here at the Ede Branch. —Mrs. Merilouise [1. Madsen Netherlands Bennehom, I have again sent in gift subscriptions for three sisters, one daughter, and two daughters-in-law. They all write heartfelt thanks for the lovely Magazine, ''the Christmas present that lasts all year." | am truly grateful for the inspirational and worthwhile subject matter I find in every number. —Ftta S. Robbins Idaho Falls, Idaho It is indeed a pleasure and a satisfaction to be instrumental in bringing the inspiration as well as the wealth of instruction The Relief Society Magazine brings into the homes. —Jennie W. Erekson Salt Lake City, Utah \ THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - - First Counselor Louise W. Madsen - - - - - - = - = Second Counselor Hulda Parker - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Aleine M. Young Edith. Backman Mary V. Cameron Edith S. Elliott Josie B. Ba Winniefred S. Afton W. Hunt Florence J. Madsen Christine H. Robinson Manwaring Wealtha S. Mendenhall Leone G. Layton Alberta H. Christensen Elna P. Haymond Pearle M. Olsen Blanche B. Stodderd Mildred B. Eyring Annie M. Ellsworth Elsa T. Peterson Evon W. Peterson Charlotte A. Larsen Mary R. Young Irene B. Woodford Fannie S. Kienitz RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford VOL. 46 JULY 1959 NO. 7 Conten ls SPECIAL FEATURES In Memoriam — President Stephen L Richards 42) America's Challenge — Individual Righteousness.. A. Theodore Tuttle 424 Fanny Steenblik Kienitz Appointed to General Board of Relief peciey =.... Elsie M. Belliston 427 The Gulf States Mission 20.0... Cc cescessseeeeesceesseeeeees.-Preston R. Nibley 428 "More Precious Than Rubies' oi... Ccc cccececceccecceecescecescecccnsecesnescceceececsecsensesnecssessessessensecesseessescestesteensceseceeuces 440 FICTION Blue Voile for Dreams Norma Wrathall 430 Pretending Garden — -Helen H. Trutton 444 Such a Heavenly Secret oo. E. Ceccceeceeececssseeeccceeeceeceesceeceeeecsscecceseesesecseceseensesessnecesecee"Mabel Law Atkinson 450 The Silver Leash — Chapter 7 Beatrice Rordame Parsons 455 From Near and Far wiiceeecteceeccecseeceeseceeseree ene a. 418 Sixty Years Ago. 436 Woman's Sphere o. O. E. Ecsssccecessecccesecsececcceeeeereeceseeecceseetccceneeeseees. Ramona W. Cannon 437 Editorial: Planning Summer Activities for Children..000........ A Marianne C. Sharp 438 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities _— Hulda Parker 461 FEATURES FOR THE HOME Recipes From the Gulf States Mission Emma A. Hanks 441 Jewels for the Table.. C. Eeecceccccccecsesesescessesenseccssssessesseenseasenencesenesees.-. Marian Gardner Nielson 448 Meletia Miles Makes Sweaters in Unusual Designs... 454 Recipe for Cold Water Soap es. 488 LESSONS FOR OCTOBER Theology — 'Magnify Thine OMG" een Roy W. Doxey 468 Visiting Teacher Messages — "... Take Upon You My Whole Armor. 2.) o. Escsesscsssscsceeeceeee Christine H. Robinson 474 Work Meeting — Child Satety Charlotte A. Larsen 475 Literature — Introduction: Light and Fire uel Briant S. Jacobs 477 Social Science — The Spiritual Road. Blaine M. Porter 483 POETRY Summer Cry — Frontispiece. Christie Lund Coles 417 Summit. Maude Rubin 423 To Benjamin From ir 2... Ceceececccceccceee een eceeeeeeenesneeeeesneeeeeseeesnneeeeceassesesaeeneessElsie McKinnon Strachan 435 First in the Valley —- Dorothy J. Roberts 439 Search Not Stars -...... CccccccccsceccscccsccceccececceecesececssoeeesseseessesseseseeesessvscsesessustensvasesecaceseneeLeona Fetzer Wintch 447 Quoit Tower, San Francisco.... Boocerce Margery S. Stewart 453 Elizabeth a ae CO a Ethel Jacobson 460 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Copyright 1959 by General Board of Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Editorial and Business Offices: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah: Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy; payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 8, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1108, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Page 419 Birthday Congratulations... Cccecececceseeccccsesecsccecececoeeeessscseeeceecesenscsaesessessceesecesecetesesessnsssesensssessases 488 PRESIDENT STEPHEN L RICHARDS Ga Mlemoriam President Stephen of Richards (June 18, 1879—May 19, 1959) ards, First Counselor in the First Presidency, died suddenly on Tuesday morning, May 109, 1959. He would have turned eighty years old on June 18th. 'The news of his passing brought sorrow to the membership of the Church whom he had devotedly served for fortytwo ycars—thirty-four years as a member of the Quorum of the Twelve and for the last eight years as First Counselor to his loved and esteemed friend, President David O. McKay. During his service in the First Presidency, President Richards has given special attention to the direction of the missionary program of the Church. To that work he gave unsparingly of his great powers and capabilities. The increased missionary work during his years of service bespeaks his influence and effectiveness. President Richards lived those things which he taught. The sacredness of the home and _ its perpetuity in the hereafter were exemplified by his personal life. To him and his dearly beloved wife, Irene Smith Merrill Richards, there were born nine children, seven of whom survive him. Including those who became a part of President Richard's family through marriage, there were eighty-four members in the closely knit family circle at the time of President Richard's passing. President Richards and his wife, Irene, have bequeathed a_ great heritage to their children and to their families and set high standards Pores, Fist Stephen L Richof family life for the members of the Church as well as for the world. Relief Society acknowledges with gratitude the interest which President Richards had in it. Preserved in the pages of The Relief Society Magazine for many years past are words of counsel and admonition from him. While his mortal span has passed, the influcnce of his teachings will continue to be felt. It seems fitting to include excerpts so that his own words may speak to us. The visiting teachers of Relief Society and the work which he envisioned for them engaged his attention particularly: I pay my tribute of respect, admiration, and love to the visiting teachers of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. In my humble judgment, and to the best of my knowledge, there has not cxisted in the last hundred years, and there does not now exist, any group of persons, male or female, who have given and now give more devoted, altruistic, unselfish influence and self-effacing service to the children of our Father than this group of Relief Society visiting teachers. They are the quict, unobtrusive, faithful guardians of our homes. Throughout the years their kindly ministrations have been countless. They, with the bishops, have been the first to appear with offerings of help in times of sickness, death, or other distress. They have fed the hungry, they have clothed the naked, they have comforted the bereaved, and inspirited the hopeless. They have never taken nor received a cent of pay. I believe there is no other such social service of record on a purely volunteer basis (The Relief Society Magazine, December 1954, pp. 796-797). Page 421 422 N many of his addresses, President Richards held up the lofty concept of motherhood, decrying present-day evils, and portraying in beautiful language the love and worth of hearth and home: I believe that all people are by nature endowed with something of a love for the beautiful in their hearts, and it needs but cultivation and encouragement to develop it into one of the loveliest aspects of living. Almost all are sensitive to color, to form and symmetry, so that good architecture and good landscaping with trees, flowers, shrubs and lawns have a very appreciable effect, even though sometimes unconsciously, upon all persons. The love of home is one of the great virtues of the race, and undoubtedly the beauty of home has done much to stimulate that love. It is very fortunate that it doesn't take much money to indulge aesthetic tastes, particularly in the care of the home. Cleanliness and neatness are the chicf requirements, and personal energy, ambition and pride can supply these. The humblest cottage can be a_ lovely place, a haven of refuge and a constant delight, if it is but kept neat and _ tidy and clean (The Relief Society Magazine, January 1942, pp. 25-26). In such a concept [of motherhood] duty comes first. Duty is always rigorous and exacting. It does not tolerate neglect, and it will not permit itself to be subordinated to pleasure and levity. It entails seeming sacrifice, but sacrifice is a word of many definitions and constructions. If we mean by it foregoing many of the quests and liberties for personal pleasure outside family and home then there are many sacrifices. If we include sleepless nights, physical exhaustion, and incessant toil, there is more sacrifice. But if our vision is raised, and we look ahead to the maturity and nobility of lives whom the mother has nurtured and developed, then we interpret all of the self-denial, all of the patient labor and exertion as opportunity for the fulfillment of the greatest mission that can ever come to woman—motherhood, which brings into the world and guides back to God the eternal souls of men. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1959 What such an exalted concept of motherhood, if universally understood and accepted, would do for the homes of men and, through them, for the nations of the world, no one can estimate. It makes a home the mission of a lifetime; it deters divorce; it provides its own rewards; it makes for the safest sanctuary of all the virtues; and, in its higher aspects, it serves to create the prototype of the heavenly status—the eternal home which awaits the faithful of all of God's children (The Relief Society Magazine, May 1951, pp. 296-297). A! This time when hearts are heavy over the loss of President Richards, it is encouraging to read his words of comfort and advice to those who lost dear ones in the war: If a great gricf comes to your home, you will need help. Nothing is more precious than one's own flesh and blood, and the loss of a manly son, a devoted husband, or father, or a life mate-to-be is not easily requited. Kinspeople, good friends, and neighbors may come to bring you sympathy, love and kindness. This will help, but it will not be enough. You will tell yourself that he died in a great cause—in the service of his country. You will convince yourself that it was a noble sacrifice. You will be proud of him, but your heart will still ache and you will have an irrepressible longing once more to see his face, to hear his voice, and have his arms around you and feel again the warmth and tendermess of his loving embrace. Surely you will need help. I know of one source only from which that help may be secured. It is from this selfsame Jesus who gave His life for others and, on the third day, took it up again. Even with His help you will still weep, but you will not weep in vain. If you will let Him, He will take away all bitterness from your loss. He will touch your broken heart and it will mend, not all at once perhaps, but gradually and surely. If you will listen to the voice of His Spirit and His holy Word, He will convince you that your loved one is not lost but only separated from you for a time, and that you may confidently look forward to a happy companionship in the not-too-dis- tant future where there will be no more war, no more cruelty, and no more sad partings from those we love (The Relief Society Magazine, April 1944, page 197). PEAKING of the love he bore President McKay, President Richards wrote: I have tried but never been able to express the gratitude I feel for the high privilege of being admitted to the circle of his intimate friends. If I may be permitted to remain within that circle for the period of this life, and for the life to come, I shall feel that I have won a blessing of incomparable value (Relief Society Magazine, June 1951, page 368). President Richards testified of the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith, and in one discourse he spoke of his contributions to the world, closing with an earnest appeal to all men to investigate the truth: One of the features of temple work should for emphasis be specially mentioned. It is the sealing of husband and wife in the eternal covenant of marriage. Joseph Smith taught that the family circle is the foundation of exaltation and that its projection into eternity is heaven itself. He sanctified the association of loved ones. He made the father a priest and the mother a priestess in the temple of the home. If his glorious interpretation of this divine institution could have general application, the ills of society would be cured and the brotherhood of mankind established. This contribution alone entitles him to a place on the very summit of distinction among the world's philosophers and benefactors.... If any man has received in his heart the witness of the divine truth embraced in the contributions of the Prophet Joseph, I charge him to be true,—true to his testimony, true to the Prophet, the founder, true to the cause and its duly commissioned leaders, true to the covenants he has made in holy places, and true to the brotherhood of man in the service that he renders. If any man has not received this witness, I appeal for his thoughtful, prayerful, sympathetic consideration. I offer to him, out of the experiences of my life, a humble but certain assurance that if he will receive and apply the teachings of Joseph Smith he will be made happy. Doubt and uncertainty will leave him. Glorious purpose will come into life. Family tics will be sweeter. Friendships will be dearer. Service will be nobler, and the peace of Christ will be his portion. I so testify in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen (The Relief Society Magazine, December 1936, pp. 740-741). Happiness and joy will come to anyone who studies and follows the teachings of the gospel so eloquently set forth by President Richards. Su mmut Maude Rubin This mountain summit knows no gentle mouth Of summer's kiss, nor warmth, nor tropic sun; Though its foot is planted greenly in the south, It lives with stars and clouds.... All climbing done, It stands alone; its tranquil brightness flares White above white in layered winter snow, Stillness to silence stillness, breathing airs Of rarified aloofness.... Who can know The everlasting loneliness of peaks Where only God in slow creation speaks? IN MEMORIAM — PRESIDENT STEPHEN L RICHARDS 423 America's Challenge — Individual Righteousness Elder A. Theodore Tuttle Of the First Council of the Seventy In the souls of its citizens — will be found the likeness of the state — which if they be unjust and tyrannical then will it reflect their vices. But if they be lovers of righteousness confident in their liberties — so will it be — clean in justice — bold in freedom. HIS statement, carved in marble in the Oregon State Capitol Building, embodies the challenge for individual rightcousness for all citizens of this land —and_ particularly for Latter-day Saints. They know that this great land, the people who inherit it, and those who govern the people have a special responsibility to our Father in heaven. Revelation has made clear that through the blessings of God this nation is "choice above all other lands," not only in_ physical and national resources, but in the type of constitutional government that prevails in this land — giving us freedom of opportunity and growth. Latter-day Saints also know that these marvelous blessings and great promises are predicated upon solemn and exacting obligations on the part of the people of this land. Few warnings are sounded more clearly in The Book of Mormon than the call to, and necessity for, individual righteousness. In the Book of Ether we read: Behold, this is a choice land, and whatsoever nation shall possess it shall be free from bondage, and from captivity, and from all other nations under heaven, if they will but serve the God of the land, who is Jesus Christ... (Ether 2:12). Members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints believe Page 424 that our country's Constitution is no mere manmade document. 'The Lord affirms, in the 101st Section of 'The Doctrine and Covenants, that he suffered the establishment of the laws and Constitution which govern this people, and he states that "for this purpose have I established the Constitution of this land, by the hands of wise men whom I raised up unto this very purpose, and redeemed the land by the shedding of blood" (D & C 101:80). One hundred and eighty-three years ago this month our fathers brought forth on this continent a new nation. It cost them something — suffering, privation, destitution, blood — everything. They wanted to breathe the air of independence and were willing to pay the price that was exacted. Theirs was a new experiment among the nations of the world. The "new nation" was to be different. It was to become the American system. One may wonder how and where the idea was born, since there was no precedent for it anywhere on the globe. It seemed to spring out of the American soil, and in course of time attained a healthy growth, for here in the great open spaces no old-world power could suppress it (Sunshine Magazine, November 1956, back cover). Latter-day Saints clearly understand that God raised up men to formulate such an idea and gave inspiration to them to do so. Their ideas of government were em- bodied in the Constitution — of which "we the people" were the authors. Thus their rights were defined and safeguarded. Freedom of speech and of the press and the worship of God was guarantced to every citizen from the least to the greatest. In that atmosphere of guaranteed liberty our nation has become a commonwealth of some one hundred and seventyfive million people. Its independence long has been taken as a matter of fact. But in that independence can lie danger. If liberty is made to work, to realize its aims, it becomes its own vindication, and men will not willingly turn from it. But woe unto those who would willingly turn back from this plane of liberty to become a mere gadget in a political machine (Ibid). Each of us must be willing to pay the price in effort, education, and service to maintain this hardwon independence. If our liberty is lost to us it will not be through invading armies, but through the degeneration of the people. Against that possibility our forces must ever be mobilized and our lives dedicated. J. Edgar Hoover echoes this challenge to Americans to be full-time patriots: There is no place in America for parttime patriots. If our nation is to live, if we are to continue to enjoy the fruits of liberty, we can do no Jess than follow the example of the men who won that freedom for us. Freedom, while a heritage, must be rewon for each generation. With complete selflessness and with blazing intensity of spirit, our forefathers dedicated their lives first to securing and then to maintaining, freedom. They knew at first hand that life without freedom is intolerable. And so they dreamed of freedom, fought for freedom, lived for freedom, breathed it and spoke it, prayerfully and without self-consciousness. Benjamin Franklin could say simply and eloquently, "Where Liberty dwells, there is my country." And when the salute of cannon in celebration of the Fourth of July reached his ears, a dying John Adams could arouse himself long enough to murmur "Independence forever!" Independence, freedom, liberty — are words that ring like exulting bells! 'Today we need such bells to be rung. 'This nation is face to face with the gravest danger ever to confront it. The menace of Communism is no simple, forthright threat. It is a sinister and deadly conspiracy which can be conquered only by an alert, informed citizenry dedicated to the preservation of the principles on which America was founded. If our nation is to retain its liberty in the future, now, as never before, its citizens must understand that the inescapable price of freedom is eternal vigilance. And eternal vigflance, with dedication to its cause, brings unity and strength in time of crisis (Used by permission of J. Edgar Hoover, Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation, and reprinted from This Week Magazine, copyright 1956 by the United Newspapers Magazine Corporation, reprinted by permission). Such unity and strength characterized the pioncers who came to these mountain valleys and wrested from a desert a flourishing empire. This was not won, however, by reliance on the Government, nor was it done by some patronalistic scheme — it was done "on their own." It took co-operation and individual effort. Their faith in God was such that they believed he had brought them here. And they were right. And they believed too that whatever he commanded them to do, he would assist them in performing. So in him, they had a mighty helping hand. But he would only work through them. It was their effort which must make the desert blossom as the rose. They must plow, and they must water. Then he would give the increase. It was a great faith. And the results were equally great. On their own they attacked the dried up land, flooded it, plowed it, planted it, and flooded it again. Crops grew, cities appeared, they produced a beauty spot.... They learned that there was no helping hand to give them security. 'There was no escape from want and fear except as AMERICA'S CHALLENGE — INDIVIDUAL RIGHTEOUSNESS 425 426 they provided it for themselves. There were no socialistic ideas in their minds. They were individuals. They knew they must work for what they got. They knew that the very foundation of success for a man, a family, or a nation, is in honest toil, wherein every man gives honestly of his effort for what he gets, and where all expect to support themselves, and make the best of their conditions ('Church News," Deseret News Editorial, July 18, 1951, page 16). URING the month of July, which is doubly significant to Latter-day Saints, it would be well for parents to teach the real meaning of the "Fourth" and the "Twenty-Fourth.". No doubt, occasion should be taken during the family hour in July to instil appreciation for the dedication to the great ideals of freedom and liberty and work that made these events significant. It would be well for parents to clarify their thinking, as well as to help their children understand that God's purposes require adherence to great ideals; and that the threat to these ideals is often insidious and hidden behind fine-sounding phrases actually opposed to God's teachings. Whereas at one time Americans were self-reliant, each individual wanting to work out his own welfare, now many talk in terms of a "security" which they hope to get very largely from someone else. And where once a premium was placed upon productive effort, there is now the hope of doing as little as possible in order to get as much as possible. Artisans who once took pride in pointing to their high production, now have become part of a regime which holds down production to a certain maximum, which generally is far beneath a man's normal capacity. And yet full compensation is asked for that type of service. The "get something for nothing" attitude is crowding out old-fashioned Americanism. It is entirely different from the thinking that forged greatness into our RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1959 country. As a youthful nation, moving forward, crossing old frontiers and making new ones, for years we put a high value on productivity. Now many are slipping away from it. Is it a wholesome condition? America is a Christian nation, built largely upon Christian principles. Is this new attitude in keeping with true Christianity? The spirit of the gospel is the spirit of productivity. The Savior taught men to "bring forth much fruit"; he told the story of the "unprofitable serv vant"; he said that branches which do not produce should be cut off ("Church News," Deseret News, Editorial, July 25, 1951, page 16). Fundamental to the maintenance of our God-given freedom is the necessity for religion and morality. George Washington said: Of all the dispositions and habits which lead to political prosperity, religion and morality are indispensable supports. In vain would that man claim the tribute of patriotism, who should labor to subvert these great pillars of human happiness, these firmest props of the duties of men and citizens. The challenge to maintain freedom, liberty, and independence in reality is a challenge to individual righteousness. Mothers ought to concern themselves with the basic things that underlie morality and religion. Let us teach our children the necessity of industry, temperance, cleanliness in dress, person, and ideals; generosity, co-operation, studiousness, integrity, honesty, and service. These character attitudes inculcated into our children in their youth will do more than all else to maintain and perpetuate the great ideals for which blood was shed and sacrifice made by those who founded and preserved this Nation. Fanny Steenblik Rienitz Appointed to General Board of Relief Society Elsie M. Belliston FANNIE STEENBLIK KIENITZ ANNY (Fenneken) Steenblik Kienitz was appointed a member of the General Board of Relicf Society May 13, 1959. In her life the gospel has been in very deed a way of life. 'The rich experiences it has brought to her span the ocean and reach into the mission field. She was born in beautiful Arnhem, Holland, to Frederik and Janna Tempelman Steenblik. Her parents accepted the gospel and came to America in time for Fanny to enter kindergarten. In Salt Lake City, Fanny's father, the Dutch shop owner, became a farmer and dairyman. His family grew until it numbered eleven. 'They understood the sacrifices that are made by converts to the Church who come to a strange land to make their home. Sister Kienitz grew up in the schooling of the Church and assisted in ward activities and entertainments, and served in positions of secretary, teacher, and counselor in ward auxiliaries. She married Willard Smith in the Salt Lake Temple. They were blessed with one son, Willard Steenblik Smith. She was sustained in the long illness and death of her husband by her faith and her loyal family. Two years later she was called to the East Central States when that mission was organized. She served as mission Relief Society president under the direction of Mission President Miles L. Jones, for the two years of her mission. She returned home to the care of her son. And the activities in her ward and stake. Her son Willard Steenblik Smith and his wife Emily Bringhurst Smith are the parents of four children. When she married William H. Kienitz she. Moved to Emigration Stake, and, in 1950 when University Stake was created, she became its Relief Society president. In 1956 she was appointed group leader of the Relief Society Presidents Department of the Salt Lake Welfare Region. Sister Kienitz has great willingness and capacity for work. She is anxious to consider others' points of view. She has a humble heart and great faith in our Father and the gospel of Jesus Christ. Page 427 She Gulf States Mission Preston R. Nibley Assistant Church Historian Ta meeting held in New Orleans, Louisiana, on June 19, 1955, under the direction of Harold B. Lee and Mark E. Petersen of the Council of the Twelve, the Gulf States Mission was formed. It included the States of 'Texas and Louisiana, and all of Mississippi except seventeen counties in the northern part of the state. Legrand F. Smith, who had been presiding over the Texas-Louisiana Mission, was chosen as the president of the new mission. On the same day that the Gulf States Mission was formed, the New Orleans Stake was organized, with a membership of 2,580. The membership of the mission was given as 4,996. Elder Alma Sonne, Assistant to the Twelve, visited the Gulf States Mission in October 1956. On his return to Salt Lake City he reported that there were eight districts and thirty-one branches in the mission, and that baptisms of new converts would reach 4oo during the year 1956. President Legrand F. Smith served faithfully as president of the mission until August 1957, when he was released to return to his home in Spanish Fork, Utah. Lincoln F. Hanks of Salt Lake City was called to = ro RE SH Ne 5 SASS pt } Le = ES ed S N hit: > ss > "S. A. - 7 ns Co eS >» > SHR - an + Bs 5 <4 A he.: «a ied.: ' ' Submitted by Emma A. Hanks Courtesy, Mississippi Agricultural and Industrial Board THE HISTORICAL BILOXI LIGHTHOUSE BUILT IN 1848 Page 428 THE GULF STATES MISSION 429 Submitted by Emma A. Hanks Courtesy, Louisiana Department of Commerce and Industry EVANGELINE'S GRAVE IN THE CHURCHYARD OF ST. MARTINVILLE, LOUISIANA The near-life size bronze statue was given to the town by the actress Dolores del Rio who played the title role in the film Evangeline which was made in this locality a number of years ago. Succeed him. President Smith, reporting the mission on his return, said that "the future looks bright in the Gulf States Mission." He stated that baptisms had increased from 168 the first year to 448 the last year he served, and that during his tenure of office seven chapels had been dedicated, and that others were under construction. Elder John Longden, Assistant to the 'Twelve, made a tour of the Gulf States Mission, in September 1958, with President Hanks. On his return to Salt Lake City he reported that "the mission is growing. As an example, there are now six stakes in the area of the mission — Dallas, Houston, San Antonio, E] Paso, Shreveport, and New Orleans." Ie pointed out that the mission membership was distributed among twentyseven branches and ten districts. On March 30, 1959, it was reported that there were 4,255 members in the Gulf States Mission, located in twenty-nine branches. Thirty-four Relief Society organizations, with 508 members, were reported in December 1958. Emma A. Hanks presides over the Gulf States Mission Relief Society. Note: The cover for this Magazine is a view of the State Capitol Building in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. See also "Recipes From the Gulf States Mission," by Sister Hanks, page 441. Blue Voile for Dreams Norma Wrathall T' four o'clock that summer afternoon, Janet Davis pulled from the oven a pan of her famous butterscotch-pecan rolls. Little rivers of melting brown sugar crusted over the luscious mounds of nuts, and the fragrance of buttery caramel and browning yeast-raised dough drifted through the kitchen. It tantalized Janet's nostrils and her mouth became moist, for she was hungry, having eaten nothing since morning. She pressed one finger lightly into the sirup and licked it. M-m-mmshe knew that the rolls were at their crunchy best when fresh from the oven. She could eat one or two and still have enough Icft for the bake sale next day, as promised. Almost without thought, she opened a drawer and took out a spatula. 'Then she flung it back, shoved the drawer shut, pushed the pan of rolls back onto the counter and covered them with a clean towel. She would not, she simply would not, eat one more sweet thing. If temptation assailed her, she had but to recall her own image in the full-length mirror at Mina Dee's Dress Shop that very forenoon. She could remember all too clearly how Mina had looked standing there, a black-sheathed blonde willow, her lips pressed into polite silence, as they both watched Jan's efforts to pull up the zipper. She could hear again the smooth little voice—''I'm so sorry, Mrs. Davis. I don't have that dress in your size." This, as Janet, having pulled up the zipper at last, stared in dismay at the bulges above her girdle. Just in time, she had stopped _ herself Page 430 from saying, "But this is size...." Jan now glanced at the clock and sighed. 'Time to start cooking another enormous dinner for her husband, Hal, and their two teen-age sons. Hal would soon be home from his work as a machinist, and the boys from her father's farm where they were working during the summer vacation. All three were as lean and muscular as race horses, and they ate like horses, too, she thought, and never gained an ounce. 'The boys were tall and rangy and tanned; Hal was tall and thick-shouldered and brown, his large face always ruddy and pleasant. Usually, Jan thought of her menfolk with affection. But this afternoon, a tiny line of annoyance was between her eyebrows. How could she diet when she was everlastingly preparing food? She decided that she would simply go all day each day without eating. Then, when night came, she could sit down and eat a reasonable amount, so that Hal and the boys would not comment. She shuddered to think of the jokes, the laughter, the remarks, if it became known that Mother was dieting. Then she thought of her sister, Elizabeth, who worked in an office in town. No wonder Liz could stay so trim; she was not exposed to food all day; she had no one but herself to fix for, and could eat what she chose. Liz had been a widow for many years. She lived alone in her apartmeat in the city, now that her daughter had married and moved away. Often she would drive out to see Jan, who lived at the edge of my BLUE VOILE FOR DREAMS town, and remark how nice it would be to have a place of your own and a garden, and that big walnut tree to shade the lawn in summer. AS Jan scrubbed the potatoes and put them into the oven at the side re the meat loaf, she reflected that it would be best to make a green salad. She could eat a large plate of it, with cottage cheese. Her smooth checks glowed like pink satin as she worked. Her brown hair had a natural fluffiness that she secretly bemoaned because she could not make it lie flat and "groomed" the way Liz's hair always looked. Jan was pleasant looking, with a quick smile, color that flared warmly in her cheeks, and the easy, effortless grace sometimes noted in plump people. While the food was cooking, she went into her bedroom and rummaged around at the back of the clothes closet. 'There in its plastic bag, hanging safely out of the way, was the blue voile dress. She shook it carefully from its wrapping, holding it in front of her, and posed before the mirror. It was what one might call a love of a dress, with tiny ruffles down the front of the blouse and cascading down the full push-up sleeves. Her gaze went on past the mirror and into the day, three years before, that Hal had given her the dress for her birthday. She had put it on, and modeled it for him, turning wel laughing, her cheeks flushed from his praise. And then his face had gone sober, he had pulled her close and kissed her, and said, "Dearest, you don't look a day older than when we were married. You're still my girl—and your eyes are just the color—how did I match them so well?" And then 431 they had looked at each other and smiled, their lips tremulous, and had kissed again. Jan stroked the dress tenderly, then put it back onto its hanger and into the back of the closet. Of course she couldn't begin to get into it now. Her eyes filled with tears and her lips trembled. No wonder Hal had stopped looking at her in that wonderful way. "I'm just a tub—" she murmured aloud. Next thing she knew her brown hair would be streaked with gray and she would be a fat, aging woman. Anxiously, she peered again into the mirror. Yes, there was a gray hair. She yanked it out. Just then, the doorbell rang, and she heard Liz call out cheerily "Anybody home?" And then Liz came on back to the bedroom without waiting for an answer. "Pm just tidying up a bit before supper," said Jan. "You may as well stay and eat. Did you ever see such a hot day! And me with a baked dinner. But I had to furnish butterscotch rolls for the bake sale tomorrow, so thought I might as well go on with the oven." "So that's what caused that mouth-watering smell in your kitchen." Liz sat on the cretonne-covered chair and kicked off her shoes. "What a day we had at the office." Liz was taller than Jan, older, her gray hair waved back smartly, her dark eyes smiling through brownrimmed glasses. Her cheerful expression was overlaid with the fine lines of years of self-discipline. She was wearing a gray-and-white shecr cotton dress with white organdy collar. Jan said, "I don't see how you keep looking so cool, in this heat. 432 And I could almost hate you for being so thin." "Thin? What brought that up?" Liz laughed. "Did you get your new dress at Mina's sale?" "No—I didn't find anything. Or —well, if you want to know, she didn't have one that I could get into—oh, I looked terrible! 'Those full-length mirrors!" Jan hurried out of the room. IZ picked up her shoes and followed her sister to the kitchen. Jan began putting the dishes on the table. She said, "It makes me sick to realize how fat I am. What can I do? Hal never gives me a second glance, any more. I guess he can't stand to. ['m nothing to him but just a cook." Liz was working her feet back into her shoes. "Oh, Jan, don't exaggerate. You know Hal thinks the world and all of you. And you're several kinds of lucky to have him." She stood up, smoothing down her skirt. "But thank you just the same—I'm not staying for one of your delicious dinners. ['d eat too much. Apparently you haven't noticed it, but I've put on several pounds myself. I had Mina put away a pink suit for me the other day. It's one whole size too small, and I'm going to slim down to it. My motive?" She leaned forward, and moved a plate more exactly into its place on the table. "I'm admitting it to you Jan, and to you alone. Remember Dan Owens, who worked for our firm a year ago and then left for Chicago? I went out with him a bit, but nothing ever came of it. Well, he's back, still single— and he's asked me for a date. He's older than I am—taller—I always reRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1959 gretted that I didn't give him more encouragement before...." She smiled, her cheeks warming. The two women exchanged a long, understanding look. "Liz, that's wonderful," said Jan. After a few minutes of chatting, she followed her sister to the door, and stood for a moment looking out at the shaded lawn, the roses along the fence, the garden at the side. She thought of the fruit trees in the back yard, and of Hal's work in what he called their "thumbnail farm," of his efforts to keep their home attractive and secure. I am lucky, she thought humbly. As she turned back to her work, she had made a resolve of her own. She would wear the blue voile dress to the Relief Society opening social in September! For a week, she held to her breakfasts of dry cereal and weak milk and unsweetened fruit juice, her lunch of lettuce and cottage cheese. But it seemed she was forever stopping herself from tasting as she cooked dinner. By the time night came, she was famished. At the end of the second week, the sisters compared notes. Jan sighed. "Oh, Liz, you look as if you'd fallen away to a shadow. I've lost three pounds. I'm starved all the time, and I can hardly see any difference." UT Jan did not resent her sistet's slimness. Liz was the soul of kindness and encouragement. It was just that she must have been born with great will power, thought. "Well, I try not to think about it. But for one thing, I'm always cooking. And I'm hungry," said Jan. "Besides, it seems to me that Jan BLUE VOILE FOR DREAMS the whole world is in a conspiracy to make people eat too much. Open a magazine, and what do you see? Gorgeous full-color illustrations of delectable recipes. Luscious cakes and pies and desserts, whipped toppings, cream, bananas, all the rest of it. 'Then, on the next page, like as not an article advising people against gaining weight." "I can see your point," Liz smiled. Jan went on bitterly, "It isn't fair, the emphasis that's put on food. Just the other day, I heard a friend telling that she and her husband were looking forward to a reunion with a couple they hadn't seen for years. And what were they planning for entertainment? Eating, of course. 'They'd saved enough money to go to some swanky restaurant. She was thrilled over food. It's depressing." Liz said, "It's true. But you don't really look fat, Jan." "That's sweet of you. By the way, how's your romance coming along? And what will you do if he asks you out for dinner? Then you won't be able to get away with ordering limeade or fruit juice." She asked the question with an air of triumph, as if clinching a point. "Tl eat, of course. Then the next day, PIl cut down to make up for it." There were times when Jan didn't know if she really wanted to get thin. Her nerves began to fray, gnawed as they were by the pangs of hunger. Her tongue sharpened, too. A few times she caught Hal looking at her thoughtfully. Once he said, "Hon, you're getting awfully nervous. Maybe you need a rest?" And she had bit back an edgy reply. One evening she had baked puffy, 433 brown-topped biscuits for supper. She hadn't eaten much all day — a slice of stale rye bread and some soup for lunch — hunger pulled at her stomach and destroyed her will. Almost without thinking, she broke open a biscuit, spread butter onto it, and began to eat. She took another. Hal came into the kitchen. "A—ha! Eating before meals. Something you won't let us do," he cried, his square face one big teasing smile. "No — really. I was just — sampling....". "Tll have one, too, now that you've let the bars down." He plopped a whole biscuit into his mouth. Butter oozed at the corners of his lips. "The boys won't be home. Eating at your mother's. Had to go to baseball practice over on that side of town." His voice was thickened by food. He began spooning Out jelly. "M-m-mm — what a good cook I married. 'This is the best grape jelly you ever made." He set a plate of steaming biscuits on the table. Hastily, Jan set on the rest of the meal. "You go ahead and eat," she said. "I—I'm going out on the porch for a few minutes — my head aches — I'll be right back." She fled, unable to bear the sight of his eating. Y the time school opened in September, Jan felt that she had developed a will of iron. All her dresses were much looser; she had lost seven pounds, though what she referred to as her fringe weight fluctuated up and down a pound or two. One Monday, the day before the 434 opening social, she went to her room and took the beloved blue dress from its hanger. She held it up, her hands trembling with eagerness. Just to make sure, she could let out the seams a little; there was plenty of material at the sides. Carefully, she basted and stitched and pressed. At last she slipped it over her head. Strange that it wouldn't come down easier—she must have forgotten to undo the side zipper — there — well, it must be caught, or something. She pulled gently. At last the dress came down over her shoulders and hips. She smoothed the skirt. She had planned to get a new girdle, anyway. This old thing was worn out. She hummed a little tune, turning sideways, holding her stomach in. She lifted her hands, and let the soft full sleeves drift back on her arms. All at once, there was a sound at the door. "Why, Hal Davis. How long have you been standing there?" She let her hands fall onto her head, and patted her hair. "Just a minute or two. Why are you trying on that old dress, dear?" She looked up at him, smiling. "Why, this isn't an old dress. It's the one you gave me for my birthday—it's always becn my favorite dress. I'm planning to wear it to the opening social tomorrow." For some reason, her smile had begun to feel tight in her flushed cheeks. Hal had averted his eyes, and his face had become a careful mask. "J—uh—think you should get a new dress for the social, Jan. You deserve something new, once in awhile. You don't need to wear that old one." Jan sat on alone in the room after she heard the front door slam. Hal RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1959 had kissed her hurriedly and left. She heard the pick-up truck rumbling out along the driveway from the back of the lot. At last she took off the blue dress and stuffed it into a bag of old clothing hanging in the hall closet. That's what you get for clinging to something after you've outlived it, she told herself. She went into the kitchen and began listlessly setting the table. They would have to be satisfied with cold cuts and bread and butter and fruit. FTER supper, Jan sat on the front porch in the gathering dusk. The boys had gone to an carly movie, and Hal had not come home. She looked out across the lawn. The grass looked dry, and there were little swirls of dust along the path. She got up and dragged the hose around to the front of the house and had turned on the lawn sprinkler when she heard the truck return. She was making a little watering trench in front of the zinnias when Hal came around the house. He was carrying a large box. "Hi, there, dear. Say, Ill tend to the watering. Why don't you— uh—see what's in this box? Liz sent it over." Jan continued making a little furrow. She saw with exasperation that it was crooked. "Liz..." "Yes. I—ran onto her downtown. She said she didn't have time to come out here. Had a big date on. And she said to tell you she was wearing the pink suit, and that everything looks rosy. Whatever that means." He took the stick from her hand. BLUE VOILE FOR DREAMS Jan bit her lip. She took the box into the bedroom to open it. There was a note enclosed. "Dear Jan—I went down to Mina Dee's. She had this dress—just came in. I couldn't resist getting it for you. For the social, Liz." The dress was of brown and brown-tone muted stripe polished cotton, cut on trim lines. Jan slipped it on. How slim it made her look. And her green earrings would be just right with it. She was putting them on when Hal came in. "Say, that's mighty pretty on you." His eyes met hers in the mirror. He slid his arm around her waist. "I couldn't have you going out in that old dress. Why, those women would think I'd lost my job." "T didn't know you noticed how I looked." "Any old time I don't." He took the earring still in her hand and put it on the dresser. 'Then he put one hand under her chin and raised her 435 face. "It's just that I've been too busy and tired lately to remember that my best girl might need something new once in awhile." He Nessie her. Suddenly she drew back. "Hal Davis. It's strange that Liz would buy me a dress all of a sudden, when she's so busy with her own affairs. And how come—now, just what did she tell you?" He grinned. "Only that I'm a blundering idiot, and I already knew that. Well, I couldn't buy you a dress. How did I know what to get? So I asked her, if she'd have time before the store closed — I wanted you to have it for tomor-? TOW. "Oh, Hal. How sweet—of both of you.' She leaned her cheek against his work shirt. The thought flitted through her mind that she would never know exactly what Liz had told him, but it didn't seem to matter. "I'm hungry," Janet sighed, and she relaxed against him. —- Si O Be fl ya m in Fra fn k [ in Elsie McKinnon Strachan I'm thinking of you, Benjamin, today. I'm wondering, were you here, what would you say About our ventures into outer space, Our findings that exalted heights erase The twinkling of the stars? How would you view The tracing of the jet plane's pearly quill Above the crimson slope of evening's hill? What signs would crowd Poor Richard's Almanac— What pithy proverbs, wisdom-sharing knack, Would cushion air-borne hearts who probe the new? As one "who seized the lightning" from the sky With kite and string, how would you simplify Our plans to reach where we've not been before— To sound our knuckles on the moon's still door? Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, July 1, and July 15, 1899 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN oF AutL NaTIons" RETURN VISIT TO NEW ENGLAND: Laurel Hill covered with blossoms was a delight to the beholder, and buttercups, daisies and the hemlock with its gracefully sweeping boughs, and soft, young tendrils, as well as the old magnificent elms that had stood for more than a century, withstanding the storms of New England winters. There is nothing in nature perhaps dearer to the heart... Than the woods in full foliage as at this season, unless it is the sea... For it is past description and past all comparison.. —Mrs. E. B. Wells LET US HAVE PEACE: Today not only our beloved nation, but the entire world is in a great commotion. War and rumor of war is extant all over the surface of the earth.... Fear has taken the place of content.... No more you hear from the shop of the smith the clang of the hammer in his great brawny hands on the heated steel at the forge, accompanied by his mirthful song. No more the happy farmer sings all care away, as he gently turns the soil in preparation for the seed, and dreams a dream of contentment in anticipation of a bountcous harvest.... No more the wife sings about her work preparing the frugal meal for her dear ones. All is changed! —Mrs. Josie E. Childs [An allusion, in part, to the Spanish-American War] x \ "OUR GOD AND HIS PROPHET No truer friend hath Prophets known, No truer Prophet saints need seek, Than he to whom Thy mind is shown, And by whose mouth Thy voice doth speak.... —L. L. Greene Richards eof NEW ORGANIZATION (KNIGHTSVILLE, UTAH): Myself and Sister Daniels visited Knightsville to organize a Relief Society in that branch.... Knightsville is a pretty little nook in a rich mineral district. The people have nice homes, and there are many of Provo's old settlers who have had extensive experience in the Church, and will succeed in the Relief Society work. The ride in the railroad car was superb! 'The scenery in the canyon was grand! It was my first visit in the Tintic District. The following names were nominated and unanimously sustained as officers of the Relief Society: Mrs. Mary Jane Wilkins, president; Mrs. M. A. McCullough and Mrs. R. Haws, counselors; Mrs. Louise Ball, secretary.... = —Mary John TRIBUTE TO OUR WOMEN: Regarding the results fof the meeting of the 'Women's International Council in London], the grand consummation has been reached of welding together a cosmopolitan body of thoughtful women, prepared to educate their fellow women. Twenty-five years hence the leaven of today will have leavened the whole world, and the irresistible force of public opinion will have raised women to their proper sphere. —Lady Aberdeen Page 436 ELLE S. SPAFFORD, general President of Relief Society, has been appointed to the National Advisory Committee for the 1961 White House Conference on Aging. The appointment came from Dr. Arthur S. Fleming, Secretary of the Health, Education, and Welfare Department., President Spafford, also, was recently elected Second Vice-President of the National Association for Practical Nurse Education. She had previously served as a member of the National Board of this organization. Mpss MARGARET MEACHER, the new Canadian Ambassador to Jerusalem, presented her credentials to the Chief of State in the presence of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mrs. Golda Meir. These credentials were signed by Queen Elizabeth II. This is the first time in history that a British monarch has accredited a woman to head a diplomatic post. LOUISE LOCKRIDGE WATKINS, director of the George Walter Smith Art Museum in Springfield, Massachusetts, is the only woman in New England to hold such a position. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon yoRce JENNIE L. BARON, sixty-seven, of Brookline, Massachusetts, whose parents came to America from Russia, was named "American Mother of the Year." Mother of three children, she has practiced law for many years with her husband. She is known as the "judge with a heart," particularly because of her helpfulness toward the young. MBE:: VICTOR A. CARLSON (Eva Leona Hansen) of Richmond, Cache County, was chosen Utah "Mother of the Year." Twelve of her fourteen sons and daughters are living, all of them outstanding in their accomplishments. In 1943 this Latter-day Saint family was chosen ''National Farm Family" of the year. MBE: MARTHA ARDELIA HUNTRESS LONG, another Latter-day Saint woman, was selected New Hampshire "Mother of the Year." Mrs. Long has given devoted care to three of her own children and three stepchildren. She has been active in Church and community activities, and at present she is a Representative from Kingston, New Hampshire, in the State Legislature. Page 437 QD EDITORIAL 9 VOL. 46 JULY 1959 Planning Cop wAlaiot? As for Children HEN the schools of the land close their doors for summer vacation, mothers may look forward to increased opportunity to supervise personally the activities of their children. 'To use this time to the best advantage is a responsibility for every mother, and one which merits careful and prayerful consideration in consultation with the father. In some rural communities it may not be so difficult to find rewarding training for children, but, in urban centers, it often poses a real problem to keep children busy in worthwhile activities. Yet each child needs to have assigned tasks to perform each day, whether it be housework, yard work, baby tending, or running errands — tasks which can supply a needed allowance and which will bring satisfactions in their accomplishment. In addition to tasks, mothers will wish to use the free time as a learning, training, and enrichment period in their children's lives. Some schools are now offering handicrafts to certain age groups and languages and science studies to older ones, but the general pattern of a summer vacation remains. However, most communities have summer _playgrounds, and, for relatively modest fees, there are opportunities for children to engage elsewhere in music training, horseback riding, swimming, hobbies, dancing, and other interests. Latter-day Saint mothers are fortunate that the Primary provides summer activities and mothers Page 438 should see that their children receive this valuable training. One of the most rewarding plans is for a group of mothers to get together and plan activities for their children of similar ages. One mother may offer to teach the group sewing, another cooking, a third may take them for nature walks, or on camping parties, another help them to pass their scout tests or train them as a chorus. Where they may be taking swimming, one mother could do the chauffering for the group. 'There is no limit to these and other worthy activities that a group of mothers can plan and carry out for their children. As a reward for completing a course, a trip could be taken to a museum, a library, or local point of interest. Supervised activity by an adult with a group of children not only gives each child more of an incentive for learning but makes for better relationships among the children. But, in addition to experiences with children outside the family, a Latter-day Saint mother will welcome the added time with her children to cement family ties closer. A Family Hour before vacation begins could be devoted to planning summer activities for the entire family. Schedules could be drawn up of things in which each child is interested. The mother and father could outline books which they feel their children should learn to know and love, and incentives could be offered to older children to read EDITORIAL good books for themselves. Daily reading by a mother and occasional reading with the entire family provide lasting memorics of joyful occasions. Not only should children delight in the fantasy world of books, but care should be taken to have them know and love books telling of their Heavenly Father and his Son, and great spiritual leaders of the present and past. President Grant always gave credit to the prophet Nephi as a great influence on his life. If children are not introduced to great spiritual leaders when young, they will not have them as their heroes and models. This would seem especially necessary in view of some of the present types of entertainment which invade the very home and introduce un- 439 savory and even wicked characters. Summertime may be a joyous family experience if the mother in the home plans carefully for the interests of her children and _ sees that the plans go forward. To make a home where children feel free to bring their friends — in spite of the extra household work which it entails — tightens family ties. A mother who takes time to plan for and with her children from their earliest years and who enters into their everyday activities, will encourage them to look upon her as an understanding friend as well as a loving mother, one to whom they will tum for counsel and advice as their experiences broaden and become a part of the stream of adult living. —M. C. S. F First in the Valley For the Days of '47 Dorothy ]. Roberts The quaint rite of dawn's bell and blast are silenced, That memoried, once, your coming, pioneer. Yet, long since you came, homeless, stripped of treasure, I still count blessings you earned for me here. Never a summer deepens in the valley, With loud light breaking over window sills, But you emerge from time and covered wagon To part the circle of these western hills. July can never arch in azure zenith, But the lengthening shadow of your height Monograms our city with your stature, And I kneel solemn, prayerful in the night. Never this festive time held in your honor Moves unseen down my calendar of days; Against the sacrifice that marked your coming I test again the tenor of my ways. "More Precious Shan Rubies ° Who can find a virtuous woman? For her price is far above rubies. She will do him good and not evil all the days Strength and honor are her clothing; and she shall rejoice in time to her husband doth safely trust in her.... Of her life.... Come SSR: 31:10-12, 25). More Precious Than Rubies HE strength and the beauty of virtue have been treasured and found priceless over the long years of earth history — even from the time of the commandment in stone, the "words the Lord spake unto all... In the mount out of the midst of the fire, of the cloud, and of the thick darkness, with a_ great voice...." Like all of the commandments of our Heavenly Father, the requirement of chastity results in many blessings and much comfort and peace of mind. Freedom from regret — the joy of obedience — reflect upon the personality and are indeed jewels of enduring radiance. The possessor of such treasure, though humble, may walk as a_ proud woman all the days of her life. Unhampered by feelings of guilt or disobedience, the way of her life becomes more blessed and more beautiful, and all her words and all The heart of her acts, in following the path of integrity, make of her life an undivided pathway to a far-reaching goal. And this goal of a woman's life is not hers alone, for none of us can truly say that her life belongs to herself alone and that her actions have no effect beyond the results which come to an individual. We know that we live in a family setting. We are daughters with ideals in the circle of home, and with responsibilities toward our parents and our brothers and sisters. We share in the family honor, and we contribute to that integrity. And the woman in her own home, in that place of love and trust —where husband and children look to her for their ideals and thcir life pattern — there the jewels of her virtue are as a shining light unquestioned by her loved ones who safely trust her counsel and her example. For Latter-day Saints who understand that earth life is more than an interval between the premortal existence and the time until mortal death — for those who realize that they lived before their time upon the earth, and that they will live forever afterwards, then the standards of the Church and the commandments of the Lord have amplified and eternal meaning. Even as Paul, the apostle, spoke to the Corinthians: "And whether one member suffer, all the members suffer with it; or one member be honoured, all the members rejoice with it" (I Cor. 12:26). BE HONEST WITH YOURSELF Page 440 Recipes From the Gulf States Mission Submitted by Emma A. Hanks Texas BarBeCUE SAUCF. Nicki Bell 1 medium-sized onion, chopped % tsp. Cayenne pepper 2 tbsp. Brown sugar 2 tbsp. Worcestershire sauce 1 tbsp. Paprika "" Cc, vinegar 1 tsp. Salt 1 c. Tomato juice 1 tsp. Dry mustard "" c. Catsup "% tsp. Chili powder "2 ¢. Water. Mix together and simmer for fifteen minutes. This sauce is a zesty sauce to pour over ribs during the last forty-five minutes of baking. Recipe makes enough sauce for three pounds of ribs. Meat Loar ann Corn Pie Mrs. Henry Barber 1% Ibs. Ground meat 1 bell pepper 1 tsp. Salt 2 slices bread "% tsp. Black pepper % c. Milk 1 egg "% square shortening Mix meat with salt and pepper. Then add egg, bread, and bell pepper which has been diced. Add milk and margarine which has been melted. Place meat loaf, which has been rounded well, into casscrole. Sauce: "* ¢. Corn meal 1 ¢gg " tsp. Salt % square shortening 2 tbsp. Flour 1 No. 2 can whole kernel corn " tsp. Baking powder catsup to taste Mix flour, salt, and baking powder with corn meal. Then add shortening and egg which has been well beaten. Now add the corm and stir until it is of a very thin consistency. If the corn does not make it thin enough, add enough water to make it the right consistency. Pour in casserole around the meat loaf. Bake in oven at 350° until done. If desired, add catsup to meat loaf just before it is done and brown slightly. Serve in casserole while it is hot. Corrace Curese Pre 1 c. Sugar 1 tbsp. Melted butter 3 tbsp. Flour 3 egg yolks 1 c. Milk 3 egg whites 1 pt. Cottage cheese 1 unbaked pie shell Combine ingredients in order given, with the exception of the egg whites. Stir all ingredients together thoroughly, then add stiffly beaten egg whites. Pour into unbaked pie shell and sprinkle with cinnamon. Bake for fifty-five minutes at 350° temperature, Page 441 442 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1959 SOUTHERN Corn Breap Leta McClendon 2 ¢. Com meal 1 tsp. Sugar "2 ¢. Flour % tsp. Baking soda 2 tsp. Baking powder 1 cgg 1 tsp. Salt 1 ¢c. Sour milk 4 tbsp. Shortening Sift all dry ingredients together. Add beaten egg, sour milk, and melted shortening. Beat to a thin batter. Pour into two greased pic pans and bake in a hot oven at 400° until brown. Cuucx Wacon Linas Lola Jordan 4 medium-sized onions 1 tsp. Sage 1 c. Uncooked Jima beans 2 Ibs. Short ribs 4 c. Water 2 tbsp. Flour 1 tbsp. Salt 1 tsp. Drv mustard 12 tsp. Pepper "4 c. Shortening Quarter onions and add with beans, salt, pepper, and sage, to the water. Cover and simmer for one hour. Dredge the short ribs in flour and mustard and brown on all sides in hot fat. Place ribs in with lima bean mixture and cover and simmer for two hours. Makes four servings. Preacu CosBLer Lola Jordan Filling: 1 qt. Peaches, fresh or canned 1 c. Sugar (if peaches are unsweetened) Dough: 1 ¢. Flour lc. Sweet milk 1 C. Sugar 2 tsp. Baking powder Mix dough, pour in pan and dot with butter. Then pour heated peaches, mixed with sugar, over this dough mixture and bake at 350° until golden brown. Hers CHICKEN Jean Roth 1 frying chicken 1 lemon (juice) flour, as needed 1 tsp. Oregano 3 tbsp. Olive oil 1 tsp. Sweet basil salt and pepper to taste 1 tbsp. Water paprika Remove skin from cut-up frying chicken. Cover with flour and quickly brown in skillet with olive oil. Add salt and pepper and the lemon juice. Sprinkle lightly with paprika, oregano, and basil. Add the water, cover, and let simmer for about forty-five minutes. RECIPES FROM THE GULF STATES MISSION 443 Att-PurrosE Mexican SAUCE Marjorie Ricker 2 tbsp. Butter 2 tbsp. Flour 1 small-sized onion, chopped 2 tsp. Chili powder 1 green pepper, chopped % tsp. Salt 1 clove garlic, chopped % c. Meat stock 1 c. Tomatoes Cook onion, green pepper, and garlic slowly in the butter until soft, stirring oftcn. Add flour, salt, and chili powder and stir until smooth. Add meat stock and tomatoes. Cook until thick and smooth. Strain if desired. This sauce is indeed magic. It works miracles in all manner of cookery. It is a sauce that adds unbelievable succulence to chops, roasts, steaks, meat balls, and meat loaves. It makes a marvelous gravy in which to reheat all manner of leftover meats. It is a juice laden with flavor to pour over rice, spaghetti, and noodles. Make it in quantities and keep it in the icebox. Its uses are myriad. CHICKEN WurTH Corn-BreaD DRESSING Helen Sandifer 4-6 lbs. Chicken " medium-sized dry onion 3 qts. Water 1 stalk celery 2 green onions 1 tbsp. Salt Simmer hen (whole) in large covered pot to which has been added water. About one hour before it is done add the chopped giblets, green onions, dry onion, celery, and salt. When chicken is done remove from pot and put in shallow pan. Put into oven and brown at 400° for twenty minutes. Corn-Bread Dressing: 3 ¢. Corn meal 1 tsp. Salt 1% c. Flour 2 eggs 4 tsp. Baking powder 2 c. Milk Mix dry ingredients together. Add milk, eggs, and beat well. Pour into wellgreased pan. Bake in oven at 450° for about twenty minutes. Bread should be cold before making dressing. Broth for Corn Bread Dressing: 1 c. Chopped green onions 1 medium-sized chopped dry onion 1 c. Chopped celery 4 eggs salt and pepper 1 pt. Oysters (optional) Mix onions and celery well and add eggs and salt and pepper to taste. Add corn bread. This mixture should be slightly soupy so don't add too much bread. Put in large pan and bake for thirty minutes at 375°. Poultry seasoning or sage may be added to taste, or dressing may be divided into two parts, one with seasoning, one without. Oysters may be added just before baking if desired. Pretending Garden Helen H. AURA stood watching the young child rollicking among the flowers, occasionally picking a choice daisy, or chasing a bright-winged butterfly. The hillside had been Darlene's playground, Laura thought with resentment. Darlene should be there now — not a stranger. Apparently the little girl, dressed in a plaid dress that blended so harmoniously with the many colorful flowers surrounding her, was not aware of anyone's presence, for she danced gaily among the wild flowers, her blond curly head bobbing up and down, her childish laughter a merry sound on the silent hillside. "IT could almost pretend it was Darlene again,' Laura breathed. "But I mustn't dream." Vaguely conscious of the continued pantomime before her, she stooped down and picked a flower bud and whirled its stem between her fingers. How many times had she stood in about this exact spot and watched Darlene play in such a manner, or joined her with a basket of fancy cookies still warm from the oven? With trembling hands, Laura let the flower fall to the ground as she nervously brushed her long blond hair from her face, and wiped stubborn tears from her pale cheeks. Finally, unbearable loneliness prompted her to call out. "Hello, there." The youngster stopped abruptly and looked about her.; "I didn't mean to startle you," Page 444 Trutton Laura spoke, walking up to the little intruder. With a mark of shyness, the child answered politely. "Does this hill belong to you? It's very pretty." "My little daughter liked it, too," Laura found herself saying kindly. The girl's face brightened. "Do you have a little daughter just my age?" Laura tried to control her voice. "Yes," she answered simply. "Then maybe we could play together. I've been lonesome since we moved here." Any resentment Laura had experienced when she first saw the girl on the hillside melted away when she caught the look of happy anticipation in the youngster's face. Laura took a few short steps and looked toward the house. She imagined she was back in Darlene's room — the room she had kept exactly as Darlene had left it. Her favorite doll, a shabby one, was seated at a small table, set for two, while her best doll was tucked away in a box in the closet. She recalled Darlene's explanation of her choice of the less attractive one. "I know her better, Mommy." "Tll be going now," the girl finally remarked. "I didn't mean...." AURA turned quickly back to the forgotten girl, who was nervously fingering the bouquet she held clasped in her hands. "Oh, Pm sorry, dear." She placed her hand on the youngster's head and spoke softly. PRETENDING GARDEN "You see, she became very ill — and she's gone away." 'Ym awfully sorry about your little girl. My Daddy is sick, and I come here often and pick him flowers, and I pretend he is well again." Laura reached out and took the child's hand in hers. "And I'm very sorry about your father. And your mother?" The youngster waited a moment before answering. She was wondering if she, too, like the lady, should take a long time to reply. "With your little daughter, I suppose," she finally announced. "Mrs. Riggs is our housekeeper. She's pretty old, though." "What's your name?' Laura asked, making herself comfortable on a nearby large rock. "It's Cynthia Kent, but everyone calls me Cindy." "Tm so glad to meet you, Cindy. I'm Mrs. Carlson. You must live in that house over there?" she asked, pointing to the white house a short distance down the lane. "Yes, we moved here so Daddy could be quiet and rest. Now I must go home." With that remark, she reached down and plucked one more daisy and started down the hill. "But, you will come again?" Laura called after her. "Oh, yes, every day if you don't mind. I'm happy here, pretending," she shouted happily. Laura watched her out of sight, and then arose from the rock and walked slowly down the hill toward home. "Pretending Garden," Cindy had called the hillside. A suitable name, Laura thought wistfully. Hadn't 445 she momentarily pretended the child chasing butterflies was Dar- _ lene? ROBERT was descending from the upstairs, probably from Darlene's room, as Laura entered the front door. "I've been looking all over for you, darling. Where have you been?" "T went to the hillside. It's the first time I've been there in a long while." She sat down on the davenport and smiled at her husband. "T met a little girl out there today, Robert." "Who was she?" "Cindy Kent." "I just heard about the Kent family this morning," Robert added as he joined her on the davenport. "Did... You enjoy yourself?" "She's very sweet." Laura shrugged her shoulders and continued, "Oh, [I guess I felt a little resentment at first, but she's such a lonely little child." Robert bowed his head, and after a long silence spoke, "I don't suppose they'll be here too long." Laura turned pale. "Don't you think so?" "Mr. Kent is very ill." "IT know," she answered. "Robert, let's call on them. Maybe we could help." Robert slipped his arm around her shoulder. "I think we should. How about tonight?" It was a short walk to the Kents through the hillside trail. Neither Robert nor Laura spoke as they walked hand in hand until they were near the home. "Tm glad she found the hillside lovely," Laura tried to sound casual. "Darlene loved to play there, you. 446 remember?" "J remember," Robert gave her hand a squeeze, "so very well." Cindy greeted them at the door, and taking Laura's hand, announced. "Daddy's in the living room. ['m glad you came." As they entered the room, a tall, thin man arose and extended his hand. "You're Mr. And Mrs. Carlson? How kind of you to come. My daughter has talked of nothing but the beautiful, friendly lady she met today on the hillside." "I think the admiration was mutual," Robert grinned. Mr. Kent motioned them to the davenport. "Please sit down. I hope my daughter didn't annoy you, Mrs. Carlson." "Oh, no," Laura answered quickly. "Not at all." Robert leaned forward. Like to help, Mr. Kent." "You already have," the ill man replied. "We've been a little lonely since we moved here. And thanks for letting Cindy play on your hill." Laura smiled down at Cindy, who had seated herself next to her on the davenport. "I hope to see you tomorrow in the garden, Cindy." Cindy's eyes filled with tears. "Tomorrow, I must pretend very hard." "We'd LAURA made no comment to Robert about Cindy's statement on their way home. But she kept wondering if Mr. Kent were worse, if they were moving, what the child had meant? Perhaps the youngster was only letting her imagination run away with her. Darlene used to, she remembered. Finally, Robert broke into her thoughts. "Why don't you invite RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1959 that little Kent girl here sometime? Darlene had so many toys." Laura didn't speak until they were at the house, and then she turned and spoke coldly. "I'm leaving the room just as Darlene left it." The next afternoon and every afternoon during the summer, Laura and Cindy met in their private hillside garden. Soon Laura was making fancy cookies and lemonade, and sometimes Cindy would come lugging a basket of goodies Mrs. Riggs had made. On such occasions Laura would call out happily to the approaching youngster. "All must be well at your home today." Usually Cindy would answer, "Daddy is better today." Once she added, "I don't pretend so much anymore." "You're growing up," Laura gave her a hug. "We all have to face reality sometime. Some just do it sooner than others." Then one day Laura found Cindy sitting quietly on the rock ledge. "Daddy would like to see you and Uncle Robert tonight if you can come over." "Is your Daddy worse?" Laura asked, breathlessly. "T think so. The doctor stayed a long time yesterday and talked to Daddy." Together Laura and Robert had made many trips to the Kent home, but tonight was different. Laura found herself wishing the distance was further. She was certain the news was bad, and she dreaded to face facts. "You'd really miss that little girl wouldn't you?" Robert ventured, "yet, you've never asked her to our home." PRETENDING GARDEN "No," Laura replied simply. "TI haven't." Mr. Kent raised slightly on his elbow as they entered the room. "['m sorry to bother you," he remarked. "No bother I assure you," Robert answered. R. Kent leaned back on his pillow for support. "T''ll be brief. My doctor thinks with special treatment at the hospital, I have a good chance of getting well." "That's splendid," both Laura and Robert exclaimed. "I wondered if Mrs. Carlson would write a letter for me. Mrs. Riggs says she's too shaky, and I'm not up to it.". "Of course," Laura came forward and picked up a writing pad and pen. "I would be happy to." "You see," Mr. Kent continued, "I want my cousin to take Cindy while I'm in the hospital. Mrs. Riggs has been needed by her older sister for a long time, but she would never leave us." "Where does your cousin live?" Laura cut in. "In Detroit." 447 "Is she, that is, would Cindy be happy with her?" "T have no choice, Mrs. Carlson. She's our only living relative." Laura laid the pen down. "Cindy would be a long way from you." "Yes," Mr. Kent answered simply. Laura looked out the window to where Cindy was busily making mud pies. Cindy would be living with a stranger — maybe with someone who wouldn't love her. She shouldn't be separated from her father. And then Laura thought of how she would miss the child. Somehow that wasn't too important night now. It was the little girl's happiness that mattered most. Finally, Laura turned from the window and faced Robert. He smiled reassuringly at her and nodded his head. "Mr. Kent, could we keep Cindy for you? She could visit you every day." Mr. Kent's face brightened for a moment. "I couldn't ask so much of you. I might be in the hospital tor months." "We would love to keep her, Mr. Kent," Laura said softly. "You see, we have an extra room... So suitable for a little girl Cindy's age." Search Not Stars Leona Fetzer Wintch Find skill to fly to Mars, you say? Ah, no! Before you search the stars, stay: Search the secrets of your inmost heart; Find love, not power, the better part. Jewels for the Sable Marian Gardner Nielson HE colorful ritual of jelly making was indispensable in those early days on White Mesa. All the martried women — and some of the about-to-be-married-women—quietly plotted their jelly campaigns during the long winter months, when they sat knitting or carding wool in front of the fireplace. 'The sweet-swelling pine odor from the burning logs heightened their memories of last fall's jelly spree. Recipes were chosen, discussed, remodeled, discarded. How many grape leaves did Grandma Palmer cook with her grapes? Did Charlotte Ann use three-fourths cup of sugar to one of juice in her Paradise quince jelly recipe? Were the Red Astrachan apples Brother Burnham used to bring in from Red Mesa, better jelly apples than the ones grown on Mancos Creek? Why, Mary Jane actually used an old metal spoon to test her jelly, instead of the one Andrew Peterson whittled out of a cedar limb for her! Aunt Mary enjoyed making jelly. She liked the deep purple glow of the Concord grape jelly, the delicate pink of the crab apples from Brother Mac's huge tree, the more sturdy rose sheen from her own sour cherties, the deep carmine of the tart English currants from the bushes under the hill at the ranch. All these familiar fruits and berries were old friends, easy to relax with while turning them into jeweled jellies and jams. But the juice from the wild berrics and fruits was the challenge; its subtle flavor was enhanced by its Page 448 pure, delicate coloring and fragrant aroma which filled the kitchen and tiptoed into the rest of the house. It was a golden fall day when Aunt Suzy and Aunt Tamar took their lunch in the old wicker picnic basket they had brought with them' from Old Mexico, and drove up to the Blue Mountain. They spent the afternoon picking the dull, marble-sized, purple-black chokeberries from the fragrant bushes. They salvaged a small bucket of late serviceberries which were tucked in under a clump of gnarled oakbrush. It was fun standing on the sides of the old wagon and reaching high for the frosty-red Potawatami plums which hung so temptingly almost out of reach. Then, on the way down from the mountain, they stopped at the old Hans Bogue field and found a whole patch of groundcherries—plump, pale-yellow, and ready for picking— and just right for a batch of delicately colored preserves, A Navajo squaw, Young Edith Begay, helped Aunt Eliza pick the black currants from the bushes at the back of the house. She sat cross-legged on the ground under the cool branches, and scraped the currants, leaves, bugs, and all into her tin pail. When Aunt Eliza admonished Edith to pick them cleaner, the squaw very conveniently could not understand English, and only settled her heavy body more firmly into the ground. Uncle Jense Nielson took a wagonload of youngsters down to Bluff to gather the bullberries from the few JEWELS FOR THE TABLE bushes hiding against the red cliffs in Cow Canyon. He had bragged so much about the bullberry jelly his mother used to make, and the children had coaxed so hard to go, that the weary mothers breathed sighs of relief when the heavy wagon, loaded with bedrolls, grub boxes, and shouting children rumbled away down the county road. They did pick the berries, although the bushes were not so heavily loaded as Jense remembered them when the "Hole-in-the-Rockers" first came to Bluff. Stil, the containers were nearly filled. In the course of the day, Susan and Helena climbed up into one of the caves where they had picked cliff flowers the spring before, and then were too scared to come down and Deb's shirt got caught while going through the crack in the Locomotive Rock, and part of it was left hanging on a rock splinter. It was the children who helped wash the berries, but it took young Frank Redd to invent a machine to sort the "'pee-wees" from the good ones. Aunt Lou had to put a stop to that, when the berries all came through the machine mashed to a pulp! HILE the jelly was in the process of being made, everything else stopped. Neighbors did not visit; quilt blocks were left untouched; buttons were not sewed on; torn overalls and shirts continued to be worn; houses became cluttered; lamps were not cleaned and polished, nor were wicks trimmed; dirty dishes were stacked out of the way (an unheard of event except at this time). A hodgepodge of crocks, odds and ends of bottles, 449 chipped but unbroken, were placed on the kitchen table. Then the crucial time of skimming, testing, tasting, came. Children stayed outdoors, careful to avoid making any undue noise. Husbands found work away from the tense atmosphere, or met on the store porch and exchanged small talk. But the result was worth every effort! A beautiful mosaic was formed with the sun shining through the various colored jellies: the cool green of mint, the sparkling gold of quince and groundcherry, the warm pink and red tones of currants, crabapples, and raspberry, the deep regal glow of grape, plum, and wild berry. Each woman made more jelly than she needed for her own houschold. There would be sickness, where a few jars would help ease a crisis. 'There would be church bazaars and special gifts for guests who would appreciate a delicacy. Then there was stake conference time and week-end guests from all over the stake: Bluff, Mancos, Red Mesa, Monticello, and Moab. Aunt Mary put her groundcherry preserves in her best cut glass tumblers, and Aunt Eliza used her mother's green hobnail glasses for her Concord grape jelly, for these two women entertained the apostles during the conference week end, and they wanted the very best and most beautiful things on their tables. It was this colorwheel of glowing beauty that gave luster to frontier life. It was the basis of friendliness and love. It bound the pioneer women to nature and the glories of God, and may be sparkling jewels in their crowns of immortality. Such a Heavenly Secret Mabel Law Atkinson 66 OW about it, Doctor, will I make it?" Grandpa Jensen, as he was called by all the children in the small country town, forced a smile as he asked the question. "Of course you'll make it, Papa." It was diminutive Grandma Jensen who assured him. "Of course you will. Why, he's simply got to get better, Doctor. Home wouldn't be home without Papa." "Now, Mama, I didn't ask you," and looking into the kindly eves of their old family doctor, Grandpa asked again, "Will I make it?" Grandma, who reminded one of Lavender-and-Old-Lace in moonlight, with her white hair and twinkling eyes, interrupted again, "Should I send for the children, Doctor?" "Mama, darling, Ict the doctor answer my question. We must facc reality, Mama." "Yes, Grandpa, I'm sure you'll make it." Dr. Hartley's voice was reassuring. "Why you've been so healthy all through the years, I don't think even this siege of pneumonia can ease you out of this world. Not for ten or twenty years yet anyway. And you are improving, you know. You won't need to send for the children, Grandma. You are managing very well. In fact, it's better for Grandpa to have it quiet for a while." His eyes twinkled and he winked at Grandma, then continued, "I wouldn't worry if I were you, Grandpa, you'll make it, but if you have any sins to confess to Grandma here, you better do it and get them off your conscience, old Page 450 friend." "Oh, Doctor, always ready with the joking word at the right time, just like when my babies were born — all seven of them — such an indispensable fricnd you have been, Doctor!" Doctor Hartley left smiling and Grandpa dozed awhile. When he wakened with a start, Grandma was sitting in the old wooden rocker by his bed knitting mittens for the grandchildren. "Mama, how do you suppose the doctor knew I had a sin to confess?" Grandpa's voice was almost a whisper. "My land!" exclaimed Grandma, dropping a stitch. "You must be delirious, Papa. I'll get the thermometer to see if your fever's going up." And before Grandpa could remonstrate or explain, the thermometer was under his tongue. "Your temperature is the same, thank goodness! My, but you gave me a scare, Papa. Whatever made you dclirious, talking about confessing your sins?" "But I do have a sin to confess, Mama. A sin against you." "T don't believe it, Papa. Why you couldn't sin against me. You've never so much as spoken a harsh word to me in all our fifty-one years together." "I know, Mama, but the wrong happened before we were married." "Hush, Papa! You mustn't talk so. It will make you worse. If you did sin, it was such a tiny white one, it would not even count. You better quit talking and rest now, Papa darling." SUCH A HEAVENLY SECRET "Tt will do me good to talk, Mama. If I tell you, I can sleep better tonight. Do you think you can forgive me, Mama, for keeping a secret from you?" "Of course I can, Papa, but we've never had secrets. Always we've talked things over together. We've worked together, met joy and sorrow together. You know we've had no secrets. So rest, Papa darling, while I bring you a bowl of broth." RANDMA was at the old woodburning stove when she heard her name called softly, "Sara Mllen." Quickly she went to Grandpa, for when he called her that way she knew something new or important or tragic was taking place, like when he brought home the first bananas she had ever tasted, or their first washer, or when he came in carrying little Alice who had drowned in the river. "What is it, Papa darling?" she asked almost breathlessly, placing her hand tenderly on his forehead to see if he was feverish again. "Why, Papa, your forehead is moist. You're better, Papa." She kissed him lovingly and a_ tear dropped on his cheek. "Why Sara Ellen, you're crying! Don't worry, Mama. It wasn't too bad a secret, and I never even met the other girl." "You foolish Papa! I cry because you are better, really better. You couldn't have a bad secret, Papa, and keep it from me, and a good secret doesn't matter. You needn't tell me, Papa." "But I want to, Sara Ellen. Will you get my deed 'box? It's there in the bottom dresser drawer. The secret is in it." 451 "And what kind of a secret can it be in this little tin box?" Mama placed the box in_ his hands and gave him the key which they kept beneath it in the drawer. She watched, her eyes bright, as Papa opened the box and took out a folded piece of notepaper, yellowish with the years. "T found this letter or part of a letter arly one morning near the corral gate when I returned from riding the range to bring the horses in for the day. It was the summer before I met you, Mama, when you were visiting your sister and her family whose place joined mine. Remembcr, Mama?" "Yes, I remember, Papa. How could I ever forget meeting you. You were on a load of grain talking to Pete, my brother-in-law. I thought I would never be interested in you, Papa darling, for you had a red face —from the sun and wind. And I had always said I would never marry a red-haired man." "But my hair wasn't red, Mama. It was never red." Papa smoothed his snowy white locks as he spoke. "Your hair was a glossy brown, I learned later, but all I saw then was your mustache—and your whiskers— and they were red, Papa." "Not red, Mama, just sandy." "And I didn't like your name, Papa. I remember I told Pete that Frank was a horse's name." "You never told me, Mama." "And why should [? For when I fell in love with you, it didn't matter, and you could shave your whiskers. You always have, every day, Papa, since we were married." "To please you, my Sara Ellen. It seems only yesterday that I first saw 452 you. You were wearing a cartwheel hat and a bustle. I had always said I would never marry a woman who wore a bustle." "But you did, Papa. I wore one on my wedding day. See, Papa, there we are on the bureau in that wooden frame you made yourself. I remember I stood for a side view on purpose so my bustle would show to good advantage. How elegant I felt in my wedding dress of heavy twilled silk with rows of wide silk lace around the skirt—do you tremember the color, Papa?" COVES, Mama, a deep maroon. The lace was cream color. Wait! I still have a sample I found on the floor when I called to see you one night." And Papa took a small piece of silk and a tiny triangle of lace from a faded envelope he kept in the deed box. "And I was always so careful to pick up every scrap so my dress for the reception when we got home from the temple would be a surprise to you." "You were queenly in it, Sara Ellen." "And you were kingly, Papa, beside me in your celluloid collar, your new suit, and your button shoes. But what about that letter? Who wrote it, Papa?" "I don't know, Mama. I don't know. And it doesn't matter at all now that I don't know. It's the fact that I didn't tell you about it that matters. I still think it strange I should find it and yet not know how it got there." "Go on, Papa. Did you read it?" Mama was just making conversation to cover her interest, for she knew Papa had read it. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1959 "Of course I read it, and Sara Ellen, when I had I said to myself, 'Tm going to find that girl and marry her." But I never found her, and I fell in love with you. I tried not to, Sara Ellen, for I wanted so to find that girl I felt was meant for me—the one girl in all the world— but I couldn't keep from loving you, Mama. I tried to tell you about my other love but, I couldn't. It didn't © seem right when I knew I loved you. Guess I was afraid you might not understand. Now you know, can you forgive me, Mama darling?" "There is nothing to forgive, Papa. You were just being kind. May | read the letter?" "Yes, Sara Ellen. It's a lovely message. I know now it was the message I fell in love with. Read it aloud, Mama darling." GARA ELLEN took the paper, unfolded it, and read: Somewhere you are waiting for me as I am waiting for you. Someday we shall meet and recognize the tie that binds. I shall bring to you a clean body and mind and a loving, willing spirit, and you will bring the same to me. 'Together we shall strive to build beautiful and flawless temples for immortal souls, as many as God shall send. We shall walk the road of years together—always together... Forever. Sara Ellen ceased, and, almost in a whisper, Papa asked, "Isn't it beautiful, Sara Ellen! More beautiful than ever before with your voice saying the words. Why, my dear, you are crying again. Don't cry, Mama." Sara Ellen smiled, and her eyes were shining bright as a rain-washed sky in the sun as she spoke softly, "T am crying for gladness, Papa. SUCH A HEAVENLY SECRET How beautiful! Oh, how beautiful! Surely 'our times are in his hand'! I wrote that letter, Papa, watching the sunrise one morning when I was visiting Pete and 'Tillie the summer before I met you. What a blessed little wind it was that took it out of my hand and carried it to you!" Stars were in Papa's eyes as he said in reverence, "My own Sara Ellen! So it was you all the time!" 453 "Yes, Papa darling. Now you must go to sleep and tomorrow we shall watch the sunrise together through your window. Always we shall be together." She kissed him tenderly and he fell into a sound, restful sleep. "Dear, dear Papa," she crooned as gently as though he were a sleeping child. "Dear, darling Papa. Such a heavenly secret!" oQuoitt ower, Sa n Sra NCLSCO Margery S. Stewart The tower broods Over the city, Immobile dove, Granite winged. I, like a thought, Lean from carved eyes To the far descending Roofs. Blueness blows within, Lapis lazuli of sky And sea, white peace Of immaculate cloud. Under the soaring Bridges ships come Proudly from Singapore And Malta, singing Of the islands still Scarved about them. Hills lie under My palms, blue earthed, Hand of fog On their shoulders. The city populates My heart, rocks In the joyous cradle. ANN UTES CAML INTE SGBOOTCEN oe Bes £. Tleletia Miles lakes Oeaers in Uniastiol Designs ELETIA Miles, Afton, Wyoming, knits sweaters for children and adults, following patterns of unusual design in attractive and appealing color combinations. In two years, in her spare time, she knitted seventy-two sweaters and a pair of gloves. Her spare-time hobby has now developed into an interesting and successful business. Her orders come from many cities of Continental United States and Hawaii. Most of the sweaters are made in sports yarn, but a few are done in knitting worsted yarn. Mrs. Miles' accomplishments with her knitting hobby are even more remarkable because she is not a woman of leisure. Among other interests, she opcrates a beauty shop. An active worker in Relief Society, she has served as secretary-treasurer, social science class leader, and work meeting leader. Page 454 The Silver Leash Beatrice Rordame Parsons CHAPTER 7 Synopsis: LaRue Harding, an orphan, who has lived since childhood in California with an aunt, goes to Fivelakes, Arizona, after the death of her sister Amelia. She tries to help and encourage her brotherin-law Herbert Vetterly, who is confined to a wheel chair. His children gradually come to accept LaRue as a friend and as a member of the family. She meets Dr. Alan Rutherford, a surgeon at the Jonas Harding Hospital, and his fiancee Gladys Drew. "Grandie," Dr. Rutherford's grandfather, takes a liking to LaRue. Herbert Vetterly, after a successful operation performed by Dr. Rutherford, is able to walk about the house, and he begins to take more interest in his children and in_ his architectural work. "Grandie" and_ the Vetterly family decide to turn Hillhigh House into the "Amelia Museum." HE idea of the Amelia Museum caught like wildfire at the hearts of the people of Fivelakes. LaRue was amazed — yet delighted — at the enthusiasm which welcomed the idea. People came to the house to talk to Herb, almost the minute he came out of the hospital. Dr. Alan said it was all right, as long as Herb didn't get overtired. He was still in his wheel chair, but cach day he did a little walking about the house. He was so changed that LaRue felt the happy tears on her lashes every time she looked at him. He had no reluctance to meet his friends. Several times he had gone riding with Dr. Alan and Gladys while the doctor visited other patients. On one occasion, when Gladys had an appointment at the beauty salon, LaRue went with Dr. Alan while he called on Mrs. Lawson. Mrs. Lawson, a pretty middle-aged woman in a flowered smock, shook hands cordially with LaRue. While they were there, the other children insisted on opening their piggy-banks to donate to the building of the Amelia Museum. LaRue took the pennies from their hands, and smiled. "We're keeping a list of names." She took them down in a little notebook. "lll give this to Erma. She's taking care of everything." Erma was a sort of self-appointed secretary. Later, when the money was in, there would be a committee. Until dhe time, Firma worked with her father, consulting with him for hours at a time. Joel and Eddie — constantly grease-stained and dirty now — were working hard on the engine of the old car. They were polishing lamps, sanding fenders, sparking the motor. The first time it gave a small cough, Joel and Eddie beamed excitedly. "If we get it fixed," promised Joel, "we're going to entcr it in the old cars division of the parade at the Founding Festival." The Festival was drawing near. Page 455 456 There were banners across. The downtown streets, and the windows in the shopping district blossomed with dazzling play clothes and authentic Indian, Mexican, and prospector's clothing. Erma, who was going to wear a frock designed from a Mexican Senorita's costume, with glittering pink and silver sequins on the huge roses on the skirt, looked a little guilty because it was so becoming. "Am I vain," she asked, '"'wanting to look nice for Bob?" LaRue shook her head. "Not vain, darling. Just proud. It's natural for a girl to want to be pretty for her best beau. Perhaps if I had a young and handsome escort, I'd be thinking about a pink or bluc frock for the occasion." She paused, remembering that Gladys would be wearing blue. She said gaily: "But I'm sure Grandie won't mind that my yellow dress is three years old." Firma nodded: "I'm sure he won't. He likes you, Aunt LaRue, very much. He says that you're a lot like Mother — like your sister — though you don't look much like her." She hesitated, "I heard Dr. Alan say, a long time ago, that yellow was his favorite color." LaRue was annoyed to find herself blushing a little. But she was glad to know that Dr. Alan liked yellow. She didn't mind wearing the dress so much, knowing that! Erma, staring at the glowing roses on her dress, said simply, "Bob won't be cutting the tops off carrots much longer, LaRue. When he begins his classes at the U, they're going to let him work in the office. It will be good training, you know. He's RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1959 taking business management." Her eyes were bright. "Bob's very brilliant. He is going to amount to something, one of these days." Pride beamed in her face. She looked like a pink rosebud, as she slipped into the frock. LaRue helped pin it here and there, and after it was stitched, Erma hung it away, ready for the square dancing. HE morming of the Founding Festival found the huge, golden sun laced with cotton clouds which kept the day from being too warm. They all went to the parade and sat on the curb to watch "The Sons of Cochise," in weirdly feathered costumes do the "Dance to the Sun." Other Indians — Pueblo and Hopi — came in undulating procession carrying their gifts to their Indian gods. Some of their faces were garishly painted, but every Indian carried himself with the pride of his tribe. There were magnificent, flowered floats, with beautiful girls. 'There were little gray burros, and streamlined palomino horses. 'The history of Fivelakes unraveled before LaRue's eyes, and everywhere she found that history laced with the name Harding. After the parade they rode out to Blue Lake, carrying their picnic baskets. Herb in his chair, was happiest of all. He could walk a little, but he must not get overtired. Now that his chair was no longer a necessity, he did not mind having Joel or Eddie push him around. Connie and Janet rode the lavender, green, and white horses on rd - r" "Alan won't mind," THE SILVER LEASH the merry-go-round as they had promised. But Grandie, under his grandson's insistence, had to be content to watch Bob and Erma sail high into the sky in the Ferris wheel. Joel and Eddie — in plaid shirts with cowboy boots tucked into brand new Levis — tried out the Earth Satellite, the Atomic Buster, and several other devices which were frighteningly realistic. Gladys, very pretty in her new blue frock, clung possessively to Dr. Alan's arm until she sighted Earl Meeghan in the crowd. She hailed him, and finding that he was alone, invited him to join them. She cried flirtatiously, widening her large, green eyés questioningly in his direction. "Besides, we brought enough picnic for half the people at the carnival." | Without the slightest anger, or rt jealousy, Dr. Alan seconded the invitation, and they all ate under shady trees at a table which groaned with goodies. Herb, sitting in his chair at the "end of the long table, spoke in a happy whisper to his sister-in-law. "I'm a most fortunate man, LaRue, to have such a family. Erma is very like her mother." Herb had learned to speak about Amelia, without apparent emotion. He added softtly: "I feel very close to Amelia each time Erma enters the room." ARUE smiled happily as she helped Grandie to another sandwich. He wore his Sunday-best suit, and his concession to the festivities was a perky string tie. He had 457 tucked a tiny red rosebud in the lapel of his coat and explained it, saying, "Since my date is the prettiest lady in Fivelakes, I want her to be proud of her escort." LaRue thanked Grandie with a kiss against his wrinkled cheek. She was proud of the old man. She felt as if she had known him since childhood. After lunch, they strolled about, Gladys with her hands linked in Dr. Alan's and Earl's arms. Her highheeled sandals picked up rocks, and she waited helplessly while one or the other of her escorts shook the rocks out of her small, slim shoes. Blue Lake was a mirror for the suds-white clouds above. The beach, edged with colorful booths, swarmed with people. Most of them stopped to smile or speak to their doctor, Gladys waited impatiently until they were through, or strolled casually away with Earl Meeghan. Once, Grandie meeting LaRue's eyes with his shrewd dark eyes, said mysteriously, "Sometimes doctors need a little of that nasty medicine. I thought I might have to administer it, myself. But now I'm not so sure." His voice was drowned out by the tinny calliope of the merrygo-round which blended with the cacophony of the "Dodge-em." LaRue wasn't quite sure she had heard him right. She was still puzzled over his meaning. One moment he was like a thoughtless young school boy, riding a green horse beside Connie and Janet. The next he was eating hotdogs with Joel and Eddie. Gladys, scandalized, said sharply, "Grandie, you're making a spectacle of yourself!" 458 He answered serenely, "I'm old enough to do whatever I please. Young enough to enjoy it." He linked arms with Connie and Janice and marched defiantly towards the "Cotton Candy" booth. Alan's fond glance went after him. "He's having the time of his life, Gladys. He used to be pretty lonely." They saw Mrs. Lawson and her family waiting to ride the "Showboat." Alan's eyes showed sudden worry. "She shouldn't have come." Gladys tapped a blue sandal. "Oh, darling, can't you stop being a doctor for just an hour!" She was entirely unconscious of the flush that swept over Dr. Alan's face. She linked her hand into his elbow, and called to Earl, "Let's go buy a panda bear for Connie. She'll love it." LaRue looked after them as they strolled away, and her heart ached slightly for Alan. The day passed merrily. Erma, in her pink frock, danced with Bob, dressed in matching pink shirt and dark trousers tucked into tooled boots. 'They made one of the handsomest couples in the square dance, and Herb smiled proudly as he watched them. "He's a very fine young man," he told LaRue. "Good, steady." It was plain that he liked Bob Powers. THE day seemed to pass like lightning. All at once the sun disappeared behind the cliffs, and night came to blanket the carnival grounds. Neon lights were dimmed, and only the millions of stars were left to sparkle over the little islands before the fireworks began. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1959 With the first shower of manmade, fiery stars, there were sighs of admiration. Sky rockets dazzled the eyes with emerald and ruby sparks. Fountains dashed _ their gleaming sprays upwards, and cascades of brilliance fell to the ground. There were set-pieces authentically recalling moments in the history of the town. There were glowing red, _ white, and blue flags, and the outlined faces of past and present Presidents. When the last glowing outline died, there was dancing in the open-air pavilion. Erma and Bob were almost the first couple on the floor when the strains of a waltz floated musically over the lake. Joel and Eddie, and some of the other boys who had joined them, stood in the stag line and looked anxiously at a group of pretty young girls nearby. Herb had insisted that Connie and Janice go home, and Grandie went, too, driving home in a friend's car. Gladys fastened a proprictary hand on Dr. Alan's arm and urged him to dance. Earl cast them a jealous little glance as they glided out upon the floor, and said, "We might as well join them, LaRue." As they swept out into the crowded dance floor, Earl said frankly, "I guess you know I'm crazy about that girl! But what man has a chance against a handsome young doctor like Alan?" LaRue said evenly: "I don't think it matters whether or not a man is handsome. As long as two people love each other. That's what truly counts, Earl." She did hope that she didn't sound too old-maidish. She'd had very little experience with being in love. Perhaps the nearest she had THE SILVER LEASH ever come to it was her admiration and liking for Alan. But she was honest as she added, "Any girl should be proud to marry Alan." She knew she was blushing a little, but she wasn't ashamed to praise him. When the music ended, they stood waiting for Gladys and Alan to cross the floor. LaRue saw one of the older Lawson boys hurrying into the pavilion. He came quickly to Alan's side, his face pale, his eyes worried. "Daddy said for you to come, Dr. Rutherford. Mom's sick. He took her home...." Almost immediately Dr. Rutherford's professional manner and anxiety made him turn to leave. He touched Gladys' arm. "Come with me, Gladys. [ll need someone to help. This is an emergency." Gladys pulled her arm away, and her face was filled with distress. Her voice was close to hysteria. "Oh, Alan, I can't! I'm no good with sick people. Please don't ask me...." "But I need you," insisted Dr. Alan bluntly. Mrs. Lawson to the hospital. 'Too late to reach a nurse in time. Later, perhaps, but not in time." Gladys was shaking her head, pouting angrily. "You're spoiling things for me, Alan. Surely you can't expect me to leave the dance. Pve planned on it for a long time." Her eyes lifted to Earl Meeghan's face, and she cried, "You go, Alan. Earl will see me home, later." OR an instant Alan's face was pale with something like scorn. Then he turned to LaRue and asked "It's too late to get. 459 sharply, "Are you afraid, too?" She said, haltingly, "Not afraid, Alan. It's just that I may not know just what to do." "Yl tell you," he said. Without another word, he led her to his car, started it, and drove away. He gave concise instructions as he turned into the Lawson yard, telling her exactly what to expect. His face was pale, and his jaw was forbidding. She pitied him, but she knew he did not want pity. Mr. Lawson came out as they parked the car. His face was strained, frightened. "I sent the children to their grandmother. I'll phone Herb, LaRue, to tell him where you are." He took them into the neat house, showed them where they could scrub, then led them into the bedroom. Mrs. Lawson was very ill. Dr. Rutherford's movements were kindly, soothing as he gave her a hypodermic. He issued quiet instructions to LaRue, and she brought the things he mentioned, finding them with Frank Lawson's assistance. They worked speedily together, with few words between them. With a singleness of purpose that was destined to bring a new life into the world, Dr. Alan went about his task. At last Mrs. Lawson's tiny son was born. "I can never repay you." Mr. Lawson had difficulty in keeping back the tears. Alan and LaRue went into the kitchen. He stood there digging his strong fingers into the tight muscles at the back of his neck. 'Thanks, LaRue," he said simply. Her face glowed, but she said, "I 460 only did what any woman could have done, Alan." He shook his head, and his eyes were clouded. "Not any woman," he denied. She came to his side, laid her hand against his. "I'm sorry, Alan." His eyes met hers without flinching. "It had to be this way, LaRue. I guess 've known almost from the first that Gladys..." He did not finish, but LaRue saw hurt and disillusionment going out of his face. LaRue went to the window and raised the blind. A soft pale dawn came into the room, fresh and clean as a new world. He came to stand beside her, not touching her, yet very close. -" RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1959 "Everything is waking," he said softly. For a moment she felt a swift happiness within. Then she told herself that she was reading more into his words than he had meant. But she could not still the sudden glory in her breast, as they went out into the morning together. The cool desert breeze pressed LaRue's rumpled yellow dress closely about her tired body as Alan helped her into his car. He smiled down at her, wordlessly. The sun was just a slice of golden thread behind the pink mountains as the car thrust forward into the promise of a brand new day.... (To be concluded) Elizabeth Ethel Jacobson So many treasured fragments day by day Added a richness to the tapestry She wove of each small strand that came her way: A curlew's cry above a misty sea; The purr of a stray kitten that she fed; A spray of bittersweet against a wall; Dried tears of all who left her, comforted; The soft pink wool that was her mother's shaw]; A yellow plate upon a scrubbed pine shelf; A bit of fragrant basil in a jar; A well-loved hymn; a loaf she baked herself; A walk in autumn woods; a wishing star.... She lived alone, we knew, but few could guess How brimmed with blessings and with thankfulness. _FROM THE FIELD [7 Hulda Parker, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Relief Society Handbook of Instructions. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES: Cay © Photograph submitted by Irene T. Erekson AUSTRALIAN MISSION, PARRAMATTA BRANCH HONORS RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS AND COUNSELORS, March 17, 1959 Front row, left to right: present President Margaret Cheatle Gray; Alma Woollett Schofield; Irene T. Erekson, former president, Australian Mission Relief Society; Helen Craig Harker, the first president. Back row, standing, left to right: Betty Anderson Fortune; Jean Fordham Hale; Viola Grear Innis; Eunice Kneale Metcalf. Sister Erekson reports: "This branch, Parramatta, used to be Harris Park. They now have a lovely chapel, and these sisters are running a store, taking turns each day, to pay for it. They are a very energetic group, and many of these women spent days of hard work on the grounds while the building was being built. They all have a strong testimony of the Church and of Relief Society work. 'This small branch was organized August 18, 1957, and has grown steadily ever since, until now they have 161 members." Edith Josephine Moore is the new president of the Australian Mission Relief Society. Page 461 462 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1959 Photograph submitted by Mariom A. Woodhouse SANTA ANA STAKE (CALIFORNIA) RELIEF SOCIETY SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR ANNIVERSARY, March 14, 1959 Front row, left to right: Mary Chester, chorister; Lillian Whetton, organist. Fifth from the left, front row, Mariom A. Woodhouse, President, Santa Ana Stake Relief Society; front row, extreme right, Nina Riley, First Counselor. Sister Woodhouse reports that seven stake workers participated in the Singing Mothers chorus. '"The chorus has sung for stake conference twice since the organization a year ago. % EY 2 Photograph submitted by Cora A. Stanard GREAT FALLS STAKE (MONTANA) RELIEF SOCIETY HONORS VISITING TEACHERS AT CONVENTION AND SPRING SOCIAL, April 18, 1959 Left to night: Ivy Stott, who has served as a visiting teacher for thirty-six years; Mary Christenson, thirty-five years; Vera Nelson, forty-two years; LaVern McOmber, forty years. Back row, left to right: Rachelle Robinson, forty-two years; Minerva Molen, fifty years., Cora A. Stanard, President, Great Falls Stake Relief Society, reports that these sisters were honored by each one having a Relief Society pin presented to her. Their names were also placed on an honor scroll in the chapel during the program. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 463 Photograph submitted by Rose L. Moscon TOOELE STAKE (UTAH), TOOELE ELEVENTH WARD FASHION SHOW Aptil 9, 1959 Rose L. Moscon, President, Tooele Stake Relief Society, reports: "These are the little models who participated in 'Springtime Fantasy' which was the theme of the fashion show presented by the Tooele Eleventh Ward. It was under the direction of the work department and was presented at the April work meeting. All of the children modeled clothes that were made by their mothers. Members of the Eleventh Ward Relief Society presidency are: Beth Atkin, President; Edna Dobson, First Counselor; Iva Hamilton, Second Counselor." Photograph submitted by Marie J. Monson BUTTE STAKE (MONTANA), BUTTE WEST WARD RELIEF SOCIETY HONORS FORMER PRESIDENTS AT ANNIVERSARY PARTY, March 17, 1959 Seated, left to right: Lura Henderson; Helen Colvin; Harriet Millecam; Norma Heinitz, President; Marie Evans; Eleanor Burt; Lavern Sessions. Marie Ih Monson, President, Butte Stake Relief Society, reports: "President Heinitz presented each of the former presidents with a Relief Society pin." 464 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1959 Photograph submitted by Evalyn B. White MESA STAKE (ARIZONA) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE Margaret M. Smith, the chorister, stands at the right; organist Ida S. Church is seated at the left. Evalyn B. White, President, Mesa Stake Relief Society, reports that these Singing Mothers presented music for stake quarterly conference on three different occasions, the last time being on March 22, 1959. 22a. Ee Sar, Ree Ly eye S/S e:2 ¥ Photograph submitted by Marilynn H. Pace ARGENTINE MISSION, CENTRAL AND LA PLATA DISTRICTS QUILT EXHIBITION, February 21, 1959 Marilynn H. Pace, President, Argentine Mission Relief Society, reports: "A longawaited occasion in the Argentine Mission took place in the Liniers Chapel, February 21, 1959. Relief Societies in the Central and La Plata Districts participated in a quilt exhibition and sale and a special musical program. Quilt making by hand is not commonly done in Argentina, and the project proved to be challenging and stimulating to the sisters who had never tried their hands at quilt making before. The quilts varied greatly in size, color, and pattern, and demonstrated great originality, as all the patterns NOTES FROM THE FIELD 465 were designed by the sisters themselves. Interest and enthusiasm in quilting are high in the mission at the present time, as most of the thirty Relief Societies in this mission have initiated and completed quilt-making projects this past year. The sisters feel happy with the success of their first quilt exhibition, but feel that next year their quilts will be of even higher quality and better workmanship. "The sisters pictured above represent the presidencies of the nine branch Relief Societies which participated: Quilmes, Vicente Lopez, Caseros, Liniers, Deseret, Villa Sarmiento, Floresta, Merlo, and Lomas de Zamora." ' Photograph submitted by Myrl B. Whiting DALLAS STAKE (TEXAS), FORT WORTH WARD ANNIVERSARY PARTY March 17, 1959 Front row, left to mght: Alice Whipple, chorister; Myrl B. Whiting, President, Dallas Stake Relief Society; Lydia Swanson; Lucille Ford, Second Counselor; Mary Hadfield, President; Karen Hoopes, organist; Jewell Walch, Secretary-Treasurer; Leila Langston, visiting teacher message leader; Sophia Bliss, literature class leader. Second row, left to right: Mary Vadner; Bernice Matson, organist, Dallas Stake Relief Society; Golda Silcox, Secretary-Treasurer, Dallas Stake Relief Society; Mary Cornwall; Gloria Marchant; Rita Amon; Dorothy Titus; Lois Peterson; Dorothy Davis. Third row, left to right: Eunice Borgholthaus; Ella Beck, visiting teacher message leader, Dallas Stake Relief Society; Arla Beck; JoDene Porter; Beverly Curtis; Emogene Combs; Margaret Gledhill; Ova Moorman, Magazine representative; Norma Vance; Virginia Driscoll; Alma Curtis. Irene Peterson, First Counselor, was not present when this picture was taken. Sister Whiting reports: "On this delightful occasion a brunch was served, after which a musical program and book review were enjoyed by the women. The members of Relief Society made the tablecloth featured. It is blue net, with white motifs covered with silver sequins. The flowers are yellow roses. The oil painting in the background is a scene of Texas bluebonnets painted by President Mary Hadfield and presented to the Fort Worth Ward Relief Society at the anniversary party." 466 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1959 SSSR SEER RRM Ag SHON: Photograph submitted by Roma C. Esplin ST. GEORGE STAKE (UTAIT), SANTA CLARA WARD RELIEF SOCIETY WINS FIRST PLACE FOR SEWING AND HANDWORK DISPLAY AT WASHINGTON COUNTY FAIR Center front, Icft to ght, ward Relief Society presidency: Gwendolyn K. Frei, First Counselor; Beulah S. Graff, President; Helen S. Hafen, Second Counselor; Roma C. Esplin, President, St. George Stake Relief Society; Alta V. McConkie, First Counsclor, Mary Louise H. Hafen. Back row: Elva D. Leavitt; Sylva S. Graff; Arvina G. Hafen, Selina G. Hafen; Lila H. Hafen; Dean S. Graff; Florence 'T. Graft, Secretary; Grace S$. Stucki, chairman of display; Valda B. Frei; Charmaine Frei; Vella Ruth M. Hafen. Sister Esplin reports: ""The Santa Clara Ward Relief Society won first place at the Washington County Fair with their group display. All the very beautiful articles were made by the women of Rclicf Society." Photograph submitted by Vivian R. McConkie ENSIGN STAKE (UTAH), EIGHTEENTH WARD RELIEF SOCIETY VISITING TEACHERS, April 1959 Front row, left to right: Lilhan Covert; Mary Cluny; Margaret Brown; Elizabeth Larson; Erma Larson. Second row, left to right: Mary Rief; Ida Clark; Nettie Smoot; Ella Riter; Minnie Welling; Mabel Lingard; Marie Kraus; Faith Woolf. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 467 Third row, left to right: Eliza Christensen; Orena Tuckett; Mary Kempton; Adele Bird; Margaret Holten; Gertrude Wornham; Mary Hancock Dora Noble; Nancy Drollinger. Back row, left to right: Tessie Grosbeck; Louise Young; Vera Dotson; Susie Ulrich; Mary Osborn; Fern Mitchell; Mabel Oldom; Edith Langlois; Florence Saxton; Hazel Robertson. Breta McBride, President, Eighteenth Ward Relief Society, reports that the South Eighteenth West Ward (now the Eighteenth Ward) had thirty-four visiting teachers, who each month visited 227 sisters, all making a 100 per cent record. The historic Eighteenth Ward is one of the original nineteen which were organized within two years after the Latter-day Saint pioneers entered Salt Lake Valley. Vivian R. McConkie is president of Ensign Stake Relief Society. ES Photograph submitted by Fern T. Hartvigsen PORTNEUF STAKE (IDAHO) RETIRING RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENCY HONORED AT SOCIAL, March 12, 1959 Left to right, former officers: President Emaline Marley; First Counselor Mabel Hatch; Second Counselor Virgia Cammack; Secretary-Treasurer Coral Fackrell. Fern T. Hartvigsen, recently appointed President, Portneuf Stake Relief Society, reports: "These sisters were released on February 1, 1959, following twelve years of devoted service, except for Sister Coral Fackrell who has been Secretary-Treasurer for two years, replacing Alda Anderson, who had moved from the stake. All four sisters have outstanding records of service in the auxiliaries of the Church. They were honored at a stake social, attended by all the officers and class leaders and the stake Priesthood authorities. Each sister of the retiring presidency was presented with one of the new Relief Society pins as a gift, and each was honored with words and special music composed for the occasion. Luncheon preceded the program." Sheology—The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 17—"Magnify Thine Office" Elder Roy W. Doxey (Text: The Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 23 and 24) For Tuesday, October 6, 1959 Objective: To show the necessity of magnifying one's calling as a member of the Church and also in any position to which one may be called in the Church. ONE purpose of this lesson, as noted in the objective, is to show that although revelations were directed to certain individuals as members of the Church and also to one nonmember, the application of the truths in the revelations may be made to others. 'These two revelations also provide an opportunity for us to become acquainted, insofar as we can, with some of the people who were called into the Lord's service in the beginning of this dispensation. Introduction Although consisting of only seven verses, Section 23 of The Doctrine and Covenants contains words of admonition and counsel to five persons, one of whom was not a member of the Church. It is worthy of notice that the four members of the Church are declared by the Lord to Page 468 be "... Under no condemnation..." (verses 1, 3, 4, and 5). On the other hand, Joseph Knight, Senior, the nonmember, is not given this assurance, nor is he told that he is condemned. As we would look upon this circumstance today with what is given in verse 7 to Brother Knight, who became a member of the Church two months later, we can see where he would come under condemnation if he had not affiliated with the true Church. A revelation was directed to Joseph Knight, Senior, almost one year earlier. (See Section 12.) 'This good man had given material assistance to the Prophet Joseph Smith and did believe that Joseph actually had the Book of Mormon plates. He had desires to assist in the work at that time. Conditions had changed during the year, and the kingdom of God had begun to function on the LESSON DEPARTMENT earth under divine command. This fact made a most significant difference in the message the Lord gave to Mr. Knight in April 1830. He again sought divine counsel through the Prophet Joseph Smith. In addition to being told of the need for prayer in his life, both vocal and secret, this counsel was given: And, behold, it is your duty to unite with the true church, and give your language to exhortation continually, that you may receive the reward of the laborer. Amen (D & C 23:7). Reasons for Being a Member of the Church — Reflection What answer would you give to the thought expressed to Joseph Knight, Senior, that it was his "duty" to become a member of the kingdom of God? What reasons are there for your believing that it would be your obligation or responsibility to join the kingdom of God? (Before you read further, think for a few minutes, write the reasons, and read on.) Perhaps some of these ideas may help you: 1. Tam a child of God in the spirit and, as his child, in my limited understanding, I am duty-bound to accept his counsel. 2. Jesus our Lord gave himself that I might live amid conditions which provide the use of my highest potentialities. A. Jesus suffered intensely, giving his life, that I might be saved from a fate which is described as remaining in misery with the father of lies. (See 2 Nephi 9:9.) b. Jesus offered this atonement for me that I might through faithfulness receive "'all that the Father hath." 3. From modern scriptures, especially, I have received God's truth which gives me opportunity to know more 469 about how I may receive blessings 'n this life and also in the life to come. 4. I have received the gift of the Holy Ghost which has given to me knowledge (assurance) that The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is the only true and living Church upon the face of the earth. 5. The fulness of the gospel has provided opportunities for service to my fellow men, for personal development, and many other joys and satisfactions in life. Under each one of the above truths, and others which might be listed, there are many reasons for it being my duty to accept the blessings which can come only by being a member of the kingdom of God. Why It Is a Duty to Join the Church If, however, you were now to present reasons why Joseph Knight or any other nonmember should become a member of the Church on the basis of "duty," what, in addition to the above reasons, would you suggest? It is his duty to accept The Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints because: 1. It has been restored to the earth after a long period of apostasy when it was no longer present among men. 2. God has commanded that all men repent and accept the message as revealed in the restored gospel. 3. The gospel, as restored, is the same gospel as taught by Jesus and, later, by his apostles, as given in the Bible. 4. The teachings of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints are reasonable and consistent with the reopening of the heavens by direct revelation. 5. Evidence of modern scriptures _verifies the truth of other scriptures. 6. The fruits of the gospel, as restored, have brought joy and happiness into the lives of its adherents. 470 Other reasons might be given under each one of the foregoing to confirm either by scripture or otherwise, the validity of those general reasons. If one who has not become affiliated with 'The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints were to acknowledge the truth of the above statements or even of some of them, he would be duty bound to accept membership in this Church. Message to Oliver Cowdery In connection with the Lord's counsel to the members of the Church mentioned in Section 23, it is well to consider, briefly, the facts made known concerning each one. Oliver Cowdery is told to "... Beware of pride, lest thou shouldst enter into temptation" (verse 1). Despite the great opportunities that had already come to Oliver in being with the Prophet Joseph Smith when the Aaronic and Melchizedek Priesthoods were restored, and, later, when additional keys of the Priesthood were brought back to the earth, as well as other privileges in assisting to build up the kingdom of God on the earth, Oliver permitted pride to enter his heart with a consequent loss of membership in the kingdom. (See D. H. C. II:16-18, for charges made against him and his letter respecting his difficulties in 1838 which brought about his excommunication.) Although Oliver Cowdery returned to the Church, the great blessings that he once enjoyed were not returned to him. However, he died in full fellowship in the kingdom, true to his testimony of The Book of Mormon. Hyrum Smith, the Prophet's brother, received the blessing that RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1959 his calling was to strengthen the Church continually. By revelation the Lord called him to be a counselor in the First Presidency in 1837. Later, he was appointed Patriarch to the Church. (See D & C 124:91-06. ) The office of Patriarch to the Church is hereditary and is received by the eldest sons born in the line-; age of Joseph Smith, Senior. (See D & C 107:40.) In connection with the call of Hyrum Smith to be Patriarch to the Church, we again learn of the power of prophecy possessed by Joseph Smith. This revelation states to Hyrum that "... Thy duty is unto the church forever, and this because of thy family..." (D&C 23:3). Samuel H. Smith Samuel H. Smith strengthened the Church during his ministry as the first missionary of this dispensation until his death on July 30, 1844. How well this revelation was fulfilled is borne out in the life of Samuel as recorded in Church publications. (Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, pp. 120-121; L. D. S. Biographical Encyclopedia, I, pp. 278-282.) In keeping with the prophetic spirit of this revelation, Patriarch Joseph Smith, Senior, on his deathbed gave this blessing to his son Samuel: Samuel, you have been a faithful and obedient son. By your faithfulness you have brought many into the Church. The Lord has seen your diligence, and you are blessed, in that he has never chastised you, but has called you home to rest; and there is a crown laid up for you, which shall grow brighter and brighter unto the perfect day. LESSON DEPARTMENT Bererereenns rome O fetes Saale Otto Done THE SUSQUEHANNA RIVER, NEAR HARMONY, When the Lord called you, he said, "Samuel, I have seen thy suffering, and heard thy cries, and beheld thy faithfulNcss; thy skirts are clear from the blood of this generation." Because of these things [I seal upon your head all the blessings which I have heretofore pronounced upon you; and this my dying blessing, I now seal upon you. Even so. Amen (Iistory of Joseph Smith by His Mother, Lucy Mack Smith, page 310). The following excerpt from his obituary notice appearing in the Times and Seasons brings to our attention the quality of devotion and attributes of character of this good man. The exit of this worthy man, so soon after the horrible butchery of his brothers, Joseph and Hyrum, in Carthage jail, is a matter of deep solemnity to the family, as well as a remediless loss to all. If ever there lived a good man upon the earth, Samuel H. Smith was that person. His labors in the Church from first to last, PENNSYLVANIA carrying glad tidings to the eastern cities, and finally his steadfastness as one of the Witnesses to the Book of Mormon, and many saintly traits of virtue, knowledge, temperance, patience, godliness, brotherly kindness and charity, shall be given of him hereafter, as a man of God (L. D. S. Biographical Encyclopedia ]:282). The Prophet's Father Joseph Smith, Senior, received a blessing similar to that given to his son Hyrum. Behold, I speak a few words unto you, Joseph; for thou also art under no condemnation, and thy calling also is to exhortation, and to strengthen the church; and this is thy duty from henceforth and forever. Amen (D & C 23:5). Specifically, the Patriarchal office was conferred upon Joseph Smith, Senior, and it was to continue in his lineage as indicated above, and thus forever the Church would be 472 strengthened. One experience in his life does show how his calling was to exhortation. A mission to members of his own family, to whom he bore a strong testimony of the truth of The Book of Mormon, eventually resulted in all of that large family coming into the Church, except one brother and a sister. On one occasion he was unjustifiably put into a "dismal dungeon" where he declared that he "... Was not the first man who had been imprisoned for the truth's sake; and when I should meet Paul in the Paradise of God, I could tell him that I, too, had been in bonds for the Gospel which he had preached..." (History of Joseph Smith by His Mother Lucy Mack Smith, page 185). When he was released, thirty days later, he baptized two persons whom he had converted. Section 24 and the Prophet As indicated in the superscription of Section 24, persecution of the Prophet became intense shortly after the organization of the Church. He was brought before the court on two separate charges and acquitted both times. (See D. H. C. 1:86- 90.) Notwithstanding the bitterness of mobs against the Prophet, there were many times when words of consolation were given and other things occurred to strengthen his faith and cheer the hearts of his followers. One such instance is given by the Prophet shortly before this revelation (Section 24) was received. 'The wife of Newel Knight had a dream which enabled her to say that Oliver Cowdery and Joseph Smith would visit them that day. That day found the fulfillment of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JSULY 1959 this dream. The Prophet recorded "... And thus was our faith much strengthened concerning dreams and visions in the last days, foretold by the ancient Prophet Joel..." (D. H. C.1:101). Verse 1 of Section 24 is to be understood in view of the persecutions of the Prophet and Oliver, while verse 2 points out that they must continue to exercise the principles of repentance in their lives. Important for this lesson is the significant admonition to Joseph, "... Magnify thine office..." (verse 3). At this time the Prophet returned to his small farm at Harmony, Pennsylvania, where he began his labors in sowing his fields. 'This was not the calling of the Prophet, however, for he was commanded to perform the calling which he had received by divine appointment, "And in temporal labors thou shalt not have strength, for this is not thy calling..." (verse g) "... But devote all thy service in Zion..." (verse 7). The three branches of the Church mentioned in verse 3 were to sustain him, and blessings instead of a cursing were to be theirs. By this temporal assistance, the Prophet would be able to have sufficient to magnify his office "... And to expound all scriptures, and continue in laying on of the hands and confirming the churches" [branches] (verse 9). "Magnify Thine Office..." When the Prophet Joseph Smith was told to magnify his calling, the Lord was definite that he had a calling to which he should give his time and talent. In The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints the members have many opportuni- LESSON DEPARTMENT ties for service because of the nature of its organization. These privileges range from callings as teachers in the auxiliaries to offices of leadership. In each calling, regardless of what it may be, there are definite responsibilities which pertain to that calling. Every converted member of the Church desires to make his or her contribution to the kingdom of God. In what way may this be done? One definite way is to magnify one's calling as a member of the kingdom and in his specific calling in the Church. How to Magnify One's Calling What does it mean to "magnify" a calling? Basically, to magnify means to enlarge or make great. As applied to a calling in the Church, one does not enlarge the office, but, by faithfully carrying out the duties of the calling, one "makes" or "enlarges" the office in the eyes of the membership. In this sense, then, the dictionary definition which says to "cause to be held in greater esteem or respect'"" may be applied. The important thing for us is to know wherein the Lord, through his prophets, indicated that an office was being magnified. Some ideas concerning this fact should be considered under these points: 1. Worthiness of life Section 4 and 12. (See Lesson 6, Relief Society Magazine, December 1957-) 2. Study the scriptures and information relative to the calling. This counsel addressed to missionaries was given that they might magnify their calling. (Sce D & C 88:78-80.) And as all have not faith, seek ye diligently and teach one another words of wisdom; yea, seek ye out of the best books words of wisdom; 473 seek learning, even by study and also by faith (D & C 88:118). 3. Unselfish devotion Now, my beloved brethren, I, Jacob, according to the responsibility which I am under to God, to magnify mine office with soberness, and that I might rid my garments of your sins, I come up into the temple this day that I might declare unto you the word of God (Jacob 2:2). 4. Follow the leaders placed over us In speaking to Relief Society, the Prophet Joseph Smith said:... That it was the folly and nonsense of the human heart for a person to be aspiring to other stations than those to which they are appointed of God for them to occupy; that it was better for individuals to magnify their respective callings, and wait patiently till God shall say to them, "Come up higher" (D. H. C. IV:603). 5. Obtain the Spirit and keep it And the Spirit shall be given unto you by the prayer of faith and if ye receive not the Spirit ye shall not teach (D & C 42:14). When a Latter-day Saint woman prepares herself for service in the various ways mentioned above and strives to magnify her calling in the kingdom of God, the Lord will magnify her. (See Joshua 3:7; I Chron. 29:25.) Paul felt that the works which were done through the Priesthood magnified the name of the Lord. (See Acts 19:13-17.) This same apostle considered that by his life of worthiness Jesus was magnified in him. (See Philippians 1:20.) Questions for Discussion 1. Give some reasons for being a member of the Church. 2. Why would you believe it is a person's "duty" to join The Church of Jcsus Christ of Latter-day Saints? 3. What is there in this lesson which 474 gives evidence that Joseph Smith received revelation from the Lord? 4. In what ways may one magnify a calling in the Church? RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1959 5. Discuss: Activity in the Church, when possible, is necessary to receive exaltation. Ussiting Seacher ITlessages— Truths to Live By From The Doctrine and Covenants Message 17—"... Take Upon You My Whole Armor, That Ye May Be Able to Withstand the Evil Day..." (D & C 27:15). Christine H. Robinson For Tuesday, October 6, 1959 Objective: To show that only when we protect ourselves with the whole armor of spirituality can we be sure of the constant companionship of the Lord's Spirit. N Greek mythology there is a well-known legend which tells of the mighty warrior Achilles. In his infancy, Achilles' mother 'Thetis, endeavoring to make him invulnerable to all physical harm, bathed him in the mighty river Styx. The water washed over his body, forming an impregnable shield, with the exception of one small part—his heel by which she was holding him. The princely warrior grew to manhood, and, because of his protective armor, lived a charmed and secure life. Not one of his enemy's weapons could harm him. One day, however, after a great and successful battle, one last poisoned arrow was shot at Achilles. 'This arrow found its way to his one vulnerable spot, his heel. And because of this small flaw in his otherwise great armor, Achilles was slain. In The Doctrine and Covenants 27:15, Jesus admonishes us to "... Take upon you my whole armor, that ye may be able to withstand the evil day...." The emphasis in this quotation is on applying the whole armor of the gospel. It stresses the importance of building a_ strong protective shield of spirituality in order to resist the weapons of evil and the temptations of the adversary, that are likely to beset us throughout our lives. As in the legend of Achilles, most of us have potential or actual weaknesses in our spiritual armor which we must recognize and guard against. These weaknesses, although they may be relatively small, may open the door for serious degenerating influences and may become an "Achilles' heel" in our own lives. Such weaknesses as selfishness, jcalousy, intolerance, false pride, or covetousness, even discouragement, may be flaws in an otherwise strong spiritual armor. As Jesus exhorts us in the scriptures, we should gird ourselves with truth, make righteousness the breastplate of our armor, faith our shield, LESSON DEPARTMENT salvation our helmet, and the Lord's Spirit our defensive sword. (See D & C 27:16-18.) Let us be sure that we take upon us Christ's whole armor. Partial or incomplete righteousness will not give us the protection we need. Where our spiritual armor is not whole, Satan finds the weak spots. 475 It is these flaws in our protective shield for which he is constantly searching. With the complete protection of the Lord's Spirit, and with his gospel, we can successfully withstand the temptings of the evil one and partake of the rich joys and blessings which come to those who stand faithful unto the end. WVork IT leeting—Physical Safety Factors in the Home (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Discussion 1—Child Safety Charlotte A. Larsen For Tuesday, October 13, 1959 Objective: To show the necessity in safety measures of extensive education of parents and others responsible for child care. VERY home should be a haven not a hazard. Yet, today, accidents, especially in the home area, have become the number one killer and crippler of children. Remarkable progress has been made in decreasing childhood fatalities from tuberculosis, pneumonia, scarlet fever, diphtheria, diarrhea, and many other contagious diseases, but there is no vaccination, no surgery, oF form of medicine that can reduce childhood accidents. The only safeguard or prevention for accidents in the home is intensive education of parents and others responsible for child care. Constant vigilance and a true knowledge of the ways of small children are the answers to the never-ending accident problem. Young children need to touch, to feel, and to explore, but should not be left unsupervised except in safely planned play areas. Day-to-Day Safety Teaching It is important to remember that children imitate adults; consequently, it is imperative that adults conform to high safety standards. Safety principles should be taught at an early age for children are active and heedless. Parents can do much to save them from injury and suffering by following a few basic principles. Preventing Accidents The first step in making the home a safer place for your children is to study the leading causes of home accidents involving children. 'The most common accidents are: 1. Burns and explosions from matches, 476 firecrackers, bonfires, lighters, unprotected heaters, and stoves. N Scalding from hot liquids. 3. Falls from swings, trees, windows, porches, and steps, and even falls out of bed. 4. Electrocutions and burns from worn extension cords, unprotected electric outlets. 5. Cuts from knives, scissors, and other sharp objects. 6. Drownings in bathtubs, unguarded and unprotected swimming pools, uncovered fish-ponds, and wells and canals. 7. Poisoning caused from household bleaches, detergents, medicines, and insecticides. §. Strangulations and other injury from stuffing small objects in nose, ears, and throat. "unloaded" g. Gunshot wounds from guns. 10. Vehicular accidents from cars backing out from garages; bicycle accidents. Safeguards The following safeguards should be taken to protect children: 1. Provide safe, attractive areas for children, both indoors and outdoors, so that they can be watched while mothers are performing houschold duties. The safest play area is a fenced yard. [Driveways, streets, and highways are not safe places for children to play.| 2. Select children's toys with care. Avoid buying articles which can be easily swallowed, which have sharp corners or rough edges, or which have poisonous paint. Lead paint used on baby's chair or crib is dangerous, as the child may suck or chew on some part of the furniture and be poisoned. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1959 3. Teach the children to stay away from the stove as you prepare the meals. While cooking, turn handles of all pots and pans to the back of the stove. Use the back burners whenever possible. 4. Keep sharp objects, such as scissors, knives, ice-picks, etc., away from small children and train older children to use them properly. Keep electric cords out of reach. Children should be taught the danger of: playing with electric cords. Children can be seriously burned by chewing on cords. Garage and Driveway Hazards Be sure you can actually see all children known to be in the vicinity while you back your car. Looking around first isn't enough. Knowing the children were in the house a moment ago isn't enough. Make them stand where you can see them while you're backing. 'Teach your children the danger of playing near parked cars and trucks. Delivery men don't take time to look around and under their vehicles before driving away. Every year has its pitiful toll of little children killed or maimed this way. Be sure it doesn't happen to your youngsters. Other Child Safety Reminders During the past few years we have seen newspaper and magazine reports of the entrapment of small children in discarded refrigerators and other airtight cabinets. In most cases these entrapments result in death. A number of suggestions have been made to correct this situation. 'The solution to this hazard is education — education of parents to make these cabinets harmless before discarding them, and to educate children to stay out of such places. 'This is a serious problem, for there are over a million of these LESSON DEPARTMENT cabinets discarded each year. Avoid placing a chair or couch near a window where a child can easily climb up and perhaps fall out the window. (Windows should have firmly secured screens. ) Take this child safety tip: Keep in a safe, preferably locked place, anything in your home or garage that could harm a child if taken without your supervision, such as simple medicines, cleaning materlals, furniture polishes, garden sprays, and insecticides. To a little tot gasoline or kerosene looks like a lot of other things he drinks. He may try it without hesitation, if you leave it where he can get it easily. It may very well be fatal. 'Take the extra little care necessary to avoid this tragedy on your premises. A tot left alone in the bathtub can turn the hot water on and scald himself in an instant, or bump his head and drown. 477 Many childhood accidents happen in homes where there are no youngsters. Here is a special child safety tip to adults without children at home: always be sure your scissors, poisonous liquids, medicines, knives — all things potentially dangerous to small children — are kept carefully out of the way, just in case friends with youngsters stop in unexpectedly. Accidents to children, it seems, happen when and where adults least expect them. Questions 1. When is the best time to teach our children safety measures? 2. How are safety measures best taught? 3. How does the safety environment of the home affect the child? Suggested Reference Formula For Child Safety, Metropolitan Life Insurance Company Home Office: New York. SL iterature—Ametica's Literature — A. New Nation Speaks Lesson 9— Introduction: Light and Fire Elder Briant S. Jacobs For Tuesday, October 20, 1959 Objective: To sketch the background for changes in the American mind before and after the Revolutionary War. Seedtime of the Nation BECAUSE few of us, previous to this course, had on tongue-tip the name of any American who wrote before 1776, it becomes easy to assume that little of import was happening before then. Based perhaps on some "required" history class that now lies flattened beneath mountains of diapers and dishes, this easy generalization would have 478 our forefathers too busy landing on Plymouth Rock, eating turkeys and pumpkins, chopping down trees, dipping candles, killing Indians, and courting Priscilla Alden, ever to read or write much. "But now that you've mentioned it," they might well respond, "just who is there, anyway?" During our first year we named seven names; it could well have been far more had we room enough and time. Looking back on our study of New England Puritanism, we can now identify it as a period of vigorous dissenting, noble dreaming, selfrighteous dominating, subtle yet fundamental changing. Studied carefully, it yields a fascinating pertinence all its own. Viewed from a decper perspective, it becomes one of the great seedtimes of our national heart and mind. Save for Jonathan Edwards, who died approximately twenty years before Paul Revere's ride, most aggressive believers in the Bible Commonwealth were dead almost fifty years before 1776. If theocratic Puritanism ended in 1728, and Jefferson began writing in 1776, what happened in between? Much! Literature of the American tradition has "bone in its nose" (because it was written to instruct and edify). Before 1900 those of our great authors who wrote only to please the imagination or to delight, are few in number. The half-century preceding the Revolution was also a time of seeding and of mixing its seeds with those planted earlier. This period, from 1763 on, was the matrix which produced the fiery issues of hatreds and death; firing musketry but accelerated and intensified the work which "the silent presRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1959 sure of environment" had been effecting upon transplanted Europeans for decades. Struggling for Economic and Political Rights As swelling numbers of individual working-class Englishmen earned themselves a new identity with their lands and goods and expansive inner freedoms, their status rose, at least in their own minds; in reverse ratio, the power of the theocracy shriveled. 'Though not one in a thousand attended a university, people of colonial America were hungry to read; in the decades before and after the war, newspapers and magazines multiplied tremendously. 'The temper of the times changed. Men feit within the scope of their attainable futures new rights to be achieved; reading and attending the community discussion groups which sprang up verified their own new hungers and convictions. As early as 1717 the Reverend John Wise, university trained son of an indentured servant, put the new attitude into ringing words:. In the high and admirable Frame and Constitution of Humane Nature the Word Man, says my Author, is thought to carry somewhat of Dignity in its sound; and we commonly make use of this as the most proper and prevailing argument against a rude Insulter, I am Not a Beast or a Dog, but am a Man as well as yourself. Increasingly the literate but nonuniversity working classes came to distrust the clergy and the educated few. When Cotton Mather recommended, in 1721, that the populace submit themselves to smallpox inoculation, it was James Franklin's Courant (as a voice for "Leather LESSON DEPARTMENT Apron men," which would include his younger brother Ben and himself) which spoke out against him. The Franklin brothers' paper satirized Harvard as a rich man's college which qualified dunces for the ministry by teaching them graceful carriage and other foppish skills "which might as well be acquired at a Dancing School." Surprising notions the seventeen-year-old printer's apprentice Ben Franklin printed, under the name of Silence Dogood, in the Courant, as copied from a London paper: "Without Freedom of Thought, there can be no such Thing as Wisdom; and no such Thing as publick Liberty, without Freedom of Speech." Uneducated? Perhaps, but surely self-taught, and evidently very near the tenor of the times in his thinking. Voting, too, became more widespread and influential in people's minds. On her precarious trip through Connecticut in 1704, Sarah Kemble Knight observed how their big red-letter day honored "St. Election... A blessing they can be thankful enough for." As one might expect, the ruling class feared such goings-on and stood together to oppose their counterblasts. But while the great majority of Swedes in New Sweden (Delaware); Dutch in New Amsterdam (New York); ex-convicts in Georgia; Anglicans throughout the South; Quakers and Dutch in Pennsylvania; Catholics in Maryland; Quakers and staunch Puritans who replanted the "New Ark" of their covenant theology in New Jersey; Congregationalists and Presbyterians in New England; and mongrels in Rhode Island and throughout the whole— while the many worshipped in quiet 479 tranquility or warmed to the New Light religious fervors of the Great Awakening, they were at peace religiously. The great battle centered about their receiving their economic and political rights as Englishmen. The Influence of Deism In the meantime a new movement began to influence the colonies. The Enlightenment had become a strong force in England during the late seventeenth century among the intellectual, educated classes. Basically it was a reaction against the severities of the Puritan curbings, which ended in 1660, when the Stuarts were restored to the throne. Above all, the devotees of the Enlightenment honored man's reason as the key for unlocking the mysteries of his physical world and the universe, for solving the growing complexities of men's relationships with each other, and for what they felt to be a more reasonable approach to religion. Puritan scholars had always believed in the beneficent powers of science, intellect, and the pursuit of knowledge through books and education. For them reason was a tool or "faculty" to be mastered in the manipulations of logic. Particularly after the charter was renewed in 1692, Reason began taking on new significance, even in the words of the New England Puritans themselves. In 1700, Cotton Mather published his Reasonable Religion in which he wrote, "Did men Act Reasonably, they would Live Religiously.". Gradually, for the eighteenth-century Puritans, reason became an inborn power in natural man which proved to him the necessity for God: in marveling at the splendid mechanical smoothness 480 with which the universe runs, wasn't it reasonable that some Great Power created it? Deism (a belief in the existence of God) was at the heart of the American Enlightenment, best exemplified in the credo of Benjamin Franklin, whose life span almost covered that of the eighteenth century (1706-1790), and who was far and away the best-known, _bestloved American of his time, both in America and in Europe. He believed in God, in immortality, in doing good to all men, not because religious authority told him he ought to, but because to him these things seemed reasonable, hence good. The leading antimystic of the age, he prayed to God, not to have his prayers answered but to give vent to his feelings of veneration and gratitude. As he wrote in his Autobiography... Truth, sincerity, and integrity in dealings between man and man were of the utmost importance to the felicity of life.... Revelation had indeed no weight with me as such; but I entertained an opinion that, though certain actions might not be bad because they were forbidden. Yet probably these actions might be forbidden because they were bad for uS. 2... Thus deism intellectualized or reasoned religion. Never a formal movement or an organized sect, it was believed in only by a prominent few, but it was those few who wrote the "great and marching words" for both their age and ours: Franklin, Jefferson, Paine, Washington, Ethan Allen, and others. New Concepts of the Enlightenment The Enlightenment also found it "reasonable" to believe in the perfectibility of man and in his innate RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1959 rights as a product of God's reasonable nature. Therefore more of our social challenges (many of them still unmet) have their origins in this period than in any other. In contrast to the confining dogmatisms of the past, which taught that a man was starving or dying or being punished because it was God's will, the new concepts of the Enlightenment. Were based on benevolence and concern for the welfare of all men. According to its teachings, the masses were not born only to be ruled by superiors; furthermore, the souls of Negroes and Indians and women were worth saving. And the greatest single concept which the Enlightenment has bequeathed to us is the idea of progress. Not only can man better himself in every way here and now, but it becomes inevitable that he do so. No idea is more central to our present-day beliefs than this. Once each person believes he is as good as any other, and that by standing on the "Rights of Man" he can not only maintain such a station but cannot escape from improving it, what is not possible? Results of such a belief are everywhere about us, both inside and out, both as Americans and as Latter-day Saints. These high ideals were birthed in eighteenth-century America, drawing heavily upon European sources, but reworking them into textures and emphasis peculiarly its own. But we should not oversimplify. Yes, the century produced its great symbol-man Benjamin Franklin, but it produced Jonathan Edwards, too, living symbol of a core of beliefs which, in large measure, Franklin and the age inherited and incorporated within themselves, but which, in even larger measure, they LESSON DEPARTMENT repudiated as expendable values, against which their new principles were contrasted. The War of Ideas Wars are fought because each of two factions believes its cause is just. A man in uniform aims at his fellow with loaded musket or missile because, when words fail, this act seems the best way of projecting into action what he believes in his heart, much as men abhor it. Thus, for centuries, Englishmen had fought for their king, their living symbol of the glorious English traditions and institutions which gave their lives continuity and purpose in time. They believed that back-talk need not be taken; that authority is not to be chalienged. But dearly as they loved their motherland, Englishmen living in America believed even more with John Locke, Rousseau, Roger Williams, John Wise, 'Tom Paine, and Thomas Jefferson, that man_ has rights as a man, just as an Englishman has nghts as an Englishman, regardless of where he may live. They believed in the social contact, which at the time of the Glorious Revolution in 1688, John Locke had written as the true concept of man's relationship to government: that in return for capitulating his priceless independence to the government, it, in turn, can repay him this trust by legislating, with his consent, for his own welfare. We must not forget that during the Revolution more than a third of the Englishmen living in the thirteen colonies could not conceive of being anything but Englishmen, and remained Tories or Loyalists throughout the war and afterward. While more than 70,000 fled to the 481 Indies, Canada, and England, rather than commit what they felt to be highest treason, large numbers complied outwardly, probably doing so rather than endangering their lives and property, meanwhile praying that the rebels would be defeated and solid English government restored. Realizing the grim truth of Franklin's tart aphorism that "We must hang together or we'll hang separately," the survival of the colomists hinged entirely on their ability to agree even while they differed. The greatness of the fundamental documents which they fashioned lies not only in their purest idealism coupled with commonsense reality, nor only in the checks and balances which predominantly pleased _ all compronusing factions without allowing any one to dominate the others; they are great because the creative force of their vision made their sentences some of the greatest in our language. 'They achieved the internal power which always signified great art. Stemming from the two great interrelated yet vastly differing definitions of man, as cxemplified by Jonathan Edwards and Benjamin Franklin, these two views became embodied in the two political parties following the war. Jefferson, who would trust the people, led one; Alexander Hamilton led the Federalists. Though they differed in favoring agriculture and rural areas versus high finance, industry, and urban areas, strong local government versus centralized control, such surface differences had_ their origins in their views toward their own kind. As much as any single debate in our history, the more detailed descriptions of what man is in his true nature has been central 482 from then until now; from such discussions cast in literary form and intensity has come American literature. One of the most terrifying realizations which must have come to our rebellious forefathers, somewhat after the tensions of combat were relaxed, was, that in gaining economic and political freedom, they had gained cultural and literary freedom as well, which might well have proved more than they bargained for. On July 5, 1775, Franklin wrote one of his formerly dearest friends in England: Your area Member of Parliament, and one of that Majority which has doomed my Country to Destruction—You have begun to burn our Towns, and murder our People-—Look upon your Hands! They are stained with the Blood of your Relations!—You and I were long Friends:— You are now my Enemy,—and I am, Yours, B. Franklin, After relationships were severed so sharply, where was the infant Nation to turn for fashions in clothes, architecture, dancing, conversation, painting, drama, literature? Aside from architecture, its one native art, it ls an error to say this new Nation was imitative of England; it is much more accurate to say it imported her. After humiliating this greatest nation at Yorktown, was this new Nation's humiliation to be a fawning return to the metropolitan delights of London, begging for five thousand copies of "the latest?" It was, much as this was hated. It was comparatively easy to "declare" itself free, but free to what? Politically and economically growing pains had to be solved immediately or the young Nation would be wiped out; unfortunately the people found to their sorrow RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1959 that they could not overnight "declare" themselves an accompanying culture and a_ historical tradition, both of which were needed desperately to bind all American hearts together in pride of a noble past, and in great words and artistic expressions of an emerging identity. Literarily and educationally this process took almost a hundred years:. The first course in American literature was offered at Princeton in 1872 by John S. Hart. Before 1800 the Connecticut Wits were so heavily imitative of English models that they stultified what little creative power they possessed, and a few eighteenth-century American novelists wrote imitations of the English writers Samuel Richardson and Laurence Sterne. After the Revolution, Royal Tyler and William Dunlap wrote a few American plays, but by and large American writers returned back into the comfortable lap of Mother England and imitated her unashamedly, even gratefully. Meanwhile the great question, "If I am not English, who am I?" was scarcely to be nibbled at for several decades, and not until the time of the great writers of the American Renaissance during the 1850's was individuality to be stated in terms of greatness and imaginative creativity. Thoughts for Discussion 1. Why might it be significant of new patterns that young Ben Franklin began his career in a newspaper and _ printing office? 2. What was the basic concept in the American Enlightenment? 3. In their views of man and society, what did Puritanism and the Enlightenment have in common? 4. In realms other than politics and economics, how did "independence" create many difficulties? Social Science—Spititual Living in the Nuclear Age Lesson 1—The Spiritual Road Elder Blaine M. Porter For Tuesday, October 27, 1959 Objective: To appraise present world conditions and to chart a course for the spiritually minded person living in the nuclear age. An Era of Confusion and Insecurity HESE are confusing times. The daily headlines carrying evidences of fear and anxiety in high places fill us with these same feelings of fear and anxiety. Their large black banners of war, strikes, loyalty oaths, traitors, mobilization, civilian defense, atom and hydrogen bomb experiments, guided missiles, price controls and taxes, debates on aid to foreign countries multiply this confusion. Radio and_ television programs discussing these problems, often, in a passionate and pessimistic manner, arouse feelings of uneasiness and confusion in the minds of children and youth, as well as adults. Parents are confused; teachers perplexed; congressmen and statesmen disagree; and military personnel argue as to the size of the armed forces and the speed of mobilization. Authority is being questioned; old modes of life are being displaced by new and unfamiliar ones; and the advancement of the jet age, which is making of countries which were history and geography book fantasylands of yesterday our nextdoor neighbors of today, is adding new challenges in human relations. It would be totally unrealistic not to acknowledge that the problems we face today often seem insurmountable and that tension and anxiety exist among both children and adults, such as: 1. The increasing complexity of modern life with its specializations and its impersonal interdependence and mechanical aspects. 2. The broken homes and moral and spiritual bankruptcy of many persons. 3. The struggle for power among the great nations of the world, sometimes led by men lacking in maturity and spirituality. 4. Overcrowded schools and inadequate educational facilities. 5. Racial and religious prejudice and discrimination and class stratification. 6. Inflation and rising prices in which an individual's material needs and desires seem always to outdistance the lag in earning power. 7. The realization that we could wake up any morning and find ourselves engaged in a world-wide struggle for survival which brings with it the threat of unimaginable destructive weapons. In some instances these are problems of our own thinking and our own making, which we have failed to solve to our own satisfaction. Nevertheless, they are problems about which almost all of us are anxious and concerned. An Era of Great Potentialities So far we have sounded rather pessimistic regarding the world in which we find ourselves. Let us now look at it from a more optimistic point of view. If the peace Page 483 484 of the world can be kept, and we are able to develop sufficient skill in getting along with one another, both within our communities and among the nations of the world, it is quite probable that the last half of the twentieth century will record the greatest physical changes in human history. If we are able creatively to handle the problems mentioned above and be somewhat philosophical about the unfinished world in which we live, we could quite honestly say that we are now living in the most exciting era of all time. What is more challenging, we face even more dramatic changes in the years directly ahead. Dr. Carl J. Christensen, discussing some of the impacts of the satellite age, pointed out that man has understood the principle of a rocket engine since the Chinese first made a rocket with gun powder, and that the nature of a satellite orbit had been fully understood since the time of Sir Isaac Newton. He then went on to Say: This principle in celestial mechanics is studied by every American boy and girl who takes a course in high school physics. Even though these principles have long been understood, the achievement of a man-made satellite was not expected by the rank and file of humanity. They, apparently, had tacitly assumed this to be an act possible only to God in his creation. Perhaps many of us are only beginning to comprehend the tremendous things the Creator has in plan for us, his spirit children, to achieve.... ("Man's 3 Dimensional Future," Carl J. Christensen, The Improvement Era, August 1958, page 579). This is an age, too, in which the advances made in the fields of nutrition, health education, and mediRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1959 cine are making it possible for men to live longer and to be on the threshold of conquering some dread diseases. The fact that our physical bodies respond more effectively is evidenced by the almost consistent annual breaking of athletic records. Challenge to Develop Harmonious Human Relationships; This is indeed an exciting age; an age of great expectations. It ls a time that challenges a new way of thinking with new ways of living. The significant problem at hand is, can we meet this challenge? In order to arrive at the nght answers, it is essential that we ask the right questions. Now that we have acknowledged the greatness of the accomplishments in the scientific fields of sending atomic submarines underneath the ice cap covering the region surrounding the North Pole, satellites circling the earth, and the remarkable achievements of conqucring many of our feared diseases, it seems appropriate to suggest that we diligently seek to discover the secret of creative, harmonious human relationships. Today, increasing numbers of people are beginning to understand that the fundamental problem of the human race is to learn how to live together in peace and harmony. The knowledge of the universe as revealed by astronomers shows us that our planet is but a tiny island floating in space so great that the human mind cannot comprehend its vastness. Is it not just as truc that man's hope of survival of all the finer things of life rests on the foundation of peace and _brotherhood and faith in God? LESSON DEPARTMENT If the remarkable advancements which have been made in the area of the physical and medical sciences are to be put to use for the betterment of mankind rather than its destruction, it seems essential that we exert greater efforts to parallel these advances with accomplishments in the social science, humanities, and religion. No matter how many rockets we launch to the moon, or how many scientific instruments the rockets carry, they still cannot teach us much about human development and behavior. Guided missiles or hydrogen bombs do not pick themselves up in one city and drop themselves on another city. Such destructive actions occur through the motivations and directions of human beings. As long as we have leaders of nations who are characterized by immaturity, jealousy, greed, and hostility, we will continue to live in an anxious age, threatened by the fear of suffering and destruction. Need to Kindle Faith President McKay has observed: The most ominous threat to the peace and happiness of mankind in this the twentieth century is not the probable misuse of the atomic bomb, but the dwindling in men's hearts of faith in God. "Epochs of faith are epochs of fruitfulness; but epochs of unbelief, however glittering, are barren of all permanent good" ("Faith 'Triumphant,' David O. McKay, The Improvement Era, August 1947, page 507). General Omar N. Bradley, formerly Army's Chief of Staff, said on one occasion: With the monstrous weapons man already has, humanity is in danger of being trapped in this world by its moral adolescence. Our knowledge of science has clearly outstripped our capacity to control it. 485 We have too many men of science; too few men of God. We have grasped the mystery of the atom and _ rejected the Sermon on the Mount. Man is stumbling blindly through a spiritual darkness while toying with the precarious secrets of life and death. The world has achieved brilliance without wisdom, power without conscience. Ours is a world of nuclear giants and ethical infants. We know more about war than we know about peace, more about killing than we know about living. (As quoted by President David O. McKay, in The Improvement Era, June 1958, page 407). Home to Inculcate Christ's Teachings A great responsibility falls upon the home to produce loving personalities, individuals with feelings of respect and value for mankind and skills of putting into practice Christian ideals and teachings. Our world can only be as effectively safe and secure as are the homes that constitute it. Our challenge, then, is to find a way in which parents can join hands with cach other and their children and travel the spiritual road. Signposts of the Spiritual Road President McKay, in his annual conference address in 1958, pointed out some of the signposts which we might observe in order to find and stay on the spiritual road. Christ has asked us to develop the spiritual within us. Man's earthly existence is but a test as to whether he will concentrate his efforts, his mind, his soul upon things which contribute to the comfort and _ gratification of his physical nature or whether he will make as his life's purpose the acquisition of spiritual qualities. Every noble impulse, every unselfish expression of love, every brave suffering for the right; every surrender of self to something higher than self; every loyalty 486 Song Collections For Every Occasion weseee FAMOUS SONGS THE WORLD OVER..............2----00--+ 1.75 _ 52 SACRED SONGS............... 2.00 mrocco 56 SONGS YOU LIKE TO SING ooeeeeeeeeeeeeecceeceeeseeeeeeeeeees 1.50 ee IRELAND IN SONG.... WW..0.... 1.95 meee SCOTLAND IN SONG........... 1.95 cesses SONGS EVERYBODY SINGS— Bond ou...... Eeseeeeceeecceeeceeececeeeees 2.00 weseee SONGS OF THE GAY 90'S.... 1.95 weeeee WEDDING BOUQUET OF SONGS HIGH OR LOW.... Ea. 2.00 ceeeee WORLD'S BEST FOLK SONGS AND BALLADS.._..............------ 1.95 seeeee WORLD'S BEST SACRED SONGS..... - 1.95 weeeee WORLD'S BEST WEDDING 1 ©) » | Cl ne 1.95 Music Sent on Approval DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 15 E. Ist South Salt Lake City 11, Utah Please send the music indicated above. Cl On Approval OJ Charge (J Money Enclosed Name Address AATMAMLASERAENAID 15 E. Ist South 145 NORTH UNIVERSITY, PROVO Salt Lake City 11, Utah Use this advertisement as your order blank: RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1959 to an ideal; every unselfish devotion to principle; every helpfulness to humanity; every act of self-control; every fine courage of the soul, undefeated by pretence or policy, but by being, doing, and living of good for the very good's sake—that is spirituality. The spiritual road has Christ as_ its ideal—not the gratification of the physical, for he that will save his life, yielding to that first gratification of a seeming need, will lose his life, lose his happiness, the: pleasure of living at this present time. If he would seek the real purpose of life, the individual must live for something higher than self. He hears the Savior's voice, saying: "I am the way, the truth, the life.' (John 14:6.) Following that voice he soon learns that there is no one great thing which he can do to attain happiness or eternal life. He learns that "life is made up not of great sacrifices or duties, but of little things in which smiles and kindness and small obligations given habitually are what win and _preserve the heart and secure comfort." Spirituality, our true aim, is the consciousness of victory over self, and of communion with the Infinite. Spirituality impels one to conquer difficulties and acquire more and more strength. To feel one's faculties unfolding, and truth expanding in the soul, is one of life's sublimest experiences... With all our boasted civilization there never was a time when spiritual awakening and spiritual ideals were more needed. Civilization has grown too complex for the human mind to visualize or to control. Unless mankind come to a speedy realization that the higher and not the baser qualities of man must be developed, the present status of civilization is in jeopardy. Life on the animal plane has as its ideal the survival of the fittest, crush or be crushed, mangle or be mangled, kill or be killed. For man, with his intelligence, this is a sure road to anguish and death... Spiritual awakening in the hearts of millions of men and women would bring about a changed world. I am hopeful, my brethren and sisters, that the dawning of that day is not far distant. I am conscious, as I hope all of you are, that the responsibility to try to bring about such LESSON DEPARTMENT a day rests upon the priesthood of the Church of Jesus Christ and upon the membership and upon husbands and wives and upon children in Mormon homes. May that message be felt throughout the conference that we are now holding. We cannot just come and meet and talk about good things and then go home and express our feelings, the feelings of our carnal nature. My faith in the ultimate triumph of the gospel of Jesus Christ assures me that a spiritual awakening must come. It will come through the acceptance of Jesus Christ and obedience to his gospel and in no other way completely. I believe there never was a time in the history of the world when there was such a need for a united, determined stand to uphold Christ and the restoration of the gospel through the Prophet Joseph Smith as there is today ("Something Higher Than Self," David O. McKay, The Improvement Era, June 1958, pp. 407-409). Summary The challenges which lie before us are clear. Advances in the physical sciences must be balanced with achievements in the social order and understanding of human behavior. We must change our way of thinking. We must change our way of feeling. Instead of hating, fighting, and crushing one another, we must seek to build our lives upon the principles of rghteousness as taught and exemplified by our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. These challenges may not be easy for some, because of the attractions which the glitter and ease of following other paths may have. The gospel of Jesus Christ beckons us to follow the high road wherein we dedicate ourselves to the eternal values of noble and righteous living. Anything less than this may mean' the decline, if not the destruction, of our civilization, and it obviously 487 HAWAIIAN TOURS Leave once a month. Prices start from $275. Please inquire about these wonderful tours to Hawaii. HISTORICAL TOUR Leaves August 1, 1959, for the famous HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT and visiting many cities including Chicago, New York, Washington D. C., Boston, Niagara Falls, Canada, and many other Historical places of the Church and country, SCENIC NORTHWESTERN TOUR Please come join us on this wonderful vacation tour. Leaves July 13th from Salt Lake City, Utah. MARGARET LUND TOURS P. O. Box 20 Sugar House Station Salt Lake City, Utah Phone: IN 6-2909, AM 2-2339, CR 7-6334 will result in a less abundant life than is potentially within each of us. Spiritual living becomes more and more essential. Devotion and loyalty that spring... From the heart "for the common Father of all mankind is the strongest and only universal bond that can bind up all men together." Only such a group looking as one mind to heaven for guidance can eventually transform human society (Gospel Ideals, David O. McKay, page 104). It is the duty of the members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints to hold aloft true spiritual standards—to travel "The Spiritual Road," and so to light this pathway that others will seek to follow. Thoughts for Discussion 1, What are some of the specific fears 488 and anxieties that Relief Society members face? 2. Discuss the impact upon the mdividual of a rapidly changing society. 3. Will leading a spiritual life aid or hinder one's efforts to get along with others and achieve vocational or professional goals? In what way? Why? 4. Discuss ways in which we may help each other to get on and stay on ""The Spiritual Road." Supplementary References Evans, Richard L.: "The Courage to Live With Uncertainty," The Improvement Era, February 1957, page 104. McKay, David O.: "A Spiritual Reawakening—the Need of the Hour," The Improvement Era, January 1956, pp. 13-14. McKay, David O.: "Peace in the Atomic Age,' The Instructor, January 1958, pp. 1-2. RECIPE FOR COLD WATER SOAP 5 pounds strained cool grease 1 cup ammonia 1 heaping tablespoon borax 3 pints cold water 1 can lye Use a galvanized or enamel pan or kettle (not aluminum). One pint of warm water. When cool, add the grease and stir well. Then add the ammonia, borax, and the remainder of Stir for fifteen minutes and The soap may Dissolve the lye in the water. Allow the mixture to set. Be cut into bars as soon as it is firm. ~—Submitted by Big Cottonwood Stake Relief Society RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1959 Birthday Co ngratu la tions One Hundred Mrs. Mary Brown CLarK Provo, Utah Ninety-eight Mrs. Evizapetn JANE Terry Barr Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-five Mrs. Matiupa C. Rossins Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-four Mrs. CurisTAIN SINCLAIR BOWERS Nephi, Utah Ninety-three Mrs. SarsH I{ENDRICKSEN Ucon, Idaho Ninety-two Mrs. ELLEN FRANCE RoBBINS Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-one Mrs. CaroLine CHRISTENSEN Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety Mrs. ANNIE MarGRETHA MILLER OTTOSEN Emery, Utah Mrs. Saran ANN BLAKE Lewis Preston, Idaho Mrs. Arminta Raw. Zins Hocan Lewiston, Utah Mason & Hamlin The Stradivari of Pianos EVERETT PIANOS Finest Toned Spinet Piano Built THE WORLD'S FINEST Cable-Nelson Finest Low Priced Piano Built We specialize an all music for Relief Society Beesley Music Co. Pioneer Piano People 70 S. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH VIDA FOX CLAWSON TRAVEL SERVICE Recognized... For Experience, Integrity, Service. For the best in travel since 1933. Special all-expense tours now forming to: HAWAII, NORTHWEST, EUROPE, THE ORIENT, AND MEXICO Original Historic Tour includes the PAGEANT AT THE HILL CUMORAH and the great broadway hit MY FAIR LADY. Early reservations are advisable as space is limited. Departs on August 1, 1959. For free folder write or phone: VIDA FOX CLAWSON 216 South 13th East Salt Lake City 2, Utah Phone: DA 8-0303 LEARN TO TYPEWRITE! New Classes Begin Soon Adult classes for Relief Society and genealogy workers will teach beginning and advanced typing. Classes will run 6:30 to 8:00 p. M., Mondays and Thursdays. Individual help and instruction by professional teachers. Call for reservations and further information. LDS BUSINESS COLLEGE Phone EM 3-2765 GET FULL HOUSEPOWER UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. 70 North Main Salt Lake City 11, Utah Companions for Bood reading... Te Ot Missionary Pocket Bible... Complete with Ready Reference and Concordance. Genuine leather binding. Page sizes 344" by 514," 8.50 Pocket Triple Combination... Book of Mormon, Doctrine & Covenants, Pearl of Great Price. Bound in genuine leather. (black) 6.00 (white) 6.75 "oe 44 East South Temple -- Salt' Lake City, Utah fe VOL. 46 NO. 8 Léséine Sar Nevernoak AUGUST 1959 &n olding Outetude Renie H. Littlewood How deep the quietude enfolding hills Where crystal lakes lie jeweled in the sun; Where muted vespers of the stream-locked rills Lull wearying cares into oblivion. Here peace walks with a sure and tempered tread Through purpling shadows cast by sunlit peaks, Or rests in cool tranquilitics that spread In ever-widening circles as she speaks. To ears grown overtired of raucous din, Her soothing whisperings hold but healing powers; With her pulsating heart all hearts are kin, They garner strength to meet the thundering hours. While dissonant living all its clamor spills, How deep the quietude enfolding hills. The Cover: Minuteman Statue at Concord, Massachusetts Colourpicture Publishers, Inc., Boston, Massachusetts Frontispiece: Mount Timpanogos, Utah, View From the East Side Photograph by Hal Rumel Cover Design by Evan Jensen Cover Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press From Near and Sar I should like to pay a tribute to Preston Nibley, our Assistant Church Historian, for the excellent articles he contributes about the missions of the Church. I read them with much interest each month. His article about the Central States Mission in March 1959 was exceptionally interesting because of a recent visit my husband and I made there. Our party met with Brother Dyer in the mission home and he bore a strong testimony of the gospel. We did not, however, have the privilege of visiting Adam-ondi-Ahman, so I was happy to see the picture of this sacred spot. —Aletha Lowe Handy Franklin, Idaho How splendid is every article, story, and poem in the June issue of the Magazine. And how good to get a glimpse of Cleveland, Ohio, on the cover! I correspond with a poet friend there, but had never pictured the city as it is. "The Handcart Child" by Orvene B. Holman gave me special pleasure, as did "For Grandmothers Who Baby Sit" by Camilla Woodbury Judd, and "Phe Humming Bird" by Winona Frandsen Thomas. I so loved "Country Summer" by Rodello Hunter — it took me back to when my twin sister and I were seventeen. "Green-Willow Days" by Shirley Sealy is wonderful, and "The Ladder of Love'"' by Margaret Russell is poignantly sweet and strong and beautifully given. I am grateful to Vernessa M. Nagle for "The Pansy-Picker,' and to Gwen Marler Barney for the truth so lyrically expressed in "Where the Gull Goes." —Mabel Law Atkinson Dayton, Idaho "The Ladder of Love" by Margaret Russell in the June Magazine appeals to us as a gem of a story, beautifully written, and expressing deep and fundamental truth. —L. Paul Roberts and Dorothy J. Roberts Salt Lake City, Utah Page 499 I do not want to miss a single copy of the Magazine — especially the one for July, as I am interested in the continued story "The Silver Leash" (by Beatrice R. Parsons). I particularly enjoy the beautiful poems and also every article in the Magazine. —Mrs. L. J. Dozier Odessa, Texas What fine essays and what excellent writing — '"GreenWillow Days," by Shirley Sealy, and "The Pansy -Picker," by Vernessa M. Nagle, in the June issue of the Magazine. Such interesting subjects and such fine writing make the Magazine a delight to me. Aples Kanosh, Utah The June Magazine is outstanding, from its pretty front cover to the luscious strawberry and sugar advertisement on the back. Florence Jepperson Madsen's tribute to fathers, and her own father, is touching. One of my friends up here said she lived next door to the Jeppersons, and in the article Brother Jepperson was depicted very truly. Christie Lund Coles' story ("One of Them" ) about the brave little crippled mother is so touching. I have always liked Christic's stories. I could mention each story and poem in the June Magazine, for they are all first class, and I am proud to have mine among them ("Peach-Tree Poem''). —Frances C. Yost Bancroft, Idaho Thank you very much for placing my hobby feature in The Relief Society Magazine (May 1959). I have taken the Magazine for thirty-five or forty years... Now I read it with a magnifying glass and appreciate it very much and wish it continued success. —Maggie R. Wood Fielding, Utah THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL "BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - - First Counselor Louise W. Madsen - - - - - - - =~ - Second Counselor Hulda Parker - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Aleine M. Young Edith '. Backman Mary V. Cameron Edith S. Elliott Josie B. Bay Winniefred 8. Afton W. Hunt Florence J. Madsen Christine H. Robinson Manwaring Wealtha S. Mendenhall Leone G. Layton Alberta H. Christensen Elna P. Haymond Pearle M. Olsen Blanche B. Sitodderd Mildred B. Eyring Annie M. Ellsworth Elsa T. Peterson Evon W. Peterson Charlotte A. Larsen Mary R. Young Irene B. Woodford Fannie S. Kienitz RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - = - - - - 3 5 = Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawiord General Manager - - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford VOL. 46 AUGUST 1959 NO. 8 Co ntents SPECIAL FEATURES President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., First Counselor in the First Presidency.... Marion G. Romney 493 President Henry Dinwoodey Moyle, Second Counselor in the First Presidency... -Harold B. Lee 499 How Can We Effectively pelesatel Rgsegge bility? [a rn... Belle S. Spaliovd 501 The New England Mission ooo... CcccceccececcesssceeceececacceseseeececesseeessescecsessessesceeneceeceneentecsPreston R. Nibley ae Fresh Up With Sunday Annual Report for 1958 "A' Ts for Aprom—Part To oo. CccecccecccsecccccecccceccecesseseesstsseececececeesescecesnsnecesseseecessesesanesseesIlene H. Kingsbury 508 The Silver Leash—Chapter 8 (Conclusion)....... CcceccecsecseseeseeeceeeeeeBeatrice Rordame Pa-. Sons 522 From Near and Far Sixty Years Ago.... Woman's Sphere oiecececcicceececcccesccsssseseesccseceseccceceeccesesesseceeeeeenceseeseneecetesseeseses Ramona W. Cannon Editorial: Revere ce nceeeccccccecccceccscesecoceneeescecescecsessecgecsncesceasenecaeceesseecceseesaecaeeaeeeeeacenesLouise W. Madsen 514 Notes to the Field: The Annual General Relief Society Conlerence oi. Eeeeeececcececceceeseeteereeseesesees 516 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities 20... Hulda Parker 536 Birthday Congratulations...... Ececceceececeseseeeeeereeeseee ES........ Bo) FEATURES FOR THE 'HOME > Recipes From the New England Mission................ Margaret Romney Jackson 518 Filing Photographs...0.0..2..-.-.. Ssc-cecsceeeecescoeceeseseeeceescageeeeroeeseeessseagececcaseeseneescneneneeseeeeseeesElizabeth Williamson 520 Frances White Poulson Has Enriched Her Life With Hobbies oocccccccccsscccsessssssssssssseseessssssssesseeeee521 Of Royal Birth _. Kate Richards 567 LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER Theology — **. Thou Shalt Not Command Him Who Is at Thy Head...".... Roy W. Doxey 543 Visiting Toache! Messages — 'And Again I Say Unto You, Let Every Man Esteem His Brother as Himself' oe ceeccsccccssesesescesecceteeeess hristine H. Robinson 549 Work Meeting — Electricity 2... CecesecccecceceeceencessssteececcosecesecescesecseecetecseeteseseseeeeeeeesCharlotte A. Larsen 551 Literature — Benjamin Franklin, "Printer (1703- 1799)... CeveeeeeeeBriant S. Jacobs 553 Social Science — Developing Emotional Maturity oo. EceeceeeceececeeseeeceeeeseseeesceeeeBlaine M. Porter 559 POETRY Enfolding Quietude — Frontispiece a. EescsesccccssscccseenssensessececesecessssesecenneenesenesRenie H. Littlewood 489 F@gbe TECNGING © oer =. - Maude Rubin 511 BeQinming oon. Eset sceeeeeeeeeee ee ceseeeeeceseececeseseees ooGwen yee Ba: ney 515 Delayed Homecoming........-sessec-cceeeceeceeee: ence a we Alice R. Rich SIS Jimmy Meeis His New Sister................ Ss a WElsie McKinnon Strachan 520 Kitchen GlQmOur 2.0.2... Ececcee ee eceeecececec ence cesceteceseecceeeeecaessseaeseccaeseeaesesesecceeeesssnsesenecesessesCamille C. Nuffer 52] Some Strange Reward ou... EeecscsceccscecseescsceseseeceeesencecescoeseacsesesecocscasaeaceessseeseecesecsceessseseeeeIda Elaine James 535 Challenge -0..... Eee eee vr MR ec 32030000Vesta N. Lukei 542 Staff for the Aged eee ee nn Mabel Law Atkinson 550 Builders o.. N... EceecceeececeseececesescecceceeecceccsecceescecsecccacsereseceensvacaceecasseceneecenceeaeeseseseeesesescescseneeeeceDella Adams Leitner 566 Jarring Note 0. Eee _ EoEthel Jacobson 567 Philharmonic Undertones 0.0...... C. EceeeceecesescececcceeeeeeseecececeencecesceececeacenceeeseneeaecsseecesensecsctecgessesesteLillian E. Miles 567 Seagulls Have Returned oo... Eee. CesceececececccecececesecesececceeeesssesecessseseaesescseeescscoesereeeecesChristie Lund Coles 568 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY | Copyright 1959 by General Board of Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Editorial and Business Offices: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah: Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy; payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 38, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1108, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Page 491 PRE SIDE N T J. REUBEN CLARK, JR President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., First Counselor in the First Presidency Elder Marion G. Romney Of the Council of the Twelve RIDAY, June 13, 1959, President J. Reuben "Clark, Jr. Was called by President David O. McKay to be his first counselor. The whole Church is pleased with this well-deserved honor. He high office to which he is now called will not be strange to President Clark. Tle has alrcady served as first counselor to two former Presidents of the Church — President Grant from April 6, 1933 until his death in 1945, and President George Albert Smith from May 21, 1945 to April 4, 1951. Since April 6, 1933, he has served continuously as a counselor in the First Presidency of the Church — a longer period of service in this capacity than that rendered by any other man in this dispensation. During these vears of devoted service, he has become well known and greatly loved by the entire membership of the Church. Because President Clark's brilliant record of able service in both the Government of the United States and the Church is so well known, I shall not attempt to review it here. I do desire, however, to point out some of the gifts and virtues possessed by President Clark which have made this service possible and contributed to making him the great prophet-statesman that he is. Mormon, explaining how the sons of Mosiah "had waxed strong in the knowledge of the truth," says that "they were men of a sound understanding and they had searched the scriptures diligently, that they might know the word of God. "But this is not all'; he continues, "they had given themselves to much prayer, and fasting; therefore they had the spirit of prophecy, and the spirit of revelation, and when they taught, they taught with power and authority of God" (Alma 17:2-3). J have always thought that onc of President Clark's greatest gifts was a sound understanding — the product of a superior mind, an abundance of common sense, and a prodigious capacity for and will to work. One must associate with him to appreciate the power of his intellect and the soundness of his judgment. With incisive penctration his mind quickly cuts through the irrelevant and superficial and goes at once to the heart of the matter at hand. ONG before he became a member of the First Presidency, these gifts were discovered and appreciated by his associates in the world of affairs. While he was yet in school, his work on the Columbia Law Review was "... Characterized by a keeness of analysis and a vigor Page 493 494 of treatment coupled with a rigid adherence to the rule of discussing the single point for which a case is treated...." Referring to President Clark's work under him in the Department of State, Secretary Philander Chase Knox said, "I am doing him but justice in saying that for natural ability, integrity, loyalty and industry | have not ina long professional and public experience met his superior and rarely his equal.. It would be difficult to secure the combination of sound judgment (and) natural aptitude" he "possesses." "In my judgment" he "is perhaps the soundest international lawver in this country. ".. "Were I President," he said, "I would make (him ) Chief Justice of the United States Supreme Court," adding "that no one could have gone there better equipped at the start." In saying this "he did not exclude Marshall." During his presidential campaign, Governor Landon said that, if elected, he would make President Clark Secretary of State. Such men as Presidents Coolidge and Hoover of the United States, Calles and Ortis Rubio of Mexico, Secretary of War Newton D. Baker, Attorney General T. W. Gregory, Judge Advocate General E. H. Crowder, Secretaries of State Charles Evans Hughes, Henry L. Stimson, Cordell Hull, Ambassador Dwight W. Morrow, and countless other prominent men have recognized, and made public record of their high appraisal of President Clark's "sound understanding." The eminent jurist and authority on international law, John Bassett Moore, wrote Ambassador Morrow, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1959 "Clark is an able man. He works hard, thinks straight, and has the capacity of getting at the bottom of things. He is one of the few men to whom, after listening to their statement of a case, I feel justified in giving an opinion without reading all the documents myself." On another occasion Mr. Moore, as he went over the files in the Department of State said, "I was amazed © at the amount of creative work he has done." Mr. Morrow himself said that "next to Mr. Moore" he considered President Clark the most eminent authority on international law in the United States. PRESIDENT Grant recognized his abilities when he first "called him into full-time Church service. President McKay at the time wrote President Clark, "with your host of other friends we are proud of the excellent service you have rendered our government, not only as Ambassador to Mexico, but prior to that appointment when you served the United States in various capacities in Washington. Yours is a record of great achievement." Dr. James E. Talmage in The Relief Society Magazine for May 1933, page 260, said, 'A mighty man has taken his place among the leaders of this people... "Brother Clark has been and is a profound student of both the history and doctrines of the Church and he is justly recognized as one of our able theologians. Among his distinguishing characteristics are an unusual capacity and an indomitable desire for work...." In President Clark's more than twenty-five years of service in the PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. First Presidency, he has devoted his great powers unstintingly to the building of "the kingdom." It is amazing how much he has accomplished. Ata time in life when many men are in semi or total retirement, he has consistently spent a full working day in the office — always carrying his full share of the load. In addition, through industrious research and painstaking study, mostly during the late hours of the night, he has made a rich contribution to the literature of the Church. The manner in which he has done this calls to mind Longfellow's lines: The heights by great men reached and kept Were not attained by sudden flight, But they, while their companions slept, Were toiling upward in the night. MONG his literary contributions are: (1) Wist Ye Not That I Must Be About My Father's Business? Of this work William J. Graham, VicePresident of the Equitable Life Assurance Society, wrote: Since dictating this have had the profitable pleasure of reading your volume and I found it so engrossing I never laid it down. It is an engaging tale to me, highly informative on the Passover about which I craved information and uplifting throughout as you are brought to see the whole scene thru the eyes of the Holy Family. Let me congratulate you on this readable contribution to Christian literature. (2) To Them of the Last Wagon, about which many of us feel as did Sister Priscilla Evans when she sent President Clark this message: Alone at the farm during the closing session of the recent Conference, I listened to the addresses by radio. Aware that you 495 would be one of the speakers, I had notebook and pencil before me, to take verbatim, as I have often done before, your words of wise counsel, of warnings, of exhortation, of testimony. But at the close of your talk, book and pencil lay untouched — no record was there. But within my heart and mind was recorded, for as long as memory lasts, your soulstirring, imaginative tribute to all the unmentioned and unnoticed followers of the "brethren way out in front." As I listened, tears came unbidden, for you seemed to be speaking for me, and I am sure this is true of hundreds who listened. (3) On the Way to Immortality and Eternal Life. Arnold Crompton said of this book in The Christian Register, April 1950: Speaking simply and_ persuasively, he shows himself to be an astute scholar of Mormonism as well as careful thinker.. Singularly frce of carping and bigoted criticism.. The book is worthy of careful study by Unitarians, because it reveals the personality and the faith of one of the outstanding religious leaders in America today. It is an excellent introduction to the contemporary position of one of the most influential religions in the American scene. Of the series of radio addresses included in this book, President Stephen L Richards, then Chairman of the Church Radio, Publicity and Mission Literature Committee said: It was one of the most outstanding presentations the Committee has ever sponsored and it brought, we believe, the largest number of responses from the listening public we have received, at least in recent times. (4)Our Lord of the Gospels, of which Walter Mathesius, former manager of Columbia Steel Mills, and his wife, wrote President Clark: Humbly we admit that to grasp the full importance of your text may be a rather 496 difficult task for our Jay-minds. Yet even a preliminary scanning reveals the magnitude of vour labor of love and holds out the promise of a clearer understanding for the life of Jesus Christ, compared to what we have had through unguided reading of the New Testament. (5) Why the King James Version? 'This is an able, valiant, and scholarly defense of the divinity of the Lord Jesus Christ, his gospel, and the revealed scriptures as contained in the Bible. It is a work of great significance in combating the faith destroyi ing activities of the "higher critics." ORK is to be re-enthroned as the ruling principle of the lives of our Church membership," said the First Presidency in announcing the purpose of the Welfare Program. It would be difficult to identifv one who, in his life, more perfectly exemplifies this redeeming principle of work than does Presi. Dent Clark. In addition to his "sound understanding" — the product of an inherited superior mind, an abundance of common sense and a prodigious capacity for and will to work, there are other virtues which have contributed to the effectiveness of President Clark's great service. One of these is lovalty. President Clark has an intense love and lovalty for his country. For meritorious and outstanding service during World War I, he was awarded the Distinguished Service Medal in 1922. His defense, advocacy, and reverence for the Constitution are part and parcel of his rcligion. He accepts as fact the statement of the Lord that.. I established the Constitution of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1959 this land, by the hands of wise men whom I raised up unto this very purpose, and redeemed the land by the shedding of blood (D & C 101:80). His strong loyalty and love flow from him to his friends. Scores of them have been cheered and comforted in times of sickness and distress by his daily solicitation for their welfare. Great is his loyalty to the Presidents of the Church with whom he has served. 'heir interests, desires, and feclings are always his first concern. Time and time again when in their absence matters of importance have been submitted for decisions, he has said in effect, "'the proposed solution seems all right, but before taking action we must find out how the President feels about it." Another mighty fortress in the character of President Clark is his abiding testimony, his fixed and certain faith. The power and frequency with which he bears witness to the truth of the gospel and all it entails is reminiscent of Peter's statement to the saints in his day, as recorded in the first chapter of his second cpistle. Wherefore I will not be negligent to put you always in remembrance of these things, though ye know them, and be established in the present truth. Yea, I think it meet, as long as I am in this tabernacle, to stir you up by putting you in remembrance.. Morcover [I will endeavour that ye may be able after mv decease to have these things always in remembrance (II Peter 1: eee, eer. PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. As an example of President Clark's witness, I quote the following from his October 1956 conference address. My whole soul rebels against this emasculation of Christianity. Jesus did live. First, there was the great plan in heaven, that did actually occur. All that we know about it took place there. There was the plan; the earth was formed; Adam came; the human family followed. We came here to prove ourselves. Finally, Christ was born in the Meridian of Time. He lived. He taught. He gave instructions. H¥e was crucified. Then on the morning of the third day, he was resurrected, thus bringing to each and every of us the blessings of the resurrection. We all shall be resurrected.... I bear my testimony as I have already indicated to the truthfulness of the gospel, to the restoration of its great principles, to the restoration of the priesthood, to the conferring of all of these things upon the Prophet Joseph, to the passing down from the Prophet Joseph through the Presidents of the Church until the pres- 497 ent, that our President of the Church, President David O. McKay, has all of the rights and the prerogatives and the powers and authorities that were conferred upon the Prophet Joseph. I bear you this testimony in soberness... In the name of Jesus. Amen (SemiAnnual Conference Report, October 5, 6 and 7, 1956, pp. 95-96). In conclusion, I repeat that President Clark, like the sons of Mosiah of old, is endowed with a sound understanding and like them he has searched the scriptures diligently, that he might know the word of God. But this is not all; he has given himself to much prayer, and fasting; therefore he has the spirit of prophecy, and the spirit of revelation, and when he teaches, he teaches with power and authority of God. (See Alma 17:2-3.) Such are some of the gifts and virtues of J. Reuben Clark, Jr., First Counselor in the Presidency of the Church — a man of true nobility. "... He [Jesus] went down... And came to Nazareth."... So to Nazareth where the grain fields were now yellowed with ripened crops, the hills and valleys still covered with wild flowers; to Nazareth among the white rocks and cliffs splotched with green, with goats and sheep lazily grazing on the warm hillsides; to Nazareth with the houses climbing row on row up and out from the little valley floor, to the brink of the cliff from which His neighbors would one day seek to cast Him down, to Nazareth, quiet, unperturbed, with its slender cypresses and fig trees, and the evenness, frugality, and wholesomeness of a village life dominated by the presence of divinity — to this Nazareth came Joseph and Mary and Jesus who "increased in wisdom and stature, and in favour with God and man" against the day and hour of His destiny (President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., "Wist Ye Not That I Must Be About My Father's Business?" pp.82-83). PRESIDENT HENRY D. MOYLE President Henry Dinwoodey Moyle, Second Counselor in the First Presidency Elder Harold B. Lee Of the Council of the Twelve \ 7 HEN a vacancy occurs in one of the presiding councils of the Church, it undoubtedly becomes a concern of the Head of the Church, even the Lord, to inspire the President of his Church to choose the man most nearly qualified to perform the service and to fill the need of the Church at that particular time. "No man taketh this honour unto himself, but he that is called of God as was Aaron," by prophecy and by the laying on of hands by the Prestdent of the Church who holds the keys of that authority. With the passing of our beloved friend, and leader, President Stephen L Richards, there was an immediate realization of the void which his death had caused and of the difficulty involved in finding a man qualified to fill the vacancy in the Presidency of the Church. It was to this sacred duty that the President of the Church devoted himself. When to the special conference of youth leaders assembled in the Tabernacle on Temple Square on June 14, 1959, President David O. McKay announced his new second counselor, Henry D. Moyle — which appointment, as the President explained, was inspired "from the proper source" — the Church realized that, literally, the Lord had put his hand upon the man needed for the work to be done by the hand of his servant, President David O. McKay, and Henry D. Moyle was that man. The call of President Moyle to this high service came as it had come to another man in ancient times through a prophet of another day to whom the Lord had said, "Look not on his countenance, or on the height of his stature... For the Lord seeth not as man seeth; for man looketh on the outward appearance, but the Lord looketh on the heart." The Lord knew the heart of this man, also, because he had been proved and tested and had not been found wanting. Ie was indeed the man of the hour! Now, as never before, we are being brought to realize that the Church and kingdom of God is a universal, world-wide organization with new stakes, new temples, and expanding missionary work, secking new frontiers in distant lands. Our new counselor brings vision and experience gained from extensive world travels and from dealing with varied problems of Church and business at home and abroad. Perhaps no service is dearer to his heart than missionary work, as witnessed by the fact that he, himself, has served as a missionary in Germany in his Page 499 500 youth and has a daughter and two sons who have served as muissionaries (one presently serving in a South American Mission). 'These experiences, besides extensive tours of missions in the United States and foreign countries, have given him a broad understanding of the probJems of the missionary work to which he has now been assigned in the Presidency. Perhaps only the Lord knows how many missionaries he, himself, has assisted, financially, from his own personal funds as he has traveled throughout the Church. The great W elfare program of the Church has come to its present development under the able chairmanship of President Moyle who has been a courageous and forthright champion of this movement dcsigned by the Lord to bring bread to the needy and succor to the unfortunate. It would not be an overstatement to say that this man whom God delights to honor, has practiced far beyond most men in giving and sharing that with which the Lord has blessed him that his brethren and sisters might be one with him in the kingdom of God. To pay tribute to our new leader, without including his lovely, gracious wife and companion, Alberta Wright Moyle, would not be a complete nor adequate appraisal of his strength. She, who has been the inspiration of his life and has given him four lovely daughters and three RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1959 sons (one having died in infancy), was given to know years before that he would be called as an apostle of the Lord and of the preparation that she, herself, must make to be readied to stand by his side when that time should come. Only a kind Providence and those who intimateIv know her realize how well she has humbly accepted the high Church responsibilities of her companion as her mission also. As this man of God now becomes better known to the Church as one of the three presiding High Priests forming the quorum of the First Presidency, the membership of the Church will come to feel the great driving power of his soul, which was put in his own words on one occasion as he oncc said of himself, as he stood on a half-finished project he was promoting amidst great difficulties, "Well, at least they can never say of Henry Moyle that he never tried." That statement could well be the epitaph of his life. With faith and vision and the courage of his convictions, he counts "All that is not infinite, too small; and all that is not eternal, too short." May the membership of the Church now uphold with their faith and prayers the newly organized First Presidency which now includes Henry D. Moyle, and be willing to follow their counsel in righteousness! We may sometimes find satisfaction in sharing our material wealth with others. But far greater satisfaction comes from sharing ourselves, our itme, our energy, our affection, and particularly in imparting to others our testimony of God, the power of God unto salvation, the knowledge we possess of God and his purposes. Are truly converted, we realize that ' When we. This is life eternal, that they might know thee the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent" (John 17:3). —Elder Henry D. Moyle, Annual Conference Report, April 1957, page 32- How Can We Effectively Delegate Responsibility? Belle S. Spafford General President of Relief Society (Address Delivered at the National Association for Practical Nurse Education, April 29, 1959) N extending the invitation of the program committee to speak to you on the subject "How Can We Effectively Delegate Responsibility?" Miss Hilda Torrup wrote (and I quote from her letter): These people carry a heavy responsibility since many of them are officers of an association numbering from one thousand to five thousand members. 'They are burdened with such responsibilities as loyalty, unity, the responsibility of programming for many divisions within a state, the problems of getting and holding members, in fact, all of the things that make an organization go. With this statement as my guide, I shall attempt to bring to you a few ideas based on my experience in presiding over an international woman's organization with a wide variety of activities, and manned by volunteer workers, as are your organizations. 'This latter fact will color much that I say, since in dealing with volunteer workers, special problems are posed. The paid worker must meet the requirements of his job or he is discharged. He is primarily controlled in his service by his employer, who pays his salary. The volunteer worker gives of his time and talent purely for the satisfactions accruing therefrom, and is primarily controlled in his service by his own will to serve. Every organization exists for specific purposes. You are more familiar than am I with the purposes of your state practical nursing organizations, and their respective subdivisions. It would seem to me, however, that they must exist to promote practical nursing as a profession; to promote the interests and well-being of the licensed practical nurse as an individual and collectively, within the respective communities; to interpret to the community the place and importance of the licensed practical nurse in caring for the sick. 'They should expand the horizon of the nurse and increase her usefulness. 'They should serve as her servant and speak for her on matters related to practical nursing. If such values accrue to the nurse and her profession from the organization, one would think there would be no nurse within the community who would not wish to identify herself with the organization as a member. 'The problem lies in the fact, I believe, that some nurses do not recognize and appreciate the values to be found within the organization. Of course, there are always a few persons who are content to be consumers and not producers, who are ready to benefit from the work of the organization without making any contribution to it. There will always be a few such persons, but Page 501 502 we must take satisfaction in the fact that they are greatly in the minority. In building membership the task becomes largely one of helping the individual nurse to see the functions of the organization, the values to be found within it for her as an individual, and as a member of a professional group, as well as to see her individual responsibility toward the organization. 'This is a job of interpretation. Interpretation is most effectively — accomplished through personal contact among the knowledgeable person, the enthusiastic converted person, and the person whose membership enlistment is sought. It is also accomplished through publicity, newspaver articles, circular letters, the distribution of organization literature. It may be done through open sessions of conferences and conventions. It may be greatly helped through the support of training schools and hospitals. I commend to those of you who would build membership, the appointment of an enthusiastic, persuasive membership committee. LSO, I remind you it is human nature to want to be identified with a live organization, a going concern, one that holds attention, confidence, and respect within the community. No one wants to belong to a struggling, weak, ineffective, half-dead organization. The quality of the organization, the manner in which it is functioning, have tremendous bearing on membership. It has been said often that an organization is no stronger than its leadership. 'Therefore, it is of first importance that an able administrator be chosen to head the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1959 organization, one on whom the membership: can rely to conduct affairs so that the organization will accomplish the purposes set for it. A recognition on the part of the administrator of her trusteeship, her moral responsibility to manage the business of the organization properly, is fundamental to good leadership. The leader is given certain authority. The acceptance of ° authority involves its concomitant responsibility, and, it follows, that administrative activity also includes accountability, or the necessity of being ready to answer for entrusted powers. A person who does not recognize these things and who is not willing to conform to them should never accept administrative office. Administrative proficiency has its roots in the personal qualifications of the administrator. 'The able leader is one who attracts and holds attention, and has the capacitv to win others to the cause in which she believes and for which she is working. She has clearness of vision and vigor of action. She approaches her job with confidence (a modest confidence, to be sure, but confidence nonetheless), and with a determination to succeed. Pity the organization whose newly elected head approaches her job with the attitude, "Well, I don't expect to do anything very outstanding. This organization has always been weak, and I don't know that anything much can be done to improve it," or who depreciates herself, thinking failure, talking failure, always holding before herself and others her shortcomings and inabilities. Doubt in the ability of an organization to succeed, or in one- self as a leader, spreads like a contagion, and is damning, both to the organization and the administrator herself. HEN I was a little girl, we used to sing a song in Sunday School which said: "If we fail, we fail in glory." How I loved that song, and how I sang out those words. It seemed so noble to fail in glory. Recently, however, I read a comment about this song by one of the elders of the Church, Mr. Sterling Sill, in his book on Leadership. "Ridiculous," he said. "No failure is glorious.... 'The one business of life is to succeed. We are not placed here to waste our lives in failure" (page 21). Sir Winston Churchill has furnished the world with perhaps one of its most graphic examples of a leader who would entertain no thought of failure, even in the face of what appeared to be almost insurmountable difficulties. England, unready for war, was faced with possible annihilation as a nation by a strong, ruthless enemy. Sir Winston Churchill was named Prime Minister. When he met the House of Commons for the first time, he said: "You ask, what is our policy? I will say: to wage war by sea, land, and air, with all our might and with all the strength God has given us; to wage war against a monstrous tyranny.... That is our policy. You ask, what is our aim? I can answer in one word: victory... Victory, however long and hard the road may be" (A Short History of England, Edward P. Cheyney, pp: 841-842). In approaching any job, the leader must think in terms of success. The administrator's work consists of organizing, directing, controlling, and supervising the operations of the organization. It behooves her, then, to acquire considerable knowledge and understanding of the work for which she is responsible. Through study, conversation, observation, attendance at meetings such as this, she gathers to herself many types of knowledge. She draws upon this knowledge as needed, recognizing always that administrative skill calls for the application of sound principles and procedures. She makes sure that the organization is fully officered; that meetings are held regularly and as scheduled; that meetings are characterized by businesslike procedures, yet that they are maintained in a spirit of warm friendliness. She recognizes that programs are the media whereby the purposes of the organization are achieved. She makes sure, therefore, that programs are planned which meet the interests, desires, and needs of the members, and are in harmony with organization goals. She is aware of differences within the respective divisions of the area over which she presides. 'Therefore, while holding to general policies, procedures, and aims, she allows a reasonable degree of flexibility in carrying out programs. She wisely directs the financing of the organization and gives careful attention to the proper recording of activities and to financial accounting. T goes without saying, she cannot do all this single-handed and alone. She must call upon others to help. In other words, she delegates responsibility. No leadership HOW CAN WE EFFECTIVELY DELEGATE RESPONSIBILITY? 503 504 is good that attempts to do the entire job alone, nor, is it of highest quality when it gives the willing worker three or four jobs and leaves the others sitting on the sidelines in idleness. Overloading some, because the abilities of others have not been uncovered, is injurious to those on both sides of the activity. I have recently returned from England, where I learned the story of Samson: Samson was a_ beautiful dapple-gray horse with a splendid physique and such height that he seemed to tower above all the other horses. But, though large, he was gentle and friendly and everyone was attracted to him. Samson was a chain horse and _ stood daily at the foot of a steep hill waiting for the heavy loads that had to be pulled. Samson always pulled in front of the other horses. When the lorry with the load would come, he would prick up his ears and stamp his feet eagerly — it meant an opportunity to show his strength. Samson was an exhibitionist. When his keeper led him to the load and attached his chains to the shaft, he did not wait for the other horses — he was a Samson. Head down, knees almost touching the ground, sparks flying from his hooves, he practically pulled the whole weight by himself. He would not allow the other horses to pull their share. Samson's keeper was asked why Samson was not given a rest from his chain horse position, and put into the shafts like the other horses. He replied that Samson wouldn't pull when back with the others; he couldn't show off there. He didn't seem to be able to co-operate, he had to be out in front doing everything by himself. One day Samson wasn't standing at the bottom of the hill, but another horse was in his place. Samson was dead. He had died of overwork. He had pulled too hard alone. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1959 Many leaders are like Samson, wanting all the work and glory for themselves and refusing to co-operate with others. The power of any good organization is a combined power, and it is wasted by those who try to pull the whole load alone. There is no place for Samsons in any organization. Wise leaders share responsibility (Millenial Star, March 1959, adapted with permission). During my visit to England I at- ° tended a training meeting for local officers of a woman's volunteer welfare organization. 'The group was discussing the delegation of responsibility. The instructor asked the question: "What do we mean by delegating work?" Promptly a hand went up and the woman, upon being acknowledged, replied: "Getting someone else to do the work for you." "Oh, no," wisely responded the instructor, "that is shelving your work. Delegating is sharing, not unloading. It is sharing knowledge, understanding, ideals, aims, loyalty, work, satisfaction, and the glories of achievement." Delegating responsibility has been called "co-ordinated decentralization" and must take place if any big job is to be done. The wise administrator shares his work with enough persons to get the job done right and on time without overburdening anyone. N delegating responsibility, it is of first importance to pick the right person for the job. Success is more adequately served if persons are selected whose qualifications fit the desired accomplishments. 'The administrator should know the individual to whom she is_ giving responsibility, and should be reasonably sure that the assignment comes within the individual's capacity, and that he can and will devote the time and encrgy necessary to carrying out the assignment properly. The importance of his full acceptance of the assigned responsibility is a factor in his success in fulfilling it. Second, the way in which a responsibility is delegated is extremely important to its successful fulfillment. The process of giving an assignmient can be made a thrilling experience. The job and its requirements are transferred, so are enthusiasm for the job, conviction of its importance, recognition of its relationship to the bigger job. 'The assignor can stimulate the mind and the feclings of the assignee and so direct them as to lead toward accomplishment. Third, the person delegating a responsibility must guide, direct, and keep himself informed on progress, and adequately supervisc, but, at no time, should he take over the job. Theodore Roosevelt is credited with saying that "... The best executive is the one who has scnse enough to pick good men... And sclf-rcstraint cnough to keep from meddling with them while they do it" (Leadership, page 213). While the good administrator docs not meddle, he is always on hand as a resource person, a consultant — the person who has a knowledge of the job and how it can be done and a willingness to share that knowledge. He is the lifeline, so to speak. A good administrator never slights or ignores a person who is sharing his responsibilities, nor does he take credit unto himself which belongs to his associate. As people see that they have a place in an enterprise, as they find their contribution is valued, small though it may be, as they see they are fairly treated and justly dealt with, as they sec the organization with which they have affiliated functioning with integrity, there develops within them a love for the organization and a scnsc of loyalty to it, as well as to those who preside over it. Loyalty mercly means faithful allegiance. It is not hard for people to give faithful allegiance to that which they love and respect, and from which they are benefiting. As pride in the organization and confidence in the leaders grow, as loyalties become firm and true, the members usually become a united body, willing to harmonize minds and efforts for the good of the whole. With this unity comes essential organization strength. The building of an organization to a position of strength is a challenge with many factors involved. Success cannot be attained through the cfforts of any one individual. Only through the combined efforts of the many, wisely and well directed, is success attainable. May I close by repeating a few unsigned lines which I read in a little leaflet I picked up on a commutcr train recenlty. 'They seemed to me to summarize all that I have tried to say: With vision clear, ambition high— With firm resolve, and skill to lead— With work that's shared, won— and loyalties An empire may be built. HOW CAN WE EFFECTIVELY DELEGATE RESPONSIBILITY? 505 She New England lisston Preston R. Nibley Assistant Church Historian HE First Presidency announced, in May 1937, that a new mission would be formed in the eastern part of the United States and Canada, to be known as the New England Mission. It was to comprise the states of Massachusetts, Connecticut, and Rhode Island, to be taken from the Eastern States Mission, and Maine, Vermont, and New Hampshire, with the provinces of Nova Scotia and New Brunswick, from the Canadian Mission. On August 2, 1937, Dr. Carl F. Eyring of Provo, Utah, was appointed president of the new mission. In September 1937, President Eyring, accompanied by Elder John A. Widtsoe of the Council of the Twelve, made a tour of the New England Mission. 'The headquarters was established in Cambridge, Massachusetts, and a commodious mission home was purchased. 'Twenty-two missionaries were transferred from the Eastern States Mission to the new mission, and four from the Canadian Mission. The work of proselyting was thus continued with vigor, in a section of country in which Latter-day Saint missionaries had labored for over one hundred years. President Carl F. Eyring served with success as mission president until July 1939, when he was succeeded by Elder Levi Edgar Young, of the First Council of Seventy, one of the General Authorities of the Church.? Tig j =. Tn lg ae _ 3 5 Courtesy, Massachusetts Department of Commerce UNITED STATES FRIGATE "CONSTITUTION" (OLD IRONSIDES) in Boston Navy Yard, Bunker Hill Monument in Background Page 506 THE NEW ENGLAND MISSION 507 Courtesy, Vermont Development Commission MAPLE "SUGARING OFF" SEASON IN| VERMONT A curious springtime sight in New England is the gathcring of the sap from the sugar maples, which cover the rolling hillsides. 'Thirty-five to forty gallons of sap are required to make one gallon of maple syrup. The sap is collected in large tanks and drawn by sled over the snow. President Young presided until January 1942, when he was succeeded by Elder William H. Reeder of Ogden. During his last month in the mission, President Young purchased part of the Henry W. Longfellow estate, and the. Old Longfellow home on Brattle Strect, to be used as a residence for the mission president. President Reeder served as mission president until May 1947, when he was succeeded by Elder S. Dilworth Young, of the First Council of Seventy, one of the General Authorities of the Church. President Young served until March 1951, when he was succeeded by Elder J. Howard Maughan of Logan. President Maughan served until July 1955, when he was succeeded by Elder Junius M. Jackson of Salt Lake City. President Jackson served until June 1959, when he was succeeded by Dr. Edgar B. Brossard who presides at the present time. On March 31, 1959, there were 5,899 members of the Church in the New England Mission, located in thirtyeight branches, Forty-eight Relief Society organizations, with 878 members, were reported in December 1958. Margaret R. Jackson formerly was president of the New England Mission Relief Society. The new president is Laura P. Brossard. Note: The cover for this. Magazine is a color view of the Minuteman Statue at Concord, Massachusetts. See also "Recipes From the New England, Mission," by Margaret R. Jackson, page 518. "A" Is for Apron Part | Tlene H. Kingsbury Hey, old woman, with the long white Apron! What are you holding in it, your hands all bundled up prcide? Why do you walk along the shade of the poplars and pick your way so stoutly? Hey, what are you thinking of at all? UDGED from a memory, and rudely, to say the least, this aged woman, Clarissa by name, slackened her pace, squared her shoulders, and, for an instant, felt the tug of a remembered burden in her apron. And she thought... How cold are your shoulders when it is twenty degrees below zero! How stiff are your knees with frozen fixity as you bend to push a cart! How numb is your thinking as the chill from the great river makes you and it solidify, if you stand still a minute! And that Mississippi did stop moving last night. It became a bridge of ice. Not just to hold a man and his dog, but to support a man's wagon and his oxen. It held itself in check around a half-circle of bend, its flowing and rushing, its ceaseless toil to the sea halted in the deadly grip of winter. Yesterday, the first Wednesday in February 1846, was the coldest Clarissa could remember, and today, the prairie held its own for frigid bleakness. Mostly because were not on the move, was it arctic. The camp was nine miles out from their city called "Beautiful" by those who loved her. Quite formally on the frontier maps, it Page 508 they. Was printed Nauvoo. They named this spot a camp, not a settlement, expecting to go on as soon as their homeless, exiled band could be. Organized to head West. In that direction they would push to other successive noonings, washdays, and seed plantings for the late starters. There would be the tender laying away in the earth of those who no longer walked beside them. 'There would be repair stations and the one night's lodge resembling an outpost of civilization — next morning only camp ashes to show the short tarrying there. But this camp on Sugar Creek — sweet of name — bitter of memory! No habitation had ever graced its banks, no family had lovingly called its soil a farmstead. Only Indians marked its clod as a trail to better hunting. In midwinter no one challenged these hapless wanderers who delayed for a space at this beginning of their many temporary encampments. At sixteen Clarissa's was the strength of two. Her ailing mother called her to warm and feed the two little boys in the family. In her shivering, teeth-chattering condition, every duty tested her character for endurance and patience. Camp one, night one, baby one! Or may it be said babies nine at camp one, night one? Of course, Clarissa's mother hadn't counted on having the baby so soon. Perhaps neither had the other eight whose "A" IS FOR APRON journey into the valley of shadow had been rewarded with the cry of protest, the quivering fists, and the nuzzling of recent birth. Excitement, emergency, concern for the aged and the _ toddlers; physical effort of a day's strain of fleeing over frozen wastes from violent danger — all enough to bring on the effort of childbirth all too early. "Well, this is but a sampling of the season's burden,"' one old woman said. Four sticks, head high, stuck in the frozen mud were stout in holding aloft a bark roof. Four rugs, one woven and_ three _ braided, became welcomed walls to hold the sticks together, and this was their hut in the wilderness. A_ trundle bed, which had been slung under the wagon, was dragged to this crude shelter. The rain fell as though weeping for the courage of a woman about to greet a new soul into life. And as it fell, kind sisters held dishes aloft to catch the dripping moisture and thus keep dry their friend in travail. LARISSA would rather have helped deliver the little one than quiet the little boys and shield them from the age-old scene. She resolved, then, to learn the art of midwifery. It ocd not be so hard, she thought, with arms as strong as hers, and heart as willing! When her mother's hour was spent, when the first cry of another son was cast on the prairie wind, when the loving sisters had hastened to their own needy families, then came Clarissa's turn to prove her worth! From the oak chest in the wagon she unfolded a paisley shawl 509 and wrapped it around her baby brother. She hugged him to her, and thought to keep him warm in her arms. And shivering, and trembling, and fearing she couldn't quite measure up, she covered her mother with another quilt and huddled at the bedside for the rest of the night. A small stepstool had been left by someone as an aid to keep her off the ground, and there she sat waiting for morning, the baby in her arms. Her mother slept, clothed in exhaustion. The two little bovs, oblivious to the world and winter, were curled up in a padded corner of the wagon. Be it cold enough — say at twenty below, and pain has no meaning! And where does an apron come into this Sugar Creek story, this saga of one of nine on the frostbitten prairic? But first we must consider the winter scene minutely. They came to tarry for a month, or, should we say, they came to suffer? Underfoot, with fluctuations of temperature, their paths from one campfire to another were sloughs of mud deep to shoe tops; or ravines of running rain, or rigid mounds of frozen sod, cold as stone. The cutting winds and the glacial air pierced one's bones and never quite left. For those weeks Clarissa carried her mother's infant in the folds of her apron, the corners tucked into the belt, tighter cinched to stand the weight. The little soul cried itself sick its first day on earth. Clarissa's arms gave comforting pressure to this new person. But under the constant weight, her shoulders sagged. As she was under the necessity of moving about to keep warm, and her neck 510 gave way after the first dozen hours, the apron arrangement seemed the all-around best for both of them. In no time, of course, kindly sisters suggested a sling from her shoulders, as some Indian mothers were observed to use, particularly when carrying older children. Or, there was always a squaw's headboard to be considered. But Clarissa wanted this little brother to be around in front of her where she could see him at a glance. Her apron became a hammock which swayed to her step, only one hand was needed to steady the little one. 'The other hand was left free to tend the fire, stir the broth, button a coat for the growing boys, or prepare a warm meal for her mother, trundle, slow to mend to wanted strength. The contented babe, sheltered from prairie winds by a half turn of Clarissa's body, thrived, slept, and quieted to her lovi ing touch. HE benediction of each day was a triumph in endurance. At a signal, every occupation was suspended, every knee was bent, every head was bowed in prayer. A voice from each family circle raised itself in gratitude for preservation of life and promise of a brighter day. At such moments Clarissa smoothed the blanket around little William, as they called him, and cinched her apron string tighter to keep him from falling out of his pouch in front of her. For a month the routine was the same, except for the daily addition of refugees from over the river. Then, on March first, with snow, sleet, and rain falling, and tents still on the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1959 folded for another journey, they. Left Sugar Creek with the ground swimming with water and deep with mud. Five hundred wagons somehow got in motion from a ground bogged with gravity. Slowly the great wheels turned, caught the mud, lifted it a quarter turn, dropped it in clods to obstruct the next sodden shoe of a walker. One. Knew the wagon moved because the shadow cast cooled the day for a pattern of spokes and oxen and canvas top gathered taut against the storm. Clarissa walked beside her mother's wagon for five miles that first day, to keep warm by forward motion. She scraped away the snow to make a campfire. Alone, she could not pitch the small army tent meant for two men, so they slept in the wagon that night. Huddled together for mutual warmth, she heard someone call out the temperature at midmght of twenty-eight above zero. Sub-zero weather was over! But the lashing winds, the frostcaked roughness, were not over. For weeks on "end, as they encamped, broke it up, and pushed on again for hundreds of miles into the West, warm spring came on haltingly. And her apron, her baby brother, together, were as one with persistent pushing forward. She carricd him one thousand miles in her apron! Often,. Toward evening, his protesting laments mingled with the other eight of his exact age in pulsing rhythm as do crickets in an otherwise noncommital evening. In manhood he was tall and strong and good. Then, often he "A" IS FOR APRON rested his hands on her shoulders in gratitude for protection on the prairie wastes. % OK OK JN her old, old age she habitually walked with her hands in her apron, bundled up. Her only yielding to pride was framed under the enveloping folds — blotched, knotted knuckles, bespeaking endless labor. But pride actually had little chance with her. In most cases her apron covered her charities: saltrising bread, a linsey piece, knit 511 mits, or a small sack of dried plums. The return home was the only empty-handed, empty-aproned one she knew. And if the distance was four miles once a day for two months to the next settlement to nurse a typhoidridden family who had once _ befriended her mother, what cared she for that ways on the road? Wasn't she, after all, a veteran of a thousand miles, little brother swinging in her apron, one third of a continent slipping away under her feet? (To be continued ) Sair Sxcha nge Maude Rubin Grandmother's apron, starched and crisply neat, Hung full in gingham folds about her waist, Its strings bow-tied, unwilted by noon's heat Or oven's blast. Delectable to taste, Its pockets held hard candy—peppermints, Or, tasting bitter-sweet, brown hoarhound drops, Doled out with smiles at our transparent hints, And slowly savored.... When robins tilted tops Of willow trees, her apron bore white boughs Of dogwood's petaled lucence; evening's chore Was cradling downy chicks—or driving cows Through pasture gates. Then, at a knock-on-door, She untied checkered strings, composed her face— Guests saw her snowy apron, edged with lace! Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, August 1, and August 15, 1899 "For tHe Ricnys or tHe WomeEN or ZION AND THE Ricnrs OF Tre WOMEN oF Att Nations" A SPIRITUAL AWAKENING: The work is hastening on; the missionaries abroad in the world are busy sowing good seed wherever opportunitics can be made. Distributing tracts from house to house is done by both men and women missionarics. Also preaching in the public parks and elsewhere in the open air. Young women have Icft good homes, and some of them who were receiving liberal salaries for teaching in schools and academics, to labor in spreading the Gospel in foreign lands, not for honor, nor for the sake of any remuneration in this world, but they might be instrumental in helping on the cause of truth, which will eventually redeem mankind from sin. 'The writer rejoiced while in England in hearing these truc and earnest young women bearing testimony to the knowledge obtained through the Holy Spirit, which Icads unto all truth.... —Editorial RAISING MULBERRY TREES: Thinking it might interest you (the editor) and our beloved president, Zina D. H. Young, to know of our success in planting mulberry trees and cuttings this last spring... I will tell you of our beginning in the good work. 'Torrey Relief Society owns a city lot of an acre and a qui arter, and they have planted seventy three-year-old trecs... And about one thousand yearlings and cuttings. Caineville Relief Socicty also owns a lot.. They have planted out fifty three-year-old trees, and four hundred yearlings and cuttings. Giles Relief Socicty also owns a lot, not yct fenced. Brother Whitc has planted out on his own ee one thousand cuttings and four hundred yearling trees for the Relief Socicty.. —Jane S. Coleman WHEN I HAVE TIME When I have time, the friend I love so well Shall know no more those weary, toiling days. I'll lead her feet in pleasant paths always And cheer her heart with words of sweetest praise, When I have time.... —Selected COSTUMES AT THE INTERNATIONAL CONGRESS OF WOMEN: London, England. Some of the pretty women present were the Duchess of Sutherland, in pale blue satin and pearls; Lady Randolph Churchill, in pale pink with some pearl ornaments in her hair; while Lady Ulrica Duncomb was looking quite lovely in pale yellow, with a necklace of pearls and diamonds. Among others there were Lady Aberdeen, Lady Harcourt and Mrs. Asquith. —Ex. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE IN ST. JOSEPH STAKE, ARIZONA: Fach of the branches was reported as in good working order, and all seemed to have a desire to assist in the furtherance of the cause. Stake Counselor Adelia Curtis said she would speak a few minutes to the teachers: "'You sisters who are called to labor in this capacity cannot afford to neglect your duty.... You must go in humility, with a prayer in your heart...." —Sarah Webb, Cor. Sec. Page 512 RANCES G. KNIGHT (Mrs. Wayne Parrish), Director of the United States Passport Office since 1955, has made a remarkable record of efficiency which has resulted in fast service and a saving of two million tax dollars in the last four years, as well. Miss Knight attributes her success to the application of a "common-sense approach that any intelligent woman uses in running her home." R. JANET COOPER is the first woman to be elected Mayor of South Melbourne, Australia, and the first to be on the municipal council. She has practiced medicine for thirty-three years and is president of the Women's Club of Professions and 'Trades. ATHARINE ANTHONY in her new biography of Mercy Otis Warren, "First Lady of the Revolution" (Doubleday), traces the remarkable career of a woman of Puritan background who grew up on "a literary diet" of Dryden, Milton, Pope, Shakespeare, Moliere, Homer, and Virgil. She was the sister of the patriot James Otis and married the eminent general James Warren. Her remarkable mind and fluent literary style were revealed in numerous dramas, satires, and poems, as well as an excellent History of the American Revolution. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon A® NA MOFFO, operatic soprano, who was born in Philadelphia, studied in Italy, and has been featured at the famous La Scala Opera House, is receiving acclaim in Amicrica. She has made several successful appearances with the Chicago Opera Company, and recently made a recording of the role of "Madame Butterfly' in Puccini's opera, which has been rated by critics as a remarkably outstanding performance for a young singer, conveying a strong dramatic image with great clarity. OSHIKO MIBUCHI, Tokyo, Japan, is a judge in the civil court. Appointed in 1949, she was the first woman lawyer to reccive a bench assignment in Japan. Now she is one of sixteen women serving in this capacity. RS. OLIVE ANN BEECH has recently been appointed by President Eisenhower as a member for a two-year term of the International Development Advisory Board, which has the responsibility of advising and consulting with the President of the United States, and such other officials as he may designate, on the policies and procedures of the Mutual Security Act. Mrs. Beech is president of the Becch Aircraft Corporation, Wichita, Kansas. Page 513 OQ-> EDITORIAL c~2 VOL. 46 Re verence God created man "a little lower than the angels" and "crowned him with glory and honour." One of the attributes of angels that man also may possess is reverence. Implanted in each mortal born into this world is the desire to worship, and an innate need to express reverence for Deity. In some persons the seed so implanted is fostered and developed, while in others it is subdued and allowed to wither away. God does not go away from man, but man may go away from God. Reverence is defined as profound respect and esteem felt or manifested, and as deep or exalted veneration mingled with love and awe, usually associated with things of sacred nature. It has two aspects: an inward emotion, and an outward expression, and may be said to be a means and an end. Reverent feelings and actions may keep one from sinning, and true reverence is the result of an effort to keep from displeasing the Heavenly Father. Reverence embodies acceptance of divine guidance, true devotion to righteousness, an effort to understand the principles of the gospel, humility, meekness, obedience, and a desire to "praise God from whom all blessings flow." Prayer is the soul's expression of reverence. True joy and sober reflection, happiness, and sweet meditation are present in the emotion of reverence. It has been said that reverence is Page 514 A CCORDING to the Psalmist, the highest of human feelings, and one of the holiest attributes of the soul. It is fundamental in religion and spirituality. ""Reverence for God: and sacred things is the chief characteristic of a great soul" (President David O. McKay, Pathways to Happiness, page 261). The outward manifestations of reverence are shown in onc's conduct, and more particularly, one's conduct in church. Churches are dedicated as houses of worship. It must, therefore, be assumed that those who go to church do so with the desire to get closer to the Lord, to seek spiritual uplift, and to associate with others of like mind. Confusion, noise, and talk during church services are irreverent. Those who contribute to such disorder deprive themselves and others of the spiritual benefits of church attendance. We associate reverence with quiet, not the mere absence of noise, but the quiet and peace that enable -the soul to experience a closeness with heaven. Reverence, like many other virtues, is best taught in the home by precept and example. The reverent attitude of the mother as she teaches her babies to pray, and the tender guidance of the father as he directs the spiritual activities of his children, have influence throughout their lives. Parents may not just assume that their children will know how to conduct themselves. They must explain that respect for others and AUGUST 1959 NO. 8 EDITORIAL reverence for Deity demand thoughtfulness and self-control. Proper participation in church includes the utmost reverence as the sacrament is passed. 'Talking takes place only in a class as part of the process of learning gospel principles. The explanation of reverence by precept is of great importance, but example is significantly greater. Many adults need to be reminded of their duty to be exemplary. The sisters of Relief Society should be the most reverent of all women. Certainly gratitude for the 515 blessings flowing down, as_ the Prophet: promised, should be expressed in reverent actions. Relief Society meetings should be conducted and attended in a spirit of reverence. Nothing unseemly in conduct or dress is representative of the true spirit of Relief Society. Latter-day Saints have an obligation to make their homes and meetinghouses spiritual havens. A people so blessed should manifest love, respect, and veneration in the utmost reverence to God. —L. W. M. Beginning Gwen Marler Barney Slowly as dawn fingers the night, Still as a leaf that turns on the wind, Stirs the beginning of dream in the heart Stirs and wakens the curtained mind. Delayed Hlomecom ing Alice R. Rich I walked again old paths today, along a country road, narrow Then through the small town streets; Tall locust trees held out their shaggy arms To shade my way. I stepped across the low footbridge That spanned the sidewalk stream. The high vermillion cliffs that framed the eastern plain Still wrapped their regal shawls of beauty. Around the quiet town, Within the village walls, there breathed A quictude, homespun and warm, A hospitality, unfeigned and kind. These findings, like the lure of autumn tints Of crimson, bronze, and silver green, Bring back to me a lore, a treasurc-trove of memorics To spice the fragrance of my vesteryears, To keep immutable my dreams. YWYlotes. TO THE FIELD She Annual General Relief Society Conference HE Annual General Relief Society Conference will be held Wednesday and 'Vhursday, October 7th and 8th, 1959. The gencral session will be held on Wednesday, October 7th, from 2 to 4 p. M. In the Tabernacle. It is suggested that ward Relicf Society presidents ask their bishops to announce in the wards the general session of the conference to which the general public is invited. Attendance at the Officers Mecting on Wednes- ° day morning October 7th, from lo to 12 in the Tabernacle, and the departmental meetings to be held Thursday morning and Thursday afternoon, October 8th, is limited to stake board members and mission officers. A reception to w hich stake board members and mission officers are invited will be held on Wednesday evening, October 7th, from 7 to 10 in The Relicf Socicty Building. <i —_ Fresh Up With Sunday LL the world needs Sunday, a day for physical, mental, spiritual refreshment. Our Creator set the pattern and gave us this right-to-rest law — the law of the Sabbath. He worked six days, rested the seventh, and, the Good Book says, "He was refreshed." Refreshed; relieved from fatigue; restored in strength and spirit. How we necd this blessing in our busy, modern world! How to keep Sunday? Try this once-a-weck prescription: Start on Saturday night. Retire early so you will arise, on the Sabbath, refreshed. Give thanks as you awaken that you are alive for another day of glorious living. Cleanse your body; dress in your go-to-mecting best; breakfast gratefully; and go to church. While in church you will learn wisdom and faith with choice frends and neighbors. At 'nicaltime add zest to your appctite and nourishment to your soul by keeping a prayerful heart. On Fast Days, rest your digestion, refresh your spirit, and give the savings to the needy. Between meals and mectings, cultivate your mind with good reading and pleasant visiting at home or with friends. For good health and stimulating outdoor enjoyment, walk more, ride less to church if you live nearby. As a perfect nightcap, add an hour of good fellowship and faith with a friendly fireside group. Page 516 FRESH UP WITH SUNDAY 517 Be Honest with Yourself Time on your hands? No Sunday will be long cnough for all the appropriate and refreshing things you'd like to do. As you prepare to retire, give thanks again that vour Father in heaven gave vou this precious gift — one day in seven — when man can rest and be refreshed. Let's keep the Sabbath — Ict's kcep it because He gave it to us — and because we necd it! BE HONEST WITH YOURSELF Recipes From the lew &ngland Mission Subinitted: by Margaret Romney Jackson New Encuanp Boinep Dinner Anna: Mae Burton Ibs. Corned. Beef 2 small turnips 1 small cabbage, quartered 6 medium-sized onions 3 carrots, quartercd 6 small parsnips 6 potatoes Wash the beef in cold water and if very salty, soak in cold w rater for thirty minutes. Drain the meat and place it in boiling water and cook from tliree to four hours or until it is tender. One and one-half hours before serving, add the cabbage, carrots, and turnips. One-half hour before guns add the onions, parsnips, and potatoes. Place attractivcly on a large platter and serve BLuEBerry Murrins Anna Mae Burton % c. Sugar 2 eggs, well beaten 2% c. Flour 3 Peay butter, ' melted — "tsp. Salt. Milk 3 tsp. Baking powder on Y, c. Blueberries Sift flour, sugar, baking powder, and salt together. Mix berries with one-fourth 'of this mixture. Beat eggs 'and add melted butter. Add the flour mixture alternately 'with milk. Stir in the blucberries lightly. Bake in well-buttered muffin tins in a hot oven at 450° for twenty-five minutes. VERMONT SCRIPTURE CAKE Olga W. Snell |A—1 ¢. Judges: 5:25 (last clause)" * G—1 c. Genesis 43:11 (last* word) {|B—2 c. Jeremiah Sage) H—1 e. Judges 4:19 "(last clause ),; C—3% c. I Kings.4:22 (first part).; I—6 Isaiah 10:14 iD—3 tsp. Amos: 4:5 >J—% tsp. Leviticus 2:13 'E—z ec. [ Samuel 30:12 (first clause). K—1 tbsp. Exodus 16:31 (last word). F—z c. I Samuel 30:12 (second clause). L—to taste I Kings 10:2 i 'Cream A, B, and K. Beat I and add H. Sift C, D, J; and L. Chop F and G, and E, and add to mixturé.: Follow Solomon's advice for making good boys: Proverbs 23:14 (first clause). Bake at 350° for one hour and fifteen minutes. Makes two large lee es. New ENcianp CLam CHOWDER Alexia O. Bigney 2 c. Cubed potatoes % tsp. Pepper 1 qt. Steaming clams 1% c. Boiling water 3 tbsp. Flour 3 tbsp. Butter 1 onion, chopped fine 2 c. Hot milk % tbsp. Salt % c. Cream Page 518 RECIPES FROM THE NEW ENGLAND MISSION 519 Steam clams in one cup cold water till shells open (about five minutes) and pull off the skins and throw them away. Drain and preserve liquid and strain. Put in kettle one cup cubed potatoes, the hard part of the clams chopped fine, and one tablespoon of flour sprinkled over. Then add another layer of the remaining one cup potatocs and another one tablespoon flour. Add the onion and salt and pepper. Add boiling water. Cook until potatoes are done, about ten to fifteen minutes. Add milk, cream, and 2 tbsp. Butter. Reheat clam water to boiling point, thicken with remaining tablespoon flour and one tablespoon butter mixed together. Add just before serving to prevent curdling. Canned whole clams or canned minced clams may also be used. Baxkep SturreD LOBSTER John N. Hinckley Buy fresh live lobsters, preferably Canadian—the northern waters are usually colder. Your lobsters should be liv 'ely when you start to prepare them. At the wharf get plenty of seaweed and place in the bottom 'of the basket with a layer of paper on top of the lobsters. Cover paper with cracked ice. In preparing the lobster use a sharp knife. Lay the lobster upside down on a bread board and split lengthwise from head to tail. Remove the dark vein along the back and the small sac behind the head. Arrange in a low pan or tray, cut side up, and bake in a hot oven fifteen to twenty minutes until the shell has turned red. While lobster is baking, prepare dressing. Roll one pound of Saltine crackers for each eight and one-half pounds of lobster, into fine crumbs; mix with melted butter, season with Worcestershire sauce. After the baking period, take lobster from the oven and remove tomalley (green liver) and the coral (if it's a female). Mix these well into the dressing. Keep dressing light. Fill the lobster's cavity with dressing, and put one pat of butter on top; sprinkle with paprika. Place under broiler (low flame) until dressing is brown. Place on a serving dish and serve with lemon quarters and melted butter. InpiAN Puppinc (Injun' Puddin') Olga W. Snell 5% ce. Milk % tsp. Cinnamon 28 c. Dark molasses 7% tsp. Nutmeg ¥ c. Sugar 1 tsp. Salt % c¢. Yellow corn meal 4 tbsp. Butter Use one-half cup milk to moisten corn meal. Heat four cups of the milk and add moistened corn meal, molasses, sugar, salt, spices, and butter. Cook until mixture begins to thicken. Pour into a buttered baking dish and add the remaining cold milk. Do not stir. Put into slow oven, 275°, and bake for three hours without stirring, uncovered. Serve warm with cream, hard sauce, or vanilla ice cream. Serves cight to ten. Bakep Brans Olga W. Snell water (as needed) 4 tbsp. Vinegar 1 Ib. Dried beans 4 tbsp. Catsup 1 tsp. Soda 1 large onion, sliced 1 tsp. Salt 4 or more slices of bacon or salt pork 24 c. Molasses Soak beans for several hours. Drain and cover with cold water, add soda, and bring to boiling point and boil one minute. Pour off water and add fresh cold water and boil until tender. Beans must be whole. Place in baking dish salt, catsup, sliced onion, vinegar, and molasses. Add beans and some of the water they were cooked in. Put slices of bacon on top, cover and bake in slow oven (250°) for two hours. Remove cover and bake one-half hour longer. Save water in which the beans were cooked, and, if they become too dry, add a little while baking. New Encuanp Fis CAKEs Alexia O. Bigney 2 qts. Water 1 onion 5 medium-sized potatoes 1 cgg pepper to taste Soak the codfish overnight in cold water. In the morning drain and add pecled potatocs cut in chunks, cover w ith water, and cook until potatoes are done. Drain. Add onion sauted in butter or pork fat. Mash all ingredients together, cool, and make round cakes one-half inch thick. Fry in fat until brown, turn and brown on the other side. <—- Jimmy Nleets His Tlew Sister Elsie McKinnon Strachan Two-thirds baby, one third boy: Ivy leagues and corduroy, Jam-sweet face and droopy toy, Come, touch your tiny sister gently, Study her pink toes intently, Kiss her cheek experimentally; And know, somehow, that though my arms Are cradling her small new charms, They, still, can quiet your alarms. Oh, little boy, when you would be My baby still, come wailingly— Or sleepy faced, and climb my knee. <aifipn <—- Hilea g Photogra phs Elizabeth Wilhamson RE you wondering when you will ever get around to organizing and mounting your snapshots? A quick and easy way to gct them in order is to put them in a letter file. Buy a large-sized one at any stationery store. Decide how you want to segregate pictures. A few suggestions are: Friends, Trips, Family, Children of Friends, Pets. You may want to leave them in this container forever, w hen you see how easy it is to locate a certain picture. Make an index in the front of the file. 520 1 Ib. Salt codfish RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1959 3 thsp. Butter or pork fat Frances White Pron las Enriched Her Life With Hobbies | ae White Poulson, Hailey, Idaho, believes that a worthwhile hobby is a two-fold blessing. It enriches the one who plies the hobby and is a blessing to those who receive the gifts of lovely handwork. In the past three years she has made twenty-four quilts in unusual and original designs, beautifully stitched. She has made several crocheted bedspreads, afghans, doilies, pillowcases, and tablecloths. She is an expert with the knitting needles and loves to make sweaters and knitwear for babies and children. She has eight children, fourteen grandchildren, and eleven great-grandchildren. Mrs. Poulson has been a Relicf Society worker for fifty years, and has devoted fifteen years to service as a visiting teacher. She is grateful for her ability to find hobbies that bring contentment and joy to her and give pleasure to her family and her friends. Kitchen Glamour Camille C. Nuffer I love the sunlight Through my windows streaming, Awakening each precious thing, From night's sweet dreaming. I'm sure a kitchen, Is a place divine. A sunbeam from heaven Each morning visits mine. Page 521 The Silver Leash Cuapter 8 (Conclusion) Beatrice Rordame Parsons ARUE knew that, now, there was no longer any reason to remain in Fivelakes. 'The Amelia Museum had been established and was moving steadily on to becoming a beautiful tourist attraction. Committees had been formed, and Herb was proud that he had been selected to head one of them. He was out of his wheelchair most of the time, nowadays, and back at his office and his drawing board. The children were fine, each busy with a task in refurnishing Hillhigh House. LaRue knew it was time to go back to the bank, to her neat, yet silent apartment, in San Francisco. She no longer thought of it as a refuge. Indeed, she was almost reluctant to take up her life away from Fivelakes. She knew she would miss everything and everyone terribly! Herb was working on the plans for the new children's wing, at the hospital. When he showed her the plans, LaRue saw the penciled drawings, which Dr. Alan had made upon the back of an envelope, coming to life. "Tl have to come back and see the old house, and that new wing during my next vacation," she said wistfully, and went to finish her packing. The little amber bottle still stood on the dressing table. She left it there, meaning to give it to Erma before she left. As usual, Connie crept into her room, and sat cross-legged in the Page 522 middle of the white bedspread watching LaRue put her things into her bags. Connie's small face was wistful. "T wish you didn't have to leave, Aunt LaRue. We're going to miss you." She looked as if she were going to cry, and LaRue tried to reassure her. "Tl be back next year, darling. And every year...." "Not if you get married," stated Connie gloomily. "Maybe your husband will like San Francisco so much he won't let you come." LaRue laughed. "Connie, you're priceless. First you want me to get married and have a baby so that you can tend it. Then you don't want me to marry, at all!" Connie looked at her dubiously. "Well," she said slowly, "I wouldn't mind, if you married someone | knew." "Td have to know him, too," said LaRue playfully. "I'd have to be in love with him." She scarcely caught Connie's tiny whisper. "I think you already are, Aunt LaRue!" But before she could speak, Connie said loudly: "Aunt LaRue, I don't gossip, now do 1?" LaRue didn't quite understand the question. But she praised the child. '"You've improved a very great deal, darling. I'm very glad." "Well," asked Connie, a lingering doubt in her tone, "do you think THE SILVER LEASH it would be awful if I told you some gossip?" 'Then, as LaRue began to shake her head, she added brightly, "Some gossip you'd like to hear?" LaRue wasn't quite sure. "I wouldn't want to hear it, Connie, if it was something that would hurt someone. 'That sort of gossip is cruel." "But it isn't cruel," cried Connie eagerly, bouncing up and down until her brown braids whirled. "It's something terribly nice. About Gladys and Dr. Alan." ARUE hid her face in the clothes closet so that Connie could not see how it glowed at the mention of Alan's name. But she came steadily out and met Connie's childish gaze, though her heart was chilled. She said definitely: "No, Connie, even if it's very, very nice, I can't let you tell me." She wanted to ask if Gladys and Alan had made up, if Grandie and Herb were going ahead on the plans for the house in Maple Park. But she pressed her lips tightly, still shaking her head. "'T can't go back on what I said, Connie. It's wrong to encourage gossip. Sometimes it's even cruel...." It would be cruel to listen to Connie's gossip about the future plans of Gladys and Alan. She didn't want to think about them. Connie got slowly down off the bed. "All right, Aunt LaRue." She walked slowly to the door. "'T still wish you didn't have to pack." 'To hide her tears, she rushed outside to play with Atlast. The hours dragged until time for the bus. Although Herb would have driven her to the station, LaRue insisted on calling for a cab. It would be much easier, saying goodby to the family at home. 523 She hid the hot tears on her lashes as she walked out to the cab. The driver who had brought her to the house a few weeks before, greeted her with a smile as he put her luggage into the back of the taxi. His face was now smooth-shaven, minus the beard he'd worn to the festival. He guided the cab skillfully along the almost completed highway, and LaRue saw that the huge machinery had moved miles into the distance. The gray artery into Fivelakes was wide and smooth. Like a ribbon tying my heart to those I love, she thought whimsically, and knew that the days would seem long and lonely until she returned for a visit. The old house on the knoll seemed to smile down on her as they passed it, and she saw the beginnings of its rejuvenation in fresh lumber and paint. She stared at the giant mountains, her mind photographing every peak so that memory could not dim them. She wondered that she had ever found them cold, forbidding. When the driver set her bags inside the station she looked around at the green-plastic covered counter, at the Hopi Indian dolls nudging neighboring Spanish senoritas for a place on the shelves. The man behind the counter was no longer frightening in his heavy dark beard. He was clean-shaven, and his white jacket was spotless. They chatted for a few minutes, and he told her that her bus was on time. She had only fifteen minutes to wait. He gave her a fresh glass of ice water, and she sipped it, watching the hands of the clock move slowly into place. (Continued on page 534) ANNUAL REPORT FOR 1958 SELECTED DATA Tue RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is a world-wide sisterhood. This was strongly evidenced as the annual reports for 1958 from the 4,321 Relief Societies in the 270 stakes and forty-six missions of the Church were compiled in the Church report. The societies are located in each of the fifty states in the United States, the District of Columbia, and in forty-seven other countries. Each of these organizations in the setting of its own geographic conditions is, through the basic program of Relief Society, accomplishing the purposes of the organization as set forth by the Prophet Joseph Smith in his instructions at early meetings and as later developed in the Society, i. E.: To manifest benevolence, irrespective of creed or nationality; to care for the poor, the sick, and the unfortunate; to minister where death reigns; to assist in correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of community life; to raise human life to its highest levels; to elevate and enlarge the scope of women's activities and conditions; to foster love for religion, education, culture, and refinement; to develop faith; to save souls; to study and teach the gospel (Relief Society Handbook, page 8). At the end of 1958, Relief Society had a total membership of 193553 sisters which was an increase of 10,117. Of this total membership, 158,583 are located in the stakes of the Church, and 34,970 in the missions. In both the stakes and the missions, a total of 126,381 sisters served as leaders or visiting teachers. One of the most important services given by Relief Society is that of visiting teaching, wherein the visiting teachers, in the spirit of sisterly solicitude, visit the homes, taking to the wives and mothers a spiritual message and observing instances of spiritual and physical need, illness, or distress that may exist within the home. During 1958, 3,349,802 such visits were made, which was an increase of 223,989 visits over 1957. These visits were made by 81,988 visiting teachers. In the spirit of compassion and service typical of this great organization, Relief Society sisters made 293,876 visits under the direction of ward Relief Society presidents to the sick and homebound, during 1958, to extend encouragement, spiritual uplift, and compassionate service where needed. The equivalent of 35,787 eight-hour days care of the sick was provided by Relief Society sisters. They also assisted at 8,737 funerals, and, in 783 instances, were called upon to help dress the dead for burial. As a resource to draw upon, 2,716 Relief Societies maintain a list of women living in the confines of their wards qualified to give registered or practical nursing services. Relief Societies, as a contribution to the Church Welfare Program, have given 477, 896 hours of service in such projects as the canning and processing of foods and the sewing of articles of clothing to be used in the Church Welfare Program. As a part of the educational as well as service aspect of the work meeting, Relief Society sisters, during 1958, completed 429,125 sewed articles, which repre- General Presidency of Relief Society Counselor Marianne C. Sharp President Belle S. Spafford Counselor Louise W. Madsen sented an increase of 70,243 sewed articles over 1957. These include clothing for men, women, and children, quilts, and household furnishings. Increasing numbers of Relief Society sisters throughout the world have attended the regular Relief Society meetings at which opportunity has been provided for participation and greater understanding of the subjects studied by the sisters — a course in theology dealing with the doctrines of the Church as revealed in The Doctrine and Covenants; discussions held at work meetings on home management; a course on American literature; and a social science course on the Latter-day Saint family. In some foreign missions, specially prepared courses of the literature of their respective countries have been substituted for the American literature course. Singing Mothers choruses in 2,564 wards and branches which, at times, have been combined into stake or district choruses, have provided musical training and cultural participation for 38,896 sisters. Through the program of Relief Society, this world-wide sisterhood has continued to serve unselfishly and to be the recipient of the blessings referred to by the Prophet Joseph Smith in his remarks at an early meeting of Relief Society in 1842, at which time he said "... And this Society shall rejoice, and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time henceforth.... As far as knowledge is concerned, it may extend to all the world." hho Fp fev General Secretary-Treasurer 1958 GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION OF RELIEF SOCIETY ORGANIZATIONS AND MEMBERS In Stakes In Missions Totals Location OrganiOrganiOrganizations Members zations Members zations Members UNITED STATES Alabama 5 252 15 252 Alaska 7 201 7 201 Arizona 140 7,894 10 142 150 8,036" Arkansas 7 100 7 100 California 370 24,411 38 1,130 408 25,541 Colorado 3] 1,486 19 423 50 1,909 Connecticut 5 116 5 116 Delaware, 3 63 3 63 District of Columbia 3 151] 3 15] Florida 26 857 27 548 53 1,405 Georgia 14 421 12 227 26 648 Hawaii 18 955 40 807 58 1,762 Idaho 343 21,921 4 60 347 21,981 Illinois 9 397 26 534 35 931 Indiana ] 38 24 615 25 653 lowa 16 263 16 263 Kansas 5 104 16 278 21 382 Kentucky 22 329 22 329 Louisiana 13 340 6 91 19 43] Maine 13 214 13 214 Maryland 6 289 1 30 7 319 Massachusetts 13 286 13 286 Michigan 9 349 5 122 14 47] Minnesota 16 400 16 400 Mississippi 9 144 1] 196 20 340 Missouri 10 399 \7 246 27 645 Montana 37 1,19] 29 556 66 1,747 Nebraska 14 265 14 265 Nevada 47 2,767 1 18 48 2,185 New Hampshire 5 103 5 103 New Jersey 3 152 6 131 9 283 New Mexico 29 1,222 27 386 56 1,608 New York 6 2716 21 475 27 751 North Carolina 2 43 39 880 4) 923 North Dakota 5 TI 5 TT Ohio ] 29 29 649 30 678 Oklahoma 26 465 26 465 Oregon 54 3,280 24 556 78 3,836 Pennsylvania 1 49 33 610 34 659 Rhode Island 2 24 2 24 South Carolina 13 503 10 164 23 667 South Dakota 10 144 10 144 Tennessee 16 329 16 329 Texas 50 1,541 48 724 98 2,265 Utah 1,046 76,977 1,046 76,977 Vermont 3 4] 3 4] Virginia 12 508 2 410 33 918 Washington 8] 3,768 10 180 9] 3,948 West Virginia 10 229 10 229 Wisconsin 4 132 1] 210 15 342 Wyoming 54 2,898 12 361 66 3,259 Total—United States 2447 155,492 785 15,660 ~—«3,232—~S—«*:'71,152 & 4 ye Loy L " Us x f va. RELIEF SOCIETIES REPORTED IN 1958 ANNUAL REPORT Location In Stakes In Missions Totals OrganiOrganiOrganiOTHER COUNTRIES zations Members zations Members zations Members Argentina 28 564 28 564 Australia 31 823 3] 823 Austria 6 201 6 201 Belgium 8 719 8 79 Bermuda 1 8 | 8 Brazil 26 346 26 346 Canada 57 2,658 79 1,719 136 4377 Chile 1 22 1 22 China 5 71 5 7 Cook Islands 1 2l ] 2) Costa Rica 3 2D 3 2 Denmark 20 445 20 445 E! Salvador 4 16 4 16 England TI 1,278 77 1,278 Fiji Islands 1 nl 1 in Finland 7 469 7 469 France 19 147 19 147 French Morocco ] 22 ] 22 Germany 182 5,316 182 5,316 Guam 1 ] J 7 Guatemala 14 234 14 234 Honduras 3 73 3 B Ireland 4 69 4 69 Italy 1 8 1 8 Japan 35 420 35 420 Korea 2 53 2 53 Libya 1 9 ] 9 Mexico 4 147 87 1,548 91 1,695 Netherlands 28 331 28 33] New Zealand 9 286 73 809 82 1,095 Nicaragua 1 17 ] 17 Norway 17 376 \7 376 Okinawa 3 28 3 28 Panama Canal Zone 2 30 2 30 Philippine Islands 2 14 2 14 Paraguay 2 20 2 20 Peru 3 24 3 24 Puerto Rico 1 6 1 6 Samoa 57 658 57 658 Scotland 6 85 6 85 Sweden 36 558 36 558 Switzerland 28 398 28 398 Tahiti 14 278 14 278 Tonga 41 754 4 754 Union of South Africa 19 264 19 264 Uruguay 23 534 23 534 Wales ) 52 5 52 Total—Other Countries 70 3,091 1,019 19,310 1,089 22,401 GRAND TOTALS 2,517 158,583 1,804 34,970 4,321 193,553 MEMBERSHIP IN MISSIONS IN STAKES TOTAL MEMBERSHIP 1957 1958 69,882 L. O. S. FAMILIES 66,857 L.0. S. FAMILIES 3,025 INCREASE 0 1 9RSR7, 1958 34,970 8S. MEMBERS 1,036 INCREASE 33,934 RS. MEMBERS ORGANIZATIONS 1958 1957 Stake and Mission Organizations (Total) 3 293 Stake 270 2 Missions 46 45 Ward and Branch Organizations ( Total) 4321 4,133 In Stokes 2517 2,37) In Misstons 1,804 1,762 LEADERSHIP 126,381 Relief Society Members served os leaders in the Societ ond 118117 in 1957, 1958 1957 Stake Officers 3,098 2,874 Mission Officers 852 779 Word and Branch Executive Officers 16,081 15,429 Other Officers 8,298 8,042 Inc rease 23 22 during 1958 Increase 224 73 652 256 Class Leaders 16,064 15055 as Visiting Teachers 81,988 SINGING MOTHERS 1958 957 Increase Ward and Branch Singing Mothers Choruses (Total) 2,64 2,393 166 In Stokes 1,939 1,781 158 In Missions 625 617 8 Approximote Number of Singers (Tctal) 38,895 35,923 2,973 In Stakes 32,458 29,582 2,906 In Missions 6,408 6,341 67 MAGAZINE 1958 1957 Increase Relief Society Magazine Subscriptions liStituTE BP-RELIGION >" 4602 SOUTH KES WOOD ROAD SALT LAKE CITY, UTAd 84102 ale SERVICES |.; 5 OF VISITING TEACHING 1958 1957 Increase Visiting Teachers 81,988 75,928 6,060 Visiting Teacher Districts 43 448 40 232 3,216 Family Visits (Total) 3,349,802 3,125,813 223,989 Home 2,238,136 2,092,706 145,430 Not Home 1,111,666 1,033,107 718,559 Per Cent at Home 66.81% 66.94% Communications in Lieu of Visits 66,740 60,056 6,684 8.65 average visits were made to each L. D. S. Family in 1958 8.49 average visits were made to each L. D. S. Family in 1957 COMPASSIONATE SERVICE 1958 1957 Increase Visits to Sick and Homebound 293,876 215,469 18 407 Days Care of the Sick 35,787 29,069 6,718 Bodies Dressed for Burial 783 816 -33 Funerals at Which Relief Society Assisted 8,/37 8,159 580 Wards and Branches Maintaining Lists of Nurses 2,116 2,459 257 In Stakes 1,927 1,864 63 In Missions 789 595 194 CHURCH WELFARE SERVICE Hours Contributed to Church Welfare Program by All Females Upon Assignment by Relief Society Family Visits Made Under Direction of Bishop Sisters Serviced Who Sewed for Themselves and Families Hours Contributed to Church Welfare Program by Sisters Serviced by Relief Society Under the Direction of the Bishop SEWING SERVICE AT MEETINGS Articles Completed (Total) Kinds of Articles: Quilts Children's Clothing Women's Clothing Men's Clothing Household Furnishings Other (Miscellaneous) Sewing Machines Owned by Societies (Total) In Stakes In Missions 1958 477,896 Piper 3304 116,302 429,125 21,630 41,717 59,963 3,565 151,660 150,590 4,093 3,563 530 1957 Increase 344 193 37,347 3,061 712,862 358,382 20,299 37,136 53,097 3.137 120,299 124,914 3,786 3318 468 133,713 20,032 333 43,440 ee ra MEETINGS —/ Be 4 WW TOTAL MEETINGS HELD Relief Society General Conference Stake Relief Society Conventions Stake and Mission Meetings (Total) Stake and Mission District Board Stake and Mission Leadership (Union) Ward and Branch Meetings (Total) Regular Meetings for Members Visiting Teachers Meetings Preparation Meetings March, November Fast Sunday and Other Special Meetings Annual Relief Society Conferences Officers Meetings Prior to Conferences *Cancelled 1958 Number 215,474 1 160 9,178 3,140 2,638 209,509 141,020 25,507 22,450 14,643 3,625 2,264 1957 Number Increase 207,422 8,052 + ] 129 3] 5,626 -48 3,165 -25 2,661 => 201,467 8,042 135,88] 5,139 23,983 1,524 21,922 528 14.116 527 3,426 199 2,139 125 AVERAGE ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS 1958 1957 Num- __ PerNum- _ PerInber cent ber cent crease Regular Meetings for Members (Total) 73,381 = 37.9 67,391 36.7 5,990 In Stakes 58,425 36.9 53,782 360 4,643 In Missions 14956 43.0 13,609 40.1 1,347 Theology 79,741 41.1 73,825 40.2 5,916 Work 72,404 374 66,332 36.1 6,072 Literature 69968 3611 64,488 35.1 5,480 Social Science 71,415 368 64912 35.3 6,503 Visiting Teacher Meetings 43291 528 3919 51.6 410] VISITS BY STAKE AND MISSION OFFICERS 1958 1957 Increase Visits to Wards and Branches (Total) 31,138 29,006 2,132 To Wards by Stake Officers 24,665 22,625 2,040 To Branches by Mission and District Officers 6,473 6,381 92 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL REPORT FOR STAKES AND MISSIONS Receipts and Disbursements Cash Balance on Hand, January 1, 1958 uo. Seesssecececesessscesesesseseseseeees$1 375,710.71 REET SE i, rice 2,409,841.97 $3,785,552.68 DisDUrSEMENtS..... Sscccesesesesesesesesesesesessecescseseessssesescacacacseseseseserensessecaeeeees$2,276,527.63 Cash Balance on Hand, December 31, 1958 ou. Eseessssssssssssessscssecceseeeeeeees 1,509,025.05 Assets — December 31, 1958 Cash Balance on Hand, December 3] o............ Sessscscesecesessesesesesesseseseeseees$1,509,025.05 Wheat Trust Fund Deposited at Presiding Bishops Office................+ Be? Ee? Other Invested Funds (Savings Bonds, etc.).... C. Ccesesessecesesesseeesesesseseees 71,299.07 Real Estate and Buildings 2.2.... Cesesecesecesececescessescessssecsesesesveseneeeceescecece 118,243.22 ii@talPASseteiiniscc2...... Ee eee hence$2,121,479.56 The Silver Leash (Continued from page 523) HERE once she had wanted to turn and seat herself in the "bus to go back from where she had come, now she wanted to run out of the station and fly along the highway to where a car was spinning swiftly along. Something about the car, as it caught the sunshine, made her heart tremble a little. Was that, oh, surely that wasn't a... Caduceus on the front! She hadn't — purposely — said goodby to Dr. Alan. She knew, now, that she had been very tude. He was coming to tell her so, coming to say goodby. LaRue wanted to run outside to meet him, but she forced herself to sit casually at the green counter, sipping her ice water. When he came _in, her heart pounded so hard that she worried lest he hear it. He did not speak, just took her arm and led her to one of the tiny tables far at the rear of the room. Then he leaned across the table and looked into her eyes. His voice came tenderly. "Darling, why are you going -away? Don't you know you belong here in Fivelakes?" Her pulses hammered at the word darling, but she managed to find her voice, to say quietly, "Everything I came to do is finished, Alan. I'm going back. Oh, perhaps not forever. But for awhile. I really do not belong in Fivelakes." He took her hand, his surgeon's fingers firm and tense. His voice was insistent. "Is there somebody back there in San Francisco?" She knew what he meant, and shook her head. Her lips formed the faint word, "Gladys?" A smile flashed about his mouth, making it soft, gentle. "Didn't Connie tell you? Gladys gave me back my ring. She and Earl are getting married." Happiness she could not hide broke over LaRue's features. Her smile was tremulous. "Connie tried to tell me, Alan, but I wouldn't let her." She lifted. Her clear, gray-blue eyes to his face. "T hope you are not too badly hurt." He shook his dark head, and his eyes were honest. "I guess I knew almost from the beginning that Gladys and I didn't really click. But when Grandie tried to tell me, I wouldn't listen. He tried to make me see that she wouldn't make a doctor's wife." LaRue understood. Her lips quirked. "Nasty medicine," she said, and then had to explain the things that Grandie had said. They sat there, smiling into each other's eyes, and were entirely unconscious of the huge bus which waited outside the windows. The man at the counter grinned and put up his hand when they would have loaded LaRue's bags. He could see by their enchanted faces that any other bus — or no other bus at all — would do. The bus driver smiled, too, and the bus chugged off into the distance. LARUE had so many things to talk about. First she had to explain that she'd been frightened, "But," she confessed happily, Pm not afraid of things, now. I love it here in Fivelakes." Alan smiled as he lifted her tenderly to her feet. "You're going to stay in Fivelakes," he assured her gravely. "But this isn't the place 534 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1959 THE SILVER LEASH for a proposal. First of all, I'm taking you back to the Vetterly's. I think they all know just what I have in mind." He helped her into the car, got in beside her, and together they swept along the highway and into the town. The sun was blinding, but it did not make LaRue's head ache. It draped her with a golden canopy as she listened to Alan's eager words, as he Ict her out where all the family was waiting with happy faces and moist eyes. "T have something to say to you," he promised. "Something — that can't wait. I'll be here this evening to take you for a ride." He leaned down, kissed her shamelessly in front of all of them. He whispered, "Be sure and wear that yellow frock. I remember a small, yellow angel standing beside a woman's bed, helping bring a new life to Fivelakes. You can't escape, darling. You belong here beside me." LaRue's eyes held stars as she promised to wear the yellow dress, 535 promised to listen to what Alan had to say. He was tall and proud and very sure of himself as he marched to his car. It was the same sureness that Amelia had known and LaRue loved him for it. When his car had disappeared, LaRue put her arm about Erma's shoulder and they went into LaRue's bedroom. Happily, she put the tiny amber bottle into Erma's hands. "T do not need it, now," she said breathlessly, and knew that Erma understood. She watched her carry the tiny glass symbol of her mothers enduring love into her own room and her eyes were misty with happiness. Alan had said that she was part of Fivelakes, that her roots went deep. She would always love the town and the people in it. It meant Alan. LaRue had come to know that the words Amelia had said were true. Love is everlasting.... > Weic Strange {Reward Ida Elaine James Where we conspired together here I work alone, Remembering your wishes, dear, How you were prone To salvage questionable weeds: "Perhaps next year Some strange reward from magic seeds!" A falling tear Now damps this dark and stony spot When I think how You gardened life's haphazard plot, And then, as now, Your valor led me, lighting hours Whose barren yield Would spoil a lesser faith in flowers In life's hard field. Hulda Parker, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and. In the Relief Society Handbook of Instructions, RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Jeanette F. Naegle NORTH IDAHO FALLS STAKE (IDAHO) VISITING TEACHERS HONORED AT CONVENTION, March 27, 1959 Visiting teachers who have served fifty years or more, seated, left to right: Nellie Gardner and Lydia Walker. Back row, standing, left to right: Mable Fillmore; Edith Southwick; Eliza Mae White; Lydia 'Thucson. Esther Hammer, who has also served more than fifty years, was not present when the picture was taken. Jeanette I". Naegle, President, North Idaho Valls Stake Relicf Society, reports: "We presented 'A Light Shining' in our stake March 27, 1959. It was such an impressive program that T am sure the visiting teachers won't forget its wonderful message. Two hundred and fifty attended. Special recognition was given to forty-one visiting teachers who had served thirty years or more. 'They were each given an attractive emblem to pin on their dresses, showing the number of years of service. The women who had served more than forty-five years were given potted blooming geranium plants, along with the emblem." Page 536 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 537 Photograph submitted by LaVerda O. Lloyd MT. JORDAN STAKE (UTAIT) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, April 12, 1959 LaVerda O. Lloyd, President. Mt. Jordan Stake Relief Socicty, reports: 'This chorus sang at both sessions of stake conference upon special assignment by the stake music committec, the occasion being the division of our stake. The chorus consists of 150 voices. Gertrude Keeler is chorister, and Regena Roden is the accompanist." Sister Lloyd's counsclors in the stake Relief Socicty presidency were Wanda L. Gull and Jane F. Cartwnght. On April 12, 1959, when Mt. Jordan Stake was divided, Sister Lloyd remained as Relief Society 'president in Mt. Jordan Stake, and her counselor, Sister Gull, was appointed Relief Society President in the new Sandy Stake. Patera oties submitied by Geraldine H. Bangerter BRAZILIAN MISSION, JOINVILLE BRANCH, FIRST RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENCY IN THE BRAZILIAN MISSION, APPOINTED IN 1933 Photograph taken March 1959 Left to right: President Toni Barsch; Second Counselor Margareta Buchli; First Counselor Martha Otto. Geraldine H. Bangerter, President, Brazilian Mission Relief Society, reports: "These women are still together in Relicf Society service after twenty-five years, although at present they are not serving in the branch presidency. They are witnesses to the program and growth of the Relief Society in the Brazilian Mission." 538 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—-AUGUST 1959 Photograph submitted by Alta Fuhriman NAMPA STAKE (IDAHO) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR SPECIAL LITERATURE PROGRAM, February 27, 1959 Front row, left to mght: Evelyn Clark as Anne Bradstreet; Charlotte Taylor as Sarah Kemble Knight; psalm singers: May Drake, Nola Allen, Patty Hill, Yvonne Simpson, Vilate Adams, Leva Newland, Lynn Norton, LaVerda Young; Agnes Frank, stake organist. Second row, at the left: Gladys Egbert, narrator; Lucille Wilson, stake chorister. Alta Fuhriman, President, Nampa Stake Relief Society, reports: "The presentation was a drama of carly American literature and song, under the direction of our stake literature leader Gayle Hales." Photograph submitted by Norma Winn EAST JORDAN STAKE (UTAH) RELIEF SOCIETY SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR' STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, April 19, 1959 The chorister, LaRue Jeppson, stands eighth from the left in the front row; the organist, Nicoma Davis, stands seventh from the left in the front row. Norma Winn, President, East Jordan Stake Relief Society, reports: "This group of sisters devote a good deal of time and effort in preparing musical numbers for the entertainment of our stake as a whole. They have just finished the assignment of providing music for the quarterly conference, at which time the picture was taken." NOTES FROM THE FIELD 539 CANYON RIM STAKE (SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH), CANYON RIM SECOND WARD ANNIVERSARY LUNCHEON, March 18, 1959 Left to right, front row: second from the left, Merna Glade, First Counselor, Canyon Rim Stake Relief Society; Myrtle Rappleye, President, Canyon Rim Stake Relief Socicty; Mary Wright, guest speaker; Wilma Merrell, Second Counselor, Canyon Rim Stake Relief Society. Ruby Thomas, President, Canyon Rim Second Ward Relief Socicty, is seated in the right foreground (wearing dark dress with pin on the shoulder); next to Sister Thomas, at the right, facing towards the table, is Hazel Jackson, First Counselor, Canyon Rim Second Ward Relief Society; next to Sister Jackson, at her right, wearing glasses, is Bonnie Landvatter, Second Counselor, Canyon Rim Second Ward Relicf Society. Photograph submitted by Virginia C. Newbold GRANT STAKE (SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, April 12, 1959 Front row, left to right, beginning fifth from the left: Reida Crook, chorister; Maude Magelbv, accompanist; Ethel Bergeson, First Counselor; Virginia Newbold, President; Rhea Simmons, Secretary-Treasurer; Marie Bradshaw, Second Counselor. Sister Newbold reports: "This Singing Mothers chorus has a membership of 176 and an average attendance of 150 at each performance. The following sclections were presented: "Calvary, 'He That Hath Clean Hands, 'Oh, How Lovely Are Thy Messengers,' and 'Oh, Lovely Land, America.' " 540 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1959 Photograph submitted by Marian Mathewson NYSSA STAKE (OREGON) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, May 24, 1959 Front row, scated, left to right: Mildred Wettstein, choristcr; Jane Jacobs, organist; Luraine Lee and Martha 'Taggart, Counsclors; Marian Mathewson, President. Photograph submitted by Louise B. Johansen NORTH SANPETE STAKF (UTAIT) VISITING TEACHERS HONORED AT CONVENTION, February 28, 1959 Front row, scated, left to right: Incz Rosenlof, who has a 100% visiting teaching record for ten years; Annie Brotherson, for fifteen vears; Pauline Secley, for thirty years; Mina Sorensen, for twelve years, al] of Mount Pleasant. Back row, standing, left to right: Isa Aldrich, for fifteen years; 'Tressa Anderson, for ten years; Verla Marx, for thirteen years, all of Mount Pleasant. Clara Beck, Spring City, for sixteen years; Bertha Christensen, Iairview, for twenty years; Marcella Graham, Fairview, for twelve years. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 541 The following visiting teachers, who have also had 100° records for many vears, were not present when the picture was taken: Laura Madsen, fcr twenty-five ycars; Carrie Jensen, for twenty years; Marie Johansen, for twenty years; Sybil Hanscn, for twenty years; Pearl Rosenlof, for ten years, all of Mount Pleasant; Maud Howell, for twenty years; Lillian Hansen, for ten years, both of Fairview; Mamie Allred, for fourteen ycars; Pearl Davis, for thirty-eight years, both of Spring City. Louise B. Johansen, President, North Sanpete Stake Rclicf Society, reports: "A dramatic presentation on visiting teaching entitled 'A Light Shining' was portraycd. The stake Singing Mothers furnished the music. Emma Lvans, stake visiting teacher leader, and President Louise B. Johansen were co-chairmen for the convention. Dainty rcfreshments were served at a beautifully decorated serving table." Photograph submitted by Olive L. Smith EASTERN STATES MISSION, MISSIONAWIDE DISTRICT RELIEF SOCIETY CONVENTION, April 18-19, 1959 Front row, left to right: Doris T. Stonely, Mission Relicf Socicty Secretary; Lola B. West, First Counselor; Verna C. Harris, Second Counselor; Florence S. Jacobsen, retiring president, Eastern States Mission Relief Society; Olive L. Smith, newly appointed President; plus other mission Relief Socicty officers: Addie M. Murdock, HIclen J. Barton, Anne Young, Mildred Hunter, Mary Pcterson, Eleanor Ross, Mary 12. Rathfon, Margaret G. Stoner, Geraldine Pratt, June J. Sicbach, Mary Porter, Rachel II. Gowans, Esther S. Mortenson, Anna M. Daines, Louise Darke, Winnifred Gray, 'Vessa M. Udy, Gertrude C. Sieferth, Emily Brunca, Harriet Jansen, Violct Iarter, Eleanor Christensen, Letti Reeder, Retta Mahalko, Zeta Smith, Bernice Hutchings, Helen Watch, Margaret Crego, LaReta Evans. Sister Smith reports: 'The two-day Rclicf Society mcctings were held in conncetion with a Mission-wide District Auxiliary Convention conducted by the Eastern States Mission Board officers. The ten mission district Relief Society presidencies were well represented with thirty-four district officcrs in attendance out of a_ possible thirty-six appointments. The table pictured holds the outstanding bazaar item for cach district brought to the convention by the district Relief Society presidents from among the branches in the mission. The district Priesthood spent two hours in the Relief Society meetings hearing of the Relief Society accomplishments, problems, solutions, and goals of the mission. The theme of the convention 'Wherefore, labour ye in my vineyard... Was very well carried out during the entire convention in cach department in programs, name tags, posters, and skits. Between sessions, a lovcly smorgasbord dinner was prepared and served to those present by the mission board officers. Those attending had an opportunity to meet personally and hear speak the new Eastern States Mission President, Gerald G. Smith, and his wifc, Sister Olive Lunt Smith." 542 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1959 Photograph submitted by Ruth J. Harrison ROSE PARK STAKE (SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH) DIRECTORS AND COMMENTATORS FOR FASHION SHOW, April 30, 1959 Front row, seated, left to right: Ellen Murphy, Rose Park Seventh Ward; Terra Lee Christensen, Rose Park First Ward; Donna Snow, Rose Park Fifth Ward. Back row, standing, left to nght: Blanche Geis, Rose Park Second Ward; Beth Dalebout and Helen White, Rose Park Third Ward; Barbara Lefler, Rose Park Eighth Ward; Marilyn Erickson, Rose Park Second Ward. Ruth J. Harrison, President, Rose Park Stake Relief Socicty, reports: ""The cost of cach article modeled was given, and each ward prepared its own unit of the show. Some 350 persons attended, and each was given a tnread and needle corsage fashioned into a yellow daffodil. The heart of the daffodil read: "The Price Is Right' and the petals read, 'As ye sew, so shall ye reap.' Director of the show was Work Director Counselor Ruth G. Murphy. Celia Bartholomew assisted. There were 113 persons modeling, in addition to the twelve stake board members who afforded comic relicf by appearing in fashions representative of their suppressed desires. Many family groups participated, including daddies and small children." ' Challenge Vesta N. Lukei A complete serenity in solitude Requires but little skill, But kept throughout each day's demands Such peace needs strength of mind and will. ——— "a ne = LESSON DEPARTMENT A Sheology—The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 18—"... Thou Shalt Not Command Him Who Is at Thy Head...." (D & C 28:6) Elder Roy W. Doxey (Text: The Doctrine and Covenants, Section 28; 43:1-7; 27:5-18) For Tuesday, November 3, 1959 Objective: To show how a Latter-day Saint may judge whether or not a person who professes a revelation for the Church represents the Lord. T is important that every member of 'The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints understands the principles set forth in Sections 28 and 43. 'These revelations make known an important aspect of revelation. 'The dispensation in which we live is a period during which Jesus said that many ways would be used to "... Deceive the very elect, who are the elect according to the covenant" (Pearl of Great Price, Joseph Smith 1:22). If there are any people on the earth whom Satan is desirous of deceiving, it is those who have become members of the kingdom of God. It is our opportunity to learn in this lesson how the Lord's covenant people may be able to detect false revelators. Hiram Page and Section 28 Hiram Page, a member of the Church, had in his possession a stone which he claimed aided him in receiving revelation about certain things, among which was the upbuilding of Zion. Prior to an appointed conference of the Church for September 1830, the Prophet Joseph decided that it was necessary to ask the Lord concerning the purported revelations of Hiram Page. It seems that the Whitmer family and Oliver Cowdery were believing much of what Brother Page was claiming as revelation. If we keep in mind these facts, we will understand why the Lord declares, in verse 11 of Section 28, that Oliver Cowdery is to take "... Hiram Page, between him and thee alone, and tell him that those things which he hath written from that stone are not of me and that Satan deceiveth him" (D & C 28:11). Why should wor Hiram Page Page 543: 544 receive revelation for the Church? The verse which follows (verse 12) informs us that it was not his privilege because he had not been appointed, "... Neither shall anything be appointed unto any of this church contrary to the church covenants" (D & C 28:12). In verse 13, the further fact is made known that all things must be done in order. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, or the kingdom of God, is the perfect organization, for it is the divine way in which mankind may work out its salvation, the most important work which should have man's attention in this life. The Lord's Mouthpiece During the meeting at which the Church was organized, a revelation was received setting forth an important truth relative to Joseph Smith as the leader of the Church and how that organization might prosper: Wherefore, meaning the church, thou shalt give heed unto all his words and commandments which he shall give unto vou as he receiveth them, walking in all lioliness before me; For his word ye shall receive, as if from mine own mouth, in all patience and faith. For by doing these things the gates of hell shall not prevail against you; yea, and the Lord God will disperse the powers of darkness from before you, and cause the heavens to shake for your good, and his name's glory (D & C 21:4-6). It is apparent in these scriptures that the Lord wanted the Church, in the very beginning, to understand that the Prophet was the mouthpiece of the Lord and that by obedience to that leadership the Church would prosper. Darkness would not prevail. With this truth RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1959 known, those who have become the truly faithful covenanted of the Lord will exercise patience and faith in following the counsel of the Lord's anointed. Once Revelator for the Church If the prophet, seer, and revelator of the Church is the mouthpiece of the Lord, then who else may speak for the Lord's Church? In Section 28, Oliver Cowdery, although sustained as the second elder of the Church, was told that he should be heard by the Church in whatsoever he should teach by the Comforter concerning the revelations and commandments which had already been given. (See verse 1.) But, behold, verily, verily, I say unto thee, no one shall be appointed to receive commandments and revelations in this church excepting my _ servant Joseph Smith, Jun., for he receiveth them even as Moses (D & C 28:2). This fact — no one but the Prophet is to receive revelation for the Church — is emphasized further by the Lord by informing Oliver that: And if thou art led at any time by the Comforter to speak or teach, or at all times by the way of commandment unto the church, thou mayest do it. But thou shalt not write by way of commandment, but by wisdom; And thou shalt not command him who is at thy head, and at the head of the church; For I have given him the keys of the mysteries, and the revelations which are sealed, until I shall appoint unto them another in his stead (D & C 28:4-7). Background of Section 43 There was another occasion when it was necessary for the Lord to LESSON DEPARTMENT make known further information about this principle of revelation for the Church. It came about by these circumstances — a woman, by the name of Hubble, "... Came making great pretensions of revealing commandments, laws and_ other curious matters... ( D. H. C. I:154). Here, again, we learn that the adversary was secking to disturb the minds of the saints. Joseph Smith to Receive Revelation In this revelation (Section 43), the Lord again states that Joseph Smith was "... Appointed unto you to receive commandments and revelations... (D & C 43:2). And this ye shall know assuredly — that there is none other appointed unto you to reccive commandments and revclations until he be taken, if he abide in me (D & C 43:3). In other words, as long as the Prophet remained faithful, he was recognized as the Lord's mouthpiece. But this was not all. 'There is an unusual thought expressed in the next verse which definitely clarifies and strengthens the principle of who is to reccive revelation for the Church. It is stated in this way: But verily, verily, I say unto you, that none else shall be appointed unto this gift except it be through him; for if it be taken from him he shall not have power except to appoint another in his stead (D & C 43:4). Does this scripture mean that if Joseph Smith were to become unfaithful to his high calling and thus lose the privilege to act as the Lord's prophet, he could still "appoint another in his stead?" The answer is yes. 245 The revelation continues in reminding the saints that these truths are being given in order that "... You may not be deccived.... And this shall be the law unto you, that ye receive not the teachings of any that shall come before you as revelations or commandments... That you may know they are not of me" (D&C 43:6, 5). In other words, only one may receive revelation for the Church, and that is the prophet, secr, and revelator — in this case, Joseph Smith. At this particular time during the life of Joseph Smith, provision was made for the continuation of the keys of the Priesthood on the earth by the process just mentioned. This provision does not operate today in the Church, for the Lord provided another way when the Quorum of the 'I'welve Apostles was organized in 1835. Joseph Smith and the Keys of the Priesthood In order that we may not misunderstand, it is important that we know that two years later the Lord declared to the Prophet Joseph Smith: Verily I say unto you, the keys of this kingdom shall never be taken from you, while thou art in the world, neither in the world to come; Nevertheless, through you oracles be given to another, yea, unto the church (D & C go:3-4). Shall the even The fact made known here concerning the faithfulness of Joseph Smith as the Prophet of this dispensation was foreknown by Joseph, the son of Jacob (Israel), and also to Lehi as recorded in The Book of Mormon. (See 2 Nephi 3:3-15, especially verses 6-8.) 546 The explanation of the quotation from Section go is best expressed in the following words: In a revelation given in February 1831, the Lord declared that Joseph Smith was the only one appointed to receive revelation and commandments for the Church "until he be taken, if he abide in me," but should the Prophet fail this gift would be taken from him and given to another. (D & C 43:3-4.) Now in March 1833, after the Prophet had been tried and proved, the Lord said that the keys, through which direction, commandment and revelation come, "'shall never be taken from you, while thou art in the world, neither in the world to come.'"' Yet when the Prophet should be taken the ''oracles" would be given to another, "even to the Church." Therefore after the martyrdom the keys remained and were in possession of the Church and exercised through the presiding council, which at that time was the council of the Twelve Apostles, and in the Church the oracles are found and will continue unto the end of time (Doctrine and Covenants Commientary, Revised Edition, page 577). Keys of the Priesthood to Be Continued In what way has the Lord provided for the continuation of the keys of Priesthood bestowed by angelic personages, as Peter, James, and John; Moses, Elijah, and others? By ordination the 'Twelve have all the authority that was given to the Prophet Joseph Smith. Every key and every authority given to him are conferred upon each new apostle as he is ordained, but he does not use all of those powers and authority asa member of the Twelve. The authority is inherent in him sometime to become President of the Church.'* The only man on the earth who can exercise all of these keys and powers at once is the President of the Church. Consequently, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1959 when a President of the Church dies, the apostles, having already received the keys and authority conferred upon Joseph Smith, set apart 'the newly appointed President of the Church, empowering him to exercise all of those keys and powers as President of the Church. Summary — One Revelator; In the revelations studied in this lesson we have learned that there are certain ways by which the members of the Church may know the person to receive revelation for the Church. Attempts have been made by some to deceive the Latter-day Saints into believing that a revelation has been given to another per- 'son than the President of the Church for the benefit of the entire Church membership. The two revelations studied in this lesson set forth the three standards by which a Latter-day Saint may judge any person claiming revelation for the Church. 1. He must -be called by revelation through the proper authority or Priesthood of God. (See D & C 28:2-6; 43:2.) 2. He must be approved by the membership of the Church as the President of the Church. (See D & C 28:12-13; 43:7.) 3. He must be set apart by those who possess the authority. (See D & C 28:7; 43:7.) These criteria or standards also apply in the appointment of any officer in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. An example of this is given in the revelation appointing Edward Partridge as the first bishop unto the Church. (See D & C 41:9.): In the event that someone either in the Church or from the outside, LESSON DEPARTMENT as some have done, were to present a revelation to a member of this Church as coming from God for the instruction of the Church, the member would immediately be able to apply these three standards to the person claiming the revelation. No person in the kingdom of God should be deceived, for the Lord has spoken plainly on this matter in these two revelations as well as in other ways. It should ever be remembered that God's house is a house of order, and this is one way by which the Lord maintains the necessary orderly procedure. (See D & C 132:7-8.) With this information before us, it is pertinent to keep in mind the truth spoken by President Joseph F. Smith concerning the foregoing points and also the limitations put upon individual members of the Church in receiving revelation for their own guidance. It is not the business of any individual to rise up as a revelator, as a prophet, as a seer, as an inspired man, to give revelation for the guidance of the Church, or to assume to dictate to the presiding authorities of the Church in any part of the world, much less in the midst of Zion, where the organizations of the priesthood are about perfect, where everything is complete, even to the organization of a branch, It is the right of individuals to be inspired and to receive manifestations of the Holy Spirit for their personal guidance to strengthen their faith, and to encourage them in works of righteousness, in being faithful and observing and keeping the commandments which God has given unto them; it is the privilege of every man and woman to receive revelation to this end, but not further.... And thus his priesthood will ever be found to be composed of the right men for the place, of men whose backs will be fitted for the burden, men through whom he can work and regulate the affairs of his Church according to. The counsels. 547 of his own will. And the moment that individuals look to any other source, that moment they throw themselves open to the seductive influences of Satan, and render themselves liable to become servants of the devil; they lose sight of the true order through which the blessings of the Priesthood are to be enjoyed; they step outside of the pale of the kingdom of God, and are on dangerous ground. Whenever you see a man rise up claiming to have received direct revelation from the Lord to the Church, independent of the order and channel of the priesthood, you may set him down as an impostor (Gospel Doctrine, Sixth Edition, pp. 41-42). Historical Setting of Section 27 Reference may be made to Lesson 15 on the sacrament for historical background material on Doctrine and Covenants, Section 27 (Relief Society Magazine, February 1958). In that lesson only the first four verses of this revelation were considered. 'The revelation was given to the Prophet Joseph Smith by an angel. 'The Prophet said concerning this revelation, "... The first four paragraphs of which were written at this time [August 1830], and the remainder in the September following" (D. H. C. 1:106). Other Dispensations and the Fulness of Times The Prophet is told in the following verses from The Doctrine and Covenants, Section 27, of the time when he and others will dine with our Lord on our earth. In this message we should notice its relationship to the great events of the past and of the present dispensation, especially the source from whence Joseph Smith received authority and information. Behold, this is wisdom in me; wherefore; marvel not, for the hour cometh that 548 I will drink of the fruit of the vine with you on the carth, and with Moroni, whom I have sent unto you to reveal the Book of Mormon, containing the fulness of my everlasting gospel, to whom I have committed the keys of the record of the stick of Ephraim; And also with Elias, to whom I have committed the keys of bringing to pass the restoration of all things spoken by the mouth of all the holy prophets since the world began, concerning the last days; And also John the son of Zacharias, which Zacharias he (Elias) visited and gave promise that he should have a son, and his name should be John, and he should be filled with the spirit of Elias; Which John I have sent unto you, my servants, Joseph Smith, Jun., and Oliver Cowdery, to ordain you unto the first priesthood which you have received, that you might be called and ordained even as Aaron; And also Elijah, unto whom I have committed the keys of the power of turning the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the hearts of the children to the fathers, that the whole earth may not be smitten with a curse; And also with Joseph and Jacob, and Isaac, and Abraham, your fathers, by whom the promises remain; And also with Michael, or Adam, the father of all, the prince of all, the ancient of days; And also with Peter, and James, and John, whom I have scnt unto you, by whom I have ordained you and confirmed you to be apostles, and especial witnesses of my name, and bear the keys of your ministry and of the same things which I revealed unto them; Unto whom I have committed the keys of my kingdom, and a dispensation of the gospel for the last times; and for the fulness of times, in the which I will gather together in one all things, both which are in heaven, and which are on earth (D & C 27:5-13). This account gives, among other things, a resume of the way by which Joseph Smith was called and _received his ordination to the Priesthood as indicated in our lesson. 'The apostle Paul referred to the greatRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1959 ness of this dispensation when he prophesied that the Lord:.. Hath purposed in himself: That in the dispensation of the fulness of times he might gather together in one all things in Christ, both which are in heaven, and which are on earth; even in him (Ephesians 1:9-10). Blessings Await You Would you like to receive the great blessing of being with the Savior and of meeting and conversing with the great persons of the past and the prophets of our own dispensation who have also made their contribution to the advancement of the Lord's work? The possibility of your being in this great assemblage is suggested in Doctrine and Covenants, Section 27, verse 14: And also with all those whom my Father hath given me out of the world. This is a wonderful promise given to the saints of the latter days. But how shall this great blessing come to us? The remainder of the revelation gives the answer. It is necessary to take upon you my whole armor, that ye may be able to withstand the evil day, having done all, that ye may be able to stand (D & C 27:15). In taking upon oneself the full armor of the Lord is meant to be armored with "truth," "righteousness," "faith," the "Spirit," and then we shall have "peace" and eventual "salvation." Questions for Discussion 1. Discuss: One should not command him who is at the head of the Church. LESSON DEPARTMENT 2. Give the three standards by which a member of the Church may dctect the decciver. 3. What relationship is there between the objective of this lesson and Section 27:5-18? 4. Identify each personage mentioned 549 in Section 27:5-13 and indicate what service, if any he has performed in our dispensation. 5. How do verses 15-18 of Section 27 indicate the way by which we may have the blessing mentioned in verse 14 of that revelation? Visiting Seacher ITlessages— Truths to Live By From The Doctrine and Covenants Message 18—"And Again | Say Unto You, Let Every Man Esteem His Brother as Himself" (D & C 38:25). Christine H. Robinson 16, lov c For Tuesday, November 3, 1959 Objective: To understand the true meaning of brotherhood. Young girl was carrying a heavy load in a basket on her back. Someone who met her along the way inquired if the load was heavy, and if she needed help. As the young girl lowered the basket she answered with a smile, "No, it's not heavy, see inside, it's my brother." Most of our troubles and burdens in this life would disappear, if we could learn the fundamental gospel truth that our neighbors and all mankind really are our brothers, and if we could follow the Savior's admonition to love our brothers as ourselves. The difficulties, differences, and strife that, all too often, arise in families, between neighbors, and among the nations of the world, develop because of our failure to recognize and accept the principle of brotherhood. The central theme of the Savior's message is the concept of brotherhood. He knew that if we would but love one another, even as our Father in heaven loves us, that peace and good will would flourish throughout the world. Paul, in his letter to the Galatians, expressed this thought when he said, '... By love serve one another. For all the law is fulfilled in one word, even in this; Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself" (Gal. 5:13-14). The concept of brotherhood is a basic gospel ideal. We believe that all men upon the earth are the literal children of our Father in heaven, and, as such, we are all brothers and sisters. If we could all attain and hold this concept and could learn to love one another, our serious problems would disappear and we would learn the true meaning of the Savior's statement, '. Inasmuch as ye have donc it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me" (Mt. 25:40). Our Lord, in The Doctrine and Covenants' message (D & C 38:25), exhorts us to esteem our brothers. One who esteems another under- 550 stands and respects him and holds him in high regard. 'The foundation of esteem and respect is understanding. It is an interesting fact that we are often suspicious and fearful of those we do not know. Acquaintanceship and understanding, however, can bring a knowledge and an appreciation of the virtues and good qualities they possess. The story is told of two Arab boys who saw an object moving toward them over the horizon. Fearfully one said to the other, "It is a beast. Come, let us hide in this cave." As the object drew closer, one of the boys exclaimed, "It ls not a beast, it's a man and our enemy, Ict us be prepared to fight." When the man drew close enough to be recognized, the boys both exclaimed joyfully, "He is not our enemy, he is our brother!" If we would try diligently really to gct acquainted with those we misunderstand or dislike, we would undoubtedly find that they possess many qualities which we could learn to esteem and respect. Jesus admonished us to love our enemies. Although this is extremely difficult to do, it brings satisfying rewards. Fulton Oursler once said: To love an enemy is a kind of exquisite common sense. Far from being naive or foolish, it is the height of: enlightened RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1959 selfishness, whose wisdom, nourishes the well-being of body, mind, and _ spirit ("Words to Live By," This Week Magazine, February 26, 1950. Used by permission from the author and from This Week Magazine). The spirit of the practice of brotherhood should begin in the home. If we make a conscientious effort to understand each other in the home and practice little acts of courtesy and kindness, we will set patterns which will reach out to our neighbors and to our brothers and sisters throughout the world. Paul, in his letter to the Ephesians, instructed his brethren,. Be ye kind one to another, tenderhcarted, forgiving one another, even as God for Christ's sake hath forgiven you (Eph. 4:32). This, we should practice in our family relationships. Our responsibility to esteem each other as brothers is effectively expressed and summarized in this verse which has been set to music: No man is an island, no man stands alone. Each man's joy is joy to me, each man's grief is my own. We need one another so I will defend Each man as my brother, cach man as my friend. —Joan Whitney and Alex Kramer (Copynght 1950 by Bourne, Inc., 136 West 52nd Strect, New York, N. Y. 'Used by permission of the writers and the copynight proprietor.) Staff for the Aged Mabel Law Atkinson Love is The staff on which The aged lean to walk The quiet, 'silver-shadowed path To night. Work IT leeting—Physical Safety Factors in the Home (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Discussion 2—Electricity Charlotte A. Larsen For Tuesday, November 10, 1959 Objective: To show that electricity is a wonderful convenience when it is kept under control, but when used carelessly, it can be a most potent enemy. VERYONE should lIcarn the basic safety electrical rules and then be diligent in carrying out certain precautions. Electricity has become such a commonplace thing in Our times, most people flick the switch and take the results for granted. The lights go on, the washer washes, and the thermostat triggers the heating unit. We get into the habit of thinking of power on the basis of the individual functions it accomplishes, and forget to evaluate its overall effect. Understand the Electric Power in Your Home The clectric system works on the same principles as your water system. Volts, amperes, and watts are units of electrical measure, just as quarts, pounds, and yards are also units of measure. A volt represents electrical pressure. For instance, the flow of electric current in a wire is just about the same as the flow of water through a pipe.' Pressure induces flow in both instances. An ampere is the quantity of clectric current that can flow through your wires. Small wires restrict the flow of electricity, just as small pipes restrict the flow of water. A watt is the unit of power needed to do the work electrically, and we are perhaps most familiar with this term because it is indicated on all the electrical appliances that we use. Has Your House Outgrown Its Wires? Many times we overlook the possibility that the wiring in our homes may be in need of repair or it is not up-to-date, not capable of carrying the load our modern homes require. Suppose one's home is fifteen years old. When it was built it was wired to take care of the simple appliances such as irons, toasters, and waffleirons. 'The installation of larger appliances, using the same. Outlets, dangerously overloads the wiring system. One out of eight fires in the homes is the result of misuse of electricity. When too many appliances are operated at. The same time on an undersized wire, the wire becomes overloaded and _ heated. The insulation on the wires may wear through, allowing live wires to come into contact with each other. This results in a "short circuit" and, possibly, a serious fire. The risk of fire is increased. By owners of inadequately wired: homes who make a practice of using oversized fuses which allow wires to become seriousPage 551 552 ly overloaded before the fuse blows out and stops the current. Other home owners go so far as to eliminate fuse protection entirely by placing pennies behind blown-out fuses, or by using picces of tin foil. Symptoms of Inadequate Home Wiring 1. Lights flickermg and dimming when appliances are turned on. 2. Appliances operating slowly or not as well as they should. Heat appliances, such as toasters, irons, room heaters warming up too slowly. 3. Fuses blowing or circuit-breakers tripping frequently. 4. Radios fading or sounding scratchy when an appliance is turned on. 5- T'V_ picture shrinking in size or "wincing" «when other appliances go into action. 6. Too few outlets and switches where necded. 7. Multiple "octopus" connections used for several appliances at once. 8. Long cords strung around rooms in order to connect lamps or appliances. G. Frequent overheating of motors. Underwriters Laboratories This is the principal "safety organization" in the country, organized to establish safety standards for materials and for inspection at the factory level. Every man and woman should be familiar with "UL" and demand electrical materials and appliances bearing its label of approval for their protection. Precautions in Use of Household Electricity 1. Keep water away from electrical outlets. 2. Make certain hands are dry before connecting or operating any electrical appliance; also make certain that appliance is standing on dry surface. 3. Never use any type of electrical appliance while in the bathtub, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—-AUGUST 1959 4. Keep all apphances out of the bathroom. 5. Never stick a foreign object into wall outlets. A small child inserting a hairpin could get a severe shock. Several kinds of guards are available for wall outlets. 6. Never put your hand inside the radio or TV when it is connccted. 7. Always unplug an appliance before tinkering with it. 8. Always disconnect cord appliances at the plug end, grasping plug firmly and pulling gently. 9g. Do not store electric cords in drawers where sharp-edged tools or knives might cut them. 10. Do not use frayed cords. Temporary tape repairs or exposed wires are hazards for shocks and fires. 11. Never hang a cord over a nail; do not wrap it around a pipe or bedpost or run extension cords through doors to adjoining rooms. 12. Do not use an electric cord if the plug is loose or a screw or bolt has fallen out. 13. Do not tack cords to the wall. Use insulatcd staples for this purpose which can be bought at electrical or hardware stores. 14. Electric fans should be out of reach of children. 15. Use only weather-proof wire outdoors. 16. Always disconnect any appliance with exposed coils before cleaning. 17. Keep knives and forks out of the toaster. 18. Always pull or open the main switch to cut off current before doing any clectrical work. 19. Never tamper with a blown-out fuse. The fuse is the safety-valve on the power line and is supposed to blow when there is trouble. 20. Have an clectrician or qualified person show you and the children where and how to replace burned-out fuses. Be sure to know and use the right size fuse. Questions 1. Name some evidences of inadequate wiring. 2. Name some of the hazards of inadequate wiring. era ture—America's Literature — A New Nation Speaks Lesson 10—Benjamin Franklin, Printer (1706-1790) Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: America's Literature, by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes, Dryden Press, New York, pp. 95-122) For Tuesday, November 17, 1959 Objective: To review some of Franklin's contributions to the American character. ONATHAN Edwards was born three years earlier than Franklin. Just as we pointed out that Edwards stands for American Puritanism, with equal justice we may acknowledge that Benjamin Franklin represents the Enlightenment in America. Actually these two personal forces have much in common, while at the same time they exemplify contrasting extremes. Although Franklin was a contemporary of Cotton Mather and Jonathan Edwards, he also overlapped them. Discarding certain phases of Puritanism, he adopted part of the old Puritan core as nucleus for his own life philosophy and led a budding Nation into the pattern of activity, communal responsibility, and humanitarian ideals which have provided enduring foundations for its culture—and some of its most humbling challenges. The Timeless Franklin Of all American writers, none has more nearly succeeded in annihilating time than has Franklin. Even if an average present-day American chose to shut out of his life every evidence radiating from Franklin, his would be a futile effort, for Franklin has us surrounded, just as he surrounded his own age and every generation since. Throughout the colonies it was Franklin who was best-known and best-loved; in personal influence no one else even approached him. Within his own lifetime he was accepted by his countrymen as the living symbol of a new cra which could well be named "The Age of Franklin." He was familiarly known as the grandfather of his country long before Parson Weems' biography of Washington began calling Washington the country's father. In 1756, when he was eight years "retired" and in his fiftieth year, he put into words what his fellow men felt in their hearts when he wrote a friend, ""The people happen to love me. Perhaps that is my fault.' When he first appeared before the King of France as American Ambassador, dressed in plain leather shoes, and almost Quaker-plain garb, with no sword, buckles, lace cuffs, or powdered wig, the court burst into spontaneous applause—the only time it ever did. French schoolboys whom he had never met sent him letters of adulaPage 553 aot Pauls Photos ] BENJAMIN FRANKLIN tion, crowds followed him wherever he walked until he was forced to move his residence from Paris to the village of Passy, and shopkeepers even sold window space to those who would pay for a good view of this man, who seemed to them the spirit of the new golden age. At his death, the French National Assembly voted unanimously to wear mourning for three days. And when Thomas Jefferson was congratulated on being chosen to replace Franklin in France, Jefferson wisely answered, "No one can replace him, Sir; I am only his successor." The Versatile Franklin For those who wear bi-focal glasses, he is nearer to them than the ends of their noses, for he invented bi-focals. He had a lifelong enjoyment from feeling a good tool in his hand, and was always tinkering. While it is doubtful that, as some claim, he invented the rocking chair, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1959 he perfected one in his study which fanned him while he rocked. His stove, which like the lightning rod he refused to patent, since his motive was to do good rather than to make profit, was to become the most widely used of its day, not only because of its increased efficiency and more healthy circulation of air, but because Franklin, America's first great "artist of the useful," designed it to permit people to see the fire, "which is in itself a pleasant thing." He loved such scientific pranks as electrocuting the turkey before the astonished eyes of those dinner guests who were to consume it a few hours hence. His lifelong first love was science: his life never ceased being exciting because he never ceased wanting to know why. The kite experiment is deservedly one of the great American myths. In electrical research he was the first great pioneer, making discoveries which Robert A. Millikan has called the most basic ever performed in the field. As Carl Van Doren has noted, he found electricity a curiosity and left it a science. Nothing was too ordinary to evoke his interest. It was he who brought to the colonies the first Chinese rhubarb and kohlrabi and Scotch cabbage seeds. He discovered that Atlantic storms progress against the wind and that a storm pattern is circular, thus laying the foundation for modern meteorology. In 1783 he witnessed the ascent of the first hot-air balloon sent aloft in Paris, and at once wrote out a plan for offensive aerial warfare. Carl Becker is correct in his assertion that ""Nature alone met him on equal terms." Influence of Cotton Mather Before Franklin ran away from LESSON DEPARTMENT Boston to Philadelphia at the age of seventcen, Cotton Mather was his minister. When young Ben _ returned home a few years later, he called on the Reverend Mather out of respect and esteem. One of the most influential books he ever read was Cotton Mather's Essays to Do Good, in which he found the philosophy of work and wealth which led to his worldly success. For Cotton Mather, merely worshipping God and contemplating the good life was an empty husk: unless he did good, religious man was nothing. He likened man's struggles to earn salvation to a man in a boat. To reach eternal bliss he must pull on both oars, the one oar being prayer, the other "some settled business wherein a Christian would for the most part spend most of his time... That he may glorify God by doing Good for others and getting of Good for himself." While having a business was cssential, he must never enter one which he "cannot comfortably venture to pray over. The mature Franklin believed that man truly worships God when he does good for his fellow men; he dedicated his life to such a worship. At forty-two, so well had he followed Poor Richard's advice of keeping his shop until his shop kept him, that he retired from active business to devote the remainder of his life to his interests in science and to serving others. He followed to the letter Cotton Mather's teaching that: 'Pleasure was long since defined as the result of some excellent action. This pleasure is a sort of holy luxuty. Most pitiable are they who will continue strangers to it." 395 Two years after his retirement, Franklin wrote his mother: "I would rather have it said of me, 'He lived usefully' than 'He died rich.' ' His great lesson to us is that the truly wealthy man is not one who has wealth, but one who uses it as a means of helping others. This Ben Franklin did so well that more than two-thirds of the civic and humanitarian movements in his home town of Philadelphia during his stay there were organized and pushed by him. He organized the Junto, a "club established for mutual improvement" among uneducated but ambitious young tradesmen; he established a circulating library before any such thing existed in England; he organized a fire insurance company, plus a volunteer fire brigade; he reorganized the city police force and succeeded in having strects paved and trees planted to freshen the city air; he started what were to become the University of Pennsylvania, the Pennsylvania Hospital, and 'lhe American Philosophical Society; he organized the defenses of the colony, as he did all the fundraising drives which made all the above projects possible, and which made Philadelphia's civic projects the model for the Nation. Franklin did it, but Cotton Mather showed him the way. Later in life Franklin wrote, "If I have been, as you seem to Shite a uscful citizen, the public owes the advantage of it to that book (Essays to Do Good)." Some have seen Franklin as one who worshipped worldly success for its own sake. Unfortunately, many Americans have thus misread him. Actually, for Franklin, wealth was a means for attaining a higher good, 556 nor was it an easy means, but one that constantly must be earned through work and restraint. He accepted word for word the basic point in Cotton Mather's Essays to Do Good, namely, that "since riches come from God, and are a mark of the divine favor," at least part of all one's profit is to be used for the "happiness of mankind." Thus, at his death, Franklin left a thousand pounds cach to the cities of Philadelphia and Boston, to be loaned out to "young married artificers" who were to use the money to improve themselves, paying back into the fund one-tenth each year plus five per cent interest. Today a Franklin Institute exists in each of these cities, still true to the founders benevolent goals. In 1787, three years before his death, Franklin attended the Constitutional Convention as one of Pennsylvania's delegates. It was Franklin, deist and non-sectarian, who suggested that the Convention ask for God's guidance through prayer, but since only three or four agrecd, his request was not fulfilled. During seventeen days of the final debates, Franklin said nothing. Finally, when disagreement became severe, he asked for the floor, and had a statement read reminding each delegate of his own fallibility by referring to the evaluation of himself: "The older 1 grow, the more apt I am to doubt my own judgment, and to pay more respect to the judgment of others." While "several parts" of the Constitution he did not "approve at present," he marveled "to find this system approaching so near to perfection as it does" and moved that it be adopted. It was this plea for mutual compromise which broke the deadlock RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1959 and made possible the adoption of the Constitution. Two years later, while in his eighty-third 1 vear, the public-spirited Franklin wrote a paper "On_ the Legislative Branch," stating his views on the proposed Pennsylvania State Constitution. He worried that the upper house, designed to be chosen by the wealthy minority, should have power equal to the lower house chosen by the majority. Then for the final time he spoke his attitude toward wealth: Is it supposed that wisdom is the necessary concomitant of riches and that one man worth a thousand pounds must have as much wisdom as twenty who have each only nine hundred and ninetynine; and why is property to be represented at all?... Private property is a creature of society and is subject to the calls of that society whenever its necessities shall require it, even to its last farthing; its contributions are not to be considered as conferring a benefit on the public, entitling the contributors to the distinctions of honor and power, but as the return of an obligation previously received, or the payment of a just debt. If Franklin was loved it must have been, in part, because of his civic conscience and his generous spirit. The Journeyman Printer Franklin was a lifelong devotee of science; it was always his hobby. He left 'yneimess to free himself from its "'tedious detail," and his public career he considered somewhat an intrusion. From the time he became an apprentice printer at the age of twelve until his death he considered himself a printer, and so signed his will: "I, Benjamin Franklin, Printer, late Minister Plenipotentiary from the United States of America to the Court of France; LESSON DEPARTMENT >? Now President of Pennsylvania.. Printing was his trade, and a man's trade should be his pride. During his European years he made friends with the quality printers wherever he went, and during his nine-year stay at Passy he delighted his friends (and himself) by printing his whimsical Bagatelles on his private printing press. Lacking privilege and influence, liberty-loving workingmen of the eighteenth century had no means of getting their views before their fellows, and thus achieving identity, save through the public press. Everywhere in the colonies the local printcr who put out the newspaper became the champion of liberalism. Leader in such a movement was James Franklin's Courant, published in Boston from 1721 to 1726 until it was suppressed for opposing those who ruled the community with a strong hand. Though less than tactful in his attacks on local authorities, James Franklin set the pattern for his brother Benjamin when he replied to Cotton Mather that it is the function of a newspaper to give both sides of a story, and that to try to make all men think alike is "absurd in philosophy, impious in Religion, and a faction in the state." In 1731, Ben Franklin printed his first Apology for Printers, which he ran annually thereafter; in 1740 his second Apology appeared, in which he stated his belief that "It is a principle among printers, that when truth has fair play, it will always prevail over falsehood." Therefore, he printed both sides always, yet always avoided anything libelous. In 1741 he established The General Magazine, the first in the colonies, dedicated to printing news 557 and "select pieces of poetry, essays, controversial, humorous, philosophical, religious, moral or political." As with his newspaper, its purpose was to enlighten the public, but even more to educate it. Franklin's unqualified faith in the beneficial powers of the printed word is stated so well in the following quotation that it is still displayed in the print shops of America: Deal with me and with all men according to thy Holy Will, but let the printed word which brings men light, and Ict the printed word which makes men free, and let the printed word, through which Thy Word is spread, go on... And on. Forever. While still a young man and a full-time printer, Franklin composed for himself an epitaph stated in the jargon of the printshop. Understandablv it is one of the bestknown in the language: The Body of B Franklin Printer, Like the Cover of an old Book Its Contents torn out And Stript of its Lettering & Gilding Lies here, Food for Worms. But the Work shall not be lost; For it will, (as he beliew'd) appear once more, In a new and more elegant Edition Revised and corrected, By the Author. Poor Richard Once Ben Franklin, homespun philosopher on work, wealth, and doing good, was given the widest circulation of any local publication in the colonies by Ben Franklin, Printer, the combination was to prove a memorable onc. Used as filler to surround the useful but dry facts of the almanac, one of which hung in practically every home, the 558 sayings of Poor Richard appeared annually from 1733 to 1758. Indisputable evidence that this shrewd printer knew his public was the sale of more than ten thousand copies within the first three months of publication. From then on Poor Richard Saunders became an American institution, the first well-known character in American fiction, even though only a sketch. His sayings have become a part of American folklore, as familiar as the nursery rhymes or the Bible: "God helps those who help themselves"; "Dost thou love life? Hen do not squander time; for that's the stuff life is made of'; "It is hard for an empty sack to stand upright"; "Experience keeps a dear school, but fools will learn in no other, and scarce in that'; "What maintains one vice, would bring up two children"; "If you would have your busincss done, go; if not, send"; "When the well's dry, they know the worth of water'; "The second vice is lying, the first is running in debt"; "Diligence is the mother of good luck"; "He that riseth late must trot all day, and shall scarce overtake his business at night"; "A ploughman on his legs is higher than a gentleman on his knees": Then plough deep while sluggards sleep, And you shall have corn to sell and to keep. And Early to bed, and early to rise, Makes a man healthy, wealthy, and wise. While many of these sayings were borrowed from others, almost all of them were carefully and effectively rephrased in Franklin's RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE--AUGUST 1959 own words, as in, "Having been poor is no shame, but being ashamed of it is"; or my done is better than el said"; or "There are three things offtiemely hard— steel, a diamond, and to know thyself." Others seem to have no predecessors, and express directly his personal belicfs: "Doing an injury puts you below your enemy; revenging one makes you but even with him; forgiving it sets you above him"; and "The brave and the wise can both pity and excuse when cowards and fools show no mercy"; and, finally, his central credo, "The most acceptable service of God is doing good to man." Through the sober Puritan virtues of honesty, frugality, sincerity, and industry, Franklin taught anew the way to wealth; through the responsible Puritan virtues of responsibility and humility he taught the principle of stewardship of talents which enables men to repay debts both to society and to a benevolent God; through the stern Puritan virtue of self-discipline he taught how to arrive at self-mastery and _ selfknowledge. Surely, in turn, the individual debt to him, as also the national pattern of doing and sharing, is not inconsiderable. Thoughts for Discussion 1. What virtues of Puritanism did Franklin re-emphasize in his own life and philosophy? 2. How can you justify Franklin's retirement from active business at age fortytwo? 3. In view of the printers' role in colonial society, why did Franklin call himself a printer all through his life? 4. How do you account for the phenomenal success of Franklin's sayings of Poor Richard? Are they utilized in modern business practices? Social Science—Spititual Living in the Nuclear Age Lesson 2—Developing Emotional Maturity Elder Blaine M. Porter For Tuesday, November 24, 1959 Objective: To gain an understanding of what emotional maturity is and how it can be evaluated. HE degree and quality of emotional maturity which we possess are central factors operating to determine the extent to which we may realize the goals of spiritual living which have been discussed in the past lesson and which will be considered in future ones. 'The richness or poverty of our lives depends upon our maturity. If we are successfully to meet the challenges and responsibilities of living meaningfully and spiritually in a nuclear age, it is essential that we develop a clear understanding of emotional maturity and that we exert every effort toward increasing the degree and quality of our emotional matunity and nurturing its growth in our children. An Eternal Process An individual grows and develops in many different ways, from the time of conception, through infancy, childhood, adolescence, adulthood, and, in some respects, as long as he lives. In fact, we may be correct in saying that developing emotional maturity is an eternal process. Many of the changes which come about by the growth process are quite readily observable. For example, some of the changes in the physical structure of the individual can be seen by the naked eye, while those and many others not so readily visible can be easily measured. Likewise, through the use of intelligence scales, we believe that we can quite accurately measure mental traits and their growth. Other changes, such as those which come about as a result of emotional development of the individual, are less tangible and, therefore, more difficult to measure. It should be remembered that growth takes place within the limitations of certain principles and laws. Failure to conform to these laws or abide by these principles may well cause a deviation in the rate and the course of the development. For example, the body has certain minimum requirements which must be met in order for physical growth to proceed normally. Severe malnutrition may not only affect the rate of growth but may permanently affect the end product. Similarly, a lack of necessary experiences and/or correct guidance may result in the slowing down or deviation of one's emotional development. This does not infer that experiences and/or guidance are the only factors which affect one's emotional growth. It is used only as an illustration. Page 559 560 Correlation of Maturity and Age We might think of emotional dev elopment as a process which should be going on at all ages, whether an individual is five years old or fifty. Since one's behavior patterns are directly related to the level of one's emotional development, we should expect a reasonable correlation between these and one's chronological age. To illustrate: a two-vear-old child may exhibit behavior which is mature for his age but which would be immature if judged on the basis of adult standards. On the other hand, a person thirty or forty years of age may behave in a manner representative of a twelve or thirteen-year-old. Some variation is normal and is to be expected as long as it is not too pronounced. However, we do have evidence that an individual does not always develop physically, socially, intellectually, spiritually, and emotionally at the same rate. If one's emotional devclopment lags far behind one's physical and intellectual development, it opens the door for serious potentialities for harm. But it is possible for an individual to become an adult physically in eighteen or twenty years and still have his emotional development arrested at six or ten or twelve. By this standard we might say that a person is properly maturing—whether he be five years old or fifty years old—only if his power over his environment is matched by a growing awareness of what is involved in what he does. If his powers of execution forge ahead while his powers of understanding lag behind, he is backward in his psychological growth and dangerous to have around (Overstreet, Harry A., The Mature Mind, pp. 44-45, W. W. Norton & Company, Inc., New York, N. Y., used by permission). Traits of Maturity Determining whether or not an RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1959 individual is mature is not a quick or easy job. However, there are certain traits which seem to represent maturity that should be helpful to us. One should keep in mind that probably very few individuals will possess all of the traits or characteristics which are to follow, and the absence of any one or two of these traits does not necessarily imply that an individual is immature. If we assume that emotional maturity exists in varying degrees, then we should be in a position to understand it more clearly. The evaluation of emotional maturity might be compared to the measurement of intelligence. Individuals are not simply classified as "dull" r "bright" but are reported as to their rank on a continuum. Let us then proceed with this concept as we try to review some -criteria for emotional maturity. One other precaution which we should observe is that we base our conclusions on traits or behavior patterns which typify or represent an individual's personality in order to avoid the pitfall of passing judgment on behavior which is exhibited only rarely or only once. In connection with this, we should also attempt to be as objective and scientific in our thinking as possible. It is not easy to look at ourselves and try to answer the question: Am I emotionally mature? Asking a person if he is emotionally mature is analogous to asking a comedian if he is funny. Let us examine some of the questions that we might ask ourselves, some of the criteria that we might use in evaluating the development of our children, and some that we might use as goals toward which we may be working. We need to keep LESSON DEPARTMENT in mind not only what we have achieved but where we are going. As Mark Twain once said, "The important thing is not where we stand, but in which direction we are moving." The following traits characterize a mature individual: 1. Acceptance of self and others. The mature person accepts his chronological age, his body build, his capacities and limitations for what they are. He is able to accept himself as he is without attempting to deny, distort, or exaggerate qualitics or characteristics. Consider the reaction of a person between the ages of twenty-five and sixty-five or seventy who is asked how old he is. 'Think how often he will either skirt the question, try to avoid answering it, or distort the truth. A mature person is able to face the fact that you and I and everyone clse is a year older with evcry passing ycar; therefore, to try to deny one's own age and distort it is a symptom of immaturity in this respect. This seems to be a part of our conditioning in American culture. There is a very narrow age range which is really acceptable to us. Until one reaches about the age of eighteen, most individuals are trying to be and wish they were older than they actually are; so, when they report their age they push it up as much as they can. Some, because of physical appcarance, are able to pass for a year or two or three older than they actually are. We have a rather narrow range of acceptable age—between about cightecn and twenty-three. If someone asks, "How old are you?" one can reply twenty-one without any hesitancy or apology, but soon after that it 561 is difficult for many people to Iet a year pass with every twelve months. Age is just one illustration. This could apply to our social skills, our intellectual abilities, our physical build, ete. If we are really mature, we look at what we are, and we do the best we can with what we have, and we accept that. In addition to accepting himsclf, the mature individual accepts others for what they are, granting them the right to have different standards, values, and beliefs, even though he may not accept those standards and values and beliefs for himself. IIe can perceive and appreciate the humanity of those about him. 2. Adaptability and flexibility. The mature person is flexible enough to adapt himself to new situations without an undue amount of frustration or disorganization. In some people, childhood patterns are so firmly established that they dominate the behavior, thus making it difficult or impossible to participate in the normal adult enjoyment of loving, working, and creating. With the increasing numbcr and_ the rapidity of changes in our time, this particular charactcristic appears to assume more and more importance in the proper development of an individual, because, in many respects, we have more changes in a decade than past generations had in a lifetime. Orientation to our environment. 'The mature person has an appreciation of man's relation to the universe and to his society. He has worked out a philosophy of life which gives him a clear-cut set of values and ethical standards of behavior. It scems to me that we as Latter-day Saints have an edge on most other people in this respect 562 because of the kind of philosophy of life and orientation to environment which we are taught. It is important, however, that we develop one which is functional. We will explore the area of religious maturity in another lesson. The mature individual balances the past, present, and future according to their own relative importance. Many of you have known individuals who are cither living in the past or the future. Take the middle-aged businessman who has been only moderately successful, who constantly relates his experiences as a star quarterback on his high school football team. This kind of behavior suggests that life at present is not as satisfying as he wants it to be; therefore, he is constantly reaching into the past for unusual, exciting, and satisfying experiences. We see this behavior represented on the part of some veterans who are constantly reliving war experiences that happened several years ago. On the other hand, we see some individuals who are always living for the future. Note how a child will live for his next birthday, for Christmas, for when school is out, or when summer camp rolls around. It may be appropriate for children, but not for adults. It is desirable to plan wisely for the future, but this is vastly different than living for sometime in the future, when one hopes to find life satisfying and rewarding. As an illustration let us look at a particular case. For a certain young woman life was going to be happy and good and satisfying when she graduated from high school; but it was not. Next, it was to be when she found her marriage partner. But marriage didn't bring the happiness she expected. Then, it was to be RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1959 when her husband received his Ph. D. Finally, it was to be when he was established in a job, but she still has not found what she wants, and she probably never will because none of these experiences provides the satisfaction she expects. But she is always hoping that one will. A mature individual is able to balance the past, the present, and the future in the perspective in which they should be, and find appropriate satisfaction in all three of them. He faces reality, accepting the facts of his experience, whether they be pleasant or unpleasant. A distorted sense of realities impairs the effectiveness and _ satisfaction of work and life. We need to be oriented to our environment. We need to understand the nature of people and what can be expected of others. 4. Emotional independence. Life begins with complete dependence upon the parents, and the goal is to achieve the capacity to live independently of the parental organization. Someone suggested that human beings are children for so long they never really get over it. Most of us would admit that it is more pleasurable and comfortable to be free of responsibility and to be dependent upon our parents or someone else. 'The development of independence is not any easy task, and the struggle is not made any easicr by parents who insist upon "hanging on" to their children. Developing independence ls a two-way responsibility, and, in most cases, it is more difficult for parents to become independent of their children than it is for children to become independent of their parents. Some people never overcome the LESSON DEPARTMENT dependence upon others sufficiently to make a go of life. Others are able to struggle through life with all kinds of supports from friends, relatives, etc. Higher on the scale are those who seem to manage fine until some hardship strikes and then they regress, perhaps resorting to some escape mechanism such as neurosis, alcoholism, daydreaming, etc. Still higher on the scale are those who meet life by repressing their desires for help and probably generate serious tensions because of their repressions. At the top of the scale is the fully independent individual who is able to meet and face life under most any circumstance and still maintain his efficient functioning. Over - dependence, over - attachments, extreme submissiveness are all symptoms of immaturity in this area of emotional independence. 5. Socialized behavior. The mature person is familiar with the customs, folkways, mores, laws, and restrictions of his society, and has a reasonable degree of respect for tradition and authority. He has an understanding viewpoint regarding other people and groups other than those to which he belongs. In general, he chooses his course of action with reference to estimated maximum long-term _ satisfactions for himself and for the entire group affected. His social behavior is determined, in part, on the basis of principles, rather than on selfish interests or personal pleasure or gain at the expense of others. He is in harmony with his conscience and this conscience should be integrated with and should support the tendencies of growth toward independence, responsibility, 563 productivity, and co-operation. 6. Healthy attitudes towards sex, love, and marriage. The mature person will have successfully passed through the stages of sexual development to the point of accepting his own sex nature, and incorporate that nature into a life plan, so that he is able to make creative, mutually fulfilling, heterosexual relationships. The sexual feelings are important in the emotional development of the individual. In fact, if sexuality does not evolve properly, the whole process of emotional development can be influenced. The mature adult will have attitudes toward sexuality which lead to the proper balancing of need for love, self-love, and self-interest, and which provide for a high degree of enjoyment of the loving, activity, interest, and responsibility involved in the relationship with the loved one, work, and friends. 7. An integrated philosophy of life. A mature person integrates what he knows, and lives by that integrated knowledge. He has an appreciation for and sincere interest in the welfare of the whole society and is sincerely aware of the longrange consequences of what he does. There are certain basic values and virtucs that need to be preserved at all costs. For example, he has the feeling that life has a purpose and believes that there is something in one's judgment of justice and truth which is in harmony with the nature of the universe and with God. The mature person need not be a confirmed conformist. He may be a tugged individualist, but he will be as rugged in his adherence to the basic principles in which he believes as he is in his own self-reliance. 564 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1959 These principles contribute to his maturity by enlarging his thinking, by helping him to avoid confusion, by rescuing him from prolonged debate. They give him a basis for decision and action. "They are like the north star, a compass, or a lighthouse to a sailor; they keep him on his course despite winds and currents and weather." Some people confuse principles with rules. A principle is something inside one; a rule is an outward restriction. To obcy a principle one has to use his 7 4 ( "« ZAAY LE SN NS QQ < BS Zz DSi SL _ f/ X3 | Zs a A q <A sith a. Song Collections For Every Occasion —_ FAMOUS SONGS THE WORLD OVER coecceccosecseeceeeseees 1.75 -.. 52 SACRED SONGS.............. 2.00 — 56 SONGS YOU LIKE TO SHG anes ane ee cectctze 1.50 = IRELAND IN SONG.........2..-. 1.95 —_ SCOTLAND IN SONG.......... 1.95 - SONGS EVERYBODY SINGS— Bond oooeeceeeeeeeeeeecenneeceeneeeceeseeee 2.00 _— SONGS OF THE GAY 90'S.... 1.95 — WEDDING BOUQUET OF SONGS HIGH OR LOW.... Ea. 2.00 a. WORLD'S BEST FOLK SONGS AND BALLADS oceccccscecsseeesseee 1.95 aie WORLD'S BEST SACRED ceo ==: 1.95 ~*~ WORLD'S BEST WEDDING SONGS oocccecececccececceecceceseeeseeee 1.95 ~.. WORLD FAMOUS SONGS.... 1.50 DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 15 E. Ist South Salt Lake City 11, Utah Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank mental and moral powers. To obey a rule one has only to do what the rule says. Dr. Frank Crane pointed out the difference neatly: "A rule supports us by the armpits over life's mountain passes. A principle makes us sure footed." The mature adult has carefully investigated, analyzed, and considered some of the major philosophies regarding the world, the universe, and its people, and worked out a personal philosophy of life that is compatible with his conscience, and which resolves itself into a meaningful whole. 5. Acceptance of responsibility. The mature adult accepts his role s a human being, and he accepts the fact that human experience ls a shared experience; human _probIcms, shared problems. He accepts Name Address. City & State Please send the music indicated above. (J On Approval [1 Charge Cl Money Enclosed 145 NORTH UNIVERSITY, PROVO®! Salt Lake City 11, Utah the responsibility for his own acts rather than trying to lay the blame onto someone else. G. Integration of personality. 'The mature adult is able to make adjustments with a minimum of conflict. He can gracefully accept praise and recognition. He orgamizes and orders his efforts in pursuing his objectives by using systematic methods as a means of achieving them. He is not easily aroused to anger. LESSON DEPARTMENT The person who is frequently ° 'telling someone off," seeking "to get even" with someone, or crossing people off his list, is immature in this respect. As imperfect human beings we must learn to control angry feelings. 'Then we should work toward the goal of mature living wherein hostile feelings seldom, if ever, exist. Christ set a classic example of this kind of maturc response when he was on the cross being ridiculed, tortured, and put to death and said, "... Father, forgive them; for they know not what they do..." (Luke 23:34). There is no evidence of his conirolling feelings of anger, but rather developing true feelings of understanding and compassion. The mature adult is relatively frce from feelings of inferiority, guilt, hostilitity, egotisms, and competitiveness. He can accept and objectively evaluate criticism of himself or of his behavior. He is kind, considerate, creative, and understanding. 10. Knowledge. The mature person has a store of knowledge which he has been building upon during the past and which he continues to build upon during the future. One can never know, probably, all that he would like to know, but the mature person is well informed in the specific areas of his immediate responsibilities. An individual who attempts to bluff his way, who pretends to have knowledge he does not have, or who attempts to justify his ignorance on the basis that it isn't worth knowing, is displaying symptoms of immaturity. Summary We as individuals who are old 565 HAWAIIAN TOURS Leave once a month. Prices start from $275. Please inquire about these wonderful tours to Hawaii. EUROPE Ask about our European Tour in September. ROSE BOWL PARADE We have a Rose Bowl Parade Tour leaving in December. HAWAII L. D. S. Group going to Hawaii in November. MARGARET LUND TOURS 2320 East 48th South Salt Lake City 17, Utah — Phones — IN 6-2909, AM 2-2339, CR 7-6334 enough to understand this concept of emotional maturity must assume the responsibility of trying to evaluate our maturity. 'The key to thus challenge is found ina recent theme sponsored by the Church: "Be Honest With Yourself." When you ask yourself, "How mature am [?" it will not be very useful unless you really answer as honestly and as objectively as you can. As has been implied throughout this lesson on emotional maturity, we are not here setting up a standard of perfection that any person at any time of life can be expected completely to attain. But it is proper, nevertheless, when we speak of emotional maturity to discuss not only what is probable or actual, but also what is possible and potential. 566 ARE YOU AN UNPUBLISHED AUTHOR? IF YOU HAVE A BOOK LENGTH MANUSCRIPT you would like to have published, our editorial staff will be glad to consider it on a co-operative basis. OUR PROGRAM _ HAS LAUNCHED MANY NEW WRITERS. Submit your work for free editorial evaluation and further information. We consider all types of material: Fiction, Poetry, Juveniles, Religious Books, Educational, and Scholarly Work. GREENWICH BOOK PUBLISHERS, INC. Attention: Mr. Wright 489 Fifth Avenue New York City, New York ®@ BEAUTIFUL e HANDY e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover—$2.50; Leather Cover—$3.80 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Distonce from Salt Lake City, Utoh Rate Up to 150 miles WW... 35 150 to 300 miles 7. 300 to 600 miles. 600 to 1000 miles. 1000 to 1400 miles. Od 1400 to 1800 miles....00...76 Over 1800 miles.87 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press Tie Moin ae RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1959 Thoughts for Discussion 1. What are some examples of acceptance of self and others? 2. The old timer said, "I've seen many changes come in my dav and I've been agin' every one of 'em." What are some other examples of the lack of adaptability and flexibility? 3. Give illustrations of rclationships involving «dependence, independence, and interdependence. 4. Contrast healthy with unhealthy attitudes toward sex, love, and marriage. 5. Discuss how some people who lack an integrated philosophy find it necessary to do some reinterpreting and _ rationalizing in times of crises or disappointment. 6. Give additional illustrations of how anger may represent immature behavior. Supplementary References Scelf-UnderResearch Menninger, William C.: standing, Chicago, Science Associates. (Available from Fxtension Division, Brigham Young University, Provo, Utah. Approximately fifty cents.) Skidmore, Rex A., "Maturity — What Is It?" The Improvement Era, May 1952, Pp- 365-369. Q Builders Della Adams Leitner Who builds with only self in mind Constructs a transient place, To find at length his life is bare, Unsheltered, gloomy space. But he who builds that he may share Finds, though he had not planiued, He has a mansion for his soul That will forever stand. Ya rring Tlo te Ethel Jacobson I have a little boy. I have a cookie jar. 1 bake and bake, but somehow My cookies don't go far! And oftentimes I wonder— How foolish to employ The crock at all, and not to stow The cookies straight in boy. (A problem, I'm aware, That I share with all who are Custodians of a boy And of a cookie jar.) a harmonic Undertones Lillian E. Miles Bencath the singing beauty Of symphony I hear A hundred mothers saying, "Come practice, Johnny dear!" A hundred little Johnnies With fife or fiddle bow Long to haunt the swim pool Where the other boys all go. A hundred little Johnnies Knew toil and discipline To learn to make the music We bathe our spirits in. <> Of Royal Birth Kate Richards Courage and nobility are not born only in the homes of the famous or great. I have found heroes among my friends and associates; real heroes who sense the strength and mightiness of our Lord and are activated by their faith, and hope of his love for them. They walk the quiet paths of life and touch the hearts of those who are torn and tossed by the cruel winds of destiny, and lift the dragging end of the cross imposed by the hand of fate. VIDA FOX CLAWSON TRAVEL SERVICE Recognized For Experience, Integrity, Service and the best in travel since 1933. HAWAII Sail on the lovely Lurline October 14th. You will enjoy traveling with our fine group that will be in Hawaii for Aloha Week. Early Reservations Recommended. For complete information write or phone: VIDA FOX CLAWSON 216 South 13th East Salt Lake City 2, Utah Phone DA 8-0303 LEARN TO TYPEWRITE! Me New Classes Begin Soon Adult classes for Relief Society and genealogy workers will teach beginning and advanced typing. Classes will run 6:30 to 8:00 p. M., Mondays and Thursdays. Individual help and instruction by professional teachers. Call for reservations and further information. LDS BUSINESS COLLEGE Phone EM 3-2765 Page 567 70 North Main Salt Lake City 11, Utah Birthday Congratulations One Hundred Mrs. Harriet Rancx OLSON Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-nine Mrs. Karuerwne ZAcner McDonaLp Hooper, Utah Ninety-eight Mrs. GeorGirnne Marion Gopparp WéALTERS Big Lake, Minnesota Mrs. Francrs Woopmansrr Epwarbs Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-seven Mrs. Tora Nietsen STARKIE Vernal, Utah Ninety-six Mrs. Annie Newman MIDDLETON Ogden, Utah Ninety-four Mrs. Lena PErerRsoN PuTNaM Ogden, Utah Mrs. Fannie Paut Litre Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary JANE WILLiAmMs CLIFFORD Brigham City, Utah Mrs. Etten Lovett ROWE Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-three Mrs. Auice STEVENS Horiipay Hansen Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Anniz Erickson BENSON Newton, Utah Mrs. ANGELINA Kinc Brooks Salt Lake City, Utah Page 568 Ninety-two Mrs. Tortuitpa Iverson Funk Provo, Utah Ninety-one Mrs. Axnie M. Topp Tuaxron Murray, Utah Mrs. Mary Fur Ilouse Brigham City, Utah Ninety Mrs. Matinpa Lancr Pouuri Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mariuipa Pretrerson MIcHArLSEN THORSEN Salt Lake City, Utah Seagulls Have Returned Christie Lund Coles The seagulls have returned And over my green-leafed valley, Like shimmering kites They rise and fall, and lift, And swoop to the steaming, New-turned carth, erving Like voiceless things Finding a voice. From my window I see them Move up the hillside furrows, Coming inland from the waters On their gray-white wings, Tilted in the timeless circle Of sca and air and sky. And the brown earth, waiting, Vibrantly waiting. be 44 East South Temple FAMILY NIGHT FUN Here's a book that provides many planned activities to enliven family nights and family parties—cement closer ties and build wholesome attitudes in young lives. $2.95 SAY THE GOOD WORD A collection of dramatic stories that reflect the forceful character of Elder Oscar A. Kirkham. Say The Good Word is a handbook for leaders and teachers of Youth and provides stimulating reading for all LDS adults. $3.50 I 144 East South Temple | I Salt Lake City, Utah | Gentlemen: I Enclosed you will find (_ ) check | I ( ) money order ( ) I have an ac- | -- Salt Lake City, Utah I count. Please charge for encircled] wae (numbered) books: 1 2! P Name oon ecceeeceecceecceeseecceeseceeseeeseecseeeceeeseeesees | | address ee.....-.! I City eee Zone..... State... | | Restieats of Utah include 2% sales tax. | boer | PK-10-95- Most things Dad does are "just right" in his children's eyes... Whether it's toasting marshmallows in the backyard, or the more important job of providing family financial security. Beneficial's new FAMILY BENEFACTOR PLAN is just right for many modern-day families. One low-cost policy covers the entire Beneficial Life Insurance Company Beneficial Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Send now for folder giving more complete details about Beneficial's new Benefactor Family Plan. A a i li ih BENEFICIAL LIFE Snsanee (iti Company Virgil H. Smith, Pres. Om, oF a re G0. Oo r& SCY a) we "EFAS WP JAN 60 oP family... Dad, mom, and all the kids... With premium rates that stay the same no matter how many new babies are born. It's the perfect, plan for the young family... And at rates they. Can easily afford. Call your local Beneficial Life agent, or mail this handy coupon for further information. Salt Lake City, Utah ENIBSVO Vw JAILRMES) ale Harvest Hazel Loomis How gay your stripes — your checks — Your streaming yellow ribbons! How rich your green — how good the earth and grand! How wide your fields — your farms Are miles — not acres — your big heart bursting With the bounties of the land! Rise elevators, rise, like men in armor! Steel girders taut outside a heavy load. Wise is the man, from youth, who garners, Storing safely in a bin, weighing, Harvesting the golden kernels, Until all is gathered in. The Cover: Farm Scene in Minnesota, Photograph by Harland Nasvik Courtesy Photo Service, General Mills, Inc. Submitted by Vadna C. Matson Frontispiece: White Bird Canyon in the Valley of the Salmon River, Idaho Photograph by Joseph Muench Cover Design by Evan Jensen Cover Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press From lear and Sar Thank you so very much for the fine articles in the "Woman's Sphere" (July 1959). Congratulations to President Spafford on the new high appointments. —Leona TH. Carlson Utah's Mother of the Year Richmond, Utah We all enjoy The Relief Society Magazine so very much and surely appreciate the very real and lasting part it plays in our lives. We have been so greatly entiched with the lovely stories and poetry contained therein and look forward eagerly to its coming evcry month. We have many converts and many investigators here in our ward, and the Relief Society lessons and the Magazine are two of the most convincing arguments we have to offer. Sandra McDonald Washington, D. C. I cnjoy reading every article in the Magazine. The recent series of articles on sewing (March 1958 - May 1959, by Jean Ridges Jennings) has been especially interesting to me, as I have six children to sew for — two girls and four boys. —Mrs. Lyle Murdock Driggs, Idaho When my seventeen-year-old daughter finished reading "Such a Heavenly Secret," by Mabel Law Atkinson in the July issue of the Magazine, she said with the enthusiasm of youth, "Mother, this Magazine has more bounce to the ounce than anything else in print. The lessons are so well written, they are just marvelous, and the storics — well, there is nothing else like them. They are all written on the family plan, clean, wholesome, and uplifting. Even the poetry is outstanding." I never attempt to read the Magazine until she has finished it. If I want it for something special, I will find it in her room. I was pleased to know that she was covering it so thoroughly. —Iva N. Dalton President Panguitch Stake Relief Society Circleville, Utah Page 570 I feel I must let you know how muct I enjoy the new format of the Magazine. The covers are so very beautiful. I have always loved the Magazine and could not see how it could be improved, but it certainly has. The quality of the poems, storics, articles, and pictures is something to be proud of. I must comment on the wonderful lessons. All the courses are so interesting and worthwhile. As literature class leader, I am especially happy with the marvelous courses in American literature. For the first time, history, English literature, American literature, and the early beginnings of our country arc falling into place as a complete and unified whole. I found the article "Would You Write Poetry" by Sylvia Probst Young in the May issue very helpful and would like to see more on this subject. —lErma Braack Raymond, Washington I am very glad for the Magazines. There is a lot to learn in them, and it is very kind of my cousin to send the Magazines to me. I tell all my friends what is in the Magazimes, and they are very interested. I would certainly miss my Magazines if I didn't have them. —Annie Elizebeth Kachme Kolding, Denmark I have enjoyed so often the poetry in The Relief Society Magazine. Of course the Magazine ls indispensable to me in my Relief Society teaching which I have been doing for several years. Lor the past four or five years I have been teaching the literature lessons, which have always been my first love. —Mrs. John Burns 'Torrance, California I have spent many pleasant hours treading The Relief Society Magazine and have always found in it guidance and_ inspiration for my life. Many thoughts I find in this Magazine return when they are most needed to help me acquire a cheerful attitude toward everyday duties. —Maralyn Hall Emmett, Idaho THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spattord - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - - First Counselor Louise W. Madsen - - = = = - = =~ - Second Counselor Hulda Parker - - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Josie B. Bay Winniefred S. Afton W. Hunt Wealtha S. Mendenhall Pearle M. Olsen Elsa T. Peterson Irene B. Woodford Fanny S. Kienitz Manwaring Elna P. Haymond Annie M. Ellsworth Mary R. Young Mary V. Cameron Christine H. Robinson Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Charlotte A. Larsen Edith P. Backman Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stodderd Evon W. Peterson Aleine M. Young RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - = - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford VOL. 46 SEPTEMBER 1959 NO. 9 Contents SPECIAL FEATURES Birthday Congratulations to President David O. McKay -..... Scsssescssscseceeseeceetegeeceeneeeeessreseesguneeeeeaceas 973 Care of the Aged in Relation to Eternal Values The North Central States Mission _Delbert L. Stapley 574 Preston R. Nibley 582 The Real Worth of The Relief Society Magazine Daniel H. Ludlow 589 Fresh Up With Sunday 599 FICTION Next Verona T. Bowen 584 Mother's Late Day Elizabeth C. McCrimmon 603 "A'' Is for Apron — Part II Ilene H. Kingsbury 610 GENERAL FEATURES Sixty Years A gO oiieeeececccccececcceecceeeesssesssceeececessseecesssesssesecenscececscneesssseneeesceaecaeeaeeaeaseeaeeesecee sects vests 594 Editorial: A Standard for Government -Vesta P. Crawford 596 The Four Standard Works of the Church to Be Issued in New Edition occ cecccsssseeseesseees 597 New Serial ''The New Day" to Begin in October Oe eas. Csascesessscacencseneeceserace 604 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities.......0. CeecccecccsseeecccecencecsecensecceeeeceeeeeesHulda Parker 614 Birthday Congratulations ie ceeececcccecccceccececeseecceceeccesececcseeenereseenceaccssenecenseacecssoescecessesseneeecceccneesesecseeseasenerenaeces 640 FEATURES FOR THE HOME Recipes From the North Central States Mission: Diana F. Child 600 Rocking-Chair Land Vernessa M. Nagle 605 Althea Bingham Bitton — Woman of Artistic Hobbies. 603 LESSONS FOR DECEMBER Theology — Some Future Events Roy W. Doxey 621 Visiting Teacher Messages — ''He That Receiveth My Law and Doeth It, the Same Is My Disciple" oo. Christine H. Robinson 627 Work Meeting — Fire Hazards neeeec. Cceescceccccccecece ccecceeeceneceeececeeseeesecesosenceeseceneeeseeeCharlotte A. Larsen 628 Literature — Benjamin Franklin, Retired oo... EeceecccececeeececeeceeeeceseneeeeeseeesBriant S. Jacobs 630 Social Science — No Lesson Outlined -.. 638 POETRY Harvest — Frontispiece Hazel Loomis 569 September Afternoon Dorothy Jj. Roberts 581 Enlisted _Eva_ Willes Wangsgaard 588 The Edge of Summer nee ccceccsssssctcseenssstssntensseneessesneeneccceseeesneeetsnessnesaeeatstansuesenceessageesGrace Ingles Frost 593 Summer Was Too Brief.......... A Mabel Law Atkinson 598 The Windows of Heaven oo.... EccceesecscesesececeeeeecessecsessenesnesececcscrssseceteasscseecescseeeceseaceseesVera Geddes Merrill 609 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD. OF RELIEF SOCIETY Copyright 1959 by General Board of Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Editorial and Business Offices: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah: Phone EMpire 4-2511: Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 243. Subscription Price: $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20¢ a copy; payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Page 571 From Near Gnd Far wieceeecessecccccecenccssscececcseesescsssccenecseceecssesscenscseceesseenesecesseseeesesecense Woman's Sphere onneeeececeeececcececeeeceeeecececeeeecenseeececeeeecceeeeeseeseeees Bulbs for Winter Blooming oo.... C. E cece ceseecccecneeeeccceceessccnceesssenceeseceeseesceeneeecceeeecees 570 Ramona W. Cannon 595 Vesta P. Crawford 606 Courtesy Z. C. M. I. Photo Reflex Studio PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY Page 572 (Birthday Congratulations to President David QO. WleKay On His Eighty-Sixth Birthday, September 8, 1959 HE General Board of Relief Society and Relief Society sisters in all the stakes and missions of the Church extend birthday congratulations to President David O. McKay on his eighty-sixth birthday. They are grateful for his inspired spiritual leadership and for his wise counsel. Relief Society sisters in many lands rejoice in their privilege of living upon the earth in the days of the restored gospel, comforted and uplifted by the words and the faith of the Prophet, Seer, and Revelator of the Lord. The influence of President McKay's noble life and the power of his teachings are a continued blessing to Latter-day Saint families. The sisters of Relief Society give thanks for the direction he has given for the perfecting of their homes, for rearing their children, and for spiritual enlightenment. 'They are particularly grateful for the guidance he has given for their development and service in Relief Society. With seeking hearts they cherish his counsel: "God can be and is everywhere present with his Spirit, but... There is no one in life who can make us feel nearer heaven than can mother, a true mother.... "Wifehood is glorious, but motherhood is sublime.... "Our children hunger for true religion, and there is no better place to instill it into their hearts than in the home.... I pray God's blessing to rest upon each of you... Upon your daughters and your sons.... "T have nothing but commendation in my heart for the work of the Relief Society.... Divine sanction was bestowed upon the Relief Society by the Prophet of the Lord. No wonder you have wielded and will continue to wield such influence in the Church and country.... There is not a remote hamlet in any part of this Church but is benefited by the lifting influence of the Relief Society.... "God bless you mothers — home builders, angels of mercy. May your influence continue to spread, and your sweet, tender services bring comfort and consolation to those in need, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ...." Page 573 Care of the Aged in Relation to Eternal Values Delbert L. Stapley Of the Council of the Twelve [Address Delivered at the Rocky Mountain Regional Conference on Aging, May 8, 1959] Y assignment is to give an inspirational message to this conference of delegates, assembled here in the interest of improved care and increased opportunities for the aged of America. Benefited by medical science, we have learned much about the care of people; therefore, the span of life continues to be lengthened, which adds daily to the growing number of elderly folk. We have not, however, learned sufficiently how to plan adequately and offer them satisfying opportunities to enjoy life productively and to the fullest for beneficial blessings and happiness. Their security and happiness are the prime concern of this and future generations. As I meditated what I should say to this group, the task assumed challenging proportions. The purpose of vour gathering is most commendable, concerned as you are with humanities as it relates to the care and future of the aged. You are answering in a practical way Cain's question to the Lord: "Am I my brother's keeper?" You are also fulfilling the second great commandment as enunciated by Jesus, "Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself." 'This admonition is_ second only to the first and great comPage 574 mandment to "... Love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind." Love of brother or sister or neighbor, then, is second only to the love of God. John the beloved apostle put it this way: "And this commandment have we from him, That he who loveth God love his brother also" (I John 4:21). The apostle John also asked this significant question: "But whoso hath this world's good, and seeth his brother have need, and shutteth up his bowels of compassion from him, how dwelleth the love of God in him?" Then he kindly admonished and counseled, "My little children, let us not love in word, neither in tongue; but in deed and in truth" (I John 3:17-18). This giving of ourselves in the interest of others fulfills another teaching of the Savior:. But whosoever will be great among you, shall be your minister: and whosoever of you will be the chiefest, shall be servant of all. For even the Son of man came not to be ministercd unto, but to minister, and to give his life a ransom for many (Mark 10:43-45). Now, why all this concern about the social and economic problems of the aged? What has inspired and motivated men and women like yourselves to plan and program happy environments and creative, fruitful, and joyful living for the evening years of mortal life? Could it be we see more clearly with the eye of faith the Fatherhood of God and the brotherhood of man, and perhaps more significantly comprehend the purpose of man upon the earth and the obligation each of us has for the other? "Happiness," taught Joseph Smith, whom the Latter-day Saints accept s a true prophet of God, "is the object and design of our existence; and will be the end thereof, if we pursue the path that leads to it." This is an exalted and_ significant thought with hopeful assurance to the faithful and devoted of God's children. 'This statement accords with the teachings of the Savior, who said, "I am come that they might have life, and that they might have it more abundantly" (John 10:10). HY should man be so favored? Because man, according to revealed knowledge, is a child of God, and "Men are," said an ancient prophet, "that they might have joy" (2 Nephi 2:25). Man, of all God's creations, is his greatest miracle, for he is created in the image and likeness of his eternal Parent and endowed with the gifts, qualities, and powers also characteristic of the Eternal Father of the spirits of all mankind. If we were to break the human body down into its component parts and study its many and varied functions and processes, we would stand amazed at its beauty of form, its glory of superior workmanship, its perfection of performance, and power of reproduction! President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., of the First Presidency of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, speaking to the theme, "Man, God's Greatest Miracle,' made this profound observation: It is not possible for me even to suggest the infinity of physical detail known only through the microscope that makes up the universe of physical man. They form worlds of marvels upon marvels of greatest beauty and artistry. The mind _ stands aghast at the microscopic immensity of their creations. The wonders of our majestic material universe, stretching out through space across billions of light years, with its billions of galaxies, seem to my own mind with its great limitations no more wonderful and, as thus far discovered and known, not so complex or so intimately related as the cellular (all but infinitely small) universes that build up this body of ours. Each organ and gland and circulatory system and bone and muscle and sinew and tendon a galaxy, all bound together in a most intimate relation that baffles the human mind to comprehend. To my own mind, the majesty of the physical world is far overmatched by the yet unsolved miracles involved in the body and its operation (PrestpeNT J. REuBEN Crark, Jr., Man, God's Greatest Miracle, Pamphlet, pp. 8-9). AN only, of all living things, is created in the likeness and image of his Creator and isa spirit child of God. It is a lofty, dignifying, and satisfying thought and concept that man's beginning was in the image of God and not from some lower form of life, as some would have us believe. The spirit, according to Mormon concept, lived as an active, intelligent entity in God's eternal realm long before mortal existence here on earth. God provided the earth as a habitation for his spirit children, where they could come and receive bodies of flesh and bone, CARE OF THE AGED IN RELATION TO ETERNAL VALUES 575 and gave them this mortal life also for a probationary state with the right of free agency or freedom of choice in the world with its opposites of good and evil, with promises of rewards for fulfilling the good life. When Adam and Eve fell that men might be, it opened the door for peopling the earth with God's spirit children. One effect resulting from the transgression and fall of Adam and Eve brought about mortality and the blessing of children. Mortal parents, however, as agents of God, provide the physical body only, beautifully formed, but inanimate until God puts an assigned spirit into the body and breathes into it the breath of life and the individual becomes a living soul. Abraham, the father of the faithful, had this knowledge revealed to him: And the Gods formed man from the dust of the ground, and took his spirit (that is, the man's spirit), and put it into him; and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life, and man became a living soul (Abraham 5:7). The Lord has revealed in our day that the body and the spirit associated together constitute the soul of man (D & C 88:15). The spirit, according to revealed knowledge, is in the same form as the mortal body (I Nephi 11:11 and Ether 3:16), and is matter, "but it is more fine or pure, and can only be discerned by purer eyes' (D & C 131:7). The body without the spirit, which spirit is also the intelligent entity, is lifeless. 'This accords with the teachings of the apostle James who said: "For as the body without the spirit is dead, so faith without works is dead also" (James 2:26). This teaching is also confirmed by the Savior in these words: "It is the spirit that quickeneth, the flesh profiteth nothing" (John 6:63). HE spirit of man is the power of life; therefore, the spirit of an individual has the capacity to heal and to restore the mortal body when afflicted with sickness, wounds, or physical ailments. Permit me to give you two examples from the scriptures supporting this thought: When Jairus, a ruler of the synagogue, sought out Jesus, beseeching him to come to his home because his twelve-year-old daughter lay dying, Jesus consented but was delayed while en route to the ruler's home, and word came to Jairus informing him, "Thy daughter is dead; trouble not the: Master." Jesus heard this announcement and said, 'Fear not: believe only, and she shall be made whole." When Jesus informed the mourners, "She is not dead, but sleepeth... They laughed him to scorn, knowing that she was dead." After putting them all out of the room, except Peter, James, and John and the parents, he took the maiden by the hand and commanded her to arise. Luke, the physician, recording this miracle, said: "And her spirit came again, and she arose straightway." Yes, the spirit of the child came again, and with the added strength Christ gave it, her little body was healed of the illness which had claimed her life, and the child was restored to her astonished parents. The Savior then commanded she be given meat to nourish her body (Luke 8:49-56). 576 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1959 Of the Christ it has been said, "In him was life; and the life was the light of men" (John 1:4). The second example is the classic case of Lazarus, the brother of Mary and Martha. Mary and Martha had sent for Jesus to come because their brother was desperately ill. When Jesus arrived he found that Lazarus was dead and that his body had been in the grave four days. Martha said to him as they approached the grave, "Lord, by this time he stinketh: for he hath been dead four days." Nevertheless, the Lord, with authority and power, commanded Lazarus to come forth, "And he that was dead came forth, bound hand and foot with graveclothes: and his face was bound about with a napkin. Jesus saith unto them, Loose him, and let him go." Jesus had called back the spirit of Lazarus, which on entering the body — after decay and perhaps putrefaction had set in — was given the power to overcome every physical handicap and animate the body to normal life and activity (John 11:1-44). Christ's statement, "Physician, heal thyself," is most significant and more far-reaching in its implication than we at first glance realize, for the power of healing is in the spirit of life which animates the body of man. 'The seeds of death are sown in every mortal body, but medical science has discovered medicines, methods, and techniques which, when skillfully and intelligently applied, establish a favorable climate for the body, by the power of the spirit which is in it, to heal itself, if the person is not appointed unto death. Now, I am sure you are still wondering what is the significance of this approach for an inspirational message, and what relationship these thoughts have to the purpose of this conference. I had hoped it would establish the dignity and the importance of man in his true perspective, a child of God. Man, a spirit child of God, is eternal because he is the son of an Eternal Father, and, as an heir, partakes of God's divine and eternal nature. The apostle Paul declared to the Roman saints: The Spirit itself beareth witness with our spirit, that we are the children of God: And if children, then heirs; heirs of God, and joint-heirs with Christ; if so be that we suffer with him, that we may be also glorified together (Romans 8:16, 17). The Lord in modern scripture has revealed this knowledge of his work and glory: For behold, this is my work and my glory — to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man (Moses 1:39). THs scripture clearly reveals that all of God's works and marvelous creations are but a means to an end in the light of his announced objective, that the purpose of his work and glory is to bring to pass the immortality and the eternal life of man; for God created man in his own image and after his likeness, and gave him dominion over all the earth and told him to multiply and replenish the earth and subdue it. To carry out this instruction, man must be richly endowed, or he could not rise to the heights of this command. The evidence of these powers and abilities was attested by the Lord after Adam and Eve had fallen and just before they were banished from the Garden of Eden. I quote: CARE OF THE AGED IN RELATION TO ETERNAL VALUES 577 And the Lord God said, Behold, the man is become as one of us, to know good and evil (Genesis 3:22). "The man is become as one of > 3 ° * °. Us" 18 most significant and indicates the great powers inherent in him as a son of God. Man truly is endowed with the attributes, qualities, and traits characteristic of his divine Parent. David, the psalmist, exclaimed in a prayer to God: When I consider thy heavens, the work of thy fingers, the moon and the stars, which thou hast ordained; What is man, that thou art mindful of him?... For thou hast made him a little lower than the angels, and hast crowned him with glory and honour. Thou madest him to have dominion over the works of thy hands; thou hast put all things under his feet. (Psalins 8:3-6). What a glorious endowment of power and promise! Man, indeed, is blessed with great powers of achievement. It is evident in man's present-day accomplishments in all fields of human endeavor. The things we accept as normal and enjoy today were considered impossible just a few years ago. Now we are prepared for every new invention and achievement. Man has sent up satellites which circle the globe, he plans to circle the moon, and thinks feasible floating platforms in outer space as intermediate stations for interplanetary travel to mingle with people of other planets. This is all in keeping with the statement of the Lord at the time the people attempted to build a tower to heaven. The Lord said on that occasion: "And now nothing will be restrained from them, which they have imagined to do" (Genesis 11:6). How true that is today! Joel the prophet declared that in the last days the Lord would pour out his spirit upon all flesh (See Jocl 2:28). This prophecy is now in course of fulfillment. New knowledge, new achievements are cvidenced on every hand. The minds of men are not confined to this earth, and God so far is not restraining their activities which they have unagined m their minds to do, except as maii's knowledge is limited. As a son of God, he reaches out into the unknown, scarching for new knowledge to gain increased ability and power to achieve. Being a true son of a divine Parent, pushing out and up to achieve apples to his divine nature. This is in harmony with a choice statement by the late Elder Melvin J. Ballard, who voiced this sublime thought: Man is a child of God, therefore he partakes of the divine nature of his Father. Within him lie germs of infinite development. Potentially he is a god-like being therefore he may nse eternally towards the likeness of his lather in Heaven. Upward, divine, unending is man's destiny (BRyaNnr S. Himwexury, Faith of Our Pioncer Fathers, page 228). HIS is the man in his twilight years with whom your organization is concerned. It is a noble pursuit which can be rich and rewarding. Someone has said, "Old age is a blessed time. It gives leisure to put off our carthly garments one by one and dress ourselves for heaven." And, then, paraphrasing one of the Beatitudes, continues, "Blessed are they that are homesick, for they shall get home." Said Bulwer: We should so provide for old age, that it may have no urgent wants of this world to absorb it from meditation on the next. It is awful to see the lean 578 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1959 hands of dotage making a coffer of the grave." The fifth great commandment of the Decalogue which God gave Moses on Mt. Sinai declares, "Honour thy father and thy mother: that thy days may be long upon the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee" (Exodus 20:12). The apostle Paul gave impressive significance to this commandment when he advised children to honor father and mother, "... Which," said Paul, "is the first commandment with promise," and added, "that it may be well with thee, and thou mayest live long on the earth" (Ephesians 6:1-3). Some children fail to accept the responsibility of parents, leaving their care for someone else to worry about and pay for. When Jesus chastised the Scribes and Pharisees for transgressing the commandment of God by their false tradition, he said to them: For God commanded, saying, Honour thy father and thy mother: and, He that curseth father or mother, let him die the death. But ye say, Whosoever shall say to his father or his mother, It is a gift, by whatsoever thou mightest be profited by me; And honour not his father or his mother, he shall be free. Thus have ye made the commandment of God of none effect by your tradition (Mt. 15:4-6). The emphasis, therefore, on care of the aged should first be one of children and family responsibility; but others may supplement that help wherever necessary to assure them the full, healthy, and happy life. Families should be tied together and kept together insofar as possible through service and helpfulness to each other with' joyful and happy contacts. Although Joseph of old was sold into Egypt by his brothers and became separated from his family, nevertheless, when opportunity presented itself, he took care of his father's family in a generous way and did not fail to be helpful to his brothers and their families, which example, in the great plan of God, is as applicable today as then. We cannot change God's edict given in the beginning that, "In the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread, till thou return unto the ground... "(Gen. 3:19) but we can individually or together provide for any segment of our fellow men who require a kind, loving, and helping hand. HE Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, under the leadership of President David O. McKay, and with the full endorsement and encouragement of himself and counselors, is moving more actively into the field of care for the aged. 'The Church has always emphasized the obligation of children to parents and, through the Welfare Program, provides work opportunities for the aged to challenge their interests and_ talents, which adds to their joy, happiness, and peace of mind. 'The temple program also offers the elderly members opportunities for service to both the living and the dead. The nature and extent of this work become a real source of service and joyful activity for many elderly people, giving purpose and satisfaction to their lives. The bishops of the Church presently and for many years, as a function of the Welfare Program, have and are providing help and_ sustenance to many deserving aged by CARE OF THE AGED IN RELATION TO ETERNAL VALUES 579 placing them in private homes or rest homes. Medical and hospital care is not neglected where needed. Many splendid dedicated doctors and nurses are co-operating in a most excellent way. We owe them a debt of gratitude for this charitable SerVICe. The care of the aged is one of the many responsibilities of a Mormon bishop, but, in addition to the welfare workers who assist him, he also enjoys the very efficient help of the women's organization of the Church, the Relief Society, whose charge from the Prophet Joseph Smith, when setting up this women's organization in 1842, included this field of dedicated service to the aged. It is not our intention to relax in this program of caring for the aged in worthy homes with wholesome environments and companionships but to augment it, and in such a way that their lives can be useful, joyful, and happy. One of the purposes of your organization, it seems to me, is to help the aged as children of God to attain and enjoy the full measure of their possibilities, to bring purpose to their activities and joy, satisfaction, and peace to their hearts. It is not in the economy of God for mankind to retire altogether and give up fruitful activity and wait around for death. The years at eventide, after years of devoted service and choice experiences, can be fruitfully productive and therefore tich and rewarding. I can think of many such living examples whose contributions in their advanced years have blessed our civilization. Some men never seem to grow old, always active in thought, always ready to adopt new ideas, they are never chargeable with fogyism. Satisfied, yet ever dissatished; settled, yet ever unsettled; they always enjoy the best of what is and are the first to find the best of what will be. Said Joubert, "The evening of a well-spent life brings its lamps with it." And Richter added, "As winter strips the leaves from around us, so that we may see the distant regions they formerly concealed, so old age takes away our enjoyments only to enlarge the prospect of the coming eternity." With these thoughts in mind and others unexpressed, concerning man, his heritage, dignity, and destiny as a son of God, I close with a statement of an eminent scientist: Strange is our situation here on earth. Each of us comes for a short visit, not knowing why, yet sometimes seeming to divine a purpose. From the standpoint of daily life, however, there is one thing we know, that man is here for the sake of other men. Above all, for those upon whose smile and well-being our own happiness depends and also for the countless unknown souls with whose fate we are connected by a bond of sympathy. Many times a day I realize how much my own outer and inner life is built upon the labors of my fellowmen, both living and dead, and how carnestly I must exert mysclf in order to give in return as much as I have received. My peace of mind is often troubled by the depressing sense that I have borrowed too heavily from the work of other men. God bless and inspire you to noble achievements in this glorious field of needed service to the aged of America. 580 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1959 Leland Van Wagoner VALLEY OF THE PROVO RIVER, UTAH September Afternoon Dorothy J. Roberts Old roads that part in mountains' final link Have led us to the valley gowned in gold, Where gray lambs, lined in light, still browse or drink. And now the hills of dappled rose enfold Us in their peace as once again we walk With friend and fall, the stippled fields of home. Each time we break offending twigs, or talk, Or rustle the nap of leaves on rock or loam, The bleat of lambs crescendos on the hill. Once more we glean the glory of the year; The bleating hushes, and the air grows still, And only the haze hangs in the atmosphere. Content, we look for nothing strange or new, Yet breath grows still and lagging pulses race Kach time we see September's dome of blue And autumn, come to glorify this place. Paae 58] She Nlorth Central States TNlission Preston R. Nibley Assistant Church Historian HE North Central States Mission was organized at a conference held in Minneapolis, Minnesota, under the direction of Elder Rudger Clawson, of the Council of the Twelve, on July 12, 1925. It was formed from parts of the Northern States, Northwestern States, Western States, and Canadian Mission, and included the States of Minnesota, North Dakota, South Dakota, that part of Montana lying east of Great Falls, and the provinces of Manitoba, Saskatchewan, and Ontario (as far east as Port Arthur) in Canada. John G. Allred of Salt Lake City was installed as the first president of the new Mission, and headquarters was established in Minneapolis, where a suitable mission home was rented. 'Thirty-two missionaries were transferred from other missions to. The new mission. The Latter-day Saints were fairly well established in the territory of the North Central States Mission and chapels had previously been erected in Minneapolis, St. Paul, Dalbo, and Springvale, Minnesota, and in Harlem, Tyler, and Wolf Point, Montana. There were also chapels at Bergland and Winnipeg in Canada. Fee ot Kec Courtesy Minnesota State Centennial Commission Submitted by Vadna C. Matson GRAND PORTAGE (RESTORATION) ON THE NORTH SHORE OF LAKE SUPERIOR A national historic site which was the greatest fur depot in the country from about 1783 to 1804. Page 582 THE NORTH CENTRAL STATES MISSION 583 stg Ns aS a rear Uy WW, se pm pl 8 y " i t a Miller Studio, Pierre, South Dakota MISSOURI RIVER BRIDGES AT PIERRE, SOUTH DAKOTA President Allred served as president of the Mission with diligence and success until June 1929, when he was released to return to his home. Ie was succeeded by Arthur Welling, of Farmington, Utah, who presided until June 1934, when he was succeeded by Wilford W. Richards. At the end of 1930, it was computed that there were 2,600 members of the Church m the North Central States Mission. Presidents who have served since that time are: Wilford W. Richards, 1934 - 1937; David A. Broadbent, 1937 - 1940; George F'. Richards Jr., 1940 - 1944; William L. Killpack, 1944 - 1949; John B. Hawkes, 1949 - 1954; G. Eugene England, 1954 - 1957; Paul C. Child, serving at the present time. On March 31, 1959, there were 4,841 members of the Church in the North Central States Mission, located in thirty-five branches. During June 1959, Elder Alvin R. Dyer, Assistant to the Council of the Twelve, made a tour of the North Central States Mission with President Child. On his return to Salt Lake City, he said, "The Mission is making progress under the devoted leadership of President Child. Convert baptisms are showing an increase over the previous year. I found the mussionarics all well and laboring diligently to carry on their responsibilities." Thirty-one Relief Society organizations, with 634 members, were reported in December 1958. Diana H. Child presides over the North Central States Mission Relief Society. Note: The cover for this Magazine "Farm Scene in Minnesota" was submitted by Vadna C. Matson, First Counselor in the North Central States Mission Relief Society. See also "Recipes From the North Central States Mission," by Diana H. Child, page 600. Next Verona T. Bowen HE golden shaft of summer sunshine smiled on the small girl at the console of the great organ on this, her special day. Was she playing the organ? Hardly, for she was yet only ten or twelve years old, her feet only able to reach the foot pedals by hard stretching. "Next," came a voice from the organ, and her fingers nimbly moved to the next key. "Next," and she played the following note, "next," and again she played the next note. What was she doing — this small one at the world-famous organ? This slight half-adult, half-child, with long golden braids above the wide-set, deep, smiling eyes, was an assistant. Young? Yes, very young, but capable, most of the time, if she kept her two-track mind on both the book she was reading and the organ she was helping to tune. 'That voice with the sing in it was the voice of Father, the technician of the great organ. "Next," his voice sang out to her, and her nimble fingers touched the next note. "Next," he called again and she pressed down the following note. "Next, next, next," and so it went until all the voice of the organ was in perfect tune. Father would busy himself in the organ for a few minutes, then come down to the console. Expertly he would run his agile fingers over the keyboard listening and_ selecting the off-key notes. Perhaps it was the terrific heat wave or the sudden cold after the evening thunder shower that put the great, sensitive organ Page 584 out of tonal quality. As Father played, suddenly a mawkish screech or a thunderous belch would scream out, instead of the usual gracious song of the note, for the great organ was like a barometer, sensitive to changes in the weather. In summer it was extremely temperamental. Its behavior could be disastrous to the great master who played it, had it not been for the tuner and his assistant. Father's attuned ear found the flaws, consulting with the young assistant, and a new set of stops would be set. Then Father would go back to the great chamber of the organ, where thousands of wires and intricacies awaited him, and with his tuning forks, he would again be busy, adjusting each note to perfect tone, while the young daughter was at the console playing the notes. Tuning of this amazing, intricate, delicate mechanism was a must, daily, in preparation for the noonday visitors and tourists who flocked to hear the great master in the noonday recital and see the fascinating, formidable, unique structure that housed it. When tours of people passed through the building just to eye the building and the organ, and to listen to the unbelievable acoustics, they were also amazed if they saw the young assistant at the keyboard. She was quite unaware of them, however, wrapped up in her work and her book. Father was calling now. His little assistant sat alert. They were going to change the voice again. She NEXT was sharp and dexterous and could change it without his coming down to the console. She managed so well that once they started to tune, he seldom came down again except to try the whole of the organ or several voices together. Then he would run his fingers over the keyboard or lose himself in a few moments of sweet harmony. His melodious voice, that could sing so well and was part of the ward choir, was calling to her. "Let's get the echo organ now, and we will be through for today. You get it set while I go to the far back of the building." The assistant on the organ seat closed her book. Expertly she adjusted the stops. When the voice, distant now in the great structure and hardly audible, called its "Next," she was already reading in her book and waiting. 'This was the last they would do today, and the great master would be there any moment now to practice for the noonday recital. "Next. Next. Next," came the far distant voice. EXT, next,' came a voice in her ear. Startled, her book closed, she fumbled a half dozen keys on the organ and then gained composure. The gentle, strong hands of the master rested on her shoulders. "Did I startle you?" he inquired. "And how is our little assistant today?" He looked at her warmly. He was fond of this young lady who so cleverly manipulated the voice of this great instrument he played. She put the book by her side on the bench. "Good morning, Sir. Are you early?" She spoke to him in an unaffected, mature way with a 585 quiet hint of reserve in her manner. He liked that well-mannered attitude, "Probably the reflection of her intellectual, nicely disciplined home," he had often said to his wife. The organist patted her shoulder, picked up the book by her side, read the title out loud, World's Greatest Literature. "Are these the new books your father told me he bought you children?" She expertly moved her fingers with each "Next," as she visited with the organist. "This is one of the books," she replied, watching him as he turned the pages, noting various titles out loud. "How many books have you read this summer, while you have helped your daddy?" "T could hardly say, but many. I usually stop at the library several times a week. A very nice person there helps me select my reading. We are great friends now because I am there so often." "Bless you, child, I wish my children read just a small part of what you do." In the far distance, Father's voice called, ""That's all, now." The master slid his big, well-built frame in on the bench beside the assistant. He gently pushed her along to make room for himself, but firmly put his arm around her to hold her there. "Stay, we'll try it out and sce how it sounds now that you have finished." His masterful hands adjusted many stops on different voices, and the music of the perfectly tuned organ, under his adept hands, suddenly filled the great hall. "Splendid!" he exclaimed. "Fine! Perfect!" Swiftly his fingers flowed over the keyboard, and the music poured out over the empty tabernacle, but his attention was still on the girl. 66 NOW that summer is over, will you be helping your father any more?" he was inquiring. He was thinking he would miss not seeing her around. A certain glow went through her, thinking of this, her last regular working day. "TI will help my father on Saturdays. Now and then I may have to come after school, if there is something special and daddy cannot get help." As she replied she thought how resentful she had been when Father had asked her if she would work for him. How silly she had been. She looked at the master at her side and thought of the interesting experiences and adventures she had enjoyed all summer because she had worked. Her head was bulging with stories from all the reading time it had afforded her. True, her friends had played all summer, but then she had joined them in the afternoons and that had been play enough, at her age, she thought. She had liked the challenge of her regular job that none of her friends had enjoyed. The organist changed some stops. Father had not come from the organ yet. He was probably doing some finishing up in the organ case. The master was playing again. "Did you get paid for this summer work?" he inquired. "Oh, yes, my father paid me." "What will you do with all your money?" "Today is a special day. I am going to spend it." Inside she felt warm at the very thought of this day. She twisted the ring on her finger with her other hand and savored her satisfaction. "Are you going to spend all you have made this summer?" "AML." "Not even save a few cents. Ice-cream money?" "No, I am going to spend it all at once." Shyly she looked up at him and felt his wonder. 'Then she looked out over the great structure, her thoughts turning back to early summer. When Father had wanted her to assist him all summer she had hesitated. It was such a tedious job. She must be freshly dressed and off early each morning... No loitering about. None of her friends worked, and she would miss not being with them. She would think it over, but of course she would do it because she loved her daddy so much and wanted to please him. On that very day she went to town, and there in the store window she saw it. How she would love to have it. She had gone into the store and shyly asked the brittle clerk the price. The clerk spoke to her sharply, but did give her the price. All the way home the wheels in her brain had turned double speed. Father had said he would pay her, and she was trying to settle at a price to charge Father, in order to make this beautiful purchase at the end of summer. At home she got pencil and paper and really figured it out. The master was changing the stops again and inquiring, "What did your daddy pay you for your No 586 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1959 NEXT fine assistance?" His smile was on her. "Ten cents a morning." "Ten whole cents?" Surprise was in his voice. "Ten cents," she replied with finality. She remembered how she had made the financial bargain with her father, but not to anyone did she disclose her precious secret plans for her ultimate purchase. URING the summer she _ had visualized her purchase. How elegant she would feel. In her inner self she imagined how it would seem to be the owner of such a possession. She must not be haughty or superior. She would be happy — happy she bought it herself. The organ master looked down at his little seat companion. She was lost in thought, he could see. He did not disturb that faraway feeling, but played some mood music and contagiously lost himself in reverie, too. All summer she had _ regularly made trips to the store to be sure it was still there. She noted with satisfaction that it had not been sold even up to August. Then came the problem. That wonderful invitation came for her to go to the mountains with her dearest friend and her family. Mother and Father were delighted she could have the holiday. But it meant she would lose three weeks' money and could not do the shopping she had planned the summer around. She had been tortured inside with her decision. 'Then Father told her the stark, chilly truth. He had hired the pupil of the great master to assist him while she was gone. 'Tears of frustration had welled in her eyes. 587 Her family thought, for happiness. That might she had talked to herself. She would put out of her mind forever the splendid, wonderful, beautiful purchase she had intended. She would take some of her money and enjoy some of the mountain trips by horse that she so loved. The mountain holiday had been a feast of summer pleasure. She had come home joyous, tanned, relaxed, and bubbling with exhilaration. The next morning she had been at the organ console, the assistant again, and it was good to be back. She had been gratified with the holiday and had been careful since her return not to go to the store and have any regrets about not being able to make her purchase. Only yesterday her world had changed. She had gone shopping with Mother for her winter school needs. There she saw it! Not only did she see it, but it had not sold, and it was being closed out at half price. 'Tears welled into her eyes. Mother was quick to inquire. Without restraint, she blurted out her emotional summer entanglement to a loving and understanding mother, unaware of jostling shoppers and curious eyes on her. Mother understood perfectly. She had ample money for her purchase, and Mother knew what to do and how to handle brittle clerks. She politely had her call the department head and then had that splendid object put away with the name of the assistant on it, who would come the following day with her father to make the final monetary transaction and purchase. 'I'his was the day! The Day! "Hello!" Father was saying as she 588 and the organist bounced back to reality. ""Ihe organ is in tune, ready for you." The assistant stepped down from the organ and over by her father. She put her hand in his, anxious to go. "Your daughter tells me she is going to spend all of her hard-earned savings." 'Ihe master looked at the happiness in both their faces. "What is this long summer earning going to buy?" Father looked at the assistant, but he did not reply. He let her speak RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—-SEPTEMBER 1959 for herself and her own expansive feeling of satisfaction. "I am going to buy a gorgeous, red, silk taffeta umbrella to carry to school on rainy days. Good morning, Sir." She was anxious to be away. The master watched them as they left the building, technician and assistant — father and daughter. He must ask his wife that night to shop ° for a pair of red rubber overshoes for him to send to the little assistant to use with that "gorgeous, red, silk taffeta umbrella." t Enlisted Eva Willes Wangsgaard Down the path my firstborn went, Neither boy nor man. Golden-leafed the poplars bent And brushed him as he ran. A purring car, a closing door, A smooth and quiet start— The leaves in turmoil but far more Thundered in my heart. The wind picked up the autumn leaves, Lashed and whipped and whirled— Time and Distance, two old thieves, Shut me from his world. Up the pathway slow and lost My steps found their old line. Who can say what must be crossed Between his world and mine? The Real Worth of The Relief Society Magazine Elder Daniel H. Ludlow Associate Professor of Religion, Brigham Young University [Address Delivered at the Magazine Department Meeting, Relief Society General Conference, October 9, 1958| decided to accept Sister Sharp's invitation for this assignment even though I am not an expert in salesmanship, nor do I know a great deal concerning the problems involved in the production and circulation of a magazine. However, I love the gospel of Jesus Christ and am vitally interested in anything which helps to develop in others the testimony of the divinity of Jesus Christ. A few years ago, as a student at Indiana University, I took a course in magazine production in which I was told there were two main ways to measure the success of a periodical: 1. Its circulation, 2. The revenues it received from advertising. According to these criteria, the really successful magazines are those which have millions of subscribers and those which ask for and receive high rates for their advertising. Perhaps these are the criteria of success for a magazine so far as the business world is concerned, but I doubt very much that you can determine the real value of a magazine by any such method. It seems to me the only logical way of determining the real worth of a magazine — or of any other publication or any activity, for that matter — would be to determine the influence for good which that magazine had on the essential and important issues of life. Let us try this procedure in an attempt to determine the real worth of The Relief Society Magazine. If all of you took time to list the things you consider to be most important in your life, I feel certain each of your lists would include at least the following four items: 1. Your testimony of the gospel 2. Your family — husband and children 3. The health and welfare of your family 4. 'The development of your own talents 1. Your Testimony of the Gospel I imagine all of you would list the gospel as one of the most important things in your life. In this connection I am reminded of the statement of President Joseph F. Smith when he said: "My standing in the Church is worth to me more than this life — ten thousand times. For in this I have life everlasting. In this I have the glorious promise of the association of my loved ones throughout all eternity" (PRESIDENT Joseru F. Smirn, Gospel Doctrine, page 108). President George Albert Smith used to say we have three major responsibilities in life: 1. To learn Page 589 for ourselves that the gospel is true; 2. To live the gospel; 3. To teach the gospel to others. I sincerely believe The Relief Society Magazine helps the membership of the Church to achieve all three of these goals. It has been my privilege to know intimately only one multimillionaire on this earth, but I have learned a great deal from that man. Among other interesting statements for a millionaire to make, he said this: "Our most valuable possessions are those which, when shared, multiply; our least valuable possessions are those which, when shared, diminish." 'This is certainly true of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the gospel is one of our most valuable possessions, and when we share it with others, it brings joy and happiness not only to them but also to ourselves. Let us use the effective materials at hand in teaching the gospel to others. A subscription to The Relief Society Magazine for a_partmember family or one of your non-Latter-day Saint friends can help serve as an effective missionary almost every day of the year. 2. Your Family — Husband and Children I'm sure nearly every woman in the world who is married and has a family would agree her family is one of her most important possessions. 'This should be particularly true among the women of the Church who have been sealed to their husbands and children for time and all eternity. This doctrine of the etcrnal nature of the family relationship is one of the most beautiful aspects of the gospel; it increases the responsibilities we have both as parents and children, however, for not only do our actions influence generations yet unborn on this earth, while they live on the earth, but continue to influence them throughout all the eternities to come. President McKay has said that the love of a mother is more like God's love than any other love on earth. He said further: The sweetness as well as the greatness of motherhood lies in the overcoming of sclf-love by Mother for her children. By nature the true mother is self-sacrificing. She is ever giving something of her life to make another cither happier or better. Dying and giving — giving and dying — the two great elements that make the truly heroic — these are the Christlike virtues that make motherhood sublime, (PresipENT Davin O. McKay, Gospel Ideals, page 455). If, then, the family is so important, it seems that anything that would help make a woman become a better wife to her husband or a better mother to her children, or in any way would help to strengthen the ties of the home would be of great value. I know of no magazine which would even approach the value of The Relief Society Magazine in stressing and teaching the importance of satisfactory home conditions. 3. The Health and Welfare of Your Family A few years ago a national survey was undertaken to determine the six major fears of the people of the United States. 'The results indicated Americans feared the following things: 1. Death 2. Lack of economic security 590 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1959 poor health lack of social approval war the supernatural OTR I'm sure none of us would want to claim that any one magazine — or any one organization or country — now provides the solution to all of these fears. However, it seems to me the true Church of Christ — together with the auxiliary organizations which it supports and maintains — goes a long way towards solving these problems. If we, as members of this Church, really lived the gospel — and could convince the world to live it — these fears could be removed from the hearts and minds of mankind. The Relief Society organization was originally established to help rclieve the members of the Church of some of these fears — in other words, to help provide for the health and welfare of the members. 4. The Development of Your Own Talents — the Broadening of Your Horizons I am thrilled every time I study the broad goals of your great Relief Society organization. The scope of your program reminds me_ very much of the statement in Luke concerning the formative period of Christ's life. We don't know very much about the life of Christ from the time he was twelve until he began his ministry at the age of thirty, but the few things we do know are very revealing. Luke tells s "And Jesus increased in wisdom, and in stature, and in favor with God and man." 'These few words cover eighteen years in the life of the greatest personality who has ever lived or will ever live on this earth. But perhaps they say enough. To me they say that Jesus lived a well-balanced life. He increased in wisdom — that is, the mental side of life; in stature — the pliysical side of life; in favor with God — the spiritual side of life; and in favor with man — the social side of life. Iam happy to see that The Reliet Society Magazine provides a wellbalanced offering for development in exactly these same areas. Not only does it provide the women of the Church with an outlet for some of their creative talents in the wniting of poetry, articles, and stories, but it is also concerned with the other important facets of a woman's life — the lesson materials in theology, literature, and social science — the special features for the home, including regular sections on recipes and cooking — biographical sketches of famous leaders — the editorials dealing with problems of the day — the Notes From the Field which help to tie the membership of your local groups into a large, world-wide sisterhood. I believe The Relief Society Magazine truly helps us to keep this commandment of Christ, as it ls recorded in The Doctrine and Covenants:. You shall teach one another the doctrine of the kingdom. Teach ye diligently and my grace shall attend you, that you may be instructed more perfectly in theory, in principle, in doctrine, in the law of the gospel, in all things that pertain unto the kingdom of God, that are expedient for you to understand; Of things both in heaven and in the earth, and under the earth; things which have been, things which are, things which must shortly come to pass; things which are at home, things which are abroad... And a knowledge also of countries and of kingdoms.. Seck ye diligently and THE REAL WORTH OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 591 teach one another words of wisdom; yea, seck ye out of the best books words of wisdom; seek learning, even by study and also by faith (D & C 88:77-79, 118). We can increase our talents tenfold by studying and living the gospel. 'There is no law of diminishing returns so far as the gospel is concerned — and we are assured those things we learn will rise with us in the resurrection. No wonder the Church puts such emphasis on education! And no wonder the Relief Socicty places such importance on its Magazine. EFORE closing, I'd like to relate briefly two experiences which have strengthened my personal testimony concerning the value of the Relief Society organization and The Relief Society Magazine. The first one is a personal experience. When I was a young boy living on a farm, one of my duties was to herd cows during the daytime. This job was not particularly hard — and it gave me plenty of time to read. Many weeks during the summer I would read as many as twelve books a week, and although much of the material I read was worthless, I read many other things which have had a great influence on my life. Among these worthwhile things were all of the standard works of the Church and every Relief Society Magazine which had been published up to that time. My grandmother had subscribed to the Magazine since it was first started and had faithfully saved every single issue. We frequently talk about the influence of other people on our lives — but frequently that influence is received vicariously through reading of the beliefs and actions of others. I am grateful for the testimony of the divinity of the gospel which I have and for the help the articles and stories in The Relief Society Magazine have given mc in gaining this testimony. I feel that we as parents — and grandparents — have a responsibility of placing desirable reading materials before our children to help them grow and develop - in the gospel. The final experience I'd like to relate happened this week. When the Brigham Young University Stake was organized three years ago, I was called to serve as a member of the stake high council. As many of you know, this stake is comprised almost entirely of students at the B. Y. U., and now has twenty-four wards completely organized with Priesthood, Relief Society, Sunday School, and Mutual groups. My particular assignment on the high council is to serve as advisor to the stake mission. In this capacity I have noted that in proportion to the number of non-Latter-day Saint boys and non-Latter-day Saint girls on the campus, that our missionary efforts have been much more successful among the girls. Undoubtedly there are many reasons for this, but I'm sure one reason is the fine examples set for the non-Latter-day Saint gitls by the Relicf Socicty sisters in our stake. One of the girls who has been serving as Relief Socicty president in her ward the past two ycars found herself living within the boundaries of a different ward when she returned to school last week, and therefore had to give up her position as Relief Society president. Our stake mission president knew some 592 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1959 of the sterling qualities of this girl, and so asked me to interview her concerning the possibility of calling her as a stake missionary. It was a thrilling experience to observe the poise and social maturity of the exRelief Society president. 'm happy to say that yesterday she received her call to serve as a missionary in the B. Y. U. Stake (she will not be twenty-one until December). As long as you have Relief Society presidents of this caliber throughout the Church, I have no fears for the continued growth and development of your great organization. In closing, I'd like to wish you the best in your Magazine campaign this year. You are engaged in a marvelous work and are selling a great product. I hope you can go forth with the spirit, enthusiasm, and dedication of a true missionary. If you are not as successful as you would like to be in getting your subscriptions, may I make one brief suggestion. Every failure has a cause — and the cause for failure must be removed before you can succeed. If you are not successful in placing a subscription in one of the homes to which you are assigned, encourage your potential subscriber to list the things she considers to be the most important in her life; then point out how The Relief Society Magazine will help her in realizing and achieving these goals. The objective of the Church — and of the Relief Society — is to prepare a people to live with Christ on the earth during the millennium, and to live with God in the celestial kingdom in the etcernities to come. What a wonderful goal! And The Relief Society Magazine helps all of us in the achievement of this goal. —- She &dge of Summer Grace Ingles Frost I stood on the edge of summer, And harked to winged folk sing Their homing songs and love-songs, That they jubilantly fling Forth from their throats as never May I aspire to sing. I stood on the edge of summer And watched its beauty bloom, Till my heart held such enchantment Within it was no room For aught of hate or censure, Or morbidness of gloom. I stood on the edge of summer... Glad in its golden gleam. I stood on the edge of summer, And dreamed a lovely dream. THE REAL WORTH OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 593 Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, September 1 and September 15, 1899 "For tHe Ricuts oF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND TIE RIGHTS OF THE Women oF ALL Nations" MOUNT TABOUAI IN THE SOCIETY ISLANDS: On the 7th day of June we took an all day march; climbed up the highest peak of the mountain. The scenery below us was grand indeed! The sublimity of the mighty ocean, which lay stretched out before our wondering cyes, inspired us with awe and reverence for Him who gave it its bounds, and by His mighty power prevents it from deluging the earth!... We found plants and shrubs entirely new to us which interested us very much.... The charming little grottocs and arbors seemed alluring almost sufficicnt to tempt a lover of nature to seclude himself and live alone in palaces human hands had not formed.... —Mrs. Addison Pratt A BRITISH WOMAN WRITES ABOUT AFRICA: The Transvaal is the all absorbing question of the British government at the present time.... Olive Schreiner, a South African English woman, a writer of great force and immense popularity, has recently published a book giving her views of the entire situation.... She says: "A new phenomenon has started up in South African life. The discovery of vast stores of mincral wealth in South Africa, more especially gold, has attracted suddenly to its shores a larger population, which is not and cannot, at least at once, be South African...." —Fditorial WI'LL MEET AGAIN IN ZION (Missionary Hymn) We'll meet again in Zion, fair Zion far away, And clasp each friendly hand on that gladsome day; We'll see the mountains rising, snow capp'd to the skies, And the lake on whose fair bosom the evening sunset lies.... —Lydia D. Alder THE RELIEF SOCIETY IN HAMBURG, GERMANY: The Relicf Society of Hamburg is in a very flourishing condition. It is presided over by Sister Reicht, with Sister Ahers as first counselor.... They meet twice a month, a work mecting and a testimony mecting alternately. 'They have not many poor, for they are nearly all poor, but through untiring efforts they succeed in almost paying the rent of the hall where the Relief Society mectings are held. They are earnest workers in the cause and desire to do all they can to roll on the great work of the Latterdays. They entertain the Elders all it is possible for them to do, some inviting them to take a meal a week with them, some do part of their washing and others mend their clothes.... They knit socks and stockings. —News Note THE OLD FOLKS REMEMBERED IN BINGHAM STAKE (UTAH). After the dance Brother Bybee inquired who was the oldest sister, and Abigail Campbell received a rocking chair. Brother Bybee then asked the oldest sister who had never had her ears pierced to come forward. She was Sister Stokes, and was promised a breast-pin. Then Brother Bybee inquired who had given birth to the most children. Sister M. L. Bybee was the lady, having had fifteen children. I believe her prize was a lamp. —Little Sister Page 594 T has been estimated by the department of trades and professions of the National Council of Women that female workers in the United States constitute ninetyeight per cent of the nurses, ninetyfour per cent of the dieticians and nutritionists, eighty-nine per cent of the librarians, seventy-five per cent of the teachers, sixty-four per cent of the social workers, fifty-one per cent of the musicians and music teachers, twenty-three per cent of the college and university faculties. More than a half million women work for the United States Government as civilian employees. Another 325,000 work for State and_ local governments. ONSTANCE WRIGHT is the author of Madame Lafayette (Henry Holt and Company, publishers ), a biography of Adrienne de Lauvois, of the French nobility, who became the wife of Marquis de Lafayette and shared with him his brilliant but tragic career during the American and French Revolutions. IX million Japanese women are now wage earners, twice as many as in 1958. 'There are twenty-six women in the national legislature, 360 in local assemblies, and one woman mayor. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon RS. CAROL HOVIK PETERSON, Salt Lake City, Utah, recently won the $2500 grand prize sponsored by the National Doll Dressing Institute for benefit of the March of Dimes. Her entry was entitled "Saratoga Trunk" and consisted of a doll dressed as a lady of 1880, and a trunk filled with authentic apparel. She also received a $150 Government E: bond as first prize for a Sleeping Beauty and Prince Charming group in a Utah State contest. Aac ean COLONEL DOROTHY N. ZELLER, formerly chief nurse of the Alaskan Air Command, has been appointed deputy chief of the United States Air Force Nurse Corps. RS. BLANCHE HALLA has served as Chief of the Correspondence Review Staff, executive secretariat of the State Department, under ten Secretaries of State. She and a fifteen-woman staff handle much of the department's important outgoing mail, knowing well that blunders could cause international miusunderstandings. Mrs. Halla, a woman of beauty, refinement, and culture, is married to a retired brigadier general. Page 595 IITORIAL c™2 VOL. 46 SEPTEMBER 1959 No. 9 A Standard for Government T will make a man more precious than fine gold; even a man than the golden wedge of Ophir (Isaiah 13:12). NE hundred and_ seventy-two years ago (1787), in this month of September, the Constitution of the United States was presented to the Convention for ratification, and since that epoch-making time, September has been known as "Constitution Month." On the twelfth day of the month, the document was placed before the representatives "of the people." On September 17th, thirty-nine delegates voted approval, and on the twenty-eighth, Congress resolved to submit the Constitution to the legislature of each State. In July 1788, announcement was made that the requisite nine States had ratified the Constitution, and the last State, Rhode Island, approved in May 1790. A new Government appeared among the nations of the earth. This "standard of liberty" represented an enlightened answer to an age-old problem — the government of men in mortal life; the resolving of the conflict between law and liberty, between freedom and _ discipline. Preparatory to the restoration of the gospel, in the land of America not far from the region of the Hill Cumorah, there was signed the Constitution of the United States "'According to the laws and Constitution of the people, which I have suffered to be established, and should be maintained for the rights and proPage 596 tection of all flesh, according to just and holy principles..." (D & C 101:77). The Constitution, although formulated and framed within a relatively short period of time, was not "a sprouting tree of sudden growth." There had been a long prelude and a preface of centuries, for the fundamental principles of that instrument had long stirred the minds of men, and some of its doctrines had achieved a partial ratification among the nations, "far brought from out the storied past." The Declaration of Independence had placed "a firm reliance on the protection of Divine Providence," and the Articles of Confederation stated: "... It has pleased the Great Governor of the world to incline the hearts of the legislatures... To ratify said Articles of Confederation and Perpetual union." And, in the Constitution, the formulation and the framing of the words were new, the devotion and the dedication, the foreshadowing of the wide frontiers of the future were new and splendid in their beckoning. And this ensign in a "new world" provided for the processes of government, a testament of ideals and principles, a tower of security in the midst of shifting values; as Washington said, "Let us raise a standard to which the wise and honest can repair." This covenant of free peo- EDITORIAL ple implied the exercise of judgment and knowledge in the establishment of a design for government, a directing code of ideals, an enduring pilot light under which laws might be established and administered in equity and righteousness — seeking to balance the forces of liberty and law in full awareness of the consideration that liberty can exist only in the presence of righteous restraint. And thus the tall tree of liberty spread its many branches of laws and statutes over the dominions of a wide inheritance, and many able and devoted men plied their strength and courage to the "ennobling of the structure and the timbers of enduring government." Their words and their work and the devotion of the generations have enabled the 597 federation of States to advance in the administration of laws and judgments designed to protect the inherent rights of men as individuals and at the same time to increase the welfare and the human happiness of fifty United States, and many other areas of the earth as well. In this time of fluctuating and irresponsible governments in many parts of the world, when anxiety and uncertainty prevail in many lands, in our times of turmoil, it becomes increasingly essential that constitutional law should be upheld as an emblem and an anchor of stability and justice, and as an enduring example of such principles of law and order as may find an ever-widening application in the earth. —V. P. C. O<—_ She Four Standard Works of the Church to Be Yssued in Tlew Edition INCE the time of the organization of the Church, Latter-day Saints have been urged to read and contemplate the word of the Lord as set forth in the holy scriptures. It is of sacred significance that the prelude to the restoration of the gospel came in answer to a young boy's diligent study of the Bible, regarding the words of James "a servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ.... If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God...." The Deseret Book Company will issue in the late fall (October or November), a beautiful family edition of the Standard Works of the Church — The Bible, The Book of Mormon, The Doctrine and Covenants, and The Pearl of Great Price. The careful thought and planning behind the new edition have been directed towards a prayerful study of scripture, a seeking "out of the best books words of wisdom...." A completely revised edition of the "Combination Reference" by Eldin Ricks is included to direct readers to all four standard works on major gospel subjects and to heip them prepare sermons on scriptural texts. Twelve Bible maps are included, which show in vivid color the kingdoms of the Old Testament and the journeys of Jesus and the apostles. A special section for keeping family genealogical records and distinctive Latter-day Saint events is included. The Old and New Testaments are being illustrated by art masterpieces by courtesy of art museums throughout the world. A special section will present all of the Presidents of the Church, reproduced in full color from portraits that hang in the Los Angeles Temple. Coupled with these will be tributes by authors who speak from life-long personal acquaintance. Another section will show all of the Latter-day Saint temples in full color, and the dates when ordinances were first performed. The dramatic history of Mormonism will be depicted on a "wide screen" fold-out reproduction of the Cody Mural. The pages of The Book of Mormon will contain the famous Fnberg illustrations of characters and episodes in 'The Book of Mormon. The cover will be made of top grain cowhide in deep blue. Against this background will appear a golden likeness of the Angel Moroni, reproduced from an original oil painting by Goff Dowding, and the title, embossed in twenty-four carat gold, will read: HOLY SCRIPTURES OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTERDAY SAINTS. Books will be made available through personal representatives assigned to various geographic regions of the Church. This beautifully illustrated edition will be of particular value to mothers in the home who wish to teach their children to know and love the scriptures and to learn the words of the Lord as given in the sacred records. + But continue thou in the things which thou hast learned and hast been assured of, knowing of whom thou hast learned them; And that from a child thou hast known the holy scriptures, which are able to make thee wise unto salvation through faith which is in Christ Jesus. All scripture is given by inspiration of God, and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness: That the man of God may be perfect, throughly furnished unto all good works (II Timothy 3:14-17). <p> Summer Was Soo Briof Mabel Law Atkinson The summer, waltzing in with hollyhocks, Held sprays of long-stemmed lilies in her arms. Their fragrance bade the dozing four-o'clocks Lift high their heads to greet her lambent charms, She ran with golden sandals through the fields That bronzed to harvest glory at her touch. (How gentle is the scepter summer wields!) All lavishly she filled the emptied hutch; Then quietly beside the slowing stream She built an altar fire and bowed her head. I closed my eyes a little while to dream, And unawares all noiselessly she fled. I could not call her back, then in my grief, I wept because her stay had been too brief. 598 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1959 Fresh Up With Sunday Be Honest with Yourself N the swift passing of our busy days, and in the multiplicity of our activitics and our problems, we are much in need of quiet contemplation — in need of the sacred hours of the Sabbath day. We need to learn to know ourselves — our shortcomings, our blessings, our heritage, our ideals, and our ultimate destiny as sons and daughters of God. In this treasured segment of eternity, our earth life, we need the serenity of thoughtfulness regarding the purposes of our Heavenly Father, his requirements of us, and his promised blessings. We need to ponder the commandments of God as they have been given in the holy scriptures in ancient days and restored for later generations. Many grcat and __ significant thoughts that affect our lives eternally come to us in the stillness of the Sabbath, and we are led to acknowledge our inmost thoughts, our hopes, our prayers, our problems. Perhaps with the psalmist, we may be led to say: "O ye sons of men... How long will ye love vanity, and seek after leasing? But know that the Lord hath set apart him that is godly for himself: The Lord will hear when I call unto him... Commune with your own heart.... Offer the sacrifices of nghteousness, and put your trust in the Lord" (Psalm 4:2 5). Strength and rejoicing come to us when we meet with friends and neighbors, our families and loved ones, within the chapel walls and partake of the sacrament together. Words of instruction, commandments, and uplifting inspiration come to us, and we are comforted by communion and by worship with othcrs of our faith who have accepted the gospel with rejoicing and who are trying to observe the requirements of spiritual participation. The hymns come to us with a dedicated, recurrent message and we think of others in many lands who meet together, even as we assemble, who meet together, remembering the Sabbath day and the commandments for its observance which are made clear to us through the testimony of our hearts — a_ testimony which grows and flowers as we accept and honor our own steadfast inclinations for spiritual sustenance. "So shall the congregation of the people compass thee about: for their sakes therefore return thou on high." BE HONEST WITH YOURSELF Page 599 Recipes From the North Contral States libbesten Submitted by Diana F. Child HamBuRGERS WitTi BARBECUE SAUCE 1% Jb. Hamburger % ¢. Dry bread crumbs 1% tsp. Salt "% ¢. Evaporated milk ¥ tsp. Pepper 3 tbsp. Chopped onion Combine all ingredients. Mix well. Form patties, using one fourth cup mixture for each patty. Brown in hot fat in skillet; pour barbecue sauce over or sct into barbecue sauce; simmer for thirty to sixty minutes. Serve in buns with one teaspoon sauce on each. Makes twelve pattics. BARBECUE SAUCE 3 tbsp. Vinegar 6 tbsp. Chopped onion 1 c. Catsup 1 bay leaf " c. Water % tsp. Dry mustard 2 tbsp. Sugar Combine all ingredients in saucepan and simmer gently for five minutes. Remove bay leaf. Pour over hamburgers and simmer thirty to sixty minutcs. Serve. OraANGE ROo. Uts % c. Lukewarm water 4 tbsp. Sugar i tsp. Sugar % c. Scalded milk 2 yeast cakes 2 well-beaten eggs 4 tbsp. Shortening 3 c. Flour 1 tsp. Salt Dissolve yeast cakes and teaspoon of sugar in water. Add shortening, remaining sugar, and milk. Let cool, add eggs. Let mixture stand fifteen minutes. Add flour and salt, and mix with spoon. Let rise one and one-half hours. Mix down and mold. Cut dough in half. Roll out and spread with paste. Cut as cinnamon rolls and let rise in muffin tins. Bake twenty minutes in 375° oven. Makes twenty-four rolls. Paste for Orange Rolls Grated rind of 1 orange 3 tbsp. Soft butter % c. Sugar FaTTIGMAND 6 egg yolks 3c. Flour 4 tbsp. Sugar 6 tbsp. Sweet cream % tsp. Salt ¥% tsp. Cardamom 1 tsp. Melted butter Beat yolks well; add sugar and mix well. Add remaining ingredients. Roll thin, cut in diamond shapes and fry in deep fat at 375° for two or three minutes until golden brown. Dust with powdered sugar. Page 600 RECIPES FROM THE NORTH CENTRAL STATES MISSION 601 Grounp Raisin Cookies 1 c. Shortening 2 tsp. Soda 2 ¢. Sugar 2 tsp. Salt 3 beaten eggs "2 tsp. Baking powder 1 c. Sour milk or buttermilk 1 tsp. Nutmeg 5 c. Sifted flour 2 Ibs. Raisins (washed, drained, and 1 tsp. Cloves ground) 3 tsp. Cmnamon Cream shortening; add sugar and cream well. Add eggs and mix well. Add sour milk (or buttermilk) alternatcly with dry ingredients. Add raisins. Drop by tcaspoonful on greased baking shect. Bake in 350° oven for twelve to thirtcen nunutes. Remove to rack and store m jar when cooled. Rainpow SALAD Bottom Layer: Dissolve once package Icmon jello as directed on package. Add two tablespoons crushed pineapple. (Use pineapple juice as part of liquid in thi jello.) Middle Layer: Dissolve one package lemon jello as directed on package. Add two tablespoons salad dressing, one small package cream cheese. Top Layer: Dissolve two packages strawberry jello as directed on package. When cool add two packages frozcn strawberrics. Let first layer sct; then add second; then third. Fruit Dressinc (May be used on any fruit salad) 1 c. Powdered sugar (well packed) 1 c. Cooking oil v2 tsp. Salt juice and rind of 1 lemon and orange "2 tsp. Mustard Mix dry ingredicnts. Then add oil and juice altcrnatcly, beginning and ending with oil. Oren Fresu S1RAWBERRY PIE Pastry: 1 c. Flour 2 tsp. Salt 7, ¢. Shortening 1 tbsp. Cold water Blend ingredients. Roll out and bake in 425° oven for fiftecn minutes. Filling: 1 c. Crushed fresh strawberries 1 tbsp. Cornstarch 1 C. Sugar Boil ingredients. Lay whole fresh strawberries in pie shell to cover bottom. Pour over them the hot berry syrup. Chill. Serve with whipped cream or ice cream. 602 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1959 Tuna Fiso Loar 2 ¢ canned tuna (well packed) % tsp. Paprika 1 ¢. Cooked rice 1 tsp. Salt or usc own judgment on 4c. Milk amount, tuna is already salted 2 eggs "" ¢. Bread cruinbs fried in butter Put tuna in strainer. Pour cold water over it. Break up with a fork. Mis all ingredients together; put bread crumbs on top. Bake loaf in 350° oven from twenty to thirty-five minutes. (Use a toothpick to sec if it is done. Eggs should be sct.) Make a cream sauce, using a regular recipe, but adding onc can mushrooms. Serve with mushiroom sauce poured over the top of the baked loaf. Biueserry Boy Bair 2 c. Sifted enriched flour 2 eggs, separated 1% ¢. Sugar 1 c. Milk 26 c. Butter 1 c. Drained blucberries (fresh, frozen, 2 tsp. Baking powder or canned) 1 tsp. Salt Sift flour and sugar. Cut in butter in bowl until size of pea. Save three-fourths cup of mixture in reserve. Add baking powder, salt, two egg yolks, and milk to remaining mixture in bowl. Beat for three minutes — one hundred and fifty strokes per minute. Beat two egg whites until stiff, but not dry. Fold gently into batter. Spread into well-greased pan. Place blueberries over batter, then spread with reserve crumb mixture. Bake at 350° for forty-five mimutcs. Serve warm with thin cream. Serves ten. (Bake in 12" x 8" x 2" pan.) Princess Rice (Danisn Desserr) Vc. Rice "% ¢. Citrus peel 2c. Milk % c¢. Almonds, blanched and chopped 1 tsp. Vanilla 1 tsp. Dissolved powdered gelatine "Ac. Sugar 1 ¢. Whipping cream Cook rice in milk for about one hour, stirring frequently. When rice is done, add vanilla, sugar, gelatine, citrus pecl, and blanched and chopped almonds. Warm the mixture once more, then remove and sct aside to cool, stirring occasionally. When cool, fold in whipped cream and tip into a glass bowl. Serve with red, cold, swect fruit sauce, preferably with whole cherrics floating in it. Fruit SAucr lc. Red fruit juice "Ac. Sugar lc. Water 2 tsp. Cornstarch Add the water and sugar to the juice aud bring to bal. 'Uhicken with. Cornstarch previously stirred up in a very little water. Mother's Late Day Elizabeth C. 66 ERE are red carnations, Mother. I know you like them better than white ones." Helen blew in, looking like a May day herself in her spring outfit. Her mother smiled appreciatively. Red carnations were her favorite flower. "There are lilacs in the garden for a young mother," she told her daughter. "Only I'm afraid you will have to pick them yourself." The older woman was lame. "Put the flowers in the white vase, not the blue." "IT met Professor Stearns," her daughter said as she arranged the blooms, 'and he asked me if there is a possibility you would rent your upstairs to him and his wife. He is retiring; they have sold their house." "T never thought of doing that," replied Mrs. Hughes slowly. "Of course I don't use the upper story since I sprained my ankle." She hobbled around with a cane. "T wonder what your father would have said if he had seen our big four-poster bed set up in the dining room where we used to give state dinners?" she exclaimed. "You won't come and live with any of us," urged Helen. "It might be a solution. We worry about you in this big house alone." Grandma visited back and forth among the younger gencration, but never for long. She dearly loved her grandchildren, but found she had to conform to the ways of the different households. Nor did she wish to impose her ideas on the new McCriminon generation. [Every age brought its own problems, she found. She also liked to keep the old homestead functioning so they could come to sce her. It was her tower and her refuge. "As long as I can manage I like to be independent. Besides, I like to keep up the place in memory of your father." "Tt will run down in spite of everything you can do." "I know," sighed her mothcr, "Pete, the boy who cuts the lawn, has raised his price from a dollar and a half an hour to two dollars. Says he can't live on less." ELEN persisted with her mother, "The Stearns would take a lease on the upper floor. John will advance the money to make the changes, and you can pay him back out a the rent. You'd have to wall off the stairway with a partition to make a scparate entrance and convert the back bedroom into a kitchcn. Luckily, there are bathrooms both upstairs and down!" "Where would we serve a family dinner, if I kept my bed in the dining room?" "In the summer, have it on the back veranda. In the winter, in the living room as most people do, nowadays." The staircase she had loved so much, with its gracious sweep, had become an ogre of late years, the doctor's widow admitted to herself; especially since she had grown lame. She never climbed it. Page 603 "IT guess the Stearns have their own furniture?" "Yes, they have." "What would J do with munc?" "You could sell it or give it away. Dispose of it to suit yourself, while vou are still alive. Vd hike to buy the bird's-cye maple set. You could apply it on the remodeling job. Maggie likes antiques. She might pick out some pieces. Ben's carpets are badly worn, A rug would be a bonanza to him, even if wall-to-wall carpeting is the style. Some of the young folks would be glad of anything. Anything not wanted you could give to the Deseret Industries. It would be used, instead of lying idle upstairs. "Your weekly cleaning woman can make a better job if she only has the downstairs to do," suggested Helen. "Yes, she might even have time to do some ironing," admitted her mother. "How much would the Stearns be willing to pay?" "They said a good rent. Places are hard to find, and this would suit them. We can inquire how prices run, then you could talk it over with them." ELEN didn't know it, but her mother's heart warmed at the prospect of additional income. It would help with several projects. There were so many little things she could do with it. Every time she went to the grocery store she was appalled at the high cost of living. She wondered how large families existed. "I? Ll really be a duplex. What would your father think of my living in a duplex?" "Believe me, Mother, you'd be lucky to have a duplex!" "T wonder how Professor Stearns will take to retirement?" she mused. He had been popular and busy. "Not very well, Pm afraid. His wife will have a hard time of it. You could be of real help to them, with your optimistic outlook." "Yes, and they would be company for me," said Mrs. Hughes. At times she was lonely. "All night. 'Tell them to come over and see me about it. Tell John to draw up a plan for the changes needed. While we are about it, we might get some painting done." No one knew how depressed she felt as the place grew shabby. "T'm so glad you look at it cheerfully." Helen kissed her mother; fixed her foot up on a cushion. "It will be a change." "Life is full of changes nowadays," the older woman sighed. "Tt is all right if it is a change for the better." As she shut the door, Helen felt it would be a good thing for her mother. How well she had taken it. It was quite a "Mother's Day." Tlew Serial She Vlew Day " to Begin in October A new serial "The New Day," by Hazel K. Todd will begin in the October issue of The Relief Society Magazine. Watch for this dramatic story of a woman who returns to her home town to find both disappointment and fulfillment. 604 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—-SEPTEMBER 1959 Rocking-Chair sand Vernessa M, Nagle OCKING-CHAIR Land is not far away. It is just bevond the last tall lamppost. It is as wide as the imagination, as long as memory, as high as desire, and as lasting as faith. Borne on magic carpet or skimming high mountain tops in seven-league boots, the young-in-heart soon reach the fairy city. To the magic words of "Open Sesame," the city gates fling wide. Mage Merlin bows low to welcome young travelers. There in the morning mist is Camelot. 'The faultless king and the phantom knights mount ficry steeds and sct off to right ancient wrongs. Minarets of age-old mosques gleam in the golden sunrise as realistically as the sunny waterfronts of Singapore. Here Orpheus charms the very trees and stones with the magic of his lyre. 'The Blucbird nestles low so that even little boys and girls can touch tenderly the tiny form. Magic swords, wishing cups, and the purse of Fortunatus are here. White mice become prancing horses, and a pumpkin the coach of a beautiful princess. Here are Peter Pan, Wendy, and Titania, Obcron's fairy queen. Rosalind is writing love notes to Orlando, and Alice has reached the cighth square in Wonderland to become a beautiful queen. Bordering the mystic city are rolling seas and gleaming wharves. Great dragon ships ply the ocean, and the graceful g galleys toss free on surging tides. Beyond lic the Islands of Spices. It has been an exciting journcy to Rocking-Chair Land, but now cyelids are heavy and the sandman whispers soft lullabics. 'There is time only for a breathtaking pause on the soft, warm sands of Egypt's ancient Nile, a fleeting glance at tiny remote Mongolian villages nestled on the edge of a meadowland watered by streams from distant blue mountains. 'The Ianging "Gardens of Babylon demand a quick glance as the twilight deepens. Soon the romantic journey to the land of make-believe must end. 'Tiny heads droop drowsily, and little bodies snuggle tight in the security of loving arms..: x = = ROCKING-CITAIR LAND Mrs. Vivian Grover Beddes and her children, left to right: Bonnic, Sally, and Connic Page 605 Bulbs for Winter Blooming Vesta P. Crawford Associate Editor The Relief Society Magazine URING the darkest days of winter, when the autumn flowers are gone, and months before the first springtime buds will appear in the outdoor garden, there is need for the color and fragrance of indoor blossoms. If plans are made during the autumn days, the deep winter in the home can be made beautiful with flowering bulbs. They will bring delight to the housewife, joy to the children, and they will be a comfort to the aged and those who may be homebound. The thoughtful woman may wish to carry gifts of blossoms to her neighbors and may find bulbs suitable for taking to Relief Society meetings and luncheons. The bright and fragrant gift of a pot of flowering bulbs makes an appropriate birthday remembrance or a "flowerthought" for a wedding anniversary. Time for Planting Bulbs may be planted as soon as they are available in autumn. Bulbs of various kinds begin to arrive in the garden stores during September, or they may be ordered from the catalogues. It usually takes at least three months from the date of planting for the blossoms to open. However, this period of time is influenced by many factors — including variety, size, and quality of the bulbs; type of growing medium used; type of container; depth of planting; temperature and degree of light in the place of storage; frequency of watering; and other considerations. If one wishes to have bulbs in bloom for Christmas, it is wise to plant them before the fifPage 606 teenth of September, and bulbs planted later than the middle of November might not be in bloom before the time of competition with the early outdoor flowers. Bulbs Which May Be Forced for Winter Blooming Some experienced indoor gardeners declare that any bulb which will bloom outdoors will also bloom indoors, if given suitable treatment. This might be practical, if one could be sure of the "suitable" treatment. Many gardeners love to experiment, and this, to be sure, is one of the joys of gardening — both indoors and outdoors. However, the following bulbs may be regarded as "standbys" for the indoor gardener. Many varieties of the bulbs listed are suitable for indoor cultivation, but only a few of the most common varieties are mentioned. Hyacinths L'Innocence (pure white) City of Haarlem (yellow) Pink Pearl (soft pink) Ostara (deep blue) Myosotis (light blue) La Victoire (carmine-red ) Narcissi Paper Whites Soleil d'Or (yellow) Tulips Scarlet Leader La Tulipe Noire (dark purple) Mamas (canary yellow) Red Emperor Mt. Tacoma (pure white, peonyflowered ) BULBS FOR WINTER BLOOMING Fantasy (salmon-rose parrot tulip ) Daffodils King Alfred (golden yellow) Mt. Hood (pure white ) Cheerfulness (double white) Freesias Oxalis (Bermuda Buttercup) Lilv of the Valley Mluscari (grape hyacinth) Crocus Scillas (wood hyacinths) Aiaryllis Procedure for Planting Bulbs The directions for growing hyacinths, which follow, apply in a gencral way to other bulbs, but the procedure should be varied according to the size of the bulbs and the types of containers used. Some gardeners have found that they have better results by planting all small bulbs at least one-half inch under the soil. Narcissi are sometimes planted in pebbles, in peat moss, in commercial growing mediums, or in specially designed vascs. Flyacinths for the Indoor Garden Because of their radiant color, lavish bloom, fragrance, and dependability, hyacinths are favorites with the indoor gardencr. Selecting varictics. For best results, choose the largest size and finest quality bulbs available. 'The smaller bulbs will usually produce blossoms, but they will be later and not so resplendent. In choosing colors and color combinations, consider the color scheme in your home. Very few homes have furnishings in colors which harmonize well with the dark purple-blue hyacinths. White and yellow and pink sccm to 607 harmonize more beautifully with the colors and furnishings in most homes. Since hyacinths of different colors have a different time for blooming, it is not advisable to mix colors in the same container, although this can be done if you want to take the risk of having some of the blossoms beginning to fade at the time others are coming into bloom. Usually the pale pink hyacinths will be the first to bloom. Containers for hyacinth bulbs. Here the choice is wide, for bulbs will grow and do well in containers which can be drained and also in containers which have no drainage facilities. Containers at Icast five inches deep are preferred for the large hyacinths bulbs, but more shallow pots can be used. Occasionally, if a pot is too shallow, the hyacinth, when rooted, will "stand up" on its roots and will have to be repotted. Containers may be of glass, china, earthenware, clay, copper, — tin, aluminum, brass, or other material. You may find around the house cnough suitable containers for all the illo vou want to plant: pitchcrs — bowls — glasses — vases — cans. Some of the containers will be suitable for a single bulb, and others may be used for groupings. Soil Mixtures for Growing Hyacinths The mixture usually preferred consists of one-half garden loam and one-fourth cach of peat moss and sand. Add to this mixture about one cup of bone meal and one cup of charcoal to each quart measure of soil. Planting the Bulbs If a container which can be drained is used, cover the drainage hole with a flat pebble. For undrained containers the bottom should be covered with a layer of gravel or pebbles about an inch or more in depth. Sprinkle charcoal (which can be obtained at sced stores and florist shops) over the pebbles, in both types of containers. The charcoal helps to keep the soil fresh and aerated. Fill the container with the soil mixture to about one-half inch from the top, then set the bulbs firmly into the soil. For early bloom leave the top of the bulb above the soil. Some gardencrs Ieave at Icast a third of the bulb uncovered. Towever, others prefer to completely cover the bulb, and some place one-half inch of soil over the top. It will be found, generally, that the deeper the bulb is planted the later will be the bloom. As soon as the bulbs are planted, water them thoroughly, so that there will not be any particles of dry soil in the pot. Storage of Bulbs The bulbs should be stored in a cool, dark place. 'Uhis may be a cellar, an unheated basciment room, shelves on a back porch, or they may be stored outdoors in a pit in the garden area, or sct under shrubs, or placed agaist the foundation of the house. If the bulbs are stored outdoors, they should be protected from frost by covering with wooden crates or boxes with a rug placed over the top. It is necessary to keep the bulbs damp all the time, but not soaking with water. 'The anount of water needed will depend largely upon the humidity of the place of storage. The Time of Bloonung About four to eight wecks after bulbs have been planted, the green shoots will appear, beautiful and shining little pyramids. In about two more weeks the flower buds will begin to form, and at this time, or later, the bulbs should be moved to a cool, lighted window, and kept there until the color is noticeable in the flower buds. Then the plants. May be placed in a sunny window for their blooming. If thev are removed to a cool place at nights, the blossoms will last much longer. 'The soil should be kept damp, but not soggy, at all times. Disposal of Bulbs When the blossoms fadc, cut them off the plant and discard them. Let the leaves remain uncut, and again place plants in a cool place. Water them sparingly, and as soon as the garden soil can be worked in the spring, plant the hyacinths four to five inches deep and about four inches apart and Ict them grow until the leaves wither. If the bulbs, upon being removed from the pots, show signs of infestation by worms or other pests, soak the bulbs overnight in a solution made by cdissolving onc teaspoonful of lysol (corrosive sublimate) in one quart of water. In the springtime, a year from the time of placement in the outdoor garden, the hwvaciuths will bloom again, but it will take several years for them to acquire their original size and vigor. Bulbs which have served one season of indoor bloom should not be potted again, but, left in the garden, they vy will bloom for many years. 608 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1959 Althea Bingham Bitton — Woman of Artistic Hobbies AUUIEA Bingham Bitton, Blackfoot, Idaho, has developed so many artistic hobbies that it is difficult for her to tell which activity is her favorite. She is an excellent landscape artist and does still-life and china painting as well. Her paintings have won many prizes at the Idaho State fairs. Her handwork is famous throughout her home valley and adorns many homes of her relatives and friends. She crochets, embroiders, quilts, does hand and machine sewing, and makes hooked rugs. An entertaining and informed speaker, she is in demand for giving talks and book reviews. She takes an active part in the affairs of her community and has served long and faithfully in all the women's auxiliaries of the Church. Her service in Relief Society includes twelve years as a stake board member. Six years ago Mrs. Bitton and her husband celebrated their golden wedding anniversary. They are parents of five children, grandparents of twenty, and great-grandparents of three. Mrs. Bitton's life is a lovely blend of devotion to home, family, Church, and community, and her hobbies have enriched and beautificd all these fields of service. She Windows of Fleaven Vera Geddes Merrill He promised to open the windows of heaven. My own downcast eyes could not see, That the shadows which darkened my vision Were but new ways to enlighten me. Page 609 -QUIOS PodRJ-jNOGe peY slopes, oy 'tudy} YQ dn yyBneo essueyo sur} ayy Ag 'oorgo Surjund ayy parojua Aout Aqoys pue 'pray ayy ysed 'premuo Joy poara peoye dn asotzy, 'pjoyasnoy usppi-Ivajy 19yjoue ysnl UOJ IO}SIS Of} eB se jo yYsnoyy oq plnod says pasuas oys 'dnois pose plea sty} Jo Jed otuvddq oys 90u0 jng 'spor Aue Uddq DARBY JOU plhoo 3 'Ayiosea Aynp ke BuTzOOUT 0} Josuep Surideosa A[ppIM wo posuryd sys oiaya jsut dutwwI9} -OP 0} Pat} RSSIIRID IO}eL sIVa_ "SoINsYy BUDA IY} 19}e paseyo vsstv[D os 'uorsonb oy A syusred suo popurtu [YS DUO SIVIA JYSId PY "WUNSUOD Joy pap -pou ATuO OYA 's JoyJOUT JOY }YSnos aze8 poytio} Iopy "suruuni Apeoyye DIOM SOUO Pad lOYyJO IY} YoryAr 0} "PPY Suosmed, loyJoIg 0} YOU pojutod pue outed Joy paypos 4] "vj OY YG "PUL dt] 9UO OY} JOU sem ays Suidoy 'preamyorq poourys YS '"UoIIIp Joy Ul peRoy sity poppou uvut oy} 'dn poyooy ays sy "BUITTLO ouivd oy yivwo ApuuRy s esstIE[D 0} uO puR 'YNOA BUOIS B O1DY} 'AOG PB Dd] 'ULI pjO UB MON "WUOUTUSIssE saqjoioes Yonb 'yornb '9yn9e stty oJ Apiwuvry vB JO sUO 0} pajzutod puv Aq uvI os1eyo UI ULL ot} 'sao8njor JO YOoTq B ssItu jOU pynoar o[qqri OY} OS 'UdY,], "opssnIZs IO}vaIs sty} 'urgyim AdUasIDtUd JO pIOA\ paiop -UNT} SYURI OY} YSNoIYy} yorg "Sur -UIRAL JO Joys v sear praye dq "yseycitpas B o1OJoq sjsvaq oy] Bulos Apis OL9 e604 'Sutdeid 'SuIpUueutop 'Suuodsiy a Sutkio 'Suiqqos 'pay uoos day) jyaol]$ DY} UMOP UG 'porlaaoy Aart} ysnq & Yyyeauag [lenb ayrT "pre [eny -NUW IOF 194}980} poudysey soyruiey BUISIOJA, "OPRLUE SEAL }IE}S JT], a) -PPAUL PdYOIM IY} YPM 9}L1VoSIU 0} dUOS I9y}F 409}0I1d 0} JoAeId Ajsey ke A[UQ 'ated ay} UO JNO JOy}OW YIM JAR]S PUB UDIPTIYS 9Y} Jay}es 0} MOY ue A[uo 'suorssassod snorooid yord 0} JUDWIOW B JOU 'spray oy} Jsoarey O} att} ON jAyuNUUtOD = patie -UN UL 0} Yap UO yUD}UT sIdysqouu PULSNOY} XIS JO SSPULL BUITIOS B SEAL loyuoy sf, "gfgt Jo Ioqo}GO UU JYyStu jeY} paioquiswial AOU oYS 'JalpoIONpueLy [[ElUts B dyeUT O} YO Md Burlaq YHOA\ sear Jad ou0 AjuQ = jyxur sroyuud yyLs parsA09 'sSeI UL SEAL }I JYStUpIt Aq pue 'Ads -Jooa\-Adsuly ysoq JOY 19A0 uOIde UR yons ysl o10a\ oYs JYSI9 pour) oys Aep dy} UO JOY Zou AYM puy "JUITUUIOPR OJ uUdAvay JO Poyse Ys T[R sear OPTIMA jo oyjueut Suc, siy}z 'doop soyout XIS UOIJIOSUL PIJOYIOIO sity] 'apYOvIO Ayoyeios e 0} dsuo 'uoide woury poypiejs sty], jpoopur 'uvwoa uoide PIO '"Wasppeya yuopnidut jo yun} dy} = pospayMouyor —Ayoo. Eos uns SUI}}OS "BuUTURTS dy} 0} pasop> zey 'soda Bou eG épunois Assvis oy} OUT lod9ap 19A9 BUIYUIS HYD MOA pIdIJOU NOA UAL] capeys 9a13 umd imoX sopun sjunyeo os Buryool nod aie AYA\ APO} $}991]8 dy} Y[EA\ OF PII] 00} NOA ory jTeUIOAL uoide pjQ jurWIOM piQ juLvuIOM PIO AInqssury 'fy oudyy I] Luvg uoldy 10} S},. V,, "A" IS FOR APRON where in the shop and were fairly kicking the rest over as they crowded out the door. Until Clarissa was pushed against a rain barrel she was not aware that each person held something in his arms. In the darkening of night she just couldn't make it out. Her own steps, now steady, took her indoors. A sure-sounding voice ordered, "Hold out your apron!" Automatically she clasped its lower corners and instantly a great weight was thrown into the ample folds. The jerk of gravity made her knees buckle and her knuckles whiten to the burden. Someone pushed her shoulders to an about turn and as she stumbled out, the order to the next child was, "Put these in your bonnet!" HIS automatic, violent course, born of determined action, was so abrupt and almost ruthless, that there was no time for thinking; only obeying. She staggered under her load, and trailed the old man in front. Back toward Dawson's field they tottered with their burdens. Above the noise of hounded humanity out on the road, Clarissa could hear the rasp, scrape, and grind of a shovel on reluctant soil. The plunk of the earth sounded at her feet and a voice ordered, "Dump out the type, girl!" She guessed she was already on the brink of a small pit, so, bracing herself, she flung her load out and ahead, heard it fall with a metallic ring, then she clasped her hands to ease the tension of the apron hold. Someone cried, "Don't there, girl! Go back again!" Oh, she might lose her place in line if she halted! Three trips she stand 611 made before the moon showed over the trees. Each time the metal clanked with others in a newly turned hole; each time a ready shovel smoothed the field's furrows to disguise its recent disturbance. Quickly, the crew left the spot. Orders were given to be silent on this night's work. 'Two men were charged to remember the spot, even if it took years to come back, or if flood or fire should change the scene. One boy whispered, "Ill come back all right! I'll dig up that type, and help uncle set it again! I don't care if it takes ten years!" Well, it didn't take ten years, but eleven months did pass before the type was resurrected, carted four hundred miles east to another state and set up in a damp cellar through which ran a spring! But at eight, Clarissa was too young to think of the far future. Her sudden remembrance of her mother on up ahead in the stream of men and women made her eyes water and her heart jump to her throat. She would have run swiftly to find safety, but the command was to allay suspicion, trail with her fellow laborers of the field, try to appear calm, and give no clue to the night's affairs. The picture was to be of a belated party catching up with the whole fearing, flecing settlement. She cried a little, thinking all was lost — her mother, father, two little brothers — where were they — gone forever? The march ended at dawn. The frontier miles powdered under their feet. The eight-year-old peered through a morning mist to identify her fellow travelers. But so dirty were they, so unkempt, so inked from head to fingertips, who could tell who they were? Then, looking at her own hands, as the sun came up, she knew that she was one with them in this hiding away of treasure. It was when she picked up a corner of her apron to wipe her tears that she cried out in despair. It was ruined! 'Torn, jagged, inked, oiled, snagged, creased as beneath a crimping iron; oh, never to be worn again. 'Then, as she smoothed it over her knees she remembered the hand-clutched corner and looked at it. Well, enough cloth had been protected to keep clean a small portion. 'Those eight square inches were enough to sew some lace to and make a handkerchief for her wedding! And along one edge, faintly showing, could be read "grace of God" — from the wet type buried in a field! OLP apron woman, indeed! Thoughtless children, out to make fun of the aged, could not crush her now... No, they only hastened her memories to that night eighty years ago, where, for a brief time, she was in the thick of the greatest excitement she was ever to see. Old, old apron woman! Look our way. Look at us little boys on the moist ditch bank. To right or left, you do not notice us! Ah, she is so ancient, so soft of step, we guess nothing ever happened to her! Nothing happened to me, indeed! Once, age twelve, I crept scarcely breathing to save sound, and followed my mother to a great corral of milling horses. Several hundred animals, each stolen from such a defenseless soul as was my mother, had been driven mercilessly, and now awaited day to be herded, in all haste, to a market hundreds of miles over the prairie. Their quivering, frightened, frantic bodies attested to tragic blows and tightened ropes. Some were subdued to wretched drooping of mouths to the ground; others, still undaunted, jerked raw necks upward as though presently fecling the lash. Mother, the gentle, the forgiving, the anything-for-peace type, seemed' changed in her entire demean as were the once fearless horseflesh behind the bars. Neither woman nor horse was in its normal element. Mother represented a sort of controlled fury. Even her voice was tones lower. Her shoulders appeared broader. Her bare hands, hanging in rhythm to her determined stride, looked as large as a man's! I saw a wall of water once in a dry wash that came on with the same inexorable force as she now strode toward the rails of the corral. Her long, full skirts dragged back in the night breeze and crept up a little above her high-top shoes. Sorrow or adversity might bow some people to the earth, never to rise; but with Mother, if she was felled, she sprang up more majestic. The men who had run off her cattle and horses could well beware of this pioneer settler. And so she marched toward that cattle pen looking as if neither man nor the devil could stop her. Without a pause she climbed the rails and only stopped her course to call the name of a mare, beloved by our family. In the clear, cloudless night she discerned an answering jerk of a horse's head and heard a familiar whinny. She grabbed her skirt, threw her legs over the top rail, and in a half vaulting motion cleared the inner side of the fence. She gained 612 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE-—-SEPTEMBER 1959 "A" IS FOR APRON momentum and rans¢@ claim her horse. 4 - An oath cracked in the air. A hulk in human form lurched toward her. A grip of iron shook her shoulder. HEN, through the aperatures of the fence I saw majesty in all its power and beauty. Mother looked that evil man squarely in the face. Her words were lost in the ceaseless tramping of the captured beasts, but the effect on that man amazed me as much as seeing Mother in that pen. He seemed struck with an invisible whip, or pushed away by a magnificent force. I always meant to ask her what she said to him; but never dared. At that instant other forms emerged from the gate of the cortal, and a wrangling ensued which showed that some of the thieves could not understand how a woman got in the place anyway! All of which didn't concern this desperate pioneer woman for one instant. Again she called the mare, again it answered her. Mother went to it, the danger about her as mere nothing. And when she came close enough to stroke the animal's mane, a great peace came over the creature. Its nose, in her outstretched palm, ceased its jerking to the sky. A raucous noise grated on my ears. A rough voice yelled, "Woman, how you expect to get it back?" Language is not so important sometimes; at least Mother didn't need any. Her hands jerked to the back of her waist, caught the ties of her apron, yanked them apart, and with one motion snaked that apron and its strings around the mare's neck, cast a slip knot, and with a free end of cloth gently tugged INSTIT 2 SOUTH RED ni LAKE CITY, UTA UTE OF REIS 613 along her property. A few clicking sounds from the side of her mouth signalled the animal to pace it out of the corral with her. By this time I had inched around to the gate, and I reached for Mother's hand as she came by. I guess she knew I was there, for she had ordered me to come along just in case of trouble. But the look on her face was so triumphant I scarcely recognized her. From the area of the horses came shouts and quarreling — "Bring her back" — "Shoot her down" — "Can't you beat a woman better than that?" — "What she say to you?" — "Let's move these critters out before any more women come in. But 'by now we were running to our wagon. Our cow was hitched to one side of the tongue, the three little children were bundled in the back under a quilt, and the mare backed into place as quicksilver flows in a narrow trough in a refining mill. I helped Mother harness this odd team of bovine and equine flesh. We stepped over the wheel hubs and settled in the seat. Later, I realized Mother hadn't breathed a word since that man grabbed her in the corral. What she had said to him had sufficed for quite a period of time. Over her shoulder she lovingly glanced at her little ones. Over her knees she smoothed her apron. She slapped the reins and made that same side-of-the-mouth click of her tongue we knew so well. Our team leaned forward for a pull to the open prairies — which would lead, in a few years, to the Rocky Mountains — to a Valley of Refuge in the Great Basin. Ie pom uded) WOGD ROAD ri elod ROM THE FIELD [~ Hulda Parker, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relicf Socicty presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Ficld" in the Magazine for January 1955, page 47, and — in the Relief Socicty Handbook of Instructions. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Ivy M. Brown GRIDLEY STAKE (CALIFORNIA) RELIEF SOCIETY VISITING TEACHERS CONVENTION PRESENTS DRAMATIZATION "A LIGHT SHINING," May 6, 1959 Front row, seated, left to right: Pansy Gardner; Lavaun Papa; Jcanie Lake; Janet Meyers; Lois Dustin, representing a grandmother in the dramatization; Reva Payne, a daughter; Betty Wright, a granddaughter; Orlean Dewsnup; Laura Richins; Ebba Ouist. Back row, standing, left to right: Dorothy L. Life; Gerda Niclsen; Karen J. Young; Edith M. Hemstalk; Sadie Harris; Margaret Hunter; Ivy M. Brown, President, Gridley Stake Relief Society; Cecelia Johnson; Olive Johns; Rachel Bate; Margaret Atkinson; Charlotte Davis; Tracie G. Jensen; Lucy McGuskie, stake visiting teacher leader. Sister Brown reports: "Over 200 visiting teachers attended one of our most inspiring activities at which 'A Light Shining' was presented under the direction of Marvis Fife. The sisters pictured include several who have been visiting teachers for neatly fifty years. The three sisters in the center front are a grandmother, a mother, and a daughter, who are all visiting teachers and who took those parts in the dramatization. Some were honored from each ward who had served for thirty-five years or longer, and cach was presented a lovely potted plant. The musical numbers were given by Singing Mothers groups from Chico, Oroville, Yuba City, and Gridley Wards. Refreshments were served from a beautifully decorated table. Each one present was given a bookmark inscribed in gold with 'Charity Never Faileth!' " Page 614 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 615 Photograph submitted by Anna M. Merrill PORTLAND STAKE (OREGON) PRESENTS SKIT FOR SPRING FESTIVAL May 1, 1959 Left to right: Mae Hinman, Bresident: Oregon City Ward Relief Socicty, representing "'the Voice of the Magazine; Joyee Fill, President, Portland Tenth Ward Relief Society, representing "'the Budget"; Margaret Watkins, President, Hillsboro Ward Relief Socicty, representing "Time"; Otelia Hedman, President, Portland Seventh Ward Relief Society, representing "Material"; Marilyn Young, Portland Second Ward Relief Society, representing "the Bride'; Alberta Rider, President, West Hills Ward Relief Society, representing "'the Dinner Plate";; Carol Bennion, President, Portland First Ward Relicf Society, representing ""Goals." Anna M. Merrill, President, Portland Stake Relief Society, reports: " 'From the Magazine' was the theme of the Portland Stake Relief Socicty annual spring festival at which eleven ward Magazine representatives of the stake were honored guests. 'The stage was beautifully and appropriately set with a large... Magazine, through which passed the characters in the various skits presented by cach of the four departments in Relief Society. The cover for the Magazine, as shown in the picture, was designed and painted by the Portland Stake Relief Society literature class leader, Faye Olsen, and her daughter, of the Gresham Ward. Each department, under the leadership of a stake board member, developed a skit summarizing the year's lessons, as they came to Relicf Society members through the Magazine, and portraying the thoughts through 'music and the spoken word.' A four-voice choir, dressed attractively in dark skirts and white blouses, gave soul-stirring scriptures with perfect harmony to remind us, through the theology lessons, that 'the Lord hath spoken.' "The literature characters which came from the Magazine wore authentic costumes, as they vividly relived life in early America through an introduction to the literature of that day. One of the stake's ideal Latter-day Saint families demonstrated the Family Hour for the social science department. The work department skit featured a beautiful young bride, shown in the picture, frantically searching for help with the household and family responsibilities, which she realizes she has accepted without fecling fully qualified for the position. With words written by Jessie Cooke, stake Work Director Counsclor, stake work leader Betty Shelton, and other ward leaders, ward presidents, representing various phases of household management covered in the home management lessons, told the bride how The Relief Society Magazine will supply the help she needs. "Mae Hinman served as 'the Voice of the Magazine,' writing and giving the continuity for the entire program. A framed certificate of merit was presented to Clarice Slaon, Magazine representative for the Portland First Ward, for having attained 154 per cent, the highest in the stake. A buffet luncheon concluded the day's activities,. Attended by 200 Relief Socicty members and friends." 616 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1959 Photograph submitted by Lela L. Udall CALIFORNIA MISSION, SAN GORGONIO DISTRICT SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR DISTRICT QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, May 17, 1959 Director LaVirda Stuechser stands at the left (in dark dress), and assistant organist Clara Toronto is seated at the organ. Front row, seated, left to right: Neva Robertson; Lois Payne; Marthella Yoakum; Ardell Hansen; Francis Moore; Essie Gardner; Mary Stucki. Second row, standing, left to night: Lu Schwartwald; Virgie Denning; Bertha Denning; Georgia Harris; Dorothy Groom; Cherie Pauley; Delores Modine; Sovina Foster; Luella Smith; Eva Smith. Back row, standing, left to right: Carol Grant; Crystal Crow; Myrtle Evelyn; Ida Fuller; Clarine Lund; Murvil Pack; Cora Serymore; Gladys Harvey; Sharleene Clay; Roberta Spiers; Herlen Harris; Joyce Wickham. Lora Ford, organist, and Alice Higbee, pianist, were not present when this picture was taken. Lela L. Udall, President, California Mission Relief Society, reports that this is the first Singing Mothers chorus of the San Gorgonio District. % = e z,: # Bo SF 2.3ef ' et Sy) Sol a! Red ts eh. Ehig me; ® ic; Ore. PMB SAL. PEP Pag nna GP eID IN VIL yy yyy Vir yy yy Photograph submitted by Ardella H. Stevens MOUNT OGDEN STAKE (UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR CLOSING SOCIAL Ardella H. Stevens, President, Mount Ogden Stake Relief Society, reports: "Singing Mothers from all eight wards of Mount Ogden Stake participated in a musical for the closing social of Relief Society, in which they paid tribute and honor in words of love, praise, and encouragement, in music written by our own sisters of Utah. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 617 "Ward choristers and organists who led individual groups were: "Fifth Ward — Daisy Davis and Myra Froer; Twelfth Ward — Minnie Daines and Athlene 'Tooms; Seventeenth Ward — Elizabeth Johnson and Alida Noorda; Twenty-Third Ward — Ardella Nichols and Lucile Jackson; T'wenty-Fourth Ward — Alice Anderson and Mildred Pratt; Forty-Fourth Ward — Laurel Dickson and Gladys Garwin; Fifty-Second Ward Ellen Paul and Ruth Bott; Fifty-Third Ward — Ortell Ferguson and Anna Rae Plougher. "Tributes were paid to the following sisters who composed the music or words for the songs presented in the musical: Minnie Warner, Gladys Rich, Lula Greene Richards, Lucy May Green, Ida H. White, Alberta Huish Christensen, Florence Jepperson Madsen, Beatrice Farley Stevens, Emmeline B. Wells, and Ruth May Fox. "This musical, arranged by the stake music leaders Mathel Ridges, chorister, and Louise Knight, organist, was unique and very outstanding, as well as being beautifully tendered. 'The soloist was Minnie Daines and the reader, Lucile Jackson. Delicious refreshments were served to two hundred sisters. Stake Work Director Counselor Rena B. Tree and Gladys Simpson, with the assistance of the ward work directors, were responsible for a lovely display of the stake welfare sewing which is all completed." 2 Ho ~* 7 rd 38 S ASS Photograph submitted by Fern Horton SANTAQUIN-TINTIC STAKE (UTAH), GOSHEN WARD SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE March 1959 Front row, left to right: Madge Christensen; Naomi Jermain; Virginia Roberts; Elva Okelbetry; Eva B. Steele; Bertie Okelberry; Fern Horton, conductor; Barbara Horton, pianist. Second row, left to right: Sylvia Steck; Elaine Nelson; Mildred Branagan; Dale Lindquist; Mardean Nelson; Rachel Jensen; Louise Thomas; Virginia Cloud. Back row, left to right: Eva Helen Nelson; Mabel Morgan; Barbara Jensen; Wylma Jasperson; Lazetta Carter; Winifred White; Jeanne Beck. Fern Horton, President, Santaquin-Tintic Stake Relief Society, reports: '""This chorus is very active in Church work, both in ward and stake. They are very faithful and give much of their time in service to others. They sing in every funeral service in the ward, in all ward conferences, and in Relief Society Sunday evening services, in many stake conferences, and they have put on many entertainments to raise money to build the ward chapel. Some members of this group have been singing together for over twenty-five years. They furnished the music for both sessions of the SantaquinTintic Stake quarterly conference in March." 618 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1959 LEWISTON STAKE (WASHINGTON AND IDAHO) RELIEF SOCIETY SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, May 10, 1959 Norma M. Kunkel, President, Lewiston Stake Relief Society, and guest organist Phyllis Smith are seated at the organ, center; director Fonda Eastman is standing third from the left on the second row. Stake organist Lola Williams is not pictured. Sister Kunkel reports: 'Numbers presented were 'If With All Your Hearts' and 'Oh, May I Know the Lord As Friend.' " This picture is the first submitted for inclusion in the "Notes From the Field" department of The Relief Society Magazine by the Lewiston Stake, and the Singing Mothers are a newly organized group. Photograph submitted by Thera E. Harper RAFT RIVER STAKE (IDAHO) RELIEF SOCIETY HONORS VISITING TEACHERS AT SOCIAL, June 2, 1959 Thera E. Harper, President, Raft River Stake Relief Society, reports: "The feature entertainment was the dramatic presentation called 'A Light Shining,' under the direction of the stake board membcrs Cloe Warr and Jennie Lee. Those helping with this part of the program were: Flossie Smith, Inez Barlow, JoAnn Hill, Sylvia Baker, NOTES FROM THE FIELD 619 Leone Bell, Clara Beyler, and Fontella Tracy. Small books were presented to the sister from each ward who had served for the most years as a visiting teacher. All other visiting teachers were given a beautiful dish as a token of their devoted and faithful service through the year. Another part of the program was the fashion show 'The Magic Needle' under the direction of stake board members Lora H. Thompson and Barbara Gardiner. 'The "Magic Needle' theme depicted styles from 1842 to 1958. The highlight was the showing of the lovely formal modeled by Jean Marie Miller, and made by her mother; and the beautiful wedding gown modeled by Ann Tavlor, and made by her grandmother and aunt; also the 1909 wedding dress of Sister Ella Bucher, modeled by her granddaughter Sybil Bucher. The stake Magazine representative Alice O. Neddo presented copies of songs about our Relief Society Magazine to the audience to inspire them with the importance of having the Magazine in their homes. Everyone joined in community singing, realizing the worth of our own publication. 'The stake board members furnished refreshments. The music for the day was under the direction of Barbara Udy, stake chorister." BESter rash submitted by ee SA anten WHITTIER STAKE (CALIFORNIA) RELIEF SOCIETY BOARD Front row, left to right: Edith Mitchell, Second Counselor; Rea Jorgensen, President (formerly First Counselor in East Los Angeles Stake); Alta Ellis, First Counselor. Second row, left to right: Jean Reid, literature class leader; Juanita Singley, Magazine representative; Doris Echols, chorister; Lucille Dimmick, Secretary-Treasurer. Back row, left to right: Nelda Tanner, work meeting leader; Eleanor Hansen, theology class leader; Elsie Folkerson, visiting teacher message leader; Helen Cox, organist. Eula Mae Bowman, social science class leader, was unable to be present when the picture was taken. Sister Jorgensen reports: "The division of the East Los Angeles Stake on April 26, 1959, created the new Whittier Stake. There are five former Relief Socicty presidents on the board, and three others have been Relief Society counselors. All are devoted workers and teachers in Relief Society." 620 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1959 ahs AMT Sm hotograph submitted by Marjorie M. Ward SALT LAKE STAKE (UTAH), RELIEF SOCIETY BOARD AND STAKE PRESIDENCY AT RELIEF SOCIETY DINNER PARTY, May 8, 1959 Front row, seated, left to right: Gladys S. Winters, Counselor; Inez T. Hurst, Counselor; Franziska L. Kooyman, Magazine representative; Zitclle M. Snarr, visiting teacher message leader. Second row, standing, left to right: Minnie A. Rossiter, chorister; Karine Kiepe, literature class leader; Marriet M. Capel, theology class leader; Bessie B. Clark, work meeting leader; Mabel H. Burgoyne, social class leader; Marjorie M. Ward, President; Arrah B. Wood, Secretary; Hilda M. Harvey, organist. Back row, standing, left to right: Wallace A. Wood, Counselor; President Glen P. Umberger; Wm. M. Thomas, Counselor. Sister Ward reports: "The spirit of 'Aloha' was radiant at the Salt Lake Stake Relief Society dinner party, May 8, 1959, in a tropical island setting, complete with palm trees, anthurium, fruits, and other items of Hawatian decor. Members of the stake board were gay in their colorful Hawaiian Muu Muu's. Each one wore a hibiscus, the flower of Hawaii, in her hair. Seventy-five guests were presented with vari-colored leis as they arrived and received the traditional 'Aloha' greeting from members of the board. Sister Harriet Capel acted as toastmistress and delighted the group with fascinating stories of the islands. Authentic Hawaiian dances, songs, and string music further created a beautiful atmosphere for the affair. This is an annual party to honor the ward Relief Society presidencies. Other guests bidden to this gala event were members of the Salt Lake Stake presidency, their wives, and other stake representatives, past and present. All members of the stake board were hostesses and assisted with arrangements." LESSON DEPARTMENT Sheology—the Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 19—Some Future Events Elder Roy W. Doxey (Text: The Doctrine and Covenants, Section 29:1-29) For Tuesday, December 1, 1959 Objective: To indicate the emphasis which the Lord has put upon future events. N the Prophet Joseph Smith's history, he does not provide us with information about the reason for receiving Section 29 of The Doctrine and Covenants except that it was given prior to the conference beginning September 26, 1830. The Church had been organized more than five months before this. We know that the first time the angel Moroni visited the Prophet considerable emphasis was given by that holy messenger to what would transpire in the latter days. In his second appearance during the night of September 21-22, 1823, the Prophet said:... He informed me of great judgments which were coming upon the earth, with great desolations by famine, sword, and pestilence; and that these grievous judgments would come on the earth in this generation... (D. H. C. 1:14). That part of Section 29 which is reserved for this lesson deals, in general, with some of these judgments and events associated with them. In many revelations to be studied during this course, we learn about future events, one of the important contributions of 'The Doctrine and Covenants. Lesson Division For this lesson the revelation is divided into these parts: (1) introduction and the gathering of the elect (verses 1-8); (2) second coming of Jesus and the millennium (verses 9-11); (3) the judgment (verse 12); (4) the first resurrection (verse 13); (5) signs preceding the second coming of Jesus (verses 14- 21); (6) events following the millennium (verses 22-29). It seems needless to say that all of these subjects will not be given extensive discussion in this lesson, for they are found in subsequent revelations. Page 621 622 The Gathering of the Saints Attention is drawn immediately in this revelation, as well as in others, to the fact that this divine message comes from our Redeemer who has atoned for our sins. Because Jesus has offered himself as the Savior, there is reason for his bringing together "... As many as will hearken to my voice and humble themselves before me..." (D & C 29:2). The allusion to a hen gathering her chickens under her wings in verse 2 reminds one of the Savior's sorrow concerning those of Jerusalem who would not come into his fold because of wickedness. (See Mt. 23:37.) In the dispensation of the fulness of times the Lord again calls upon all who will humble themselves in mighty prayer to respond to his call. Only those who hearken to his voice will make up his people. (See Section 45:28-29.) In the introduction to this revelation, however, the Lord directs his message to those who have already received the gospel; for, "... Your sins are forgiven ae therefore ye receive these things..." (D & C 29:3) This is a thought which we should keep in mind. Those who have become members of the kingdom of God and who truly humble themselves in the manner suggested receive great knowledge and guidance. And thus the six elders who were present when the revelation was given and who were chosen to declare the gospel were to be instructed in matters of great importance concerning the latter days. These clders, if they did not succumb to the adversary's temptings (verse 2) would enjoy the blessing of:.. Whatsoever ye shall ask in faith, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1959 being united in prayer according to my command, ye shall receive. And ye are called to bring to pass the gathering of mine clect; for mine clect hear my voice and harden not their hearts (D & C 29:6-7). Faith, unity, prayer, and righteous living continue to bring success to the missionaries as they proclaim the gospel courageously. As one studies these few verses. (1-8), he discovers that there are two aspects to the principle of gathering. 'The first is being gathered out of the world into the kingdom of God, and this, it seems, is the phase of the gathering the Church is now in principally. Nephi saw this period of the latter days in vision: And it came to pass that J, Nephi, beheld the power of the Lamb of God, that it descended upon the saints of the church of the Lamb, and upon the covenant people of the Lord, who were scattered upon all the face of the earth; and they were armed with righteousness and with the power of God in great glory.... There were wars and rumors of wars among all the nations and kindreds of the earth.... Then, at that day, the work of the Father shall commence, in preparing the way for the fulfilling of his covenants, which he hath made to his people who are of the house of Israel (1 Nephi 14:14 ff.) In the second phase of the principle of gathering, Israel is to be gathered in unto one place (Section 29:8; 45:64-71). 'The eventual center place for the gathering of the elect of the Lord will be in the New Jerusalem, indicated by revelation as the western part of Missouri. In the meantime, there have been other gathering places where the saints have been brought together to work out certain purposes of the Lord in these latter days. As already LESSON DEPARTMENT indicated by prophecy, with the growth of the Church in the world, many places of gathering are appointed and may probably yet be appointed. This fact was revealed in a subsequent revelation, as follows: Zion [New Jerusalem] shall not be moved out of her place, notwithstanding her children are scattered. They that remain, and are pure in heart, shall return, and come to their inheritances, they and their children, with songs of everlasting joy, to build up the waste places of Zion— And all these things that the prophets might be fulfilled. And, behold, there is none other place appointed than that which I have appointed; neither shall there be any other place appointed than that which I have appointed, for the work of the gathering of my saints— Until the day cometh when there is found no more room for them; and then I have other places which I will appoint unto them, and they shall be called stakes, for the curtains or the strength of Zion. Behold, it is my will, that all they who call on my name, and worship me according to mine everlasting gospel, should gather together and stand in holy places; And prepare for the revelation which is to come, when the veil of the covering of my temple, in my tabernacle, which hideth the earth, shall be taken off, and all flesh shall see me together (D & C 101:17-23). The Lord declared that those who enter his Church are gathered out of the world. In the early part of the dispensation in which we live, calls were made upon the members to come together to work out the purposes of the Lord in Ohio, Missourl, Illinois, and then in the western part of the United States. 'The kingdom of God has flourished in its growth and power bringing about the continuing fulfillment of Nephi's prophecy that the saints, though scattered among the nations, 623 are armed with righteousness and the power of God. These saints remain in the missions of the Church building up the work of the Lord in their places of conversion, exercising their power in affecting for good the lives of their associates. Moreover, stakes are continually being formed from mussion areas. The Second Coming of Jesus (D & C 29:9-11) From the revelation quoted above (Section 101), we learn a purpose of the gathering of the saints — to prepare for the second coming of the Savior. 'This purpose is given in Section 29, verse 8 "... To prepare their hearts and be prepared in all things against the day when tribulation and desolation are sent forth upon the wicked." 'There follows the plainly stated fact that the day is coming soon when all the wicked shall burn as stubble, in order that when the Lord comes he will dwell in righteousness with men on earth for the thousand years of the millennium. The Twelve and Judgment (D & C 29:12) It should be evident to all that the coming of Jesus in great power marks the beginning of the millennial period of peace and righteousness (verse 11). Preparation for that period is now going on. Associated with the Redeemer at his coming will be the 'Twelve Apostles "'... Which were with me in my ministry at Jerusalem..." (D & C 29:12). 'These apostles will come clothed with robes of righteousness and with crowns upon their heads to judge the "... Whole house of Israel, even as many as have loved me and kept my com- mandments, and none else" (D&C 29:12). After having proved themselves, the Twelve will receive their blessing as indicated. Does this mean that included with the Twelve will be Judas, the betrayer of the Lord? It seems not. All this revelation states is that the Twelve who will come with the Lord will be those "... Which were with me in my ministry at Jerusalem" (D & C 29:12). In order to fill the vacancy in that quorum, the remaining eleven apostles met and, under divine guidance, selected Matthias. He qualified as an apostle of that dispensation because he "",.. Companied with us all the time that the Lord Jesus went in and out among us, Beginning from the baptism of John, unto that same day that he was taken up from us..." (Acts 1:21-22). Matthias will come as a member of the Twelve in filling the office "... From which Judas by transgression fell...." (See Acts 1:15-26.) The power of judgeship will extend beyond those of Jesus' mortal ministry to include other branches of Israel led into other parts of the world, as the Nephite Twelve. (See 1 Nephi 12:9-10.) The Resurrection (D & C 29:13) In this verse we learn that at the second coming of Christ there will be a resurrection of those who "died in me": For a trump shall sound both long and loud, even as upon Mount Sinai, and all the earth shall quake, and they shall come forth — yea, even the dead which died in me, to receive a crown of rightcousness, and to be clothed upon, even as I am, to be with me, that we may be one (D & C 29:13). Who are those "which died in me?" 'This does not apply only to those who, it has been said, will judge the house of Israel — the Twelve. 'The crown of righteousness will also be received by those who faithfully kept the commandments and they will be one with Jesus their Redeemer. This fact is indicated in other revelations, two of which are: And the saints that are upon the earth, who are alive, shall be quickened and be caught up to meet him. And they who have slept in thcir graves shall come forth, for their graves shall be opened; and they also shall be caught up to meet him in the midst of the pillar of heaven— They are Christ's, the first fruits, they who shall descend with him first, and they who are on the earth and in thcir graves, who arc first caught up to meet him; and all this by the voice of the sounding of the trump of the angel of God (D & C 88:96-98). And the graves of the saints shall be opened; and they shall come forth and stand on the mght hand of the Lamb, when he shall stand upon Mount Zion, and upon the holy city, the New Jerusalem; and they shall sing the song of the Lamb, day and night forever and ever (D & C 133:50). Signs of the Times (D & C 29:14-21) But, before the coming of the Savior, bringing with him the 'Twelve, the resurrected saints, and the ushering in of his millennial reign, certain signs will be seen and known, in order that the nearness of Jesus' coming may be known to those who watch for that event. These events of the last days are said to consist of certain phenomena which will be observed in the heavens, as well as in the earth bencath. (See D & C 29:14.) In that day there shall be "... Weeping and wailing among the hosts of men; And 624 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1959 LESSON DEPARTMENT there shall be a great hailstorm sent forth to destroy the crops of the earth" (D & C 29:15-16). In connection with these events heralding the Lord's coming, it would seem that all Latter-day Saints would desire and obey the counsel of their divinely appointed leaders by sustaining them in their office, not only by the upraised hand, but also by following that counsel. For example, we have been given counsel concerning the Church Welfare Program instituted by the Lord for the welfare of his people. We are admonished to participate in welfare projects that surpluses might be available to the saints when in need. All too often, those who do contribute their time, talents, and means, are those who are already making contributions in many other ways in building up the kingdom of God. Is there not in the Welfare Program an opportunity for all to make a contribution which will redound to their temporal and eternal welfare? And it shall come to pass, because of the wickedness of the world, that I will take vengeance upon the wicked, for they will not repent; for the cup of mine indignation is full; for behold, my blood shall not cleanse them if they hear me not (D & C 29:17). We are informed in the above verse that, because of the wickedness of the world, and it is well to notice that the world will not repent, vengeance will come to the inhabitants of the earth. The rebellious, those who harden their hearts in wickedness, must suffer. As the time draws near to the end of this dispensation, men may believe that they can seek refuge in the blood of Christ and be saved, but the 625 Lord here declares that "... The cup of mine indignation is full; for behold, my blood shall not cleanse them if they hear me not" (D & C 29:17). "Wherefore, I the Lord God will send forth [judgments in the form of| flies... Which... Shall eat their flesh" (D & C 29:18). We may believe that diseases and plagues are indicated in verse 18 through 20 causing the conditions described there. All the abominations of the wicked world will not continue when Christ comes. " the great and abominable church... Shall be cast down..." (D&C 29:21). Events Following the Millennium (D & C 29:22-29) When the Savior comes to reign upon the earth as Lord of Lords and King of Kings, the period of peace and righteousness will be ushered in. Conditions existing on the earth during the millennium are to be considered in a future lesson, but this revelation informs us of certain things to happen after the period of the millennium. The first of these events is that men will deny their God: And again, verily, verily, I say unto you that when the thousand years are ended, and men again begin to deny their God, then will I spare the earth but for a little season (D & C 29:22). Many persons will have been born during this period, which raises a question concerning the people who will have lived on the earth during the millennium. Will they be tempted by Satan and tried because they will not have had the same kind of trial as did those who lived before the millennium? Brother Orson Pratt has said concerning this: When the period called the Millennium has passed away, Satan will again be loosed. Now the query arises, Will Satan have power to deceive those who have lived on the earth, and have fallen asleep for a moment, and have reccived their immortal bodies? No, he will not. When they have passed through their probation, and have received their immortal bodies, Satan will have no power over them. Thus generation after generation will pass away, during the Millennium, but by and by, at the close of that period, unnumbered millions of the posterity of those who lived during the Millennium will be scattered in the four quarters of the earth, and Satan will be loosed, and will go forth and tempt them, and overcome some of them, so that they will rebel against God; not rebel in ignorance or dwindle in unbelief, as the Lamanites did; but they will sin wilfully against the law of heaven, and so great will the power of Satan be over them, that he will gather them together against the Saints and against the beloved city, and fire will come down out of heaven and consume them (Journal of Discourses 16, page 322). With the earth being spared for a"... Little season" And the end shall come, and the heaven and the earth shall be consumed and pass away, and there shall be a new heaven and a new earth. For all old things shall pass away, and all things shall become new, even the heaven and the earth, and all the fulness thereof, both men and beasts, the fowls of the air, and the fishes of the sea; And not one hair, neither mote, shall be lost, for it is the workmanship of mine hand (D & C 29:23-25). The final resurrection will come after the events spoken of in Section 29 of the Doctrine and Covenants and in Revelations, chapter 20. Then after the foregoing events — the loosing of Satan at the end of the millennium and the "... Little season" occur — there shall be the last resurrection of the dead called forth by Michael or Adam. The closing event following the millennium is revealed by the Lord: And the righteous shall be gathered on my right hand unto eternal life; and the wicked on my left hand will I be ashamed to own before the Father; Wherefore I will say unto them — Depart from me, ye cursed, into everlasting fire, prepared for the devil and his angels. And now, behold, I say unto you, never at any time have I declared from mine own mouth that they should return, for whcre I am they cannot come, for they have no power (D & C 29:27-29). The extreme ends of salvation, eternal life (godhood) for the righteous, and everlasting condemnation for the wicked, are indicated in the foregoing verses. Notice how the Lord places the wicked (sons of perdition) in the place prepared for the devil and his angels from whence they shall not return, for they have no power. Subsequent revelations, to be studied, give us information concerning the grades of salvation intermediate between these two extremes. Questions for Discussion 1. What are some of the future events mentioned in this revelation? 2. Name the two phases of the gathering of latter-day Israel. 3. Why is it necessary to follow the leaders of the Church? 4. With what events do you associate the second coming of Jesus? 5. What events are to occur following the millennium? 626 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1959 Ussiting A Prelh or ITlessages— Truths to Live By From The Doctrine and Covenants Message 19—"He That Receiveth My Law and Doeth It, the Same Is My Disciple.. "" (D & C 41:5). Christine H. Robinson For Tuesday, December 1, 1959 Objective: To show that in order to enjoy the blessings and association of the Lord's Spirit, we must keep his commandments. A disciple is a student and follower of his master's teachings. 'To be Christ's disciples, we must study and understand the Savior's teachings and put them into effect in our lives. The great blessing that comes to the Savior's disciples is the marvelous opportunity to have the assistance and association of his Spirit. Those who enjoy the presence of his Spirit have peace of mind. They are given the power to meet and overcome life's_ problems and, through his help, enjoy the satisfac tions of achieving great accomplishments in the service of others. How can we become Christ's disciples? He has told us, "He that receiveth my law and doeth it, the same is my disciple..." (D&C 41:5). The first step, then, in becoming his disciple is to know, understand, and receive his law. The Savior's laws are the laws of the gospel. They are the teachings he gave us during his life here upon the earth. They are also the teachings and commandments given by inspiration and revelation to all of his prophets, both ancient and modern, as found in the scriptures and in our leaders' present-day instructions. Understanding and receiving the Savior's laws constitute a continuous and lifetime challenge and opportunity. We must never cease studying and learning. Receiving the law, however, is not enough. We must put the law into action in our lives. 'The Book of Mormon prophet, King Benjamin, clearly expressed this truth when he said, "... And now, if you believe all these things see that ye do them" (Mosiah 4:10). The apostle James expressed this thought when he said, "But be ye doers of the word, and not hearers only, deceiving your own selves" (James 1:22). The gospel of Jesus Christ is a gospel of work. We know that through our good works we will be saved and by our desires and works we will be judged. An ancient fable tells of a certain farmer who had three friends. 'Two of these friends he held in high esteem and associated with them constantly. 'The third, although o: genuine character, was neglected by the farmer. Accused wrongfully before the law, the farmer was summoned to court. He needed a character witness and went first to his preferred friends. 'The first of these gave many reasons why he could not prePage 627 sent himself at court. The second friend was willing to accompany him, but could go no further than the door. The third, whom he had least esteemed, not only did accompany him but so ably defended the farmer before the judge that he was acquitted. According to this fable, each individual during his lifetime makes three friends. 'These are his worldly possessions, his family and neighbors, and his good works. When he leaves this life and faces the Great Judge, his first friend, worldly possessions, must be left behind. The second friend, his family and neighbors, can accompany him only to death's door. His third friend, however, the one he is inclined to neglect—his good works—is_ the only one who can go with him and help him to plead his cause. A true disciple of the Savior is a performer of good works. He knows that by his works he will be judged. He not only receives Christ's words but puts them into action and writes them upon "... The table of thine heart" (Proverbs 3:3). Jesus described a true disciple when he said: Therefore whosoever heareth these sayings of mine, and doeth them, I will liken him unto a wise man, which built his house upon a rock (Mt. 7:24). Let us all earn the rich blessings that come to true disciples of our Lord. Work IT leeting—Physical Safety Factors in the Home (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Discussion 3—Fire Hazards Charlotte A. Larsen For Tuesday, December 8, 1959 Objective: To show that the best fire control is prevention. VERY day 800 homes are struck by fire. Don't permit your home to become one of the 800. Most fires in the home are caused by carelessness; usually it's a thoughtless act or a forgotten precaution — just little things — but too often they lead to destruction and sometimes loss of life. Nearly all fires in the home can be prevented, if the simple and common-sense methods are followed. If you are on your guard and do not let these hazards occur, it will go a long way in eliminating fire in your home. Major Causes of Fire Matches, smoking, and misuse of electricity, account for forty per cent of all fires of known origin. Their real danger cannot be emphasized often enough. Other causes of fire are heating and cooking equipment, rubbish in attic, flammable cleaning 628 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1959 LESSON DEPARTMENT fluid, refrigerator motors without ventilation, irons connected and unattended, fireplaces without screens, lamp cords under rugs, rubbish in basement, overloaded circuits, paint thinner and varnish remover, and grass clippings packed in containers and left in garages. Magazines, papers, and clothing left on radiators or near kitchen stove, and lamp shades coming in contact with light bulbs are also frequent causes of fire. Many of these things don't have to touch flame to burn; they will catch fire simply because they are too close to the heat for too long. Precautions: 1. Keep matches in a metal container and out of reach of children and in a cool place. 2. Employ a competent electrician to repair and extend wiring when this is necessary. (Use all of the safety precautions discussed in the lesson on Electricity.) 3. Discard stacks of magazines and papers, old rags, and discarded furniture from basements, attics, and storerooms. 4. Clean furnace regularly. Faulty connections and pipes cause 50,000 fires a year. Check entire heating system for needed repairs. 5- Don't leave paints or turpentine near the furnace or heat or flame of any kind. 6. If you smell gas or think there is a gas leak in any part of the house, get your family out of the house, open windows, and call the gas company. 7. Guard against a grease fire in your stove. Fire caused by food burning on the stove can be best put out by placing a metal cover on the pan containing the burning food, or sprinkle ordinary bakingsoda or salt on it. Don't try to put out such a fire with water; it splatters and spreads the fire. 8. Make a habit to disconnect electric irons immediately when interrupted by a phone call, the doorbell, or a caller, etc. 629 9g. Never keep flammable or explosive cleaning fluid, such as gasoline, benzine, naphtha, and similar fluids in the house. One gallon of gasoline has the explosive power of eighty-three pounds of dynamite. Such cleansing fluids should never be used indoors. When mixed with air, their vapors can be ignited by the spark of a light switch or any electric connection, or the tiny flame of a pilot light. They can also be toxic if the fumes are inhaled to any great extent. 10. To prevent those mysterious fires caused by "spontaneous ignition," never put oily rags or cloths saturated with furniture polish, paints, or wax in closets or cupboards. 'These can catch fire by theinselves. 'This happens when there is not enough oxygen to carry away heat which is caused when they give off vapors. When these vapors get hot enough, they burst into flame. If you intend to use them again keep them in a covered metal container. 11. Never throw flour, or dust from a vacuum cleaner into a stove fire or burning incinerator. Dust is explosive. 12. If your garage is attached to your house, always keep the door between them tightly closed. 'This will prevent passage of gases from garage to house. It would also retard spread of fire. 13. Never start an outdoor fire on a windy day. In burning trash or leaves, use a covered wire mesh basket. Don't start a fire near a building or fence. Keep. Children away from bonfires or open fires. 14. Use flashlights instead of candles. If lighting should fail. 15. Instruct all responsible members of your family how to act in case of fire and how to call the fire department. It is not wise ever to leave children unattended or locked up in the house. Lighted candles at children's parties can be dangerous. It is desirable for every home to have at least one dependable fire extinguisher. Fires From Holiday Hazards The holidays, Christmas, Hallowe'en, Fourth of July, and others bring many hazards into the home in the form of decorations, candles, 630 lanterns, or fireworks. Choose decorations that will not burn readily. Make Christmas a Safe Time Christmas trees are combustible, so be sure they are green and fresh when purchased. 'They should not be brought into the house until a few days before Christmas. It is wise to set the tree in the coolest part of the room, away from radiators or other sources of heat. Do not use defective or frayed tree lights or light sets not bearing the (UL) Underwriters Laboratory label. Avoid the use of lighted candles for decoration on the tree or in windows near curtains. Pull the plug on the tree lights when not at home. Also avoid use of decorations that are not flame-proof. Remove gift RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1959 wrappings from the home immediately after opening the packages. Supplementary References The A. B. C. Of Home Wiring, Kennecott Copper Corporation 161 East 42d Street New York 17, New York Your Local Fire Department — Your Fire Safe Home National Board of Fire Underwriters - 85 John Street New York 38, New York Questions 1. What are the fire hazards in your home? 2. How many of you know how to reach a fire department? 3. Discuss and list the precautions necessary to avoid fires made possible by Christmas decorations and activities. S tterature— America's Literature — A New Nation Speaks Lesson 11—Benjamin Franklin, Retired Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: America's Literature, by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes, Dryden Press, New York, pp. 95-122) For Tuesday, December 15, 1959 Objective: To review Franklin's literary versatility and so better appreciate his mature endowments. N 1748, during his forty-second year, Benjamin Franklin turned over his successful printing business to his partner, in return receiving a substantial share of the profits during the eighteen years following. He owned several homes, and accumulated considerable land holdings in the Ohio Valley. Freed by his own past industry to a life of leisure (which he defined as contrasting sharply with laziness), he had a luxurious amount of time to devote to whatsoever he chose. Should he give his time to himself or to others? All the ancestors of golf, hunting and fishing, horses, boating, travel, luxurious food and clothing, elegant society, he passed by without a LESSON DEPARTMENT thought. Soon after leaving his print shop he bought a three-hundred acre farm in New Jersey and began experimenting with depth of rootage and resistance to frost of varying mixtures and concentrations of seed. He speculated about the source of mountain springs and noted the varying rock strata. Finding fossilized animals imbedded in rock high on a mountain, he recorded his observations that "We live on the wreck of a world." He perfected a device for making duplicate copies from a roller; by a simple experiment he proved communicative powers among ants; he announced the cyclonic theory of storms and conjectured that light does not come from the sun in particles. He now had time to question, observe, and theorize on myriad aspects of the physical world. (See Relief Society Magazine, July 1959, P- 480.) The Objective Scientist All he asked was knowledge, which it was lis pleasure to earn. And, in recording it, he was the objective scientist. He never took time to write up his famous kite experiment, which to the unlearned made him appear as a magician while to his fellow-searchers in France and Sweden and England he was the leading investigator of electricity of the day. His experiments were translated into French, German, and Italian, and in English he originated the entire basic vocabulary of electricity: positive, negative, non-conductor, armature, etc. He was invited to become a member of various Royal Societies of Science and Physics throughout Europe; his clectrical studies were published in England. 631 Public Service This most active period of his life as a scientist came to an end in 1753, when he was appointed Deputy Postmaster for continental British America. After he reorganized the postal system and made it yield a profit, he represented Pennsy 'vania in England, served as member of the Pennsylvania Assembly, then from 1764 to 1775 was in England representing Pennsylvania, Georgia, New Jersey, and Massachusetts. He returned, resigned to separation, helped draft the Declaration of Independence: and later the Articles of Confederation. He represented the colonics at the court of France for twelve years, returning to Philadelphia in 1755, after negotiating the peace treaty with England. During the last five years of his life, he lived in Philadelphia (text, page 96) where he was clected President of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, and was a delegate to the Constitutional Convention in 1787, three years before his death in 1790. If we are justified in assuming that this retired printer gave his time to the place where his heart lav, we find in him the archetype of selfless public service and concern for his fellow men. From his earliest years, when he read during his lunch period in the print shop, until his last days, his hunger for knowledge and_ books never ceased. Reading was his lifelong companion. He knew not how his personal library grew up the walls of his study, both in England and in France, but he cherished and read all books "containing knowledge that may hereafter be useful to America." Yet learning for its own sake was as foreign to him as indif- 632 ference; learning was good because it was useful; in his own words "Learning whether speculative or practical, is in popular or mixed governments, the natural source of wealth and honor." By the same standard of value he became one of our greatest masters of English prose: he trained himself to write well because such a skill, he believed, would assist him in "getting? On. Literary Craftsman Though he never considered himself a writer, and though he published no books, his collected works fill ten volumes. The bulk of his writings consists of his newspaper works and his personal letters. In his political life he made very few speeches, choosing always to let the written page represent him. His Autobiography, the most widely read personal history written in English, he dashed off during three separate, miscellaneous periods of his life. Apparently the present was so exciting that he could not for long dwell on the past. Realizing that writing "is best wrote which is best adapted for obtaining the end of the writer," Franklin's first friends in Philadelphia were poets, since he believed that he could best master prose by submitting himself to the discipline of verse writing. He consciously imitated the style of the Spectator Papers by Addison and Steele and captured in his own lines their quality of enameled smoothness. After writing in verse he turned the same thoughts in prose, and vice versa. Always writing with greatest care, he made many revisions of his thoughts before achieving a final draft. 'To his sensitive ear the caRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1959 dence of his lines was of extreme importance; as a result, reading him is always a pleasure to the reader's imagination and inner ear. Franklin is one of our greatest masters of the "simple style" which the Puritans so much admired. Always choosing common _ words, and making very few images or elaborate comparisons, he wrote in simple sentences. Because he controlled most carefully the uniform. Ity of his tone, his page always seems "underwritten," or less emphatic than what he is recounting. Thus the reader is forced to supply his share in the communicative process, and, in so doing, Franklin's words capture him completely. The Autobiography Because Franklin never considered himself a man of letters, it becomes an easy temptation to agree with him; however, the evidence points otherwise. No book can speak to generation after generation without possessing genuine literary skill. His greatest ability, and a most rare one, is the easy projection of "self" onto the page, until the reader becomes one with him. His warmth for people and his keen observation contribute to his ability to characterize vividly and tersely. His is a true feeling for dramatic intensity, and by combining it with his narrative powers, he impels the reader to keep turning the page "Sust to see what happens," always the sure proof of imaginative word power. As Carl Van Doren concludes in his great study on Franklin, he is "a harmonious human multitude." Merely because he did everything else extremely well is not justification for belittling his achievement as a writer. Franklin LESSON DEPARTMENT is never a "long-hair" literary man; he's just a writer almost everybody likes enough to read and to recommend to their children. Under the spell of Franklin's art this greatest of all "rags to riches' story isn't told—it's uncovered, since it has always existed, so naturally is it done. The selections in our text (pages 98-122) are the most well-known: how the runaway apprentice comes to Philadelphia, friendless, almost penniless, but ready to pay for his passage even though he has rowed all the way, and bestowing his great puffy loaves of bread on_ those whose need was greater than his. Desiring to attain moral perfection, Franklin composed a catalogue of moral virtues, which to him seemed necessary or desirable. It is the American Enlightenment's classic example of man's belief in his own ability to improve himself and, therefore, his society through selfdiscipline. Concerning this project we read: I wish'd to live without committing any fault at any time; I would conquer all that either natural inclination, custom, or company might lead me into. As I knew, or thought I knew, what was right and wrong, I did not see why I might not always do the one and avoid the other. But I soon found I had undertaken a task of more difficulty than I had imagined. While my care was employ'd in guarding against one fault, I was often surprised by another; habit took the advantage of inattention; inclination was sometimes too strong for reason. I concluded, at length, that the mere speculative conviction that it was our interest to be completely virtuous, was not sufficient to prevent our slipping; and that the contrary -habits. Must be broken, and good ones acquired and established, before we can have any dependence on a steady, uniform rectitude of conduct (Text, page 110). 633 These names of these virtues, with their precepts, are presented in the text on pp. 110-111. The great sigmificance of his attempt to achieve moral perfection is not that he did not attain perfection, but that he tried. Master of Irony Jonathan Swift died when Franklin was thirty-nine. An age which venerated reason and brilliant and subtle statement sharpened by satire had been ready to acknowledge him as master, and so was Franklin. In his Gulliver's Travels, one of the hercest books in literature, Swift had satirized man's excessive faith in science and education, in religion, and in his own perfectibility, while his "Modest Proposal," and attack upon the British government for its grinding administration of Ireland, is justly the most famous use of irony in the language. Franklin followed such a model with his usual skill. Satire pokes fun at some human foible, often with the hope of exposing a weakness that it might be corrected. A refinement of satire is irony, which has the same tone of subtlety and understatement as satire, but which says directly the reverse of what is intended. To remark during a disastrous cloudburst, "Lovely weather today, isn't it?" or to welcome to breakfast some uncombed, unawakened female with, "Well, enter our vision of delight," is to use irony. In such passages as the following, Franklin adopted not only Swift's ironical tone but for a moment, his dismal view ofman's. Nature (and woman's). In a letter to Joseph Priestly, his fellow-scientist and freethinker, dated February 8, 1780, 634 EASY ORGAN COLLECTIONS FOR THE CHURCH ORGANIST AMATEUR ORGANIST— NO. 28 and NO. 29 ASHFORDS EASY VOLUNTARIES CHRISTMAS VOLUNTARIES.. EASY CHURCH VOLUNTARIES FAVORITE ORGAN VOLUNTARIES—Vols. 1, 2, 3 FORTY-THREE ORGAN OFFERTORIES GOSPEL HYMN VOLUNTARIES—Vols. 1 and 2.... Ea. ONE PAGE ORGAN VOLUNTARIES—Vols. 1, 2, 3, 4.... Ea. PORTFOLIO OF CHRISTMAS VOLUNTARIES PRELUDES FOR WORSHIP._.. SIMPLE ORGAN VOLUNTARIES Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank 1! DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 15 E. Lst South Salt Lake City 11, Utah CJ On Approval (J Charge OO Money Enclosed Name Please send the music indicated above. Address... City & State Daynes Micae AUTAATVLAIT LIN eal Ist South 145 NORTH UNIVERSITY, PROVO w= Salt Lake City 11, Utah RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1959 Franklin dreams of what true science might accomplish in a thousand years: gravity might be annulled to make transportation easy, the tillage of nature might then yield twice as large a harvest, and man might overcome disease and old age. But then, as he surveys man's moral state, the eternal idealist, injured by his awareness of present sufferings, cries out:; O that moral Science were in as fair a way of Improvement, that Men would cease to be Wolves to one another, and that human Beings would at length learn what they now improperly call Humanity. After Franklin's first tour of rural England and Scotland, like Swift, he saw such degrading human suffering among great masses of tenant farmers caused by high rents and absentee landlords that, for a moment, he doubts the values of European civilization: Had I never been in the American Colonies, but was to form my judgment of Civil Society by what I have lately seen, I should never advise a Nation of Savages to admit of Civilization. For I assure you, that in the Possession and Enjoyment of the various Comforts of Life, compared to these People, every Indian is a gentleman. Probably the most famous use of irony in American Literature is Franklin's "Rules by Which a Great Empire May Be Reduced to a Small One," written in London, in 1773, when Franklin was beginning to despair of England's ever dealing sympathetically with her colonies. What a master-strategist was Franklin, to get such a piece published in London's most influential magazine, to be read by England's increasingly land-hungry, colony-hungry administrators. From this acknowledg- GET YOUR EDUCATION THE Y'S WAY A GREAT UNIVERSITY—Brigham Young University is one of the great universities of the world. Its students come from every state and 48 foreign countries; its faculty has been trained in a hundred universities; its modern facilities are excellent and the campus is expanding. BUT THERE IS A 'PLUS' AT BYU—Although it offers all the advantages of a big university, BYU retains all the friendliness and attention of the small college. Also religious training is combined with the academic, physical, and social for balanced education the Y's way. Remember These Dates— Freshman Orientation.....................-.22-----------+-Sept. 21-24 Registration __...............22222.... C22seeceee eee eeeSept. 25-26 BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY PROVO—UTAH Page 635 636 ARE YOU AN UNPUBLISHED AUTHOR? IF YOU HAVE A BOOK LENGTH MANUSCRIPT you would like to have published, our editorial staff will be glad to consider it on a co-operative basis. OUR PROGRAM_~ HAS LAUNCHED MANY NEW WRITERS. Submit your work for free editorial evaluation and further information. We consider all types of material: Fiction, Poetry, Juveniles, Religious Books, Educational, and Scholarly Work. GREENWICH BOOK PUBLISHERS, INC. Attention: Mr. Wright 489 Fifth Avenue New York City, New York LEARN TO TYPEWRITE! New Classes Begin Soon Adult classes for Relief Society and genealogy workers will teach beginning and advanced typing. Classes will run 6:30 to 8:00 p. M., Mondays and Thursdays. Individual help and instruction by professional teachers. Call for reservations and further information. LDS BUSINESS COLLEGE Phone EM 3-2765 70 North Main Salt Lake City 11, Utah RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1959 ment of his audience to the end, irony is dominant. In his ironical relation between tiny, complacent England and the colonies, he anticipates Tom Paine: I address myself to all ministers who have the management of extensive dominions, which from their very greatness are become troublesome to govern, because the multiplicity of their affairs leaves no time for fiddling (Text, page 118). Almost a preview of the specific wrongs cited in the Declaration of Independence, this piece lists, in ironical tone, the actual abuses received at England's hands: in return for the colonics' financing their campaigns against the French and the Indians, higher taxes; quartering troops in homes; sending quarreling, suspicious administrators to the colonies, then rewarding them out of colony taxes for their usurpations; revoking the right of Habeas Corpus and passing bewildering and petty laws, etc. Wit and Humor Long before Poor Richard began to appear, Franklin was loved for his humor, often poking fun at his own weaknesses and laughing with the reader at himself. Franklin was never pompous or self-righteous; he never took himself at all seriously, and could always relieve tension with a joke. No wonder he had such influence and such hosts of friends. We know that he wrote an early draft of the Declaration of Independence which burlesqued England's ingratitude to Saxony, her mother-country, and contemporary rumor had it that Franklin alone was not entrusted to write the LESSON DEPARTMENT Declaration because it would probably end with a joke. Franklin loved people enough to write them letters. His correspondence was tremendous, in bulk as in variety of interests. For example, on August 22, 1772, he wrote at least thirteen letters on such various subjects as canals, antislavery propaganda, obtaining workmen for a glass factory, oath-taking, post office accounts, silk culture, gencral business conditions, selecting books for the library company, establishment of a nailery, problems dealing with the Pennsylvania hospital and investments in England. He told jokes and made puns in all his writings (save his scientific works). He often used humor to relieve tension. In his plea for unanimous support of the Constitution he told of the French lady who, in justifying her own position in a quarrel, said to her sister, "But I meet with nobody but myself that is always in the night." He wrote delightful satires on those who took the game of chess too seriously (it was his favorite pastime), wrote parables on persecution and brotherly love in the style of the King James version of the Bible, then laughed silently at his friends when they could not identify the book of the Bible in which they appeared. But best-known because _ bestloved are his Bagatclles, his lighthearted essays which he prepared while living in France for the enjoyment of himself and his charming lady friends, notably Madame Brillon and Madame Helvetious. It is said he was well liked by the ladies because he equally enjoyed listening to them. 637 Mason & Hamlin The Stradivari of Pianos EVERETT PIANOS Finest Toned Spinet Piano Built THE WORLD'S FINEST Cable-Nelson Finest Low Priced Piano Built We specialize in all music for Relief Society Beesley Music Co. Pioneer Piano People 70 S. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH @ BEAUTIFUL e WANDY e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover—$2.50; Leather Cover—$3.80 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Up to 150 miles 150 to 300 miles... 300 to 600 miles.... @ 600 to 1000 miles Fs 1000 to 1400 miles.....0... D 1400 to 1800 miles 0....76 Over 1800 miles.87 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-258] 33 Richards St. Salt Lake City 3, Utah 638 HAWAIIAN TOURS Leave once a month. Prices start from $275. Please inquire about these wonderful tours to Hawaii. Next tour leaves September 12, 1959. HAWAIL TOUR Latter-day Saint group going to Hawaii November 7, 1959. On all Hawaii tours avoid disappointment and make reservations early, at least one month prior to departure. A MEDITERRANEAN CRUISE Forty-seven days. Leaving October 22nd. Rates begin at $795. ROSE BOWL PARADE We have a Rose Bowl Parade Tour leaving in December. Inquire early and make early reservations. Reservations made anywhere in the world, chartered tours or individual. MARGARET LUND TOURS 4708 Holladay Blvd. Salt Lake City, Utah Phone CR 7-6851 GET FULL HOUSEPOWER You HOUSEPOWER UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1959 While "The Ephemera" is his most delightful bagatelle, others also are most rewarding: "Dialogue Between Franklin and the Gout," "The Whistle," "The Elysian Fields," and "The Flies." Such writing is not among the least of his accomplishments, for it proves how he refused to be burdened down by the difficult, often unpopular issues of his French mission, but despite what life could bring he was ever the master of that most difficult art: genuinely to enjoy the living of each day, and the presence of each friend who believed likewise. In the final analysis we can be somewhat academically grateful to Franklin for his great accomplishments in our behalf; to be ungrateful for such is to be less than human. But once the bnilliance of his mind, the tenacity of his will, and the depth of his wisdom are acknowledged, it is none of these alone which stirs our affections as we feel them stirred. Franklin is a great man, not so much for what he did as for what he was. 'Therefore, we know him with our minds but we love him with our hearts. Thoughts for Discussion 1. Why is Franklin's Autobiography so popular? What literary skills docs it exhibit? 2. Why do you suppose Franklin so frequently employs irony in his writings? 3. How could anyone as busy as l'ranklin ever find time to write so many Ictters dealing with so many subjects? Social Science Spiritual Living in the Nuclear Age No lesson is planned for December in this department, due to the holiday season. Alexander Hamilton, and Quaker Interior; 14 small portraits of authors for mounting on previous year's map; anda 7" LP disc with music and the spoken word associated with the period studied in the course. Available now, $3.75 postpaid from Audio-Visual Center, Brigham Young University, Provo, Utah. Announcing the 1959-60 Literature Packet A NEW NATION SPEAKS Reap rich rewards in teaching literature with these especiallyproduced instructional materials. Contents: Six 11" x 14" full-color pictures: Seed Time of the Republic; Monticello, Thomas Paine, Westover, No other school offers you so much... @ Unexcelled Study Opportunities ¢ An Outstandingly Strong Faculty © Home State Environment ¢ A Friendly School A well-rounded study, social, athe letic program. You'll find all this... Ond more at your State University, COLLEGES OF INSTRUCTION @ Engineering © Nursing ¢ Fine Arts © Business © Social Work and other fields. © Education ° Law © Medicine e Mining © Pharmacy Dates to remember: September 24—Freshmen Register September 25-26—Other Students Register September 28—Classwork Starts See what the 'U' has to offer YOU! For full information write: Office of the President UNIVERSITY QB irthda y Co ngratu latio ns Ninety-seven Mrs. AMELIA Harcu Jackson Ogden, Utah Ninety-five Mrs. Lucinpa AtvirA Pace REpp Monticello, Utah Ninety-four Mrs. Ananpa B. Murray Logan, Utah Mrs. Otnitve Leste LLEWELYN Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-two Mrs. Dora ZacHER ARAVE Hooper, Utah Ninety-one Mrs. Susan J. Smiru Jarvis Phoenix, Arizona Mrs. Emuty SPRINGER COLEMAN Midway, Utah Ninety Mrs. Eva EvutaLie Monroe LaGrande, Oregon VIDA FOX CLAWSON TRAVEL SERVICE Recognized. For Experience, Integrity, Service and the best in travel since 1933. HAWAII Sail on the lovely Lurline October 14th or fly Pan American on November 20th. You will enjoy traveling with our fine group. Early Reservations Recommended. For complete information write or phone: VIDA FOX CLAWSON 216 South 13th East Salt Lake City 2, Utah Phone DA 8-0303 Fol Text and Reference Books for RELIEF SOCIETY LESSONS 1959 - 1960 Theology 1. The Doctrine and Covenants (a) Library Edition $1.75 (b) Plastic Edition (add 12c¢ postage) $.55 References 2. Triple Combination $6.00 Book of Mormon, Doctrine and Covenants, Pearl of Great Price in leatherbound pocket edition 3. The Doctrine and Covenants Commentary $4.00 4. Documentary History of the Church—7-volume set $20.00 (a) Volume | $3.50 (e) Volume V $3.50 (b) Volume II $2.50 (f) Volume VI $2.50 (c) Volume III $2.50 (g) Volume VII $3.50 (d) Volume IV $3.50 Literature 5. America's Literature—by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes $7.75 Postage $.25 Social Science 6. Gospel Ideals—Discourses of President David O. McKay $4.00 7. Gospel Doctrine—Discourses of Joseph F. Smith $3.50 8. Discourses of Brigham Young—Compiled by John A. Widtsoe $3.50 9. Pathways to Happiness—by David O. McKay, Compiled by Llewelyn R. McKay $3.95 10. Home Memories of President David O. McKay— Compiled and written by Llewelyn R. McKay $3.75 11. Teachings of the New Testament—Lowell L. Bennion $3.50 Deseret Book Company 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah Gentlemen: will find (— ) money order ( account. Please encircled tions: Enclosed you check ( ) ) | have an charge for (numbered) selecName oooeeeeeceeccecceecececceeeceeccteceesecessesecececscsteceecececccesceese Address oo... Ccceessescseececececceeceecesecoceseessenenscessseeseeeceseee City... Cece L_ Residents of Utah include 212% sales tax. | l I I I | 1 a Zone.... State... ] I Koes 9) ned pe OV IE cts Pure PK-10-95-30891 | aot i JAN 60 \ Sy A Sea Vea YOM INS aaNet = \ N i. >EACHES ] ll Pos § 4K FRESH... FROZEN... OR CANNED aA? MAKES 'EM "PEACHY KEEN" Pure U and I Sugar makes peaches more "peachy" — keener in flavor, texture and appearance. No matter how you serve them — canned, frozen or fresh — U and I Sugar makes 'em "peachy-keen." Try it... You'll see what we mean. Get an extra supply of pure U and I: Powdered, Brown, Fine Granulated and Superfine Dessert. Available at your grocers in 5, 10, and 25 pound bags or handy 1-pound cartons. For all good eating... There's no better buy than U and I. Ee IL LLL Ee | Shese Cool Acres Dorothy J]. Roberts Tonight I cannot sleep; not out of grief, Though well I might; not out of emptiness, For that is no less stranger; nor for pain, Now time has healed the cells of loneliness. I do not slumber, sensing I might lose The feel of autumn air, this sea-like tide Of coolness washing deeper than the skin, This urgent current washing valley-wide. The windew holds a single planet's light Strung on this silence lifting through the frame. No need stirs my tranquility save this Longing to give to gratitude a name. Following darker midnights I have known, I cannot pass in slumber, space so rare As these cool acres set with stars and peace And leave unsung the gift of autumn air. The Cover: Farm Scene in Northern California Photograph by Ward Linton Free Lance Photographers Guild, Inc. Frontispiece: Autumn Along the Snake River, Wyoming Photograph by Willard Luce Cover Design by Evan Jensen Cover Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press From Near and Sar TY will be a senior in high school next fall, and although I do not go to Relief Society just yet, I really enjoy the Magazine and read it every month. "The Silver Leash" (concluded in August 1959) is one of the best stories that I have ever read, and the poems are always so wonderful. —Janey Freeman Chandler, Arizona Our family has enjoyed two years here while my husband has been vice-principal of the Church College of New Zealand. I have had the honor and privilege of being Relief Society president in our College Ward, since it was organized right after the dedication of the temple. The sisters are all faithful participants, mainly faculty wives, and we all look forward each week to the wonderful lessons which are outlined in the Magazine. We all enjoyed the visit of President Spafford and First Counselor Sister Sharp while they were in New Zealand. —Mrs. Maxine Jones Temple View, New Zealand The Magazine has so many worthwhile features. I have certainly enjoyed Mrs. Parson's serial "The Silver Leash'' and Margery Stewart's Poem "Coit Tower" (in the July Magazine). All the comments and articles on the editorial page are always worthwhile and inspiring. —Norma A. Wrathall Sunnyvale, California I have greatly enjoyed reading the Magazine since I was a girl in my mother's home. I am happy for the inspirational, beautiful lessons outlined. 'The literature in the Magazine equals the best to be found. The cover designs are all beautiful, but I especially like the one showing the plaque in the Relief Society Building (November 1958). I like the prize-winning story "Goodbye and Good Luck, Mrs. Kelsey" by Norma Wrathall in the January issue of the Magazine, also Sylvia Probst Young's poem "Parting on the Prairie." My great desire is to continue to read the Magazine until my days are finished on earth. —RMarion Sagers Shields Roosevelt, Utah Page 642 The splendid story "Granny Will Be Waiting" (by Betty Martin, June 1959) is wonderful. I enjoyed it very much. The author must be praised for such a beautiful, sweet story. I loved Dougie and Tessic, the cat. All the production of our dear Magazine is truly wonderful and a rich blessing to all who read it. —Helen McQuarrie Salt Lake City, Utah The August Magazine just arrived, and I am truly thrilled with it. [ts beautiful cover, like the others that have been published this year, is the height of artistic perfection. —Mrs. Delta Williams Nucla, Colorado I was limited in the books and magazines [I could take with me to Lurope. The Relief Society Magazine, however, is with me constantly, a precious treasure from home. I have just re-read "Now Let Us Rejoice," the cditorial in the March 1959 issue of the Magazine, and I, too, rejoice! I Jove London and the English people. Each day has been filled with joy. Stratford-on-Avon, Windsor Castle, Parliament Square — the glorious London temple, and so many historic and literary names are becoming vividly real to me. —Anna B. Fart Member, General Board of Relief Society London, England Refreshed and uplifted from the fourth treading of Margery S. Stewart's pocm "Coit Tower," in the Julv issue of the Magazine, around me I feel the imperceptible air and the extensive blues; beside me my precious family, recalled to a similar place. Is it not good that someone so loves God and people and words that she lifts pen to prove it? The new color covers for the Magazine are a thrill and a delight. —Dorothy J. Roberts Salt Lake City, Utah I enjoy The Relief Society Magazine very much, the literature and theology lessons especially. —David Sail Chelmsford, Massachusetts THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford = - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - - First Counselor Louise W. Madsen - - - - - = - - -~ Second Counselor Hulda Parker - - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Josie B. Ba Elna P. Haymond Elsa T. Peterson Edith 8. Elliott Christine H. Robinson Annie M. Ellsworth Irene B. Woodford Florence J. Madsen Alberta H. Christensen Mary R. Young Fanny S. Kienitz Leone G. Layton Mildred B. Eyring Mary V. Cameron Elizabeth B. Winters Blanche B. Stodderd Charlotte A. Larsen Afton W. Hunt LaRue H. Rosell Evon W. Peterson Edith P. Backman Wealtha S. Mendenhall Jennie R. Scott Aleine M. Young Winnietfred S. Pearle M. Olsen Manwering RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor 2 - - - - - - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford VOL. 46 OCTOBER 1959 NO. 10 Contents SPECIAL FEATURES "... Seek Lecrning Even by Study and Also by Faith' oo ccccecccecssscsssescseseseseeeesRoy W. Doxey 644 The Northern California Mission oo... Cccccececcccscececeseeeeeee eee Preston R. Nibley 650 The New Day — Chapter Voie ececcicccceecccecccecccecesceceecevsseseesssssescasasesesenenenseecssnsessstaeaenececesssceeeeHazel K. Todd 652 "A" Is for Apron — Part II] (Conclusion) oo. CccececcccccseececeeeeeeecscecceceseeeecsesesenseeeIlene H. Kingsbury 672 Quilts and Moihers-in-Law.. Mabel Law Atkinson 674 From Near and Far oicieeecccetecccssccececececeeeeeececeseeseseee Sixty Years Ago a. Eee... Woman's Sphere woes a. Editorial: Establishing Family Patterns Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities _ Birthday Congratulations eee: ae. A oe FEATURES FOR THE HOME Recipes From the Northern California Mission...... Hazel S. Love 662 Making Christmes Ornaments Can Be Fun cecceecccsccscscscsssetcesceseecsesesessesesee Hannah Nowell 665 Margaret Pitts Finds Self-Expression in Crochet Work.......... ——.. 671 The Wath once cceccecesceecceseceesesseeesesesesesesseesessveneessentetesssstesesesesseaceseessess ee eae... Olive Peabody 708 LESSONS FOR JANUARY Theology — Spiritual Creations 0... Ee cee. A. Roy W. Doxey 684 Soe eC COCEE EAR ccc Christine H. Robinson 690 Work Meeting — Household Hazards 0000. Eccctecssseeseeseessseeseeesss..... Charlotte A. Larsen 692 Literature — Two Early American Quakers: Penn and Woolman.................... Briant S. Jacobs 694 Social Science — The Role of Emotional Maturity in Spiritual Living ou... Blaine M. Porter 701 POETRY These Cool Acres — Frontispiece oo... Ecceccccceccsecseces-csecsescssssecsectectsesseeeeeeeecceeeeecceccceee. Dorothy J. Roberts 641 Yet Beauty Comes ow. ——.. Veeweeeeeee lis W. Schow 649 Call Me a Squirrel If You Like cece. Gwen Marler Barney 655 Distraction. Nec eeeeccceee cece ceeeeeeccn tenet eeentneeettee cette eeeWinona F. Thomas 661 All Is Well ee.. A _Elsie McKinnon Strachan 661 Baja California. Oo. Ciccceeccccccecccceecenceceeeeec cece. Cesseceeteceeceeetteneeseeeeeesseststsestseseesitmeeeeethel Jacobson 670 Last Born _Wuw.... A orOra Pate Stewart 670 [eee 092 06200000000000 020030 ASSESS ESCO ORE CERES BEEESOOSCI EY OEfonenne B. Eonyes a Open the Door of Your Heart.. Te Gcee Singles Frost 691 Sounds He Missed.... Ccessccsesseseessestesseesee iste setsesesvireiinsvnri eeLula Walker 708 Autumn Wind occ cccececcescseeeseeseeescteeteessttteeseeees -Eva Willes Wangsgaard 710 Berelt Of SOmg o.... Ccecccseccseceececeececesseesrertunnssnnien tite stessessennnnninnenneee eeMaude O. Cook 711 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Copyright 1959 by General Board of Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Editorial and Business Offices: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah: Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20¢ a copy; payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1108, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Page 643 Fair or False Faces oo. Eececccee ccccccecsssecesececeececeeseecesceceacssseesevansecsassseeeeecseescaseeeaseseeceese 660 "... Seek Learning Even by Study and Also by Faith"' Elder Roy W. Doxey Assistant Professor of Religion, Brigham Young University [Address Delivered at the Theology Departmental Meeting, Relief Society General Conference, October 9, 1958] LDER B. H. Roberts once related in a general conference of the Church an experience he had with an intelligent investigator who was provided by ministers with literature containing arguments against the origin of The Book of Mormon to persuade the investigator to give up her reading of that book. When these ministers returned to her home she said: "T am somewhat confused in relation to this Book of Mormon. The Mormon elders tell one story of its origin, and you tell another... But," she said, "here is another book that the Mormon elders have presented to me, and which I have read, 'They call it the Doctrine and Covenants. It purports to contain a number of revelations to Joseph Smith which he is said to have received. It is nearly equal in volume to the Book of Mormon, and there is no question at all in relation to the authorship of this book. None of you question that Joseph Smith wrote it. He is the author of it, and claims everything in it to be inspired of God; and I wish to state to you," said she, "that this book,—the revelations that are in it— contains as much evidence, and even more evidence, that the man who produced it was inspired of God than does the Book of Mormon that it was written by inspiration. Now what have you to say to that, and how will you explain away that?" Of course, they had no explanation.... Brother Roberts continued, "I wish to express a belief that there is evidence of inspiration in it equal to that of the Book of Mormon" (Conference Reports, April 1929, page 119). Only recently in a_ testimony Page 644 meeting, a returned missionary re-. Ported that after a learned person had investigated the gospel through the usual means employed by our missionaries, and after he had read The Book of Mormon, he was apparently still unconverted. When he was given The Doctrine and Covenants and had studied it, he applied for baptism. The two books of scripture — The Book of Mormon and The Doctrine and Covenants — are witnesses to the restoration of the gospel of Jesus Christ. The Lord has said that we are to seek out of the "best books words of wisdom," to "seek learning, even by study and also by faith" (D & C 88:118). In November 1831, special conferences were held in Hiram, Ohio, about which the Prophet Joseph Smith recorded that the revelations in The Doctrine and Covenants were "'the foundation of the Church in these last days, and a benefit to the world... Therefore the conference voted that they prize the revelations to be worth to the Church the riches of the whole earth, speaking temporally" (D. H. C. I, 235). One of the most important things about the revelations in The Doctrine and Covenants is the fact that the Lord has spoken to the people of this generation through the Prophet Joseph Smith (D & C ",.. SEEK LEARNING EVEN BY STUDY...." 5:10). The revelations through this great Prophet were not spoken in some remote period of the world, and handed down to us by the traditions of our fathers, but they were spoken to his mouthpiece in our generation. As President Joseph F. Smith said: They are, therefore, words of truth, and of eternal life, words upon which we may tely with the utmost confidence, without doubt or misgiving, or fear of yielding to the caprice of vain philosophy, for they are not the words of man, but of God (Journal of Discourses, 19:259). T' seems to me that one of the greatest needs for us in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints is to teach our youth of the divinity of the work which was inaugurated by Joseph Smith under the hand of God. We of an older generation have the definite responsibility to make this message known to our families, and to also realize that what we accomplish will, in a large measure, be determined by whether or not we have a strong testimony of the gospel. Admittedly, we are commanded to teach our children from the beginning the principles of the gospel, and to develop in them the love of truth. If, however, we are to attempt to do this without the benefit of the great evidences which the Lord has provided for us in these times, we shall have lost our greatest opportunity to give to ourselves and our children the real motivation for living the gospel. In other words, as I see it, we cannot, as Latter-day Saints, rely upon teaching the moral concepts of the gospel without taking full advantage of what the Lord has made available in his books of scrip- 645 ture to first, learn the true way of life; second, to understand that the revelations bear witness of themselves; and third, to receive a witness by the Spirit, that the revelatons are true. These are the opportunities available to all Latter-day Saints. I consider it a great privilege and blessing to participate with you in these purposes in a study of The Doctrine and Covenants. By study I mean that we should "study by faith" the revelations themselves, in addition to the lessons in The Relief Society Magazine. The revelations of the Lord in The Doctrine and Covenants set forth in plainness the gospel of Jesus Christ. This book of scripture holds a unique position in giving further emphasis to, and extending our knowledge of certain subjects, as well as providing additional subject matter on the gospel than is found in the other standard works of the Church. These revelations give us knowledge that, if understood and made a part of our living, will assist us in our faith. Important to our understanding is the true knowledge of the members of the Godhead. We are informed in a simple, direct statement of this doctrine from Section 130, verses 22 and 23, that the Father and the Son have bodies of flesh and bones as tangible as man's; but the Holy Ghost has not a body of flesh and bones, but is a personage of spirit. In view of this truth, should there be confusion in the mind of the Latter-day Saint regarding a proper understanding of the Godhead? Concerning the Savior Jesus Christ, we have the testimony of the Lord himself in the Ninety-third 646 Section, wherein he bears witness to the remarkable testimony of the apostle John: Jesus Christ lived as a Spirit before he came into this life — "He was in the beginning with the Father"; that he is the creator of worlds; he is the Savior, "a messenger of salvation"; the life and light of men; and by his being the Son of God in the Spirit and also in the flesh, he thus fulfilled his great role as the Redeemer. He received a fulness of the "glory of the Father" and all power was received by him. By understanding these wonderful truths concerning Jesus and accepting them literally in faith, we then, as the revelation points out: "may understand and know how to worship, and know what you [we] worship, that you [we] may come unto the Father in my [Jesus'| name, and in due time receive of his fulness" (D & C 93:19). ANOTHER segment of knowledge which is so necessary to understand is a true conception of man and his destiny. From The Doctrine and Covenants we are given to realize that every person is a literal child of God, and as such lived before he was born in mortality (D & C 93:29.) Since he is of divine birth, man may, through his obedience to the plan of salvation, reach a divine destiny (D & C 76:58-60; 132:20, 21). These important truths point up the purpose of earth life. It isa place where the spirit child of God is given opportunity to "work out his salvation," a process of proving himself. A connection is made between the spirit and body in earth life, which, through the resurrection, may give a fulness of joy or exaltation (D & C 93:33, 34). RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1959 As we continue our thinking along these lines, we could in no wise neglect the great revelation known as "The Vision," Section 76. Without doubt, this revelation provides for man his greatest "look" into the future as a resurrected being. But this particular revelation is not alone in providing essential knowledge to man. 'There are many others, such as Sections 88, 93, 130, 131, and 132. By these revelations, we have come to know that for every soul there is a just reward awaiting the eternal child of God. Levels of opportunity, beginning in pre-existence, continuing in earth life, then the spirit world, until eventually the resurrected being is either crowned with the glory of the Eternal Father, and as a joint heir with Christ in the mansions of exaltation, or, on the other hand, to receive, commensurate with his obedience to eternal law, a place of honor where there may be further development. "He saves all" says a revelation, except the relatively very few who become "laws unto themselves." When this theological fact is contrasted with the narrow and intolerant creeds of men in the days of Joseph Smith and of our own times, we can better appreciate the greatness of God's plan. Our Father in heaven is solicitous for all of his children and has provided the means whereby they may receive, if not all, a measure of his glory. But, in order to do so, they must place themselves in accord with divine laws either in mortality or in the spirit world. The truths of the gospel, as made known to Joseph Smith, far transcend anything which man has uncovered in his attempt to understand himself and his relationship to Deity. Further an- . SEEK LEARNING EVEN BY STUDY.. Alysis of some of these important truths is not possible at this time, but lessons yet to be developed in our course of study will bring them to our attention. The element of foretelling or prophecy is apparent throughout the modern revelations. 'There are literally hundreds of "prophecies and promises" given in The Doctrine and Covenants. Of these the Lord has assured his saints that: What I the Lord have spoken, I have spoken, and I excuse not myself; and though the heavens and the earth pass away, my word shall not pass away, but shall all be fulfilled, whether by mine own voice or by the voice of my servants, it is the same (D & C 1:38). ANY of these promises may test our faith, but the great blessings of the gospel come to him who Icarns ""by study and also by faith." To the Lord's "elect," who are such because of their answering the call of his servants, there has come guidance in how to live in fulfilling the purpose of one's creation. Such practical information as contained in the Word of Wisdom is an example. Although I am not one who believes that the revelations have to be verified by some external evidence, we Latter-day Saints have learned that, given sufficient time, our books of scripture, where possible, receive confirmation by man's research. An example of this kind has come pointedly to our attention in the past few years concerning the already known harmful effects of tobacco smoking. But, how meaningful and important it is to know that evidence is continuing to increase in support of the fact that lung cancer and cigarette smoking are definitely associated. 'his is 647 but one evidence of the fulfillment of a prophecy, and also the promise of health and other blessings by observing the commandments of the Lord. An insight into present world conditions and the immediate future is provided in the modern revclations. Every Latter-day Saint knows that we are living in a world which is beset with tremendous problems, especially that of the involvement of the world in war. The Lord has spoken and declared that pcace would be taken from the earth in this dispensation. The history of the past several decades certainly should bring to our attention that we are in such a period. In fact, the Lord's Preface to The Doctrine and Covenants declares that Joseph Smith was divinely commissioncd, in part, to warn the world of impending judgments. Wherefore, I the Lord, knowing the calamity which should come upon the inhabitants of the carth, called upon my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., and spake unto him from heaven, and gave him commandments... That it might be fulfilled, which was written by the prophets... That faith also might increase in the carth; that mince everlasting covenant might be established (D & C 1:17, 18, 21, 22). This same wonderful revelation makes known that one of the principal purposes of the revelations is that they might be a "voice of warning" to the inhabitants of the world. We may thus sec that the Lord's word is to go to all the people of the carth in addition to those who have accepted him. The same assurance is given in this great book of scripture, as in others, that the testimony of the Holy Ghost is available to all who will seck for that divine witness. 'he 648 reality of the life beyond this earth life is a part of the message of The Doctrine and Covenants. Within its pages one will find records of the visitation of heavenly beings in our generation, and thus it becomes a witness of the reality of the resurrection. 'The testimony of Sidney Rigdon and the Prophet Joseph Smith stands out prominently, as given in these words:. The Lord touched the eyes of our understandings and they were opened, and the glory of the Lord shone round about. And we beheld the glory of the Son, on the right hand of the Father, and received of his fulness; And saw the holy angels, and them who are sanctified before his throne, worshipping God, and the Lamb, who worship him forever and ever. And now, after the many testimonies which have been given of him, this is the testimony, last of all, which we give of him: That he lives! For we saw him even on the right hand of God; and we heard the voice bearing record that he is the Only Begotten of the Father (D & C 76:19-24). The witness of the Spirit of God even transcends _ sight-knowledge; for, the witness, the Holy Ghost, may continue as a day-by-day experience throughout one's life. One of the objectives in this course on The Doctrine and Covenants is to "study... By faith," believing these revelations as the word of the Lord for us of this generation. As I wrote on another occasion: "'As one so studies and becomes better acquainted with the revelations in 'The Doctrine and Covenants, his gratitude and love for the Prophet Joseph Smith deepen...." One realizes that through this divinely appointed seer the full rich stores of heaven have been opened that men may be guided back to their heavenly home. One learns to appreciate more fully RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1959 that it is through Joseph Smith that this generation has received the word of the Lord. He becomes more firmly convinced that: Joseph Smith, the Prophet and Seer of the Lord, has done more, save Jesus only, for the salvation of men in this world, than any other man that ever lived in it (D & C 135:3). There is also full agreement with what Joseph Smith and the members of the conference convened in November 1831, believed when they said the revelations in The Doctrine and Covenants were "'the foundation of the Church in these last days" (D. H. C. 1:235). Wilford Woodruff, fourth President of 'The Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, said that The Doctrine and Covenants is "our testament, which contains the most glorious, Godlike, solemn, and eternal truths ever recorded within the lids of a book." Among the great number of eternal truths which should be remembered these two are worthy of particular attention: But learn that he who docth the works of righteousness shall receive his reward, even peace in this world, and eternal life in the world to come (D & C 59:23).. If your eye be single to my glory, your whole bodies shall be filled with light, and there shall be no darkness in you; and that body which is filled with light comprehendeth all things (D & C 88:67). The Lord has given these promises, the fulfillment of which is certain, if we study by faith and incorporate into our lives his teachings as revealed in this the greatest of all dispensations of the gospel. 'This is my testimony to you in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. Leland VanWagenen AUTUMN IN THE WASATCH MOUNTAINS, UTAH Vet Beau ty Comes Tris W. Schow We move, compliant to the strident voice Of time, who neither looks nor turns his head, While many words and many melodies Are lost when duty points. Our daily bread Is dearly bought with precious joys cut short. The fragrant breath of roses must be brief In mingling with our own. Doors close on stars, The lily yields our senses to our grief. Yet at the close of life we shall recall How summet's trying days were edged with flowers, And smile, remembering the tender words With which we cheered each other's winter hours. Page 649 She Tlorthera California Nlisston Preston R. Nibley Assistant Church Historian "THE Northern California Mission was formed, under the direction of the First Presidency, in January 1942, when the California Mission was divided. "The dividing line was set between Visalia, in the Fresno District, and Porterville, in the Bakersfield District, and between King City, in the Monterey Bay District, and Paso Robles in the Santa Barbara District." The State of Nevada was made a part of the Northern Cali- ° fornia Mission, and later on the Klamath Falls District in Southern Oregon was added. German E. Ellsworth, who had previously presided over the Northern States Mission, was called from his home in Mesa, Arizona, to preside over the new mission. Early in February, a mission home, at 5 Buena Vista Terrace, San Francisco, was purchased, and headquarters was established. In May 1947, President David O. McKay, accompanied by Mrs. McKay, traveled to Klamath Falls, Oregon, in the Northern California Mission, and dedicated a new and beautiful chapel. The writer of this article, and Mrs. Nibley, had the privilege of accompanying President and Mrs. McKay on this journey. President Ellsworth served as president of the mission until June 1949, when he was succeeded by Thomas W. Gardner of Salt Lake City. Presideut Gardner served until June 1956, when he was succeeded by J. Leonard Love. Eae RT RO eae Courtesy El Dorado County Chamber of Commerce Submitted by Hazel S. Love GOLD DISCOVERY SITE, COLOMA, CALIFORNIA Page 650 THE NORTHERN CALIFORNIA MISSION 651 Redwood Empire Association News Bureau Submitted by Hazel S. Love THE GOLDEN GATE BRIDGE, CALIFORNIA In summing up his labors, and the labors of the missionaries and saints, during the time of his presidency, President Gardner said: "We have participated in the construction of twenty-two chapels and we have witnessed the baptism of approximately 3,859 converts." In May 1957, President Stephen L Richards, of the First Presidency, visited the Northern California Mission and at Berkcley held meetings with missionaries for two days. Baptisms in the Northern California Mission have greatly increased during recent years. President Love reported 1,659 baptisms for the entire year of 1958, and for the first six months of 1959, converts baptized were 862, which led the missions of the Church. In July 1959, President Love received word that he would be released in the near future, and that he would be succeded by Warren I. Pugh of Salt Lake City. Twenty-three Relief Society organizations, with 642 members, were reported in December 1958. Hazel S. Love is the recently released president of the Northern California Mission Relief Society. Leta Curtis Pugh is the new president. Note: the cover for this Magazine "Farm Scene in Northern California," is representative of the lovely countryside of this region. Sec also "Recipes From the Northern California Mission" by Hazel S. Love, page 662. The New Day Hazel K. Todd CHAPTER 1 OR quite some time now Lynn had sat there by the train window, her eyes on her hands resting idly in her lap. The sunlight streaming through, together with the vibration of the streamliner, as it fled over the countryside, brought vividly, now and_ then, sudden glints of light from the diamond on her finger. She had been watching it half consciously, wrapped in a lovely warmth for David whom she had left yesterday in Chicago. Now she gazed curiously out the window at the once familiar landscape. Nine years was a long time. And yet how well she remembered the long line of poplars. More real now than the lost love it signified, it stretched away to the high school building at the top of the hill, still too far away to be anything but a vague red dot. 'The spring breeze moved the leaves on the trees outside. It had been just such a day as this another time long ago. Warm sunshine, and gentle wind, children scattering papers and books, and sing-songing: No more pencils, no more books, No more teachers' angry looks.... And high school students pairing off on the grass. Suddenly it was only yesterday she was sitting beside Johnny under the lilacs, on the grass by the tennis court. He was writing in her year book. As she peeked over his shoulder she gave a Page 652 gay little laugh at the string of tiny hearts drawn on the side of the page, each with a cupid's dart piercing its center. The page was filled. With writing, and he was just beginning the next leaf. "But, Johnny," she laughed, "there won't be any place left for anyone else. You're filling the whole book! Besides, you must save something to write in MayRee's book." "So what?" he said, ignoring the suggestion about MayRee, and making a lacy valentine sort of thing at the side of the page. (Johnny always doodled on the margins of her books.) "No one else matters anyway. The truth is, Lindy, no one else should be allowed to write in your year book. I'm just to the Valentine dance. There is still the prom, the senior hop, and...." "Wasn't this your stop, Miss?" Lynn looked up with a start. The train had stopped. And the older gentleman who sat beside her was looking at her with a peculiar sort of smile. Earlier in the day she had talked a little with him and told him about her home town she was coming to visit after nine years of absence. "Oh-h," she stammered. "I guess I was dreaming." And then, in a minute she was standing beside her luggage, ignoring the taxi waiting before ler. She was looking up the block at the old familiar sign, "Jensen's Drug Store." "Taxi, miss?" She turned then, to the cab, a THE NEW DAY sudden impulsive decision formed in her mind. "Just to the drug store up at the corner," she said. T was like some old dream, walking through the open door. And then she was sitting in the booth where she and Johnny had sat over their sodas even when they were sixth graders. She rubbed her hand fondly over the table surface almost as she would have done over a beloved keepsake. Her eyes went to the edge of the seat where she sat. She gave a sharp little gasp. Yes, they were there, hers and Johnny's initials, where they had so boldly carved them. And Mr. Jensen had scolded them roundly. Good old Mr. Jensen! He had scolded them, but he had never sanded away. Those initials! "Lindy Marlow! Or is it a ghost!" Mr. Jensen was rubbing his hand excitedly over his chin exactly as he used to do when something disturbed him. Lynn recalled how she and Johnny once had spilled their sodas over the floor and broken the dishes when they had been scuffling over a pink straw. It all came back so vividly, how he had stood there rubbing his chin, while they shamefacedly cleaned up the mess. "All you need," he said, "is Johnny sitting there beside you, and I would know I had been dreaming all these years." For a brief moment Lynn's eyes fell to the carved initials. "No, you haven't been dreaming, Mr. Jensen," she said. His eyes were on her diamond. She felt embarrassed and _ slipped her hand into her lap. He sat down opposite her table. As she looked into his dear, 653 familiar face, a flood of questions rushed to the tip of her tongue. "Ts it like it used to be?" she asked eagerly. "Do the students still come for sodas after school? 'The Martin twins, are they still freckled as turkey eggs? Or have they all grown up and gone away? Do the new ones sit on the stools and sing, 'A root beer float like a tippy boat,' and 'Pink ice cream that makes me scream'?"' She was laughing gaily. He looked at her so closely, she suddenly stopped. "Now, Mr. Jensen, don't tell me you didn't like our songs?" His eyes were twinkling merrily. "Of course I liked your silly songs. I still like them. I was just looking to see if your nose still wrinkles up like a prune when you laugh." "You never told me that!" "T didn't dare," he said with a sly wink. And then he leaned over the table toward her. "But, tell me, what brought you to Springdale after all these years of silence? Must have been something very unusual." "It was Aunt Polly." She was quite sober now. "She has been writing such peculiar letters. Is she all right? Have you seen her lately?" He was rubbing his hand over his chin thoughtfully. "Why, yes, Lindy, as a matter of fact, she's been in several times lately." Lynn looked at him suspiciously. "What for?" "Oh, I didn't mean to frighten you," he said quickly. "I just meant, well — she just comes in as she always did." "Mr. Jensen, I think Aunt Polly is ill. Oh, she never said so exactly, but her letters, they aren't the same. They aren't filled with the things 654 that go on in Springdale like they used to be. Just little notes with vague hints about things she doesn't do. I'm sure there is something wrong." "Now, don't fret yourself, Lindy. I'm sure Aunt Polly will be all right when she has a nice long visit from you." He looked at her fondly. "But here, you haven't given me a chance to answer all those questions you asked. Maybe you'd better start all over one at a time." "But I don't remember what I asked. I just want to know about everybody." "Well, let's see. The Martin twins grew out of their freckles, went away to school and married somebody. MayRee Richins came back about a year ago. She's a nurse at the hospital, got interested in her career, I guess, and never married. Who else?" Funny, how after all these years, MayRee's name should touch a little twinge of jealousy. She looked down at the table. "Just anybody," she said. He traced a pattern on the table with his finger. "Don't you want to know about Johnny?" She was silent a second or two. Her eyes dropped again to the carved initials, and then through the door at something across the street. "Yes, of course," she said. Then she looked into his face. "Tell me how he is, really — I mean, is he well? Does he get along all right? Does he ever come here and...?" YNN stopped suddenly and looked down in embarrassment. His hand touched hers gently. "Yes, Lindy, he comes here quite often, though I don't think he goes anywhere else much. And, yes, he RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1959 sits in your seat. I have never scen him sit anywhere else. If someone is there, he waits." It was so foolish to want to cry. Long ago she had put the tears all away. But this place made the dead past come back so vividly. She looked down at the table again. "Alone?" she asked, thinking vaguely of MayRee Richins. "Not always. Sometimes he brings his children. You know it has been two years since their mother died." "Yes, I know." "T used to be so sure it would be you and Johnny," he said. "Whatever happened?" As she looked into his dear, solemn face and saw the mist in his eyes, she remembered how, in the first of those years gone by, she had longed to throw her arms around her old friend's neck and sob out the loneliness she had known. But that was long ago. She said, "It's been so long, Mr. Jensen. 'That's the way things are in life. You do one thing or you do another. It doesn't really matter, docs it?" She sighcd a little then, and pushed the hair back from her forchead. "But I must get to Aunt Polly." She looked at Mr. Jensen with a suspicious look. "You are quite sure there is nothing really serious with Aunt Polly?" He nodded his head assuredly. "Quite. In fact, I'll bet she can drive the Chev to get you. Shall I call her?" "I was going to take a taxi and surprise her," she answered. "But please do." And then, of a sudden, a bright thought struck her. It may have been "something in the breeze float- THE NEW DAY ing through the door that was suggestive to her of other spring days, when she had walked home to Aunt Polly's through the field along the path that followed the creek. Maybe the wind told of willows just right for spring whistles, and of smooth stones where the water gurgled. Or maybe it whispered to her of lovers' walks along the winding path. Whatever it was, she suddenly had an unconquerable longing to walk along the path again as she had done in those years before. "Wait, Mr. Jensen," she called impulsively, as he started for the phone. "Tell me, is the path still there, I mean along the creek through the willows?" He looked at her curiously. "Must be. Most things stay the same here, same fences, maybe sagging a little, same people, a few more wrinkles, a few more homes along the upper highway. But I haven't heard of anything being done to the path along the stream." She smiled at him with dreamy eyes. "You know, I think I'd like to walk along that old path again. Would you mind if I left my luggage? I'll pick it up later." He smiled at her. "Lindy, I was afraid you'd be a sophisticated city girl after all these years with a fancy 655 job and everything, but there's still a lot of that same little child left in you that drank her first soda right there in that seat. Bet you even pull off your shoes and wade in the creek. Maybe you'll catch the croup and Aunt Polly will have to come after croup medicine for you." She went out the back way then, with their laughter vibrating in her heart, across the vacant lot to the fence where the willows marched to the stream. "But I couldn't be the same girl, could I?" she asked herself. "Too much has happened to me." The little old gate was still there, its poles a little more worn, its woven lattice bleached and weatherbeaten, but still squeaking on its hinges as she opened it. She almost wanted to talk with it about the secrets it knew from her past, like the times when she and Johnny met here in summertime. For a moment her hand rested lovingly on its rustic post and then she left it with the silent secrets, and went down the path through the willow clumps. And as she walked, the years slipped away. 'T'wo long pigtail braids hung down her shoulders and she walked with bare feet over the soft dead leaves of the path. (To be continued) Call le a Squirrel Gf You Like Gwen Marler Barney Yes, I must store in bottles All the summer fruit in sight Before the winter throttles Harvest with its greedy bite. Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, October 1, and October 15, 1899 "For tHe RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE Women or ALL NATions"' INSTRUCTION FOR NURSES: Dr. Margaret C. Roberts expects to open another class for a Corps of Nurses in November of this year. It is ardently hoped that under the auspices of the Relief Society in the several stakes of Zion near Salt Lake County, suitable young and middle-aged women may be selected who have the ability' and aptitude for this employment, after taking a course of physiology and general nursing. 'The term will continue for seven months with three lessons a week. Each student must be supplied with text books, note books and pencils, cost not exceeding $2.50. Dr. Roberts will have some of the best surgeons and physicians of Salt Lake City to give lessons during the course. As the course of instruction will be given free of charge, in consideration of this free course of study, each sister taking it will agree for a certain length of time to nurse under the direction of the president of the Relief Society in the respective locality where she resides free of charge.... —KEditorial Note RELIEF SOCIETY IN ST. JOHNS, KANSAS: Our society was organized July 8, 1899, by our mission president, Elder Wm. Jack, and we now have seventeen members enrolled. We have in our treasury, twenty dollars. We have given one ice cream social, from which we cleared five dollars and seventy cents. We have pieced two quilts, and quilted three; also made three comforts and sewed carpet rags. We have held twenty-five working and testimony meetings.... —Lucy Breckenridge, Pres. Margaret Budge, Sec. FOR EVER If I had thought our parting was for ever I should have wept, That day when 'twixt the low hill and the heather The dead day crept— If I had thought that no more should we linger, Just you and I.... If I had thought — Nay, rather thinking over Of days long gone, I can look back, remembering, though we sever, Our hearts are one! —C. E. C. Weigall VISIT OF A NOTABLE WOMAN: The last week in November, we expect Mrs. Charlotte Perkins Stetson, poet, author and lecturer. She is the granddaughter of Lyman Beecher, and grand niece of Henry Ward Beecher, Harriet Beecher Stowe, Isabella Beecher Hooker. Mrs. Stetson will be the guest of Mrs. A. W. McCune while in Salt Lake City, and of Mrs. Susa Y. Gates in Provo, where she is expected to speak under the auspices of the Brigham Young Academy. Arrangements are in progress for a series of lectures in this city. Mrs. Stetson not only comes of the celebrated Beecher stock, but is also descended from the remarkable New England Perkins family.... Her book, Women and Economics, is everywhere regarded as the bravest, brightest, most original and most readable volume on women.... —KEditorial Note Page 656 Mss ELAINE WHITELAW, National Director for Women's Activities for the National Foundation, at a luncheon in Salt Lake City in June, presented the Foundation's highest award, the Silver Plaque, to two organizations. Mrs. Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor in the General Presidency of Relief Society, received the award for that organization. Mrs. C. R. Lomax, Vice-President of the Utah Federation of Women's Clubs, received the award for her group. The awards were given for the support of the polio emergency volunteer program, the vaccination program, and the annual March of Dimes. HIRLEY O'NEILL, nineteen, was awarded a silver medal and $750 for rescuing a classmate who was attacked by a shark at Baker's Beach, California. The medal, given by the Carnegie Hero Fund Commission, was only the fourth such award to be presented since 1955. MARGCUERITE MARY GAHAGAN, formerly a reporter for the Detroit News, is now editing and publishing a weekly newspaper North Woods Call, "a paper for all who enjoy the north country." It is printed in the little town of Roscommon, Michigan, and is known as one of the most interesting and unusual newspapers in the country. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon EVERAL eminent women players of the harp participated in the international harp festival in Jerusalem in September 1959. Among them were: Celia Gatt Androvandi of Rome, Rosa Spier and Phia Berghout of Amsterdam, Marie Korchinska of London, Lily Laskine of Paris, and Mireille Flour of Brussels. The festival began with a pilgrimage to the tomb of King David, most renowned of all harpists, on Mount Zion, and consisted of renditions of ancient and modern harp music, contests, and a presentation of the history of the harp. ME: AGDA VIOLA JADERSTROM ROSSEL is the first woman to be appointed as a permanent delegate to the United Nations. She is a native of Stockholm, Sweden, and the mother of two teenage children. She studied at the Swedish Institute of Political Science and has served in many civic and legal capacities in Sweden, and is described as "very beautiful." RS. LOIS LAKE, a prominent air lines executive, has recently been transferred from her position as district sales manager for Western Airlines in Salt Lake City, Utah, to Los Angeles, California, where she will be regional manager of the women's sales department. Mrs. Lake is one of the few women airlines executives in the country. Page 657 EDITORIAL <m~© VOL. 46 OCTOBER 1959 NO. 10 &stablishing Family Patterns OW many a young girl has stood embarrassed while her father and mother have queried a young man calling to take her out, "Let's sec, your father is Joseph, and was his father Horace or James?" It is a welcome relief to her to escape outside and forget who his progenitors are. She isn't going out with them! But back home Father and Mother pursue the conversation further, commenting on the maternal family side and, perhaps, recalling Cousin Harry who has turned out to be a ne'er-do-well. Wise parents consider every young person with whom their son or daughter dates, as a possible candidate for marriage, and family backgrounds are considered in that light. Latter-day Saint parents have unusual opportunities to acquaint themselves with the family background of other members of the Church, even those who may live far away. Because of the closely knit activities of Church members, a stake or mission president, ward bishop or branch president can usually supply desired information. With some exceptions members of a family create a family pattern into which the majority of family members fit. Most Latter-day Saint families are descendants of Ephraim, and we know that members of the tribe of Ephraim were taught to marrv within that tribe, as were the Page 658 members of the tribe of Manassch and the other tribes, descendants of Jacob, so that tribal characteristics were kept strong and pure. Thus there are grcat common heritages on which to build. In seeking to learn of a family pattern, it is not the worldly goods on which the decision is to be based, but on the industry, integrity, and faithfulness to the gospel of the family, with special apphcation to the individual in particular. Generation after generation in the Church certain families are rcecognized as stalwart families and the number is continually being increased by the addition of converts. The Church teaches the need to have pride in one's family and to honor and uphold the family name. A circumstance is recalled of an opportunity taken by a President of the Church at a funeral when he called upon remaining members of a noted family to be more faithful and worthy of their great progenitors. Pride in family must be a righteous pride with the remembrance that the meek shall inherit the earth. It is well for a mother to teach her children of the good deeds and faithfulness to the Church of those progenitors who first joined the Church, and of the persecutions and trials which they underwent. Where a family is a first generation family in the Church, the circum- EDITORIAL stances of the parents' conversion as well as the worthiness of past generations not in the Church should be stressed. Following the cherished patterns of the past, a mother and father can weave their own family pattern ever stronger and more beautiful through their daily examples and teachings. To a neighber child asking for a family member to come out and go on a picnic on the Sabbath, it becomes a natural habit to reply, "We don't do that in our family on Sunday." Setting and maturing such a_pattern may not always be easy, but once it is attained there is cause for a parent's heart to rejoice. Some children are naturally more obedient than others, but if the example of hallowing the Sabbath day and other righteous patterns begin in the cradle and are persisted in, parents are usually rewarded with children who are obedient to family ideals. There are instances, however, when indifferent Church members may remark, "Well, I was forced to go to Church when I was a child, and I'm going to let my children choose the Church they want when they are old enough to know what they want." Such an attitude on the part of parents may indicate a lack of understanding between themselves as children and their parents. The family pattern was evidently imprinted on a rebellious heart, and when the imprint was loosed by the child gaining independence, it was broken and cast aside. Outward compliance is not cnough to ensure the continuance of a family pattern — gaining awards and perfect attendance will not ensure righteous adult behavior. There 659 is need for love and understanding between a mother and each child as an individual. She must be sure that the family pattern has taken root and will grow independently, nourished by each family member. Where a child himself takes responsibility of cheerfully and willingly adhering to the family pattern, it will continue to set proper bounds to his conduct even though he leaves the home sanctuary. Young men are drafted into the armed services; young women leave home to attain independence. It is then that the strength of the family pattern is on trial. Wé5ll the young man continue to follow his parents' teachings or will he seize the opportunity to do things which he has had to deny himself while under his parents' roof? Will the daughter continue to live as if under her parents' surveillance because she has decided she wishes to build the same kind of a life, or will false allurements lead into evil ways? When family patterns become firmly established in each new generation, it testifies not only of a family imprint exerting tremendous pressure from without, but also of an inward pliability and acceptance by the child himself and his own nurturing of the pattern until it has an independent growth within his own soul. Wise parents realize this sacred obligation not only to train and set a proper pattern for their children, but also to influence the inner desires of their children in loving understanding to the end that their children will learn to depend upon their own convictions for righteous living. —M. C. S. Fair or alse Faces. "THE face is the mirror of the soul. It reflects your character, fair or false. No mask of deceit, however clever its design, can hide for long your true personality — your real self. Fair: What a wonderful word! 'These are some of its dictionary meanings: "pleasing to the eye; beautiful; gracious; courteous; desirable; elegant; frank; honest; impartial; just." Page 660 By contrast, let's look at the word "false." These are some of its meanings: "dishonest; not faithful or loyal; untrue; treacherous; hypocritical; sham; feigned; not trustworthy.' How hideous this image of that which is false! Fair or false—which will you choose? If you're smart, you'll choose the fair. You'll be fair in everything you do. Whether it's in sports or in the more serious game of life, you'll play fair; you won't cheat or chisel. You'll be fair with friends and associates by being just and generous. You'll cultivate a fair face and a fair figure by clean, healthy living. For your own sake, be fair, be just, be genuine, if you would be happy. 'Then, when you look in the mirror, your real face will reflect the honest thoughts you think, the honest words you speak, the honest life you live. BE HONEST WITH YOURSELF ¢ Distraction Winona F. Thomas I went to paint an autumn scene With canvas, paints and brush. Only the music of the stream Disturbed the canyon's hush. I meant to do a rustic hut Beneath an old oak tree, But a squirrel in search of nuts Came and posed for me. F All Gs Well Elsie McKinnon Strachan Though this hour is folded in darkness— No least moon lanterns the sky, Though the clouds are hidden in shadow, And no stars testify That God dwells in his heaven; We know, without doubt, he is there: His gentle rain washes the midnight, And pure is the wet, sweet air. FAIR OR FALSE FACES 661 Recipes From the Tlorthern California I lisston Submitted by Hazel S. Love CRAB AND SHRIMP SHELLS 1 can crab 8 hard-boiled eggs 1 can shrimp 2 tbsp. Chopped parsley 2 c. Soft bread crumbs 2 tsp. Minced onion 1% c. Table cream 1 tsp. Salt 1% c. Salad dressing "% tsp. Pepper Remove stiff tendons from crab meat and black line from shrimps. Mix all ingrcdients together and put in patty shells and bake for fifteen minutes at 350°. Makes tcn servings. Surimp Satap In Rinc Mo. Ip 2 tbsp gelatine juice of % lemon 1 c. Cold water 1 c. Celery diced 1 ¢. Mavonnaise 1 small green pepper diced 1 c. Whipping cream 1 small bottle stuffed olives, diced 4 hard-boiled eggss, diced 1% tsp. Salt Dissolve gelatine in cold water and place over pan of hot water to finish dissolving. Then cool. Add mayonnaise, mix with cream, whipped, and add remaining ingredients and pour in ring mold. When it is set, unmold and fill center with shrimp sauce. Shrimp Sauce: c. Whipping cream "% ¢. Catsup 1 4 ¢. Mayonnaise 1 Ib. Fresh shrimp 1) Whip cream, add mayonnaise and catsup. Add shrimp. Make sauce just before scrving. Makes twelve servings. Datr Nut Breap 1 c. Boiling water 1 tsp. Baking powder 1 tsp. Soda 1 egg 1 c. Chopped dates 2 c. Flour % tsp. Salt 1 c. Nuts 1 tbsp. Butter 1 tsp. Vanilla 1 C. Sugar (scant) Add soda to boiling water and pour over chopped dates. Cream butter and sugar, beat in egg, add liquid from date mixture, vanilla, and dry ingredients. Beat well, add dates and nuts. Let stand five minutes in loaf pan. Bake at 350° for fifty minutes. Makes one loaf. Ser Surimp SALAD 1 pkg. Lemon gelatine 3 hard-boiled eggs 1% c¢ hot water 2 c. Chopped celery % ¢. Whipping cream 1 can shrimp % ¢. Mavonnaise 1 tsp. Grated onion 1 small pkg. Philadelphia cream cheese Dissolve gelatine in hot water, let set until soupy or mushy. Whip cream, add mayonnaise and cream cheese. Then add this mixture to the gelatine. Add remaining ingredients and put into molds to finish setting. Makes nine servings. Page 662 Ice-Box Ro ts lc. Milk 1 yeast cake 3 tbsp. Shortening "% c. Water 2 tsp. Salt 1 tbsp. Sugar 3 eggs 4 ¢. Flour ¥% c. Sugar Add shortening and salt to milk and scald. Cool to lukewarm. Beat eggs until thick and lemon-colored. Add the sugar and beat well. Add yeast cake (after dissolving in lukewarm water and 1 tbsp. Sugar). Add 3 c. Flour and beat well. Sift remaining flour on pastry board, pour dough over it and fold in flour. Put in greased bowl. Cover, and put in refrigerator overnight. Roll out about 2 hours before baking. Bake at 400° for ten minutes. Makes about 3 dozen rolls. Note: Use your electric beater, it saves time and energy. This is a rather soft dough. When rolling out rolls take only part of the dough out of the refrigerator at a time, as dough may be too soft to handle well. Use cooking oil to grease pan, as it does not harden and crack when cold. Datre-FiLtLeD CooKIes Dough: % c. Shortening 1% c. Flour 1 c. Brown sugar (pressed down) 3 tsp. Soda 1% c. Rolled oats Cream shortening and sugar. Sift and stir in flour, soda, and rolled oats. Mix thoroughly. Place half crumb mixture in gx13 greased pan. Press down to cover bottom of pan. Spread with cooled date filling. Cover with remaining crumb mixture. Bake 25 to 30 minutes at 400° or until light brown. While still warm cut in bars and remove from pan. Date Filling: 3 c. Dates (cut in pieces) 1% c. Water "4 C. Sugar Cook over low heat, stirring constantly until thick, about 10 minutes. Then cool before pouring over dough mixture. Orange Prune Filling (may be substituted): 3 c. Cooked prunes (cut up) % c. Orange juice tbsp. Lemon juice tbsp. Grated orange rind tow Cook over low heat, stirring constantly until thickened, about 10 minutes. 'Then cool before pouring over dough mixture. CanpbieD Nuts 1 ¢c. Sugar 8 marshmallows " c. Water peppermint flavoring, optional 1 tbsp. Corn syrup 3c. Nuts % tsp. Salt Boil to soft-ball stage sugar, water, corn syrup, and salt. Remove from heat, add marshmallows, and dissolve. Add peppermint flavoring if desired. Add nuts. Spread in pan and cool. Add one drop of green coloring if peppermint is used. It is effective. RECIPES FROM THE NORTHERN CALIFORNIA MISSION 663 664: RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1959 OrANGE-CARROT COOKIES % c. Shortening 1 c. Cooked mashed carrots 1 c. Sugar (scant) % tsp. Salt 1 egg 2 c. Flour 1 tsp. Baking powder 1 c. Chopped nuts 1 tsp. Vanilla Cream shortening and sugar, add egg and mix well. Add all ingredients but nuts. Beat well. Add nuts. Drop by teaspoonfuls on greased baking sheet. Bake 375° for fifteen minutes. Ice while hot. Icing for Orange-Carrot Cookies: 1 orange, grated 1 c. Powdered sugar 3 tbsp. Orange juice pinch of salt Beat all together and spread on hot cookies. YaM-APPLE CASSEROLE 4 yams 2 large apples Cook yams in jackets, peel and slice. Pare and slice apples. Place in large shallow casserole in alternate layers. Make sauce and pour over yams and apples. Bake for one and one-half hours at 350°. Sauce: 1 ¢. Sugar % Ib. Butter 3 tbsp. Cornstarch 2 tsp. Lemon juice 2 c. Water Combine cornstarch and sugar and add remaining ingredients. Heat until mixture thickens, stirring constantly. LEMON-PINEAPPLE IcE-Box DEssEerRT 1 pkg. Gelatine 1 small can crushed pineapple 4 eggs (separated) % c. Chopped pecans, if desired 1 ¢. Sugar % c. Whipping cream 1 lemon (juice and grated rind) maraschino cherries for topping Y% Jb. Vanilla wafers Soak gelatine in % c. Pineapple juice (drained from can of crushed pineapple). Add enough water to make one-half cup. Whip egg yolks until thick, add % c. Sugar, juice of lemon, and grated rind. Beat until thick and lemon-colored. Put in double boiler, cook until thick, beating continually. Add gelatine just before taking from stove. Add crushed pineapple. Let stand until cool. Whip egg whites and other % c. Sugar until stiff. Fold cooled mixture into egg whites. Crumb vanilla wafers, put layer in pan, pour mixture over crumbs. Sprinkle remaining crumbs over top. A layer of chopped pecans may be added before the final layer of crumbs is added. Cut into squares and serve with whipped cream and cherry. Dare-Nut Bars 3 eggs 1 tsp. Baking powder 1 c. Sugar 1% Cc. Chopped dates 1 ¢. Flour 1 c. Chopped nuts % tsp. Salt % tsp. Vanilla Beat eggs until light and add sugar. Beat mixture until thick and lemon-colored. Add dry ingredients and continue to beat. Add dates and nuts. Bake in g x 13 pan at 350° for 30 minutes. Cut into squares while warm and roll in powdered sugar. Making Christmas Ornaments Can Be Fun Hannah Nowell HAT would be more fun \\\ for the family hour than to get the family together a couple of evenings and make Christmas decorations for your home? With just a little instruction and a few odds and ends of things you may find about the house many beautiful and interesting things can be made. As you work many new ideas will come to you, and it will be most interesting to see what imagination and ingenuity your family has. Start collecting now some of the things you will need and see what a wonderful time you will have. Horn or PLenty CENTERPIECE Materials to use: 1. Wicker horn 11 inches long, 17 inches around opening. 2. Cardboard about 10 inches long, 3 inches wide. Glue — a very good glue. 6 to 9 burned-out flash light bulbs. 3 burned-out electric light bulbs. Tissue paper. Oak leaves, holly other leaves. Pine cones — seed pods — balls from the gum tree or other kinds of dried materials you may be able to find in your area. Wire cones and pods that do not have any stems. Use a wire stiff enough to support them. (If you want to have these pure white they should be dipped into white paint and the paint dry before putting arrangement together. It is difficult to get enough paint on them after the arrangement is assembled.) (artificial), or 9 YONA w g. About 4 or 5 roses or other artificial flowers. (Faded crepe or other kinds may be used. If you do not have some, you can make your own by cutting crepe paper in_ strips about 3 inches wide and _ long enough to make a few rows of petals. Fold paper and cut in the shape of petals, but do not cut completely through the paper. Leave the petals attached. With scissors curl the edges of each petal. Start to roll the strip up, keep the first rows tight to form the center of the rose. After rose has been formed, wind some wire around it.) Spray your artificial flowers with a number of coats of gold paint. 10. Non-tarnishable silver sparkles, 11. Flat white paint, gold paint 12. Lace painted with gold paint. Instructions Cut cardboard, shaping it like the inner sole of your shoe, but at the heel end cut off square. Glue leaves. Around the edge of the cardboard to about 3 inches from the heel end. Glue one flashlight bulb just beyond point of cardboard, then glue two bulbs at the sides of this one, but leave the first one out in front a little. Rumple up a little tissue, put glue on all sides. Place this over ends of the bulbs. Place just enough tissue to rest the end of the next bulb on, but so it cannot be seen from the outside. Continue to add tissue with glue and bulbs, resting each bulb on the bulbs that have already been glued until all the flashlight bulbs have been used. Put the glue between. Bulbs where they touch one another, Page 665 666 and as you add bulbs, widen the formation. Glue on 3 burned-out electric light bulbs and build up with tissue, as you did the flash light bulbs. At this point more leaves and small flowers can be added to fill in around the bulbs. Next add flowers, cones, seed pods, leaves, or anything you might want to use, but continue to use tissue as you did with the bulbs. Use lots of glue with the tissue and put glue on stems and wires and push these into the tissue. Also put some glue between flowers, cones, etc. To hold them together and make them more compact. Fill in around flowers with leaves. This last part of the arrangement should be shaped so that it will fit Mt (py { VED NM RP 2 DUM Mt, g one' { 'ih iy " Ny | 4 My, Hal Rumel RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1959 into your horn. Bulbs, flowers, and leaves should look as if they were spilling out of the horn. About an inch and half of cardboard can be bent down, this will help to hold the arrangement in the horn. Set aside for glue to dry before painting. If your flowers have been paint-. Ed with gold paint and you do not want the white paint to get on them, cover with a little tissue paper to protect them. Spray everything, including the horn with white flat paint (flat paint will stick to leaves better than enamel and will not peal off as quickly). After paint has dried, remove paper from flowers and spray all with a little gold paint, but do not cover white paint comHORN OF PLENTY CENTERPIECE Hal Rumel TABLE DECORATIONS — CENTERPIECE AND CANDLE IIOLDERS pletely, and while paint is still wet, sprinkle on non-tarnishable sparkles. Paint lace gold and put around edge of horn. For a long table centerpiece, two arrangements of bulbs and flowers, etc., can be made, but instead of using the horn, place together the ends of the two arrangements where the flowers are. 'To finish this grouping, melt household wax and pour into star candle holders. Arrange flowers and pods in wax, spray with white paint, and when dry spray with gold paint. ORNAMENTS MADE FROM BOTTLE Caps anp Jar Lins There are a few things to keep in mind when making things with metal and beads, shells, etc. Household cement dries very quickly and is clear and easy to use. There is a drawback to its use, however. It has the tendency, after awhile, to become brittle, letting the beads or ornaments come off. This can be corrected in applying the cement. Take a small picce of cotton and with a toothpick push the cotton down into the cement. Don't add so much cotton that it will be seen through the beads. A little more cement may be added when the beads are applicd. Round Jar-Lid Ormaments Use lids from a quart jar of peanut butter or other large jar lids. Use a hammer and smal] nail and make two small holes close together in the side of the lid. Insert a small wire through the holes by which to hang up lid. If lid ls bright and undamaged inside, you can decorate it without painting, otherwise paint it the color desired. Paint outside. Cut figure of angel or girl from Christmas or other cards. Fold small piece of paper to form a hinge and glue one end to MAKING CHRISTMAS ORNAMENTS CAN BE FUN 667 668 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1959 Hal] Rumel JAR LID CHRISTMAS ORNAMENTS (AT LEFT) AND BELLS MADE FROM TIN CANS (AT RIGHT) the back of the cut-out and the other end inside the center of the lid, or you can glue cut-out directly to lid. String enough pearls or Christmas beads (in any color you wish) to go around the inside of the lid. Put cement where the beads will be put and with a toothpick press a smal] bit of cotton into the cement as instructed above. Place the beads in the cement and press down. Around the edge of the lid cement small flowers. 'Touch the edge of the flowers with gold paint and sprinkle with sparkles. Other ways to decorate would be to use stars, sequins, sparkles, shells, instead of the beads. Instead of using flowers around the edge, try using shells, or try gathering lace or other edgings and fit around the edge of the lid. Cement into place, then paint gold. These ornaments can be hung on the Christmas tree, or they can be hung by ribbons in the small fry's bedroom. Two-Lid Omament Take two lids that are the same size and about two inches across. Make a hole in the side of each close to the edge. Insert wire through holes to hang ornament with. Put cement around the rim of the lid. Take lace or other edgings, gather, and place in cement. Put cement on rim of other lid and place this on top of edging and directly over the other hd. Let dry. Lid can be painted white or any color desired. Lace can be gilded with gold or silver paint. Decorate each side of lid with cut-outs. Glue beads around edge of the lid at the edge of the lace. Stars, buttons, sequins, sparkles, etc. Can be used for decorations. Six-Lid Tiered Ball Ornament You will need six lids, three sets, each set smaller than the other one. The larger the lid you begin with, the larger the ball will be. Using quart jar lids to start, the next size to use would be a lid about two inches across, and the next size about one inch and a fourth. This combination will make quite a large ball. Another combination would be to start with two postum lids which are about two inches across, then a medicine bottle cap about one and one half inches across, and then the cap from a cake coloring bottle. 'This will make a small ball. Pry-off lids may be used, also the caps off soft drinks. These lids make a ball that will be more oval in shape. Make two small holes in one of the smallest lids, put wire through by which to hang ball. Put cement on rims of the two largest lids and press lids together. Put cement on rim of next size lid and place on top of the larger lid, then cement the smallest lid to the medium-size lid. Make the other end of the ball the same way. Set aside for cement to dry. Paint white and let dry, then spray with a small amount of gold paint. After this is dry, put rows of Christmas beads around each tier. Use cement and cotton as you did for the other ornaments. 'The rows of beads could be different colors, such as red, silver, and blue. At the end of the ball, cement on a circle of beads with a larger bead in the center, if needed, to complete the shape of the ball. Another suggestion for decorating these balls is to cut the edges from gold paper doilies and combine these with beads and sparkles. Also, a combination of beads and small gilded paper flowers can be glued on and sparkles added. 'These balls can be used on the Christmas tree, hung in clusters in the room, or used as table arrangements. Bells Made From Tin Can Lids 1. Punch two holes in the center of a can lid with a nail. Make a square around holes. Cut to corners of square with scissors or tin snips, clipping out four pie-shaped wedges. 2. Bend each side down to form bell shape. 3. For clapper, string a bead on thin wire, twist wire, and bring it up through holes in the bell, leaving a few inches of wire on top of the bell for tying it on a streamer of bells, or for anchoring bows that may be attached. These bells can be painted any color you desire, or left the natural color. Make a clusMAKING CHRISTMAS ORNAMENTS CAN BE FUN 669 670 ter of these, using different size lids to hang on your door. 'They will tinkle merrily each time the door is opened. We must not forget the small ones of the family. Let them decorate empty thread spools. Let them cut colored foil to fit around the spool, inside the flanges. Glue into place, then glue stars or sequins on RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1959 foil, put glue on flange and top of spool, sprinkle with sparkles. Put a large bead on end of ribbon, string through hole in spool, thread another bead and push down next to spool. Make a number of these in different colors. 'These can be hung on the Christmas tree or used to decorate packages. Have fun and happy holidays! Baja Ca lifo rm ia Ethel Jacobson Under an arch of blazing cobalt sky The desert spreads this chaparral a cloak Of flame-tipped ocotillo and the dry Thickets of manzanita and black oak. It covers ancicnt mountain peaks worn smooth By slow milleniums. It fills cach plain And curving valley where its rough hands soothe The wounds of flood — the temblor-scarred terrain, This desert is no leveled waste of sand. It climbs the tallest slopes, and makes a bridge Of prickly cholla where parched boulders stand That once were creck beds. Then from the last ridge It gropes, and winds down each declivity To dip its dusty feet in the waiting sca. ' ast (Born Ora Pate Stewart We thank thec, Father, for this youngest child, So full of comfort for our after years, Whose prattle fills the corners of our lives With smiles and laughter, love, and sometimes tears Of utter gratefulness, of uttcr joy, Ilow much is packaged in this little boy! Mlargaret Pitts Finds Self-Expression Jn Crochet Work JVARCARET Pitts, Marysvale, Utah, has completed more than five hundred articles of crocheting in five years. These lovely gift and houschold articles consist of ten tablecloths, many doilies, several baby sweaters, capes, hoods, bootees, mittens, chair sets, rugs, hot pads, scarf ends, pillowcase edgings, and corners and edges for luncheon sets. Her work shows much precision of detail and evenness of stitches, and beauty of design. Mrs. Pitts has been a member of Relief Society since she was sixteen years old, and has served as counselor, Magazine representative, and ward president. She has served as a visiting teacher for more than twenty-five years, traveling eighteen miles to make some of her visits. She is mother of four children, grandmother of twelve, greatgrandmother of thirteen, and she has five step-grandchildren and thirteen step-greatgrandchildren. Autumn eaves Katherine B. Bowles Painted leaves upon the hillside, Brilliant shades of every hue, Reflect the beauty of the autumn— Transient colors pass in review. Painted by the artist paint brush Guided by the master hand, All their many tinted colors Made to beautify the land. Page 67] "A" Is for Apron Ilene H. Kingsbury Part III (Conclusion) Old apron woman! Do you have to always be seen in a style so old-fashioned that we smile as you walk by? ES, indeed! For then around my knees my children are still playing, my loving husband comes close to my side, old friends call my name. And Clarissa mused on a night, half a century ago. Before a glowing pine-knot fire she waited with her husband for rescue in a long storm, early arrived on the summer range. Somehow the conversation got around to tools, clothing, and uses of common things close at hand. Her husband sat whittling a chip and fell to saying that a man with a pocket knife could survive under any adversity. Not to be outdone, she defended the most useful part of a woman's apparel, her apron. All of which led to a sort of debate. Fach recalled, in turn, the humorous, the tragic, the useful. Each must have won his point, for before the time began to drag, the noise of horses, sleighs, and men came over the icy air; and they were safe again in the companionship of friends. As Clarissa recalled the apronknife evening, her mind cleared and she could hear herself saying.... I have worn them long and short, gathered and skimpy, leather and lace, linen and _ sailcloth, starched and limp, clean and dirty! When I walked across the plains I carried my baby brother in my apron, and when we made camp at night I Page 6/2 changed to another one made from a torn wagon cover, waterproof, and gathered to its fold buffalo chips as fuel for our fire. Once, I had a black wool plaid apron, a sort of divided prize from a Scotch clansman, and this was as often as not a shoulder shawl for Mother, as we sat outside the wagon at sundown. In early days I had a part of an Irish linen table cloth, just enough to make a half-cover apron; but before I had worn it twice to church, a little mother, fresh from the Old World, was bereft of her firstborn, so I offered my white linen apron for a shroud to protect the dead and comfort the living. The gayest apron I ever owned was made from a remnant end of a red and white checkered tablecloth. The joke was how could I tell I was eating off the table or off my lap? But it was that very apron that concealed a child from prying eyes when it was trembling and afraid. How strong I felt then, with the little waif clinging to my knees, his heart pounding on my shin with a tattoo beat. One time we camped out on a pinenut hunt, and my six-year-old fell out of a tree. The only splint we had with which to bind his broken arm was a tent stake and my apron strings. His bones mended straight and strong. Later, when someone said he really had been tied to his mother's apron strings, he laughed right out loud and didn't mind at all. "A" IS FOR APRON I have tethered out a child near a berry patch with my apron strings, and have had him tag along at a safe jog as I picked a pail for dinner. At least I knew where he was. NCE I had a leather apron, a sort of blacksmith's protection, only scaled to my size. It hung on a nail by the back door, quite near the woodbox. When the chips ran low, the chip apron came off the nail and out to the woodpile I went for a lapful. Some would say that was work for boys, for girls, or for men, instead of labor for a wife already overburdened. But I called it a choice task as I stooped to gather those pine-scented chips, each bearing the scar of an ax blow, obliquely cut. They bore the polish and pressure of utility. Their designs of tings resembled the ripples of spring water in a basin, except they were solid and were caught in annual paths which might be seen forever, even until they turned to stone. Sometimes, as I scooped the chips to my apron, 'often using a large, flat shingle size for a shovel, I thought to save one — a handsome piece. Into my pocket it went, and I rested it in style on a ledge of the chimney corner. One long, indoor-weather winter, my husband took out his pocket knife and shaped the honeytoned slivers and gnarled knobs and palomino browns and golds of fragrant chips into a table top of inlaid beauty. Laughingly, he called it my chip-apron table. From wood lot, to wood pile, to wood box, to wood surface, it was a thing of glowing wonder. Old apron woman! Your eyes grow dim. 673 You do not walk our lanes as you did last season, and the last before that. In your plum tree shade you stay so quietly, we think you are sitting for your portrait — lace cap on head, long white apron over vour knees, knotted fingers hidden in protecting folds. Are your thoughts far away to other days? H, child, yes — other times of stress, of sorrow, of triumph. And the theme — a piece of feminine apparel — persisted. In Clarissa's thoughts as the sifted summer sun warmed her ancient frame. Wo OK Yes, those aprons had been many and varied: opaque, sce-throughlace; no bib; full-gathered to shield the news of the coming of a child; serviceable to protect the only dress Clarissa had owned in four years. Always there was a pocket on her lefthand side to carry peppermints or cloves to swecten the smile. Plain or fancy she remembered them: knit lace insertion and edging decorating the lower third, hand-stitched tucks, deep as the lace, to give it body. As the aprons wore out they were turned to good use. Swaddling clothes, petticoat, or pinafore; they fit the next one down in size and youth. No usable fragment was thrown away. Rag rugs, whose pieces once graced her spare frame, were of comfort to the feet. These were aprons of memory. The wrinkle, the crimp, the fabric, the warp and woof, the crumple of cotton or linen — all were part of her wifery, her stewardship, her harness. Today, in the plum tree's shade, she is wearing The Best Apron — always white, always worn for Company. The odd thing about this Sunday 674 apron, the one deserving of fancy decoration (but quaintly lainest of all) was her initial in the lower lcft hand corner near the hem — or is it an initial? More of a map if you look closefy: a sketchy thing of a river's course RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1959 or a path over the Divide. Your eyes: the westcring sun has warmed the last stretches of carth and may dazzle you to the dctails. Squint Trail Scale: 1" to It measures 3" along the hem. The trek is ended. 500 miles, ¢ Quilts and Mothers-in-Law Mabel Law Atkinson 66 ES,?'m looking forward to } having a daughter-in-law." With a smile, Margaret Brandley answered the question put to her by one of the women quilting in the home of her friend, Midge Nelson. It was Midge herself who shook her head and said, "Just wait till you have had one for three years. Honestly, sometimes I could' take mine by the shoulders and shake her, the way she imposes on my son. "Hlow does he feel about her treatment of him?" Margaret Brandley was still smiling. "Oh, he's too much in love with her yet to notice, but he will and then!" "Tf he has endured three years of it joyfully, he'll weather the storms all nght. But I doubt if storm clouds ever come. I mean dark and threatening ones,' Margaret continued. "They seem so well mated." "T just wish I had the chance to be a mother-in-law to a son's wife." Mild little Sarah Mather's eyes filled as she spoke. The women around the quilt were silent in sympathy, for they knew she was thinking of her only son, Mark, who had died somewhere in Korea. It was Mrs. Swain, better known as Aunt Martha, who broke the silence by saying gently, "I think I know why Marg garct has no qualms about being a ~ mother-in-law and welcoming a new daughter or a son into her family, for I have been her next-door neighbor ever since she was married." Then, speaking directly to Margaret, Martha suggested, "Why not tell us the reason you anticipate and get only joy from in-law additions to your family?" "Do tell us, Margaret. We can quilt as we listen. I, for one, shall be grateful for all the help I can get in my new role. I so want 'Yom's wife to keep on loving me." It was quict-voiced Mary Anderson, whose son had been married but two wecks, who spoke. "And do make a production of it. Then perhaps I can see what is wrong with my daughter-in-law, or with me." Midge was smiling rath er wryly. Margaret smiled warmly at them all as she began, still stitching on QUILTS AND MOTHERS-IN-LAW the multi-colored quilt. "There's really not much to tell. It just came to me that there is an analogy between this quilt and a mother-inlaw. This quilt didn't just happen, nor was its beauty achieved in a day or a week. Its tiny pieces weren't placed haphazardly and sewed together any way. 'They follow a certain definite pattern which took time and conscious effort in the placing of each piece as to color harmony as well as design. Care had to be taken in cutting cach piece accurately, so the seams would join perfectly."" Margaret turned to Midge and asked, "How long has it taken you to make this quit top, and for whom are you making the quilt?" fOMOR myself. Pve always wanted a sunburst pattern, and now, at last, I'm getting one." Midge answered the last question first, then went on, "I've been working on it off and on for over a year. At times I've been so tired of it, I've felt like chucking it in the waste bag." "Why didn't you, I wonder?" Margaret asked softly. "Because I could see how beautiful it would be when finished," was Midge's answer. "Tt is beautiful and altogether lovely and artistic. I recall the poet's words, 'A thing of beauty is a joy forever. Its loveliness increascs..." "IT hope so," was Midge's comment. "So it is with a good mother-inlaw and son or daughter-in-law relationship," Margaret continued. "Its loveliness increases as time passes, and little children weld the link stronger with their love and 675 gentleness. But it takes much longer than a year to prepare to be a good mother-in-law. Much, much longer. The truth is, 1 began my preparation when my first child, a little daughter, was placed 12 my arms. As I lay looking at the tin; miracle of her, I prayed that someday she would know the same hoiy happiness I was experiencing, that she would be married to as worthy a man as her father. I knew that if she were to attain this joy, I must constantly, throughout the years, exercise all care to see that she developed in every way as a sweet, lovable, capable, and intelligent person, as a daughter of God, that she might attract the nght type of men and choose for her husband a splen- - did young Latter-day Saint. "As the years passed I found myself praying that some mother and father were training their son for her, as we were training our daughter for him. It was a joyous task and my formula has worked, for she married a man to whom it is easy to be a good mother-in-law. For over five years we have enjoyed a rewarding mother-son relationship." "That is wonderful, Margaret," said Myrtle Eaton, who sat next to her. "You haven't even needed to work specifically toward the desired result have you? Not directly with your son-in-law, I mean?" "Oh, yes, I think you would call some of the things I did working directly, but it has all been so natural that it hasn't seemed like work at all. When Elna and Bob were engaged, I talked with Bob alone." Margaret smiled as_ she continued, "I remember how solemn he looked when Elna left us, 676 saying, 'Mother has something to say to you, Bob.' But he was soon at case and smiling." "What on earth did you talk to him about? Did you tell him how you expected him to treat E]na?" Midge asked with a mixture of curiosity and incredulity in her voice. "No, I didn't even mention such a thing. I simply told him I had watched with approval the love developing between him and my girl and that I would be proud to welcome him into the family. I congratulated him on being a clean, intelligent, and industrious young man, a good Latter-day Saint, and told him he was getting a sweet, - clean, and lovely Latter-day Saint wife in my daughter. That was about all. But through the years I have given him an orchid of praise whenever I have been especially thrilled over his achievements in his home with his family, in his work of making a living, and in his Church duties. Often for little things like helping Elna by feeding the baby, bathing the two little boys, or just being kind and courteous always." "I hope you are as successful with vour daughter-in-law." Midge gave this comment feelingly. "Tm sure I shall be, for I sort of picked out Susan for Peter before he had seen her." "Tell us all about it, my dear." Loved Aunt Martha's voice was low. 66] met Susan several months before Peter did. She came home with Bea—that's my youngest— RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1959 from college for a week end. She was so gracious and lovely in every way that I found myself indulging in wishful thinking. I did something about it, too. "The next summer when Peter came home on vacation, I had Bea invite her to go with us on a family picnic up the canyon. 'That was all I needed to do. Things progressed slowly but surely after their meeting, and now in two weeks I shall have a daughter Susan." "Just the reaping of the harvest from the seeds you've sown throughout your children's lives," spoke up Aunt Martha gently. "I've watched you, Margaret — with each one — teaching them to be sweet and wholesome and unselfish; training them to be happy and efficient little housekeepers, farmers, future wives and husbands, fathers and mothers. You have taught them the gospel, my dear, and made it a living force in their lives. You have done your job well." Margaret's eyes caressed her neighbor lovingly and she answered, "Dear blessed Aunt Martha!" Then turning to Midge she concluded, "That is all there is to tell. Was it enough of a production?" It was a thoughtful Midge who answered, "Yes, Margaret. It was wonderful. 'Thank you, dear friend. I'm starting years too late in some things, but I shall concentrate on loving and appreciating Lisbeth from now on, and as my beginning, Pll give her this quilt when it's finished." FROM THE FIELD [~ Hulda Parker, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Relief Society Handbook of Instructions. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by June I. Hunsaker NORTH BOX ELDER STAKE (UTAH), CORINNE SECOND WARD PRESENTS "WOMEN OF THE NEW WORLD," AT CLOSING SOCIAL May 26, 1959 Left to right: Lila Wright as Mrs. Noyes; Donna Smoot as Mary Rowlandson; Karen Smoot, literature class leader; Selma Yagi as Pocahontas; Leona Rasmussen as Anne Hutchinson; Ann Norman as Anne Bradstreet; Lozon Reeder as Sarah Pierrepont; Elma Carter as Margaret Winthrop. June I. Hunsaker, President, Box IIder Stake Relief Socicty, reports: "This second ward of Corinne was organized this year. It is a very new ward and a small one, but the sisters are working diligently to interest their sisters and carry out the plan of the General Board. Karen Smoot, literature class leader, is a very young mother with two small babies and a 'well of energy.' "' Page 677 678 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1959 Photograph submitted by Pauline Stevens BIG HORN STAKE (WYOMING), BYRON WARD RELIEF SOCIETY SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC TOR 'TITE SUNDAY EVENING SERVICE, March 1, 1959 Front row, Icft to right: Grace Stevens, organist; Kay Stevens; Dola Hoftcling; Rose Doty; Savanna Sessions; Fern Wolz; Fannie Wolz, chorister. Back row, left to right: Pearl Ames; Ivadell Willey; Ella May Hatch; Vivian Hopkinson; Martha Wirth; Florence Tanncr; Norma Ilassenthaler. AS Photograph submitted by Helen H. Hawkins SPANISH FORK STAKE (UTAII) VISITING TEACHERS HONORED AT VISITING TEACHERS CONVENTION, June 3. 1959 Front row, scated, left to nght: Louise Robertson; Irene Johnson; Luccen Jenkins; Tressa Yates; Rosa Warner; Elen Fillmore; Eliza Hales; Lillian Boyack; Emma Powell. Second row, seated, left to right: Thelma Nielsen; Belle Jorgenson; Mima Ney; Pearl Cloward; Minnie Hanks; Marguerite Taylor; Lucy Stone; Alice Lloyd. Back row, standing, left to nght: Dora Cloward; Effie Taylor; Dora Hales; Flora Pierce; Mary Simmons; Netta Sorenson; 'Twila Isaac; Mary Marcuson; Hannah Chapple; Tora Banks. - Helen H. Hawkins, President, Spanish Fork Stake Relief Society, reports: "All of our visiting teachers were recognized and honored at our visiting teachers convention, June 3, 1959. Tach ward president introduced those visiting teachers in her ward who NOTES FROM THE FIELD 679 had a record of thirty-six years or more of service. 'Vhese women came to the front of the room, where they were each presented with a corsage. Special honors were given to Fliza Hales for sev cuty years of continuous service in Relicf Society, and who still serves as a visiting teacher in her nineticth year. Sister Ellen Rose Fillmore was honored for sixty-six years as a visiting teacher. 'These sisters were presented with a book as well as a corsage. President Joseph Y. Toronto encouraged the sisters to attend their sacrament meetings.... 'The dramatic presentation 'A Light Shining' was portrayed in drama and music. Several beautiful numbers were presented by the stake Singing Mothers under the direction of Emma Jex, with Blanche Nielson, accompanist. At the close of the program, dainty refreshments were served at beautifully decorated small tables." Photograph submitted by Frances P. Andrus NORTHERN FAR EAST MISSION, YOKOHAMA SERVICEMEN'S AND JAPANESE BRANCIE RELIEF SOCIETY CLOSING SOCIAL, May 25, 1959 Front row, seated, left to right: Watabe Hlisako and child; Suzuki Masako, Secretary, and child; lima Hara San; Sato Shigcko, Counselor; Aramaki Toshiko, President; Kura Sawa Hiroko, Counsclor; 'Tabata Susan. Back row, standing, left to right: Amino Kozuko; Carol Jester; Lucille Sims; Mirian Sampson; Sasaki Masako; Madge Anderson; Myrtle Jepson, Secretary; Janice 'Tclford, Counselor; Veda Eales; Genecl Ouenanie President; child; Fern Allen, Cannes Carol Rae Brown, missionary; Barbara Peterson; Arima Sachiko; Audrey Stevens, missionary; 'Tanaka Shigeko. Seated in front are the children of the Suzuki, Watabce, Sasaki, and Jepson families. Frances P. Andrus, President, Northern Far East Missicn Relief Society, reports: "The Yokohama Branch Relief Society held their closing n-ceting for the year in connection with the Yokohama Servicemen's group. A delicious luncheon was prepared and served by the Servicemen's Group. The Japanese sisters prepared the dessert. These two groups have worked closely together in the past in working on bazaars and other projects, and a elose friendship has developed between the American and Japanese sisters. Though the language was at times a barrier, still the spirit of friendship and love between sisters in the gospel could be felt in this gathering." 680 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1959 e Berk —— - cs Photograph submitted by Della O. Taylor EL PASO STAKE (TEXAS) RELIEF SOCIETY SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, May 1959 Front row, scated, left to right: Second from the left, Iva Huish Jones, composer (with Minnie Gonzalez) of song "A New Day Dawned for Women" which was sung at the conference; fourth from the left, Della O. Taylor, President El Paso Stake Relief Society; sixth from the left, chorister Winnie H. Mortensen. Second row, at the nght: Second Counselor Mildred M. Nations. Third row, at the left, stake organist Jennie N. Lawson; at the right, First Counselor Ida W. Jackson. SMITHFIELD STAKE (UTAH) RELIEF SOCIETY PRESENTS DRAMATIZATION "A LIGHT SHINING," May 16, 1959 Front row, seated, left to right: Alta Allen, as the voice of President Belle S. Spafford; Burdetta Harris, a ward Relief Society president; Mary Gregory, a grandmother; Adeline Done, her daughter; Anna Brough, as a stranger; Livina Done, daughter-in-law. Back row, standing, left to right: President Hazen Hillyard, Smithfield Stake, representing the voice of the Prophet Joseph Smith; Roma Low, who presented the introduction; Arlene Rigby, a ward first counselor; De Vonna Rindlisbacher, a ward second counselor; Shirley McQueary, honored as being the youngest visiting teacher NOTES FROM THE FIELD 681 present; Emma Olney, honored for being a visiting teacher since i904. Velda Rasmussen, narrator, was absent when the picture was taken. Vera R. Cantwell, President, Smithfield Stake Relief Society, reports that the following renditions were presented by the Singing Mothers: "How Beautiful Upon the Mountain," by the Third Ward; "Sweet Is the Work, My God, My King," by the Amalga Ward; "The Spirit of God Like a Fire Is Burning," by the First Ward; "More Holiness Give Me," by the Fourth Ward. Photograph submitted by Louise S. Brooks HAWAII MISSION, KAUAI DISTRICT RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENCY AND OFFICERS DISPLAY HANDWORK Front row, seated, left to right: Second Counselor Sarah Santos; President Ruth Yorkman. Back row, standing, left to right: chorister Jane Goo; First Counselor Anne Moa; literature class leader Mary Ann Soong; Secretary-Treasurer Carolyn Kalauano; Magazine representative Eleanor Battad; social science class leader Lily Ticala. Louise S. Brookes, President, Hawaii Mission Relief Society, reports: "In the picture there is a display of woodrose corsages, as well as the 'chicken feather' leis which are made for the 'lauhala' hats. 'These leis are dyed beautiful colors and are very attractive. "In the Hawaii Mission for the past year we have been working very hard on the project of having every member of the Relief Society learn each step in the art of Hawaiian quilt making, as it was becoming a lost art. We are very happy to say that some of our districts have reported 100 per cent in having a quilt in cach home, and those not having reported as yet have their quilts underway.... It takes the tutoring of the older sisters in this art to teach the younger ones, and they have responded so well that I am sure it will be carried on by all now. "We are very fortunate in having the 'lauhala' weaving in the mission. Several of the branches have made the mats and runners for their chapels as well as their Relief Society rooms. Of course, we would like to mention the beautiful and colorful 'muumuus' that all the sisters make and sell at the bazaar." 682 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1959 sla Photograph submitted by Jessie S. Baldwin SNOWFLAKE STAKE (ARIZONA) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE Standing, center front: Anella Hall, organist, and Edna Smith, chorister. Jessie S. Baldwin is president of Snowflake Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Elva F. Richins SUMMIT STAKE (UTAH) OLDEST AND YOUNGEST VISITING TEACHERS HONORED AT CONVENTION, April 12, 1959 Left to right: Charlotte Beard, ninety-three years old, oldest visiting teacher in Summit Stake, has served for sixty-five years; Louise B. Judd, one of the youngest visiting teachers in Summit Stake, who presented a lovely corsage to Sister Beard. Elva F. Richins, President, Summit Stake Relief Society, reports: "A highly successful visiting teachers convention was held, April 12, 1959. 'Theme of the convention was 'A Light Shining." Special recognition was given Sister Charlotte Beard of Henefer for her sixty-five years of visiting teaching. Louise Judd of Hoytsville, one of the youngest teachers in the stake, presented Sister Beard with a beautiful corsage. Also honored were those sisters who had served forty years or more: Susannah Fowler, Henefer; Ada Wilde, Nellie Wright, and Susie Wilde, Coalville; Mae McQueen, Emma Pace, Caroline Sargent, and Della Winters, Hoytsville; Arletta Davis, Wanship. The convention was directed by the stake Relief Society presidency: Elva Richins, President, and her Counselors Thelma Brown and Maxine Wright. The stake visiting teacher. Message leader is Margaret Richins." NOTES FROM THE FIELD 683 Photograph submitted by Ruby M. Dobbins PALO ALTO STAKE (CALIFORNIA) RELIEF SOCIETY PRESENTS "BLOSSOM TIME IN MUSIC AND FASHIONS," April 24, 1959 Left to nght: Commentator Colette Taylor, Palo Alto Second Ward; Lisa and Wendy Watts; Yvonne Pendleton; Zella Wood Clearly as the bride. Miss Clearly made her own dress and was married shortly after this occasion; Donna Smith; Carol and Sharon Spencer. The models are from Sunnyvale Second Ward. Ruby M. Dobbins, President, Palo Alto Stake Relicf Society, reports: " "Blossom Time in Music and Fashions' was the title of the gala affair presented by the Palo Alto Stake Relief Socicty, April 24, 1959, climaxing a rewarding year. 'The stake Singing Mothers, directed by Ann Thomas, presented a lovcly musical carrying out the theme 'Blossom Time.' The fashion show under the dircction of stake Work Director Counselor Dagna Wheatley, and stake work mecting Icader Dorothy Muir, was participated in by all six wards of the stake. Modesty in dress was the keynote. All creations shown were made by the sisters of the stake. In some instances young girls made and modeled their own frocks. The fine workmanship, styling, selection of fabrics and colors by the sisters was truly inspiring. The hall, beautifully decorated in boughs of spring blossoms, was filled to everflowing by a most appreciative audience. Dainty refreshments were scrved by the stake Relicf Society board. We are extremely proud of the achievemnts of the sisters in the stake." ¢ Shey Shall Find Peace Leslie Savage Clark They shall find peace who spend their days Where mountains crowd the sky, Where peaks catch dawn's first radiance And dusk's blue shadows lie. They shall find peace where twisted pines, Undaunted by the scars From sleet or lightning bolt, still keep Their covenant with stars, LESS N DEPARTMENT Sheology—The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 20—Spiritual Creations Elder Roy W. Doxey (Text: The Doctrine and Covenants, Section 29:30-50) For Tuesday, January 5, 1960 Objective: To indicate the importance of fundamental gospel teachings given to Adam relating to the Lord's spiritual creations, and some of their implications. NDERSTOOD in relationship to the material of the lesson last month, we shall see that this lesson, dealing with some of the first principles of the plan of salvation, has a very definite bearing upon man's present and eternal welfare. Spititual and Temporal Existence In last month's lesson we learned, among other things, about a judgment to come upon the righteous and the wicked. Verse 30 of Section 29 points out that we should remember that all of the blessings for the righteous and the condemnation upon the wicked have not been made known. Most important for our consideration is the fact stated in verses 31 and 32: For by the power of my Spirit created I them; yea, all things both spiritual and temporal— Page 684 First spiritual, secondly temporal, which is the beginning of my work; and again, first temporal, and secondly spiritual, which is the last of my work (D & C 29:31-32). When the Lord revealed that his creations were both spiritual and temporal and that the spiritual was first, a most significant truth was given. At this early period in the restoration of the gospel, the faithful members of the Church were being told something about their life before this earth was organized. About three years later (1833), the Lord also made known that Jesus was the Firstborn of his children and the rest of the human race was in the beginning with the Father. (See D & C 93:21, 23). Jesus Is Our Elder Brother Because Jesus was the Firstborn in the spirit, or the eldest of God's children, he is our Elder Brother. It LESSON DEPARTMENT seems imperative that, as Latter-day Saints, we understand the greatness of the Redeemer as compared with the rest of our Father's spirit children. This difference is brought out by the following statement of the First Presidency and the Council of the Twelve issued June 30, 1916, as follows: There is no impropricty, therefore, in speaking of Jesus Christ as the Elder Brother of the rest of human kind. That He is by spiritual birth Brother to the rest of us is indicated in Hebrews: "Wherefore in all things it behooved him to be made like unto his brethren, that he might be a merciful and faithful high priest in things pertaining to God, to make reconciliation for the sins of the people" (Hebrews 2:17). Let it not be forgotten, however, that He is essentially greatcr than any and all others, by reason (1) of His seniority as the oldest or firstborn; (2) of His unique status in the flesh as the offspring of a mortal mother and of an immortal, or resurrected and glorified, Father; (3) of His selection and fore-ordination as the one and only Redecmer and Savior of the race; and (4) of Ilis transcendent sinlessness. Jesus Christ is not the Father of the spints who have taken or yet shall take bodies upon this earth, for He is one of them. He is The Son, as they are sons or daughters of Elohim (James E. TatMAGE, Articles of Faith, pp. 472-473). Man's Pre-Earth Life Whereas, the Christian world teaches that the individual's first creation, or birth, was temporal without a spirit life before entry into this mortal world, the gospel of Jesus Christ in its fulness gives a true understanding of man's divine origin. The doctrine of man's spiritual creation ls explained in a statement issued by the First Presidency composed of Joseph F. Smith, John R. Winder, and Anthon H. Lund: Adain, our great progenitor, "the first 685 >? Man," was, like Christ, a pre-cxistent spirit, and like Christ he took upon him an appropriate body, the body of a man, and so became a "living soul." The doctrine of the pre-existence, — revealed so plainly, particularly in latter days, pours a wonderful flood of light upon the otherwise mysterious problem of man's origin. It shows that man, as a spirit, was begotten and born of heavenly parents, and reared to maturity in the eternal mansions of the Father, prior to coming upon the earth in a temporal body to undergo an expericnce in mortality. It teaches that all men existed in the spirit before any man existed in the flesh, and that all who have inhabited the earth since Adam have taken bodies and become souls in like manner ("The Origin of Man," Improvement Era, Vol. XIII, November 1909, page 80). Animal and Plant Creation Not only was man created in the spirit first, but also the rest of God's creations. 'The revelations speak of this spiritual creation as including vegetation and animal. How clearly this is spoken of in these verses: And every plant of the field before it was in the earth, and every herb of the field before it grew. For I, the Lord God, created all things, of which I have spoken, spiritually, before they were naturally upon the face of the earth. For I, the Lord God, had not caused it to rain upon the face of the carth. And I, the Lord God, had created all the children of men; and not yet a man to till the ground; for in heaven created I them; and there was not yet flesh upon the earth, neither in the water, neither in the air (Pearl of Great Price, Moses 3:5).... That which is spiritual being in the likeness of that which is temporal; and that which is temporal in the likeness of that which is spiritual; the spirit of man in the likeness of his person, as also the spirit of the beast, and every other creature which God has created (D & C 77:2). Creations Are Eternal From the scriptures we learn some important truths relative to 686 the creations of God: (1) they constitute an organizing of already existing eternal material (See D & C 131:7); and (2) that his creations will therefore continue to exist as a part of the resurrection. (See D & C 29:23-25.) These truths are pointed out in the statement made by the First Presidency: By His almighty power He organized the earth, and all that it contains, from spirit and element, which exist cocternally with Himself. He formed every plant that grows, and every animal that breathes, each after its own kind, spiritually and temporally — "that which is spiritual being in the likeness of that which is temporal, and that which is temporal in the likeness of that which is spiritual." He made the tadpole and the ape, the lion and the elephant; but He did not make them in His own image, nor endow them with Godlike reason and _ intelligence. Nevertheless, the whole animal creation will be perfected and perpetuated in the Hereafter, each class in its "destined order or sphere," and will enjoy 'eternal felicity." That fact has been made plain in this dispensation (D & C 77:3) ("The Origin of Man," Improvement Era, Vol. XIII, November 1909, page 81). Spiritual and Temporal Basic to much of Latter-day Saint teachings concerning how the spirit sons and daughters of God should understand the way they should live in mortality is found in these verses: Speaking unto you that you may naturallv understand, but unto myself my works have no end, neither beginning; but it is given unto you that ye may understand, because ye have asked it of me and are agreed. Wherefore, verily I say unto you that all things unto me are spiritual, and not at any time have I given unto you a law which was temporal; ncither any man, nor the children of men; neither Adam, your father, whom | created. Behold, I gave unto him that he should be an agent unto himself; and I gave RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1959 unto him commandment, but no temporal commandment gave I unto him, for my commandments are spiritual; they are not natural nor temporal, neither carnal nor sensual (D & C 29:33-35). An understanding of many of the revelations which follow for study in these lessons is based on the proper intcrprctation of the foregoing truth. Commandments to build houses, sell or retain property, and other similar activities will engage our attcntion later. 'These activities are the basis of many of the accomplishments of our people and also for what may be done in the future. These statements from some of our leaders of the past express the Latter-day Saint point of vicw: Brigham Young: With God, and also with those who understand the principles of life and _salvation, the Priesthood, the oracles of truth and the gifts and callings of God to the children of men, there is no difference in spiritual and temporal labors — all are one. If I am in the line of my duty, I am doing the will of God, whether I am preaching, praying, laboring with my hands for an honorable support; whether I am in the field, mechanic's shop, or following mercantile business, or wherever duty calls, I am serving God as much in one place as another; and so it ls with all, each in his place, turn and time (Journal of Discourses 13:260). Joseph F. Smith: You must continue to bear in mind that the temporal and the spiritual are blended. Thev are not separate. Once cannot be carried on without the other, so long as we are here in mortality.. The Latter-day Saints believe not only in the gospel of spiritual salvation, but also in the gospel of temporal 'salvation.... The work that we are engaged in is not designed to be limited by the spiritual necessities of the people alone. It is the LESSON DEPARTMENT purpose of God in restoring the gospel and the holy Priesthood not only to benefit mankind spiritually, but also to benefit them temporally (Gospel Doctrine, 6th Edition, pp. 208-209). Adam and the Devil In continuation of our study of "first things" as they are made known in this important revelation, we have our attention drawn again to the pre-earth life. The "origin" of Satan's rebellion, the number of the spirits who followed him, the fact of free agency as a principle in the pre-existence, the eventual home of the devil's miserable horde, and the place of his operations in the lives of us mortals, are all indicated in these verses: And it came to pass that Adam, being tempted of the devil — for, behold, the devil was before Adam, for he rebelled against me, saying, Give me thine honor, which is my power; and also a third part of the hosts of heaven turned he away from me because of their agency; And they were thrust down, and thus came the devil and his angels; And, behold, there is a place prepared for them from the beginning, which place is hell. And it must needs be that the devil should tempt the children of men, or they could not be agents unto themselves; for if they never should have bitter they could not know the sweet (D & C 29:36-39). Adam and the Fall It should be apparent to all Latter-day Saints that basic to an understanding of the purpose of life is an acceptance of the account given in the scriptures that Adam was a real historical person, and of the rebellion of Satan. (See Abraham 3:23-35; Moses 4:1-4.) Adam's place in the plan of salvation is 687 such an important one that it was formulated in the heavens before the foundations of the earth were laid. It seems that Adam's place in the divine plan was necessary that there be an opportunity for making possible the union of the spirit of man and a mortal body. What is called the fall of Adam is but a means of giving further opportunities for the progression of the spirit sons and daughters of God. We obtain knowledge from this modern revelation of what happened to Adam as a result of his partaking of the forbidden fruit and also of the effect of that act upon his posterity. It is declared that Adam "became subject to the will of the devil, because he yielded unto temptation" and: Wherefore, I, the Lord God, caused that he should be cast out from the Garden of Eden, from my presence, because of his transgression, wherein he became spiritually dead, which {s the first death, even that same death which fs the last death, which is spiritual, which shall be pronounced upon the wicked when I shall say: Depart ye cursed. But, behold, I say unto you that I, the Lord God, gave unto Adam and unto his seed, that they should not die as to the temporal death, until I, the Lord God, should send forth angels to declare unto them repentance and redemption, through faith on the name of mine Only Begotten Son. And thus did I, the Lord God, appoint unto man the days of his probation — that by his natural death he might be raised in immortality unto eternal life, even as many as would believe; And they that believe not unto eternal damnation; for they cannot be redeemed from their spiritual fall, because they repent not; For they love darkness rather than light, and their deeds are evil, and they receive their wages of whom they list to obey (D & C 29:41-45). 688 With these scriptures before us, we sce that in yielding to temptation Adam became subject to two penalties: (1) spiritual death, or banishment from the presence of God, and (2) temporal death, or separation of his spirit and mortal body. In the process of time Adam died the temporal death. By breaking the commandment, he became mortal and subject to sin; therefore, he could no longer remain in the presence of God. So it is with us, Adam's posterity; we die the temporal death, and we also become spiritually dead when we transgress God's commandments after the age of accountability, which is eight years. In order that Adam and his posterity might know of the way they might become spiritually alive and become prepared to enter into the Lord's presence, revelations were given to Adam by angels. The gospel plan was available to them that they might exercise faith in Jesus, the Only Begotten of the Father. Through the atonement wrought by the Savior, man is rescued from the grave to immortality; and, if he has been faithful to the covenants received in the gospel, he may enter into his exaltation, or eternal life. But for those who do not repent, either in this life or in the spirit world, they must remain spiritually dead. (Subsequent lessons will deal with the salvation of mankind.) In this revelation, it is pointed out that those that believe not will go to eternal damnation and cannot be redeemed from their spiritual fall, because they do not repent. This is called the second death, and is not to be understood as a RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1959 separation of spirit and body after being resurrected. Children and the Fall Death of the body comes to all by reason of the fall of Adam. Death is as essential as is birth in the eternal plan. (See Moses 6:59.) It "... Hath passed upon all men,- to fulfil the merciful plan of the great Creator..." (2 Nephi 9:6). Many who travel through life suffer pain, sorrow, and the vicissitudes of mortality. Often the mortal body becomes decrepit and worn out. At times there seems to be little reason for continued existence, but in the plan of our Eternal Father there is reason. The problem which is often brought to parents' attention so forcefully is the death of a little child or the inability to bring a child into mortal life after once the biological processes of growth have begun. These are problems for which we do not yet have full and complete answers. We do know, as believers in the scriptures, that the Lord has declared little children to be blameless before him. They come into this life innocent (D & C 93:38). Therefore, the fall of Adam does not affect their relationship to their salvation before the Lord. The Lord has also made known that: But behold, I say unto you, that little children are redeemed from the foundation of the world through mine Only Begotten; Wherefore, they cannot sin, for power is not given unto Satan to tempt little children, until they begin to become accountable before me; For it is given unto them even as I will, according to mine own pleasure, that great things may be required at the hand LESSON DEPARTMENT of their fathers (D & C 29:46-48 cf., 74:7). The atonement of Jesus Christ redeems little children whereby they do not need the ordinance of baptism for their salvation. (See Moroni 8:11-20.) Those parents who lose a child before the age of accountability, or eight years (See D & C 68:25), may be assured as to its salvation in the celestial kingdom. Concerning this, the Lord made known to Joseph Smith "... That all children who die before they arrive at the years of accountability, are saved in the celestial kingdom of heaven..." (D. H. C. 2:381). If one will keep before him the truth that the most important thing in life for those little ones, and for us, is life itself, the taking of a mortal body whereby there is assured a resurrection of the body joined with the spirit eternally, much of the sting of death is removed. Prenatal Death Closely associated with the problem of life and its importance in the plan of salvation is the time when the spirit enters the body, whether before birth or when the breath of life is taken at birth. If the spirit enters the body before birth, then we would believe that the resurrection will come to the so-called "still-born." In an article by the First Presidency, consisting of Joseph F. Smith, Anthon H. Lund, and Charles W. Penrose, we find this statement: True, it is that the body of man enters upon its career as a tiny germ or embyro, which becomes an infant, quickened at a certain stage by the spirit whose 689 tabernacle, it is, and the child, after being born, develops into a man ("The Origin of Man," Improvement Era, Vol. XIII, November 1909, page 80). In other words, the answer to the problem is indefinite, and no attempt was made by the First Presidency to answer whether the spirit enters the body before or after birth. On the other hand, opinions have been expressed, and they should be known as opinions, but, in the main they express hope and encouragement to parents. Mentally Retarded Persons The revelation we are studying ends with these words: And, again, I say unto you, that whoso having knowledge, have I not commanded to repent? And he that hath no understanding, it remaineth in me to do according as it is written. And now I declare no more unto you at this time. Amen (D & C 29:49-50). Those persons who are deficient mentally, having not understanding, seem to be in the same relationship as children — blameless before God. As children, they do not require the ordinance of baptism for their salvation, but they are in the hands of the all-wise Father. 'They apparently are in the class who are "without the law." Of these the prophet Mormon wrote to his son Moroni: For behold that all little children are alive in Christ, and also all they that are without the law. For the power of redemption cometh on all them that have no law; wherefore, he that is not condemned, or he that is under no condemnation, cannot repent; and unto such baptism availeth nothing (Moroni 8:22). Unto whom much is given, much is required, but unto whom little is 690 given, little is required, is the letter and the spirit of the scriptures. Questions for Discussion 1, What is the meaning of the title "Elder Brother'? 2. Discuss four ways in which Jesus is greater than the rest of mankind. 3. Discuss: The doctrine of the preexistence of man helps me to understand many of the problems of life. 4. Express the Latter-day Saint underRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1959 standing of the temporal and_ spiritual phases of life. 5. What is taught in this lesson concerning Satan? 6. What cffect did the fall of Adam have upon Adam? 7. How did Adam's fall affect us? 8. What effect docs the fall have upon little children? G. In terms of this lesson, what is the meaning of this statement: "Unto whom much is given, much is required, but unto whom little is given, little is required''? (isiting Seacher Ilessages— Truths to Live By From The Doctrine and Covenants Message 20—"Therefore, He That Lacketh Wisdom, Let Him Ask of Me, and | Will Give Him Liberally and Upbraid Him Not" (D & C 42:68). Christine H. Robinson For Tuesday, January 5, 1960 Objective: To show that wisdom comes from God, and unless we keep his commandments, regardless of our learning, we cannot gain wisdom. GINCE the beginning of time, man's greatest need has been for wisdom. The progress of mankind has depended upon the wisdom applied in the solution of its great and small problems and decisions. There has never been a period in history when actions and solutions, guided by wisdom, are more important than they are today. Man has made great progress in the acquisition of knowledge. Yet, with all of his knowledge, problems have mounted and multiplied until the decisions with which we are now faced are of such magnitude that, perhaps, our very existence depends upon their solution. What is wisdom? The prophet Job provides an interesting insight into its meaning. He said, "... Behold, the fear of the Lord, that is wisdom..." (Job 28:28). Solomon said, "... The Lord giveth wisdom..." (Proverbs 2:6). The first step in understanding the nature of wisdom is to recognize that it comes from the Lord and is available only to those who live his commandments. The dictionary defines wisdom as the ability to judge soundly and deal sagaciously with facts as they relate to life and conduct. It involves intelligent discernment and judgment. We should fully understand that knowledge in and of itself is not wisdom. Wisdom consists in the right use of knowledge. 'This implies knowledge used righteously in LESSON DEPARTMENT full application of the teachings and commandments of the Lord. How can we gain wisdom? Again, the scriptures give us the answer. In The Book of Mormon, the prophet Jacob declared:... When they are learned they think they are wise, and they hearken not unto the counsct of God, for they set it aside, supposing they know of themselves, wherefore, their wisdom is foolishness..." (2 Nephi 9:28). The apostle Paul, in writing to the Corinthians, said, "Not that we are sufficient of ourselves to think any thing as of ourselves; but our sufficiency is of God" (If Cor. 3:5). To gain wisdom, then, we must gain knowledge on the foundation of spirituality and righteousness. This means that we must hearken to the counsel of the Lord. We must study and pray diligently, having faith that, if we work conscientiously, depending upon the Lord, he will add to our knowledge, wisdom. The most wonderful cxample of the application of The Doctrine and Covenants' message in respect to wisdom is the action taken and the marvelous results experienced by the Prophet Joseph Smith. He lacked wisdom on a most important subject. He wanted to know which of all the churches was the true once. Reading in the Bible in the Epistle 691 of James, he discovered the passage similar to the one in The Doctrine and Covenants. The apostle James said: If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, that giveth to all men liberally, and upbraideth not; and it shall be given him (James 1:5). We are all acquainted with the wonderful manifestation that resulted. This application of simple, pure faith was the starting point of the great and marvelous work that is the wonder of the world. 'These inspired words, put into action by Joseph Smith, gave him power to rise to heights of intelligence and wisdom and supplied him with the divine help which enabled him to serve as an instrument in the Lord's hands through which his Church was restored. The ancient King Solomon said: Happy is the man that findeth wisdom, and the man that getteth understanding. For the merchandise of it is better than the merchandise of silver, and the gain thereof than fine gold (Proverbs 3:13-14). Certainly, each of us has a constant need for wisdom. Let us remember that it is an attribute of God which he generously shares. However, each of us must first seek it with full faith that the Lord will give it liberally and "upbraid him not." Open the (Door of Your Heart Grace Ingles Frost Open wide the door of your heart, And cast away the key, That the light of love may enter in And create charity. Work IT leeting—Physical Safety Factors in the Home (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Discussion 4—Household Hazards Charlotte A. Larsen For Tuesday, January 12, 1960 Objective: To recognize and correct hazards in the home. HE American home should have ample space for happy, healthful, spiritual family living — but no room for accidents." Mothers shoulder the major responsibility for the safe environment, safe maintenance, and the safe attitudes of their children, their menfolk, and themselves. When we learn that home accidents cause about onethird of all the accidental deaths, and about fifty per cent of the injuries, it becomes apparent that something must be done to prevent home accidents. Accident Prevention a Major Issue The importance of preventing accidents in the home has been regarded as such a major issue that grants were made by the W. K. Kellogg Foundation, in 1953, to eight states to study the home accident problem and take steps to improve the situation. United Effort Can Prevent Accidents A story is told about a small child who was lost in the wheat fields of North Dakota. The parents were frantic from looking for their child in the maze of wheat acreages and called on the neighbors for assistance. An alarm was sent out, and the farmers responded from all Page 692 neighboring communities to aid in finding the lost child. Finally, someone said, ""Let's join hands and make a great big circle as we search." The several thousands of people joined hands to form a circle and covered all the area in that vicinity. The child was found sleeping in the wheat fields. This was brought about because people themselves decided to join hands in an attempt to find the lost child. The same thing holds true in our attempting to prevent the loss of life. The more we join hands as interested mothers, the greater the possibility we have of reducing the loss of life from accidents and fires. Safe Environment— How Do We Get It? Each of us has the responsibility to ask himself — is our home unsafe? What can I do about it? Check your own residence. You may be surprised at how many booby traps you maintain. It is apparent that there are three necessary procedures for making a home safe: 1. Safety awareness on the part of peoBe in the home.. Thorough and intelligent studies of the why's and wherefore's of home accidents. LESSON DEPARTMENT 3. Homes engineered for safety. According to Dr. Oakley Gordon of the University of Utah Psychology Department, the main cause of accidents is from hurrying. The following table shows why accidents happen: 35% by hurrying; 22% not paying attention; 11% excitement, not including hurry or anger; 11% doing wrong thing but knowing better; 7% doing wrong thing but not knowing better; 8% wanted to do it, nO apparent reason, just wanted to; 4% in anger; and 2% attentiongetting or showing off, Falls Falls account for more accidental deaths and injuries than any other cause, with the exception of traffic. Falls are due to unsafe things, such as: makeshift ladders; overexhaustion; overwaxed floors; spilled liquids on floors; cluttered stairways— skates, marbles, scatter rugs; curled edges of linoleum or frayed carpets; heavy lifting; poor furniture arrangement; painted porch steps and walks; slipping on bathtub; open stairways; and dark passageways. More fatal falls occur in the bedroom than anywhere else in the home. The biggest reason for this is that folks get out of bed at night, half asleep, and stumble over the chair or trip on a rug and fall. 'This is particularly true of older people. The use of a bed lamp or flash light will prevent many an accident. Ways of Prevention Do your household reaching and climbing on a steady, sturdy ladder with treaded steps, don't over-reach, but move the ladder. If you are going to wax the floors, use a non-skid wax. Apply floor wax in a thin coat and buff it thoroughly to make it less slippery. 693 Keep stairways uncluttered and well lighted — skates and marbles on steps could result in serious injury. Have handrails for three or more steps. Make it a rule to wipe up any grease, water, or peclings spilled on the kitchen floor as soon as you notice them. Make sure your throw-rugs are anchored with rubber matting, or finished on the back with a non-skid treatment. Tack down all curled linoleum or frayed carpets. If you must paint your porchsteps, use an outdoor or rough finish paint or use rubber guards on each step. Place a rubber mat in the bathtub and make sure that there is a strong bar along the. Wall to grasp. Heavy lifting may be responsible for falls and injuries. To lift a heavy object, get close to it, bend the knees, keep the back straight, and put one foot slightly ahead of the other. Bending from the waist may cause a strained back or rupture. Remember the stairway to the basement should never be used to store brooms, mops, and other articles. A common hazard in the home is the enclosed stairway having a door at the top which swings in over the stairs. 'This action has the effect of allowing one to enter without realizing the stairs are there, and causing one proceeding up the stairs to step back down to allow the door to open. The door should always swing out away from the stairs, causing one to pause in opening the door to enter the stairway, and allowing the person proceeding up the stairs to exit without having to step back down a step or two to allow the door to open. Questions 1. How long has it been since you have checked on possible booby traps in your home? What corrections have been made? 2. Name some of the main causes of accidents in the home. of iterature—Ametica's Literature — A New Nation Speaks Lesson 12—Two Early American Quakers: Penn and Woolman Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: America's Literature, by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes, Dryden Press, New York, pp. 123-127) For Tuesday, January 19, 1960 Objective: To understand more fully the Quaker contribution to the American mind and culture. HOSE thousands on thousands of early colonists who came only for gain either fulfilled their hopes or failed. In either case they disappeared without great written evidence that they were ever here. It was those who came to the new world and spent their lives here in fulfillment of their own political or religious idealisms who made significant contributions to our literature. Because we devoted several Iessons to the Massachusetts Bay Colony and none to other religious settlements, it might be assumed that before the Revolutionary War no others were important. In a partial sense this is true. Branchings from Massachusetts settled all the states north of New York save Rhode Island; the New Amsterdam Dutch wrote only in their own tongue; the Catholics in Maryland and Delaware remained an isolated island, while the shaping wordtrends swept onward past and round them. The Southern gentlemen were for the most part Anglicans; they read and wrote as whim dictated, some of them quite widely, but in their writings their religion was not important. For the only Page 694 religious writing of enduring value outside the Puritan tradition, we must turn to the Quakers. Quaker Colonies During the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries New York became the commercial leader of the United States, Boston, the cultural, but, at the time of the Revolution, Philadelphia combined within herself both qualities. Known as the "London of America,' she was one of our first great culture-cities, and the first to be laid out in blocks with wide streets. Although the Quakers, through their most liberal attitude toward peoples of all faiths or no faith, ceased to have a majority within the city as early as 1700, Quakers were long predominant in the vicinity, and to this day have a concentration of their membership, small though it is, within what sometimes have been called the Quaker Colonies: New Jersey, Delaware, and Pennsylvania. It was their beliefs, as stated by William Penn, which were largely responsible for the early thnving and dominant influence of Philadelphia throughout the new Nation. LESSON DEPARTMENT William Penn (1644-1718) Born in 1644 to Sir William Penn, admiral of the royal navy, just six years after the Society of Friends was founded by George Fox, young William was reared amid luxury and high society. Educated at Oxford and in law in Lincoln's Inn, London, he was expelled from Oxford for worshipping with non-conformists; while there he sympathized with Quakerism. His father worried about his dissenting religious view and sent him to France to absorb its gentlemanly way of life. Later, while in Ireland administering his father's estates, he again learned of Quakerism, became a zealous member, and was soon imprisoned for publishing heretical religious tracts. The most important of his books was No Cross, No Crown, containing a defense of Quaker doctrines and an attack on the loose living of the Christian clergy. In 1670 he used his inherited wealth to establish a Quaker settlement at Burlington, New Jersey. Ileven years later, in 1681, King Charles I] gave him a grant of twenty-eight million acres of land, the largest ever given one individual, in payment of a debt of sixteen thousand pounds the Crown owed his father. In 1671 and 1677 young William had visited the lower Rhine region. Appalled at the suffering among tradesmen and their families caused by the political and financial exploitation of their rulers, he encouraged them to emigrate to his lands in America, "there to earn a good livelihood and worship as they pleased among men of universal spirits who understand the promo- 695 tion of a just government among a plain and well-intending people." When he received the Pennsylvania grant (named by the King in honor of Penn's father—Penn had suggested Sylvania), the Dutch and German immigrants came in large numbers, founding Germantown and becoming known famuiliarly as the "Pennsylvania Dutch." Though he spent only four years in his colony, Penn's "Holy Experiment" was one of the most successful of colonial times, largely because it was well-planned and_ because Penn's tolerance made it America's earliest "melting pot," second only to New York City. It was Penn's desire that not only Jews, but the universally hated Catholics as well, be admitted as voting members of the community, which they were. No church, not even Quakerism, was given preference, and every man could own property, vote, and hold office. Quakerism Versus Puritanism In many beliefs and_ practices Quakerism and Puritanism resemble each other. While primarily Penn established his "Holy Experiment for the Lord's sake," he also hoped to blend practical things of life with the spiritual, not so much to build houses and factories "as to erect temples of holiness and righteousness, which God may delight in." For Quaker, as Puritan, laziness was a great sin. Similarly, Penn condemned plays, dancing, music, and painting as sensualities detracting from the purity of the Bible's message. Ile emphasized character and honesty as the best assurance of success and government, for if "men are good the government cannot be 696 bad; if it be ill, they will cure it." George Fox taught that each man had direct access to God, and that "each man should be his own priest." Those attuned to God can receive his illumination or "Inner Light" which gives them guidance and peace. From such a concept of man's relationship with God three fundamental differences from Puritanism arose: (1) Quakers believe in complete separation of church and state. Man's religious conscience ls sacred, and not to be intermixed with such worldly affairs as government and economics. (2) Education for the Quakers should be most practical, and derived from the greatest of all books: Nature. Because formal education brought truth to the student at secondhand it was somewhat suspect, even by Penn himself, a university-trained man. Where the Puritans honored intellectual discipline, reason, and logic, Quakers honored intuitive knowing: "God stands in no need of human learning." (3) While Puritans feared toleration, Quakers, with equal vigor, feared intolerance. Said Penn: And truly it is high Time, that Men should give better Testimony of their Christianity; for Cruelty hath no share in Christ's religion, and Coertion upon Conscience is utterly inconsistent with the very Nature of his Kingdom... No man, nor number of men upon earth, hath power or authority to rule over men's consciences in religious matters.... God hates persecution. Believing that only God can know each man's heart, Quakers taught that no man may tell anyone else how to believe or worship, since "God will not give his honor to another." 'This principle also explains RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1959 the Quaker attitude of humanitarianism toward the ills of society, and their gentle affection toward both Indian and Negro. Some Fruits of Solitude Published anonymously in 1693, this collection of Penn's maxims was written while he was in jail for publishing his religious beliefs. 'Though space permits inclusion of but a few quotations, it is fitting that from Penn's own words we learn of his gentleness, wisdom, practicality, and deep belief. 59. Eat therefore to live, and do not live to eat. That's like a Man but this below a Beast. 60. Have wholesome, but not costly Food, and be rather cleanly than dainty in ordering it. 72. All Excess is ill; but Drunkenness is of the worst Sort: It spoils Health, dismounts the Mind, and unmans Men: it reveals Secrets, is Quarrelsome, Lascivious, Impudent, Dangerous and Mad: In fine, he that is Drunk is not a Man; because he is so long void of Reason, that distinguishes a Man from a Beast. 85. Men are generally more careful of the Breed of their Horses and Dogs than of their Children. 87. O how sordid is Man grown! Man, the Noblest Creature in the World, as a God on Earth, and the Image of him that made it; thus to mistake Earth for Heaven, and Worship Gold for God! 106-107. Friendship... Is a Union of Spirits, a Marriage of Hearts, and the bond thereof Virtue. There can be no Friendship where there is no Freedom. Friendship loves a free Air, and will not be penned up in streight and narrow Enclosures. It will speak freely, and act so too.... 227. Art is Good, where it is beneficial. Socrates wisely bounded his Knowledge and Instruction by Practice. 551. Did we believe a Final Reckoning and Judgment; or did we think enough of what we do believe, we would allow more Love in Religion than we do; since LESSON DEPARTMENT Religion itself is nothing else but Love to God and Man. 554. Love is indeed Heaven upon Earth, since Heaven above would not be Heaven without it: For where there is not Love; there is Fear; but perfect Love casts out Fear. And yet we naturally fear most to offend what we most Love. While most of these statements lack the beautiful cadence or the condensed power of literature, they are well-turned, while as a selective group they yield a true insight into the Quaker mind and heart. John Woolman (1720-1772) "Simple plainness, for the glory of God," might well have been the motto of this devout Quaker, whose life corresponds so closely to the dictates of his "Inner Light," and whose plain yet pictorial style of writing blends with its content to make an organic whole, and, therefore, enduring literature. Such "inward purity and grace" as glow forth from the pages of his Journal may be accepted as justly representing his own inward qualities of religious experience. The spiritual reality of the man, whether we are recalling his life of worldly renunciation and selfless missionary service or the restrained, smooth style which characterizes his writings, has made him a classical Quaker, and a most apt representative to us, both of his sect and of his time. He reduced his life (which was his religion) to its lowest common denominator, and in gentle sincerity pleaded with his fellow Quakers to do likewise. His denominator was that quotation from Jeremiah to Baruch, his scribe, which Woolman quotes in his Journal as he discusses the right, plain way of living: "'Seek- 697 est thou great things for thyself? Seek them not." Early Life Born and reared on a New Jersey farm some twenty miles from Philadelphia, Woolman's quict Quaker family taught him to follow the Bible and the promptings of his "Inner Light," and to believe in the evil of war and all cruelty, the brotherhood of man, and the meaningless vanity of vanity in dress and social distinction, and the blasphemy of taking any oath. As his movingly simple account of his youth tells us, he loved to read the Bible, after age twelve never spoke harshly to his parents; however, he came to enjoy wanton company, and, then, realizing the error of his ways, he prayed for spiritual guidance "until I felt that rise which prepares the creature to stand like a Trumpet, through which the Lord speaks to his flock." He came to realize within himself, as in all men, a double quality: an animal selfishness and love of fleshly things, and the divine "Seed" or particle of God. It was man's duty to magnify this immortal Godness within him through self-discipline of tongue and action until it not only dominated his life, but became it. Thus Quakers worship by being silent together and by distrusting impetuous emotion, particularly the "Spirit of Fierceness'' which causes malicious gossip, social cruelties, financial greed and ruthlessness, and finally wars. Woolman's self-mastery was so complete that his Inner Light became the dearest companion of his bosom; in his Journal he records how he knew within himself that he 698 "uttered words from an inward Knowledge that they arise from the heavenly Spring." Thus triply armed, he was ready to act on his conviction that:... True religion consisted in an inward life, wherein the heart doth love and reverence God the Creator, and learn to exercise true justice and goodness not only toward all men but also toward the brute creatures (Text, page 126). A successful tailor at twenty, his prosperity worried him: if his present trend continued, he might come to love money and _ success more than God and his fellow men. Enjoying the competent skill of his fingers when asked to make practical clothing, he came to loathe working on fancy gowns and coats which, he felt, could only flatter the "creaturely" impulses. Finally Woolman could no longer practice his tailoring trade and maintain inner peace, so objectionable did he find the pursuit of wealth and the symbols of wealth people sought after with such unholy passion. Woolman believed that men should seek after spiritual wealth by doing good to their fellows in mortality. So firmly did he abhor worldly display and the labor necessary to creating it, that on his trip to England he traveled steerage, since he "observed sundry sorts of carved work and imagery" decorating the _betterclass cabins. Finally, in complete contrast to Puritan philosophy (and that of some of his wealthy fellowQuakers) he renounced all allegiance to the usual pattern of wealth-seeking: Wealth desired for its own sake -obstructs the increase of virtue, and large possessions in the hands of selfish men RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER '1959 have a bad tendency, for by their means too small a number of people are employed in useful things, and some of them are necessitated to labor too hard... (Text, page 124). Woolman, Self-Appointed Missionary Practicing tailoring intermittently, Woolman was also a scrivener, or copier of public records, yet so. Strongly did he oppose cruelty or ungodliness in human relations that he refused to copy bills of sale for slaves. Once he attained his mature conviction that slavery was one of the greatest evils in God's eyes, he gave up the use of sugar, since it was a product of slave labor in the West Indies. On his own time and at his own expense, he visited Quakers throughout the thirteen colonies to advocate a policy of kindness and fairness toward the Indian, and against the practice of slavery. So successful was he that Rufus Jones, probably the strongest Quaker leader of the twentieth century, gives John Woolman the credit for first causing wealthy Quakers to give up their practice of slavery. His opposition to slavery was not caused by possibility that the slaves might be mistreated, but that it tended to extinguish the idea of God, not only within the slave but even more within the heart of the slaveholder. In his book A Plea For the Poor, published in 1763 in his forty-third year, he opposes oppression—oppression of oxen by overloading and overworking them; oppression of Negroes by keeping them enslaved; oppression of the poor by overcharging them, for if our great concern ls to lay up riches, and therefore our demands toward the poor: LESSON DEPARTMENT... Are such as requires greater Toyl, or application to business in them, than is Consistent with pure Love, we invade their rights as Inhabitants of that World, of which a good and gracious God is proprictor, under whom we are Tennants. Woolman's Prose Style Increasingly in his later maturity John Woolman believed as he practiced, that if a thing is not useful it cannot therefore be good. His literary style incarnates this belief, being so plain as to seem at times almost austere. However, since most of his manuscript he revised with considerable care, such an effect of direct simplicity must have best expressed his _ personality. George Fox had written, "Use plainness of speech and plain words'— to express a plain, simple devotion to God. Woolman's words achieve their classic beauty from their calculated simplicity, not only of tone, but of content. The organic blending of container with contained is the source of his literary power, best seen in excerpts from his Journal. Read aloud several times, his first sentence sets the tone of belicf and inner peace: I have often felt a motion of love to leave some hints of my experience of the goodness of God; and pursuant thereto, in the thirty-sixth year of my age, I begin this work (Text, page 124). After stating his place and date of birth, he recalls an incident which happened before his seventh birthday:.. As I went from school one Seventh Day, I remember, while my companions went to play by the way, I went forward out of sight, and setting down I read the twenty-second chapter of the Revelation: "He shewed me a pure river of water of life, clear as crystal, proceeding out of the 699 throne of God and of the Lamb," cte.; and in the reading of it my mind was drawn to seck after that pure habitation which I then believed God had prepared for His servants. 'The place where I sat and the swectness that attended my mind remain fresh in my memory (Text, page 124) / Sometime after his ninth year an event occurred which predicts his later concern for kindness, both in man's relations with his own kind as in his treatment of animals:.. As I went to a neighbor's house, I saw, on the way, a robin sitting on her nest, and as I came near she went off but, having young ones, flew about and with many cries expressed her coneern for them. I stood and threw stones at her till, one striking her, she fell down dead. At first I was pleased with the exploit, but after a few minutes was seized with horror, as having in a sportive way killed an innocent creature while she was careful for her young. I beheld her lying dead, and thought those young ones for which she was so careful must now perish for want of their dam to nourish them; and after some painful consideration on the subject, I climbed up the tree, took all the young birds, and killed them, supposing that better than to leave them to pine away and die miserably; and believed in this case that Scripture proverb was fulfilled: "Phe tender mercies of the wicked are cruel." I then went on my errand, but for some hours could think of little else but the cruclties I had cominitted, and was much troubled (Text, page 125). Such simple and direct dramatization of his own tender experience, cast in pure and beautifully cadenced prose, makes memorable reading. Growing older, he learned that "true religion consisted in an inward hfe, wherein the heart doth love and reverence God the Creator, and learns to exercise true justice and goodness." Sceing God's presence in visible nature, he felt "an awful- 700 ness' cover him, followed by tenderness and universal love toward his fellow creatures: This will be understood by such who have trodden in the same path. Some glanees of real beauty may be seen in their faces who dwell in true meckness. There is a harmony in the sound of that voice to which Divine love gives utterance, and some appearance of right order in their temper and conduct whose _passions are regulated; yet all these do not fully show forth that inward life to such as have not felt it, but this white stone [Revelation 2:17] and new name is only known rightly by such as receive it. After defining those who wear too costly apparel and who indulge in "too liberal use of spirituous liquors" as cases much to be pitied, he sees luxuries as evils to be overcome by using the self-discipline of Christ: Every degree of luxury hath some connection with evil; for those who profess to be disciples of Christ, and are looked upon as leaders of the people, to have that mind in them, which was also in Christ, and so stand separate from every wrong way, it is a means of help to the weaker.. I have felt an increasing care to atRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1959 tend to that Holy Spirit which sets right bonds to our desires, and leads those who faithfully follow it, to apply all the gifts of Divine Providence to the purpose for which they were intended. On his way to the Indians as a solitary, self-appointed missionary when word came that they had just massacred some white men, he refused to allow a companion to ac: company him, and "the Desire to cherish the Spirit of Love and Peace amongst these People arose very fresh in me," he went on alone, laboring among them for some months. While on a mission to England he died of the smallpox, greatly loved and respected by all who had known of his selfless, sincere life. Thoughts for Discussion 1. Why was Pennsylvania America's first melting pot? 2. What do Quakerism and Puritanism have in common? How do they differ? 3. To you what is most appealing in William Penn's Fruits of Solitude? What is the outstanding literary quality of John Woolman's Journal? Note: The 1959-60 Literature Packet, for use as visual aids, may be ordered only from the Audio-Visual Center, Brigham Young University, Provo, Utah, price $3.75 postpaid. See advertisement in The Relief Society Magazine, September 1959, page 635. The General Board of Relief Society does not fill orders for this Packet. - Social Science—Spiritual Living in the Nuclear Age Lesson 3—The Role of Emotional Maturity in Spiritual Living Elder Blaine M. Porter For Tuesday, January 26, 1960 Objective: To analyze some of the factors influencing development of emotional maturity and to develop an appreciation of the importance of emotional maturity in living the fulness of the gospel. The Powerful Influence of Home HE home is one of the most powerful influences affecting the development of emotional maturity. President McKay once said: In the homes of America are born the children of America, and from them go out into American life American men and women. They go out with the stamp of these homes upon them, and only as these homes are what they should be, will children be what they should be (McKay, Davin O., Pathways to Happiness, page 119). The degree and quality of emotional maturity which are developed in the home are closely related to what is expressed in the behavior of parents; for children identify very closely with the feelings, attitudes, and behavior patterns of their parents. Emotional maturity, likewise, is affected by the instruction which children receive from their parents, although what parents do undoubtedly influences their children more than what they say. Emotional maturity is influenced by the way in which parents help children face and solve problems, develop skills in getting along with people, accurately perceive the world of reality, and objectively analyze situations, find creative ways of meeting new situations and developing flexibility and skill in meeting and accepting change. As was pointed out in last month's lesson, there are many types of behavior which would be appropriate during childhood which are completely inappropriate in adulthood. During the early years, the home plays a most significant role in determining whether or not one is helped to lay aside childish ways of reacting and encouraged to develop new and more mature ways of behaving. There are, of course, other forces which affect maturity besides the home. Many of these exert influences which are both good and bad. There are economic forces that keep some homes insecure. There are community forces that breed antagonism and tensions between groups. There are forces within some schools which perpetuate various ignorances, snobbishness, and emotional provincialism. Certain religious elements generate intolerance. Some peer groups wield a great influence, particularly during adolescence. Such forms of mass media as radio, television, magazines, and newsPage 701 702 papers also make powerful influences which come into the home. They may be so powerful that individual fathers and mothers, no matter how mature they may be, may experience real difficulty in trying to combat them. Influence of Cultural Heritage Another powerful influence in the individual's development of emotional maturity is his cultural heritage. Many of the practices of past centuries and decades can be classified as evidences of social immaturity rather than a lack of knowledge. Consider, for example, such practices as the control of autopsies and medical studies of the human body. For many centuries those in the field of medicine were not permitted to treat an individual who was sick unless he had permission from the priest. Physicians were not pernutted to perform autopsics in order to discover what had caused death. Consider also the persecution of Galileo for having different ideas, for putting forth some new theories, most of which latcr on were proved to be correct. In our own American history, recall the burning of witches at the stake. Perhaps we could validly consider the theory that cultures mature, too. If we compare our modern culture with the distant past, we see many evidences of increasing maturity on the part of cultures. Many of the contradictions of our present culture are not only symptoms of immaturity, but they function so rigidly that they are forceful perpetuators of these immaturities. It is not easy, even at best, for the individual to build sound knowledge linkages with his world, and it RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1959 becomes even more difficult with the inconsistencies and contradictions which confront him. For example, some parents send _ their children to school and want them to bring home grades they can view with pride and at the same time talk about the impracticabality of what is learned in school, and admire pcople less for what they know than' for what they own. Profcssed Ideals vs. Actions The modern society is one in which the Sabbath day avowal of the brotherhood of man is contradicted by the weekday fight for his own survival and enrichment; in which political speakers repeat the great phrases of 'Thomas Jefferson or George Washington or Woodrow Wilson — supposedly honestly believing them—and then make shady political deals; in which the average citizen expresses pride in the American Bill of Rights and then secks to protect his own real estate by restrictive covenants. This, then, is one view of the culture which produces our teachers, our parents, administrators, school board members, political leaders, presidents of civic organizations, church leaders, cte. It is not surprising that in many of our schools, students are insidiously led to believe that the mature art of thinking for themselves is dangerous. It is dangerous so far as their own prospects are concerned, at least, for who is going to want to hire a person who is known to be "different" or "radical" (OversTREET, HARRY A., The Mature Mind, pp. 248, 249, W. W. Norton & Company, Inc., Publishers, reprinted by permission). Remember what happened to the Savior, to Galileo, and to Joseph LESSON DEPARTMENT Smith? Their ideas were different and radical in their day. The Role of Emotional Maturity The role of a mature adult living in a nuclear age, can never be one of passive and uncritical acceptance. It must be a role in which we participate in creative and objective evaluations of the many new forces, alternatives, and decisions which we surcly must face. The mature adult is one who thinks, meditates, values, tries to foresee consequences, and is actively confronting life and trying to do what needs to be done to improve life. The mature person is not afraid of life, rather he actively seeks to face it on as many fronts as his capacities and limitations permit. To live as an effective person in our rapidly changing society of today, the mature person must have graduated from home and _ school with an awareness of what will be expected of him by society. He should have successfully developed from the stage of thinking, "Please help me," to "I can take care of myself," to "Please let me help you." Mature living must carry with it the capacity to accept illness, disappointment, and those things which are beyond our control. It is associated with a sense of security, in spite of the many doubts which occur in a rapidly changing and expanding world. If we are mature we must accept responsibility for our own acts, and not blame others for our failures or assume credit for success when we do not deserve it. Results of Maturity There is an urgent need for mature leadership in our society and communities. A mature person, 703 because he understands himself and others, is better prepared to meet the tasks of everyday living with more confidence, and is, therefore, more capable of wisely and intelligently leading others. Increasing emotional maturity promotes and accompanies good mental health. 'The individual who acquires a sense of self-reliance because of the experienced consequences of his own actions can obtain great satisfaction in the simple occasions of life and the common experiences of men. He does not have to rely on the extraordinary, the unusual, or the exotic. He searches for adequate resolutions of more immediate problems, not for final answers; he wants the respect of others, not their praise, he wants their understanding, not their adoration. He engages in activities to satisfy himself through his own participation in them, not to impress others. Results of Immaturity In contrast, the immature person whose world is largely bolstered up by the authority of others has built his world upon sand. He has not measured his own capacity of choice in concrete situations; his value judgments are not his own. He can meet new situations only with blundering or inappropriate reactions, with scheming, with violence, or with mounting frustrations due to his own inactivity. 'The mature person, however, has better mental health because he has fewer fears and anxieties and possesses a greater sense of serenity and a functional kind of peace of mind. Maturity Necessary for Progression 704 AS ZN q ih EASY ORGAN COLLECTIONS FOR THE CHURCH ORGANIST.- AMATEUR ORGANIST— NO. 28 and NO. 29........ Ea. 2.25 weeeee ASHFORDS EASY VOLUNTARIES ou... Tee ee ceeceeeeeeeeeees 2.25 Boe CHRISTMAS VOLUNTARIES.. 1.00 2. Ae EASY CHURCH VOLUNTARIES 0.22... Eeteeee cee ceeeeceeeeees 1.50 > EASY POSTLUDES.................. 1.50 — EASY WEDDING MUSIC......... 1.00 —_— FAVORITE ORGAN VOLUNTARIES—Vols. 1, 2, 3...... Ea. 1.50 ae FORTY-THREE ORGAN OFFERTORIES _o......... Eeeecceeeee 1.50 a GOSPEL HYMN VOLUNTARIES—Vols. 1 and 2.... Ea. 1.50 — ONE PAGE ORGAN VOLUNTARIES—Vols. 1, 2, 3, 4.... Ea. 1.50 -- PORTFOLIO OF CHRISTMAS VOLUNTARIES |.... WW..22---------- 1.00 eeeees PRELUDES FOR WORSHIP.... 1.50 > SIMPLE ORGAN VOLUNTARIES ooo... Eeeeeeeeeeseceeeseeeeeees 1.50 Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 15 E. Ist South Salt Lake City 11, Utah ' 1 { { Please send the music indicated above.! CO On Approval (1 Charge ' DD Money Enclosed 1 ' t 1 \ \ 1 1 Name Address City & State TTT: 15 E. Ist South 145 NORTH UNIVERSMTY, PROVOS!'Salt Lake City 11, Utah RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1959 Emotional maturity is essential to the Latter-day Saint concept of progression, for certainly this is one of the ways in which eternal growth and development have the potential] to occur. Many of the challenges of the gospel of Jesus Christ require the characteristics of an emotionally mature person in order successfully to accomplish them. ' The following passages in The Doctrine and Covenants emphasize the importance of possessing emotional maturity in order righteously to administer the Priesthood: Behold, there are many called, but few are chosen. And why are they not chosen? Because their hearts are set so much upon the things of this world, and aspire to the honors of men, that they do not learn this one lesson— That the rights of the priesthood are inseparably connected with the powers of heaven, and that the powers of heaven cannot be controlled nor handled only upon the principles of righteousness. That they may be conferred upon us, it is true; but when we undertake to cover our sins, or to gratify our pride, our vain ambition, or to exercise control or dominion or compulsion upon the souls of the children of men, in any degree of unrighteousness, behold, the heavens withdraw themselves; the Spirit of the Lord is grieved; and when it is withdrawn, Amen to the priesthood or the authority of that man.... We have learned by sad experience that it is the nature and disposition of almost all men, as soon as they get a little authority, as they suppose, they will immediately begin to exercise unrighteous dominion. Hence many are called, but few are chosen (D & C 121:34-37, 39-40). These explanations of why many are called but few are chosen describe symptoms of immaturity. Such things as having "... Hearts... Set so much upon the things of this LESSON DEPARTMENT world..." (D & C 121:35) and "... To cover our sins, or to gratify our pride, our vain ambition, or to exercise control or dominion or compulsion upon the souls of the children of men, in any degree of unrighteousness " (D&C 121:37) are all descriptions of immaturity. Emotional maturity is likewise essential in order for one to be capable of living such teachings as:... Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself (Mt. 19:19). Love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, and pray for them which despitefully use you, and persecute you (Mt. 5:44). Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect (Mt. 5:48).... How oft shall my brother sin against me, and I forgive him? Till seven times?. Jesus saith unto him, I say not unto thee, Until seven times: but Until seventy times seven (Mt. 18:21-22). Without enumerating further, let us recognize that one cannot possess the skill and ability genuinely to love, forgive, be concerned about the welfare and well-being of others, etc., without being appropriately mature for one's age. If we are to live the teachings of Christ and be prepared for leadership in our society as well as in the kingdom of God, it is important that we make a concerted effort toward increasing our emotional maturity. Maturity Necessary for World Survival Modern advances in transportation and communication are bringing our neighbors of other lands closer and closer. The almost unbelievable advances in nuclear 705 HAWAIIAN TOUR Leaving Nov. 5th and 12th Prices start at $485.58—fly both ways, round trip from Salt Lake City. Visit Oahu, Kauai and Hawaii (Less $66.33 if tour is met in Oakland) TOURNAMENT OF ROSES PARADE CHRISTMAS HOLIDAY TOUR 8 days including San Diego and Tijuana, Mexico MEXICAN TOUR February 1960 and June 1960 also student tour in June 1960 Visit Book of Mormon places. For itinerary write or phone ESTHER JAMES TOURS 460 7th Avenue Phone: EM 3-5229 Salt Lake City 3, Utah EL 5-0268 science and weapons of war point up the necessity of men learning how co-operatively to live in peace together. Anything less than this could easily mean mass destruction of civilization and man himself. If we have persons in positions of leadership in government who are basically immature and hit out at others with the frustration of an infant, they can do harm beyond measure. If, on the other hand, we have leaders who are emotionally mature, they will be more likely to lead their respective countries down a road of peaceful living which may see mankind raised to new heights through the constructive use of his own inventions and the adherence to the principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Emotional maturity, like exalta- (Z7|\C O|N IT 1 classic nvlon gown by Phil-Maid Lovely classic style in nylon net tucked into lavish folds. Wear in loose fashion or tied in with matching ribbon. Blue yellow, lavender or pink. Sizes $(32-34), M(36-38), L(40-42) XL(44-46). 2.99 ZCMI LINGERIE—Downstairs Store VAY uae y Mail orders to: MARGOT MANNERS, ZCMI Salt Lake City 10, Utah Please send the following gowns: 008 ay NANeAe enone a ones 18c first item, Ze each additional. Utah residents add 212% state tax. Page 7C6 LESSON DEPARTMENT No tion, is achieved individually. One else can do it for us. We cannot become mature all at once. We advance toward it little by little. Each step we take in this direction will lead us and our fellow men from a world in which there is considerable chaos and confusion because of the exploding horizons around us towards a world which, in spite of almost unbelievable expansion, will be characterized by those elements which will make up the kingdom of heaven on carth. Thoughts for Discussion 1. Consider some of the specific influences which contribute to the development of cmotional maturity. 2. Consider some of the specific home situations which hinder the devclopment of emotional maturity. 3. Discuss some of the specific ways in which cmotional maturity is essential to the Latter-day Saint concept of progression. 4. It was suggested in the lesson that emotional maturity is cssential in order for one to be capable of living several of the teachings of Jesus. List some other teachings in addition to those which were suggested in the lesson. 5. What are some of the things which you might do to increase your level of emotional maturity? 6. What are some of the specific things which you might do within your home to help other family members increase their degree of emotional maturity? 7. The lesson suggested that emotional maturity is important in living the fulness of the gospel. What is your opinion? Be specific in defending vour position. Supplementary References Evans, Ricuarp L.: "The Courage to Face Vacts,' The Improvement Era, January 1957, page 79. REINERT, Paut C.: '""Mature Minds in a Mature America," National Parent-Teacher, Vol. 53, September 1958, pp. 4-6. 707 LEARN TO TYPEWRITE! New Classes Begin Soon Adult classes for Relief Society and genealogy workers will teach beginning and advanced typing. Classes will run 6:30 to 8:00 p. M., Mondays and Thursdays. Individual help and instruction by professional teachers. Call for reservations and further information. LDS BUSINESS COLLEGE Phone EM 3-2765 70 North Main Salt Lake City 11, Utah Recommended Music for the Special November Sunday Evening Program My Redeemer Lives—Gates SSA — Per Copy, 20¢ My Testimony—Ashton SSA — Per Copy, 10¢ NEW, just off press sacred and secular piano album - Vol. 2 by Seldon N. Heaps Price $1.00 Please add postage to above GLEN BROS. MUSIC CO. 246 So. Main Salt Lake City, Utah 708 056) a 0a 0-0 a) a ( HAWAIlI TOUR Latter-day Saint group going to Hawaii in November 1959. On all Hawaii tours avoid disappointment and make reservations early, at least one month prior to departure. ROSE BOWL PARADE We have a Rose Bowl Parade Tour leaving in December. Inquire early and make early reservations. EUROPE 1960 Reservations made anywhere j in the world, chartered tours or individual. MARGARET LUND TOURS 4708 Holladay Blvd. Salt Lake City, Utah Phone: CR 7-6851 ) (> > (> () D> () ED () ) > () <P ( ) > () a ( i oe e Supplies for All Popular Handicrafts Foam and Plastic Tote Bags All Flower Materials Aluminum Trays—Mosaics Copper Tooling—Copper Enameling Basketry—Textile Paints Shellcraft—Boutique Materials Ceramic Supplies And many, many others. ZIM'S 240 East 2d South Salt Lake City, Utah RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1959 "I Share This Plan for The Instructor, January 1958, Younc, VAsH: Living," pp. 6-7. Sounds He Missed Lula Walker The roar of trucks, the boom of jets My child well knows, nor does he fail To recognize the screech of brakes Or piercing sound of siren's wail. But there are sounds I wish he'd heard— The friendly creak of buggy wheels, The welcome ring of dinner bell That spoke of hearty country meals; The sleigh bells on the frosty air, Sled runners' crunch on hard-packed snow As horses' hoofs beat sharp tattoo. Such pleasant sounds my child won't know, Nor loveliest of our neighborhood— A cow bell's tinkle through the wood. She Watch Olive Peabody Y father's big gold watch M was one of the first objects that became familiar to all of us as children. Every baby who sat on Father's comfortable lap was allowed the privilege of hearing the watch tick and of running childish hands across the shiny, gold-engraved surface of the outer cover. Each one learned quickly that the next treat was inside, and with excitement would say, "Open! Sce, Mamma!" A pleased smile always took form around Father's mouth, and his intense blue eyes softened as he clicked open the cover in order to 0) E> (<> () <> () GED () ED () ED ©) <D-( +2 THE WATCH show the picture of her. 'The face that smiled back at us belonged to a beautiful girl of eighteen. She wore a bow in her hair and one on her dress, modifying the stiffness of the high collar. It would never make any difference what changes time brought to this face, as the watch ticked on in endless fashion, Father would always see Mother as she was in this picture that he wore next to his heart. It was odd, but as we grew older the watch did not cease in importance to us. We learned from it in turn — how to tell time, our Roman numerals, a little about mechanism, engraving, and jewels, punctuality, unity, and the rates of speed. Our nightly walks with Father took us past the local jewelry store, where we would pause while he checked the accuracy of his timepiece and wound it. After this usual ritual, he would click the cover shut and say, "It is right by the sun, moon, and stars and can tell the price of wheat in Chicago." When we were little, we didn't understand this, but we accepted the watch and anything in connection with it as a stabilizer in our midst. ATHER carried it until eleven months past his seventy-first birthday, when he passed away. After that, the big heirloom was always with Mother — by her bed at night and in her purse when she went out in the daytime. My brother gave her an electric clock, but she put it in the guest room. Father's watch was her purveyor of time — and we felt it was also a comfort to her. She lived only a short time after being separated 709 ARE YOU AN UNPUBLISHED AUTHOR? IF YOU HAVE A BOOK LENGTH MANUSCRIPT you would like to have published, our editorial staff will be glad to consider it on a co-operative basis. OUR PROGRAM _ HAS LAUNCHED MANY NEW WRITERS. Submit your work for free editorial evaluation and further information. We consider all types of material: Fiction, Poetry, Juveniles, Religious Books, Educational, and Scholarly Work. GREENWICH BOOK PUBLISHERS, INC. Attention: Mr. Wright 489 Fifth Avenue New York City, New York SEARS ROEBUCK AND CO. NOW... A 30 DAY CHARGE ACCOUNT AT SEARS.... You select the way to pay... On Sears Revolving Charge. Use as a 30 day charge or take six months to pay. 'ryote ney dee' SEARS ROEBUCK AND CO. Salt Lake City, Ogden, Logan, Provo, and Price, Utah 710 HOLIDAY TABLECLOTHS Easy to clean embossed Polyethylene plastic. No Washing — No troning — Colorful Fruit and placemat pattern to grace the THANKSGIVING and Fall Festive Tables. * * * * Candelabra — pine cones and poinsettias in red, green and gold. Bring cheer to CHRISTMAS HOLIDAYS. Especially attractive for Dinners— Banquets—Parties Sizes 547°) 540° =...79¢ each fo). Aa ay &: Sh ee rn99¢ each fo. SAM aD, 0 kee$1.29 each 540 x 1087 eee$1.49 each Plus Ile each for postal delivery. Postage prepaid on orders for one dozen or more. Shipments made during October and November and until December 10th Mrs. George L. Carey 1506 East 3115 South P. O. Box 2253 Salt Lake City, Utah Last fall over 5000 above cloths sold In stores—Ogden—Salt Lake City—Provo area © BEAUTIFUL e HANDY e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the fincst of service. Cloth Cover—$2.50; Leather Cover—$3.80 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Distance from Salt Lake City, Utoh Rate Up to 150 miles 2... Eee 35 150 to 300 miles 0.00. P 300 to 600 miles 000.002...: 600 to 1000 miles 1000 to 1400 miles.. 1400 to 1800 miles.. Over 1800 miiles............ Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-2581 33 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1959 from her life partner, but she kept his watch as carefully wound as he always had, so I was shocked to find it not ticking the morning she died. I picked it up and attempted to set and wind it, but nothing happened. Although the watch was old-fashioned and heavy, it carried with it many memories, and so my brother: took it to the jewelery store to be repaired. 'Then, after leaving it for a ten-day period, he went back to pick it up. The jeweler shook his head and said, "This watch has served its last master. 'There is no use spending money on it. It is completely worn out." There was no other place for it, so it went into a box of old keepsakes, and there it stayed until some members of the family saw how old pieces of jewelry are taken apart and incorporated in clear plastic in a decorative manner to be used as a panel, or a desk or dressing table top. We are in the process of having this done, so that once again little fingers will be examining the wonders of Father's big watch, and young minds will be learning new things from it. Autumn Wind Eva Willes Wangsgaard Now bountifully autumn brings A wealth of hours newly shined, While days rush by on painted wings And leave a lonesome sound behind. Birthday Congratulations Ninety-three Mrs. Exiza JANE STEVENS FOOTE Morgan, Utah Mrs. AtmirA Mutuins JACK Sanford, Colorado Mrs. ELnora STAKER THOMSON Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-two Mrs. LovuisA RappLevE NELSON Ferron, Utah Mrs. Hannan Hansen RAcpus Ferron, Utah Mrs. ELLEN JOHNSON MARLOR Magna, Utah Mrs. Henrretta MCAFFEE Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-one Mrs. Nettie Moore Urguuart Denver, Colorado Mrs. Ava BissELL Harrison Springville, Utah Ninety Mrs. CuristeNA Maria CHRISTENSEN Ross Idaho Falls, Idaho i Bereft of Song Maude O. Cook Along a boundless highway Companioned by the sun, The birds are flying, flying, For the summer work is done. Like days without the sunshine, Are woods bereft of song; The nests hang gaunt and empty, And the hours are spare and long. The winter spreads a mantle, To hush the sad refrain, For the winds are sighing, sighing, Till the larks come back again. My pop Ao, oop o_o oy op o_o, 4 4,,4,44,4,4.444 444444. _DAAADDD DDD AA ADA AD AAA AAA AD AAD AD DADA DADA OA DA DA A 8 DD 0044444444444 44444 VIDA FOX CLAWSON TRAVEL SERVICE For Experience, best in Recognized. Integrity, Service and the travel since 1933. HAWAII Fly via Pan American Jet 707 on November 20, 1959. Fly United Air Lines on January 13, 1960. We use regularly scheduled Air Lines. We think the best isn't too good for the kind of people who travel with us. EUROPE Ask about our European tour, the grand tour leaves June 10, 1960. Early Reservations Recommended. For complete information write or phone: VIDA FOX CLAWSON 216 South 13th East Salt Lake City 2, Utah Phone: DA 8-0303 Plastic (rubber foam) choice of 40 shades. FOAM.... 39/........10 yards $8.00 Foam, all thicknesses, for making slippers and padding. Ginghams Dan River checks and plaids 79¢ yd. Dacron Bats 14 and "3 Dolls, all sizes undressed and dressed Tote Bags, all sizes Sequins—glitter—glue—beads—shells. Stryfoam, balls—eggs—sheets. Candles in glass—colored beeswax. Orders shipped day received. Toys - Handicraft Supplies Hobbies - Sporting Goods - Gifts WHOLESALE — RETAIL TINGEY'S COUNTRY STORE "Handicraft Center Of The West" 3456 North State Highway 91 Lehi, Utah Phone PO 8-2852 Page 711 'i —- C, Me. "WIST YE NOT THAT I MUST BE ABOUT MY _ FATHER'S BUSINESS?" Book by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. This book is an engaging and highly informative account of the Passover and a valuable addition to any home library ee $2.00. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE: Inspirational articles, fiction, poetry, and the Relief Society educational program _...$2.00. SOUVENIR RELIEF SOCIETY BUILDING PLATE: Made of Old English Staffordshire Ware, with bordered pictures of the Relief Society General Presidents......$3.50. SEGO LILY JEWELRY: A. Pins 1. Double gold-filled $5.50 2. Gold-filled _..........-$3.75 B. Bracelet Gold-filled with double gold-filled pendant..$6.75 C. Necklaces 1. Heavy chain, gold-filled with double gold-filled pendant _.........-.-$9.75 2. Light chain, gold-filled with double gold-filled pendant..............$6.00. Small Relief Society emblem pin (12 kt.) gold..........$1.75 All prices include federal tax. Available at Office of the General Board 76 North Main SALT LAKE CITY 11, UTAH y $itt Soc port rtcs ces 1. COMMENTARY on the BOOK of MORMON Volume IV George Reynolds and Janne M. Sjodahl A classic commentary that offers fascinating insights into the world of the descendants of Lehi in ancient America. Volume IV contains chapters 27 through 44 inclusive of the Book of Alma and explains each important passage in relation to other LDS Scriptures. $4.00 2. | SAW ANOTHER ANGEL FLY Carter E. Grant Here's a history of the Church for teen-agers... One they will enjoy reading. The vocabulary used is suited to a young person's understanding and presents a clear concept of the principles of the gospel and highlights of Church history. A must stored Gospel is held dear. $3.00 ag] Salt Lake City, Utah alae. F Gentlemen: Enclosed you will find —........ Check |......... I have an account. 1 numbered books: 1 2 | AA Aress ooo. Cece cee cceee cece ccctsesneeneeecesercesceessnersusseueseceeneseneceeessnsssuacseseresscecacoessecescenesoeecesseserssacacsiseeseeesseeseeveneesseseseesseeess City eee cece cece cece ce ecceeeeesesceeeeeeeesenecesesssesesssveereneeneeense Zone............ State....... Carter E. Grant Deseret Book Company 44 East South Temple Please charge. Money order enclosed...... In the amount of $........... For (encircled) Name oie eeeeeeeeeeeocthoec Eee 60065000000 0c Residents of Utah include 21% sales tax. Book for the home where the Re- | i a I I TRICK or TREAT? The choice is yours If you were suddenly faced with the responsibility of providing for your family without your husband's steady income, would it be "trick or treat" for you and your children? It would be a cruel "'trick,"' indeed, to have to face this situation without the financial resources that only life insurance can provide so well, ata cost that virtually every family can afford. New Beneficial Life Insurance plans offer unequalled flexibility to suit your needs. Among them are the Family Benefactor Plan (provides insurance for every member of the family); the Planned Futures Program (provides funds for all of the various needs you anticipate now or in the future); and the Commercial Whole Life Plan (gives | you insurance in amounts of $10,000 or more at bargain rates). Ask your Beneficial agent about them. Dept. RS1059 — Beneficial Life Insurance Co. Beneficial Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Please send information about the following plans — with no obligation, of course. [] Planned Futures; [] Family Benefactor Plan; B BENEFICIAL LIFE NOM eee ec cece cece cece cee eeneceeeeeceeee seseeetesesosesseversoteseeeseeeteseseee l Vins eee thieves Salt Lake City, Utah [Commercial Whole Life; Other cece rscranes GE Company ' B74 fein Bexley: s 5 Oe, » 3 ee he ae hs ee; oe tee NOVEMBER ¥ thee Lessons for February _ ieee According to ITly leeds Caroline Eyring Miner I will turn home to mountain valley now For I am mountain born, and the clear call Has come from deep within, and I must bow To it. [Pll take but little now of all That here has cluttered up my restless days. I will go back to quiet, simple things: Primeval mountain peaks that hold a maze Of stars aloft, and glass-clear streams; bird wings That fan the purple mist against the glow Of sunset fire; moon shimmering on the bay; A quiet rustling of leaves. I know That as I journey, someone points the way. And this I know that it is God who leads By trust, by faith, according to my needs. The Cover: President Belle S. Spafford in the Foyer of The Relief Society Building Color Photograph by William Beal Frontispiece: Flight to the South Photograph by Luoma Studios Cover Design by Evan Jensen Cover Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Srom Near and Sar Oh, how everyone admires the new Magazine covers. 'They get more beautiful with each issue. We have always awaited with keen interest the contents of the Magazine, and now, in addition, we await the covers, we wonder what the next one will be, and if it possibly can be as beautiful as the last one, and it always is. It is like reading a continued story. —Velma N. Simonsen President South Australian Mission Relief Society Victoria, Australia You will probably have to get out your atlas to find this spot on the map. We are the only Latter-day Saints here. We have our own Sunday School for our children. My husband is a crab fisherman from March until October. We've had the missionaries here once since we came over two years ago. We are hoping and praying they will return, as there is much good work to be done here, we feel. Our town is about 500 in population, and there are several other towns on the islands about the same size or smaller. It is a pleasure to have the Magazine so that I can keep up with the lessons. —Gertrude Lamb Masset Queen Charlotte Island B. C., Canada There is at least one man who appreciates our Magazine. I get more enjoyment and learning from reading The Relief Society Magazine than any other magazine I read. It contains very fine fiction and many informative articles. Our Magazine beats them all! I read it before my wife does. —A. O. Shreeve Mesa, Arizona Thank you for letting us enjoy the finest literature, with the highest moral standards in the world. —Wilma M. Rich Vernal, Utah Page 714 All the color covers have been nice and have added distinction to the Magazine, but for balance of design, sharpness of detail, and exactness of color, the picure on the April 1959 issue is one of the most perfect and beautiful it has been my pleasure to see in any magazine. You are also to be congratulated on the fine material you are publishing. Another very important thing is the convenient and practical size of the Magazine. 'The size makes it easier to take with you to read in spare time or to use as a reference. Pictures and illustrations look just as nice in The Relief Society Magazine as they do in larger magazines, and those that are worth using are worth keeping in the volume for future reference. If people want larger pictures for visual aids they can be printed separately. —Thomas G. Truitt Salt Lake City, Utah May I say thanks for such a wonderful Magazine. It is a source of helpful ideas and inspiration that give a deeper understanding of the beauties and values of simple, everyday living. My subscription to the Magazine is a gift from two wonderful missionaries, Brother and Sister Harry FE. Anderson, who labored in Louisville, Mississippi, in 1958 and 1959. The spirit of their mission is being kept alive through the visits of The Relief Society Magazine, since the missionaries have been released. —Eva Arrington Louisville, Mississippi Thanks for The Relief Society Magazine. I like Beatrice Rordame Parsons' serial "The Silver Leash" (concluded in August 1959). Mrs. Parsons is as proficient in her art as one of her ancestors whom I knew many years ago, was in his. Renie H. Littlewood's poem "Enfolding Quictude" (August frontispiece) is a beautiful creation. It fairly exudes its theme, and its wording is so pertinent. It is pure rhythmic diction with much tone color. —Grace Ingles Frost Provo, Utah THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL = Belle S. Spafford = - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - - First Counselor Louise W. Madsen - - - - - = - =. - Second Counselor Hulda Parker - - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Josie B. Bay Elna P. Haymond Elsa T. Peterson Edith S. Elliott Christine H. Robinson Annie M. Ellsworth Irene B. Woodford Florence J. Madsen Alberta H. Christensen Mary R. Young Fanny S. Kienitz Leone G. Layton Mildred B. Eyring Mary V. Cameron Elizabeth B. Winters Blanche B. Stodderd Charlotte A. Larsen Afton W. Hunt LaRue H. Rosell Evon W. Peierson Edith P. Backman Wealtha S. Mendenhall Jennie R. Scott Aleine M. Young Winniefred S. Pearle M. Olsen Manwaring RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - =. C - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford VOL. 46 NOVEMBER 1959 NO. 11 Contents SPECIAL FEATURES The Strength of Prayer -... EccccsccceseccneecscsciesseresnssennsccceersssinsccnneeeneccagecaussnentcaaneenectineBelle S. Spatford 716 "Study My Word ooiccceccccecccccceccessececsceccecseeccesesceetecscaserseeseneees: Marianne C. Sharp 721 Strengthening the Family Through Observance of the Sabbath.....00.. Louise W. Madsen 724 Elizabeth Benet! Winters Appointed to the General Board of Relief Society oe Edith S. Elhiett 726 LaRue H. Rosell A pointed to the General Board of Relief Society ae. Edith P. Backman 727 Jennie R. Scott Appointed to the General Board of Relief Society occ cecccecccesccccsesceseescecesceceseescoececsseseseeseseesspeceeseeceveeeeeChristine H. Robinson 728 Report and Official Instructions Belle S. Spafford 729 Fair or False Faces........... Ee. Ee... Ee 746 A Message and an Ans Wer ooie.... Ecescceescescssceseccenessesseseeeeeeesenessseneseesesnenenseeneceees 747 The Shining Gift Rosa Lee Lloyd 741 The New Day — Chapter 2 ooccecceccccccccecccccscesscersessessssessssetecsceeceesessesesaessenessenseaseresseseceensHazel K. Todd 752 From Near Gnd Far wiieccceceecscssceseseccccescescecesececcecccesescececsscnecscccsesreccuccsessessnacecsseceseeesenstersscnensecstcaeeeseneasenseeecessceeees 714 Sixty Years Ago wiccececccceeccccecseccecessseceesssceuscesccecsccecceceessesasecseseeseneeeeees ae ee 736 Woman's Sphere ooiceeeeceeescccssceececceececoeceecececeeeeeees —_— _ Ramona W. Cannon 737 Editorial: Thanksgiving oc. CcceeccccceseecceececesseeeeceecesceeseeseseseceeseeeseeceesesceeseseesessessseeseeeesLouise W. Madsen 738 FEATURES FOR THE HOME Five Ways to Put "You"' in Yuletide Barbara Williams 748 Selma Larson Spjut Makes Ski Sweaters and Crocheted Tablecloths......... 751 LESSONS FOR FEBRUARY Theology — Lessons in Obedience neces tec ceseeetcertescctegg reser tesnerescaerseeesss Roy W. Doxey 757 Visiting Teacher Messages — 'Wherefore, Hear My Voice'' Christine H. Robinson 763 Work Meeting — Hobby Hazards ooneeececcccecccceccececcceecsceeeeeseeseeececeseeneeeeeeeeseesseeecesesCharlotte A. Larsen 764 Literature — Two Eighteenth Century Observers: Byrd and Crevecoeur........ Briant S. Jacobs 767 Social Science — The Individual and Religious Maturity — Part J ow. Blaine M. Porter 775 POETRY According to My Needs — Frontispiece...... Ee... Ee CA se. Caroline E. Miner 713 TD X65 cece reece 05 0 EEE EE ooGrace Ingles Frost 735 Not Always Will They COME ieeeeeeeceeceeneeececeeceeececenececeeseceeeeeenseeeeeseeaeeaeeneceneesElsie McKinnon Strachan 735 The Long Cold wwe ceeeceeteeees Maude Rubin 739 Mountain Climber Lula Walker 750 Frosty Verse.. NcceccsscscsesccecsccecccscccecessecceneeceessescseeeescecesnescseceesnsecseceseseotenseaceaeencesccesesneseesEva Miles Wangsgaard 751 Pamiliar Face ooieeeeteeetececcese cscs eseeceeeeeccececeecssceeeeessessesessaeeaes Gwen Marler Barney 756 Cliff-Dwelling Mother...... Ee ne Ruth H. Chadwick 756 IBIO IDO) ceo ceeceseccosoaoc0oc coco SEE DEO SSC 0S SE SCC SEEIris W. Schow 781 Free Gifts cece ecessecccecesecesseceececnoeensseceeeessseecaeeceseaseeseseeseseeseeceseesenscessessenseseaness Alice Whitson Norton 782 The Little Musician SoEvelyn Fijeldsted 783 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Copyright 1959 by General Board of Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Editorial and Business Offices: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah: Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $2.00 a year; foreign, $2. 00 a year; 20c a copy; payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Page 715 Birthday Congratulations oo... Eececceecsccessccecesessssneesssesccecessecssesseccoessesnscssssesenenenecsesesceerecss SDD fila sy rages eee eeceeee eens coerce ener See re rer ore, occ csaveseosessoeeerertrerseeres ooettter see 784 Avonell S. Rappleye 739 The Strength of Prayer President Belle S. Spafford (Address Delivered at the Annual General Relief Society Conference, October 7, 1959) T is an inspiration and a responsibility to speak to a congregation of this size in this historic building. It has been only a few years more than a century since the Prophet Joseph Smith organized the Relief Society in Nauvoo, with eighteen charter members. Only prophetic vision could have glimpsed the proportions to which the Society would grow. The group assembled here today represents but a very small percentage of the Relief Society membership. 'Today there are approximately 200,000 women who call themselves Relief Society sisters, and the strength and influence of this body of righteous, organized, Priesthood-directed women, are reaching into the far corners of the earth and are a power for good. It is of interest and significance that through the years the purposes of the Society have remained constant. "To manifest benevolence... To care for the poor, the sick, and the unfortunate; to minister where death reigns; to assist in correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of community life; to raise human life to its highest level; to elevate and enlarge the scope of women's activities and conditions; to foster love for religion, education, culture, and refinement; to develop faith; to save souls; to study and teach the gospel" (Handbook of Instructions of Relief Society, page 8). Page 716 These are important and glorious purposes, and the programs and activities that have implemented ° them through the years, have brought untold blessings to the women of the Church and to our Father's children wherever the Society has functioned. Glorious, however, as may be the purposes of Relief Society, loftv as may be its aspirations, great as may be the magnitude of its accomplishments, Relief Society has not fully fulfilled its mission if its many activities do not combine in making of its members, regardless of where they may be located or the circumstances under which they may live, virtuous women and good wives, mothers, and homemakers. I remind the sisters of the Church that it is a fundamental duty of Relief Society to help mothers to have the proper concept of the eternalness of the family relationship; to awaken in them high ideals in their daily living; to inspire them with the greatness and joy of their mission as mothers and homemakers; and, continually, to give unto them constructive help in meeting the daily obligations of motherhood and homemaking. There are two important aspects of motherhood and homemaking — one is the physical, the other is the spiritual. Both must receive attention in order to assure the comfort, peace, happiness, and eternal wellbeing of family members. I think THE STRENGTH OF PRAYER perhaps the physical aspects of our homes have never seemed to engage women more than they are doing at the present time. A clean, attractive, well-ordered home is something toward which every homemaker should strive. 'This does not mean extravagance in expenditures of money, but rather thoughtfulness in planning, skill in orgamizing, and wisdom in managing. The physical make-up of the home has been said to play an important part in creating and encouraging the spiritual. In fact, we are told by the Lord in The Doctrine and Covenants "... All things unto me are spiritual, and not at any time have I given unto you a law which was temporal..." (D & C 29:34). It is a truth that by her interest in the physical appearance of her home and through the orderly arrangement and conduct of home activities, a mother may make her sons and daughters attach great importance to the home. Important as may be the so-called physical aspects of the home, however, we must never lose sight of the fact that the spirit of the home is the lasting element. Its influence goes on long after the physical is forgotten. If mothers would have the spirit of the home right, they must maintain homes in which the Spirit of the Lord may dwell — homes that daily meet the requirements of righteousness. 'They must be obedient to the commandment of the Lord to teach their children "the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ the Son of the living God, and of baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of the 7117 hands, when eight years old.. And they shall also teach their children to pray..." says The Doctrine and Covenants (Section 68, verses 25, 28). T is my conviction that there is perhaps no single factor more important in the maintenance of a spiritual home and in the building of spiritual strength in our children, than the teaching and practice of prayer. Prayer is the medium through which we offer supplication and thanksgiving for the blessings bestowed upon us by the Father. It is the means whereby we confide in him the innermost desires of our hearts and present to him the needs of our lives as we see them. It is the way whereby we seek his guidance and_ help. President David O. McKav has given us this beautiful definition of prayer: "Prayer is the pulsation of a yearning, loving heart in tunc with the Infinite. It is a message of the soul sent directly to a loving Father. The language is not mere words, but spirit-vibration'" (Pathways to Happiness, page 225). In all generations of time men have been admonished to pray. This is not to satisfy the whims or demands of an autocratic, imperious God who would make his children subservient unto him. Rather, it is a choice privilege granted by a kind and loving Father through which his children may obtain promised blessings. The Lord has told us he will be sought unto by his people for the blessings that they need. He has further said: "Ask, and it shall be given you; seck, and ye shall find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you. For every one that asketh receiveth; and he that seeketh findeth; and to him that knocketh, it shall be opened" (Luke 11:9-10). Failure to comply with this commandment has brought not alone a withholding of blessings, but at times severe chastisement, even to God's chosen leaders. 'The brother of Jared, a large and mighty man, highly favored of the Lord, was visited by the Lord in the land of Moriancumer, where his people had dwelt for four years and, according to the Book of Ether, the Lord talked with him for three hours and chastened him because he remembered not to call upon the Lord (Ether 2:14). As to the manner of our praying, the Lord has not left us in ignorance. In Matthew we are told "When ye pray, use not vain repetition, as the heathen do... For your Father knoweth what things ye have need of, before ye ask him" (Mt. 6:7-8). Also, we have been taught the pattern of prayer in the simple, brief, worshipful Lord's Prayer. The scriptures further tell us that our prayers shall ascend to our Heavenly Father as from a_ holy altar. In offering prayer, our hearts must be right before him. As we are humble, fervent, submissive, yielding ourselves to the will of the Lord, there is no danger but we shall have his spirit to guide us and our prayers will be heard and answered by an all-wise Father for our greatest ultimate good. Nor do we need to wonder for what we may properly pray, qucstioning in our own minds as to whether we are justified in bringing before the Father our everyday temporal needs, as well as our spiritual needs. Amulek, in his teachings to his people, instructed them: Cry unto him when ye are in your ficld, yea, over all your flocks. Cry unto him in your houses, yea, over all your household, both morning, mid-day, and evening. Yea, cry unto him against the power of your enemies. Yea, cry unto him against the devil, who is an enemy to all righteousness. Cry unto him over the crops of your fields, that ye may prosper in them. Cry over the flocks of your ficlds, that they may increase. But this is not all; ye must pour out your souls in your closets, and your secret places, and in your wilderness. Yea, and when you do not cry unto the Lord, let your hearts be full, drawn out in prayer unto him continually for your welfare, and also for the wclfare of those who are around you (Alma 34:20-27). N Hebrews, we read: "... He that cometh to God must believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him" (Hebrews 11:6). Prayer, therefore, presupposes a belief and faith in God. Faith in a Supreme Being constitutes the very foundation of all religious beliefs and practices, and a knowledge of the attributes and character of Deity is essential to an intelligent exercise of faith in him. Elder James E. Talmage, in his book Articles of Faith, declares: "The evidence upon which mankind rest their conviction regarding the evidence of a Supreme Being, may be classified [as] (1) evidence of history and tradition; (2)... The exercise of human reason; (3) the conclusive evidence of direct revelation..." (Fourteenth Edition, page 30). Certainly, revelation gives us the surest knowledge. In the present dispensation, God has revealed him- 718 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1959 THE STRENGTH OF PRAYER self to his people. The Prophet Joseph Smith, while still a boy, in answer to prayer, beheld the Eternal Father and his Son, Jesus Christ. This first vision was followed by later manifestations. For example, the manifestation in the Kirtland Temple. The Prophet testified to the world that God is a personal being, possessing definite form, with bodily parts and spiritual passions, and that man is created in his image. "Nature is not God; and to mistake one for the other," says Elder Talmage "is to call the edifice the architect, the fabric the designer, the marble the sculptor, and the thing the power that made it.... Nature herself is a declaration of a superior Being... [but] Beyond and above nature stands nature's God" (Ibid., page 34). I sometimes wonder if, as Latterday Saint mothers, we frequently enough contemplate what our knowledge of the nature of God means in our lives and the lives of our children; how potently it affects our prayers, and how great is our responsibility to implant this knowledge in the hearts and minds of our children. I recall being invited a few years ago in New York City, to sit in with representatives of other churches on the reading of a script, from which it was proposed that programs be made for Nation-wide use on radio and T'V, designed to increase Sunday School attendance of children. The opening scene of the script presented a majestic church building set in a beautiful garden. As the doors of the church slowly opened, sacred music came forth, and the music was God inviting the children 719 to enter the church. Then the flowers spoke and they, too, were God bidding the children to enjoy the beauty of Sunday School. Last, the singing birds called to the children as God, urging them to hear and love his voice. The entire presentation was beautifully written and impressive. However, I felt I could not endorse such a program. I would not wish my children to hear or to view it, since it would give to them a faulty concept of God as I know him, and as I knew it would be vital for my children to know him. The present, accepted view of the immateriality of God is entirely at variance with the scripture and contradicted by revelation. It must not be allowed to enter into the concepts of Latter-day Saint children. Mothers must see to this. UST as we must teach our children the true personality of God, and that he is a kind and loving Father, so also must we teach them that he is omnipotent, unlimited in power, ability, and authority, and that they are accountable to him for their every act. They must be taught that they are in very deed his children. Too often today we hear parents say, "Our lives are so complex. The varied duties of family membcrs, with differing hours for performing them, make it difficult, if not impossible, to bring family members together at one and the same time. Our work is driving us so that we have not time for family prayer." In a world beset with temptations and the evils of designing men, what mother with a sincere desire for the right spirit to prevail in her home and a genuine concern for the well-being of her children, would not make every possible effort to arrange a time for the family to kneel together in prayer, asking the Fathcr for forgiveness of sins, with peace and rest through the night, and protection and_ preservation from temptation through the day, beseeching him for guidance in ordering their lives aright? An inscription on the motto scroll of the coat of arms of Lady Reading, a distinguished Englishwoman whom it is my privilege to know, might well be applied with regard to this, It reads: "Not why we can't, but how we can." An impressive quotation comes to my mind relative to family prayer. It reads: All the duties of religion are eminently solemn and venerable in the eyes of children. But none will so strongly prove the sinccrity of the parent; none so powerfully awaken the reverence of the child; none so happily recommend the instruction he receives, as family devotions, particularly those in which petitions for the children occupy a distinguished place (The New Dictionary of Thoughts, T. Dwight, page 487). Important as are our obligations to family prayer, so also must we be conscientious in teaching our children, as individuals, to petition the Father in prayer in the silence of their own rooms for needed blessings, and to acknowledge his goodness unto them. Fortunate indeed is the child whose mother, at times, kneels with him in prayer to petition the Father for help in meeting his little individual problems which may appear to him to be large and vexatious. Shame, I say, on any Latter-day Saint mother who puts her little ones to bed at night without being sure they have said a proper goodnight to their Father in heaven. HROUGH the ages countless honest and good men_ have borne testimony as to the efficacy of prayer. Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, Moses, Noah, Peter, Paul, Lehi, Enos, Alma, Amulek, to mention but a few of earlier dispensations. In this dispensation we have the great testimony of the Prophet Joseph Smith, as well as of the prophets who have succeeded him, along with those of countless other righteous men and women. We have the testimony of good men and women not of our faith. There is no testimony so convincing, however, as the testimony within our own hearts. What mother among us could deny the power and blessing of prayer? Its fruits are too great and too numerous to enumcrate at this time. Certainly we may say prayer unites every heart within the household. It brings composure to the home and peace to the soul. It offers comfort and guidance. It allays fears. It fortifies against evil. Evil has always been abroad upon the earth. The greatest fortress against it and the strongest defense weapon one may possess, has ever been and always will be good character — character developed through continually seeking to know and understand the will of God, through daily communion with him, and through obedience to his counsel and commandments. In the building of strong character, one of mankind's most powerful allies has always been prayer. Brigham Young, early in the his- 720 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1959 THE STRENGTH OF PRAYER tory of the Church, declared: "Whether we are poor or rich, if we neglect our prayers and our sacrament meetings, we neglect the Spirit of the Lord, and a spirit of darkness comes over us" (Discourses of Brigham Young, page 170). What good mother would wish her children to live in darkness? Let her remember, then, that a person does not, as a rule, suddenly become a praying individual when he reaches adolescence or maturity. Prayer, born of faith, must be planted as a seed in infancy and carefully nurtured through the years. The mother is the person best positioned to do this for her child. In conclusion, may I read a few lines, familiar to most of you, from 721 More things are wrought by prayer Than this world dreams of. Wherefore, let thy voice Rise like a fountain for me night and day. For what are men better than sheep or goats That nourish a blind life within the brain, If, knowing God, they lift not hands of prayer Both for themselves and those who call them friend? For so the whole round earth is every way Bound by gold chains about the feet of God. In this age of mechanical wonders, when the material things of hfe are absorbing the minds and hearts of men, may our Latter-day Saint mothers keep the spiritual balance and may this great God-given Alfred Lord 'Tennyson's Morte organization for women help them d' Arthur. To do so. — "Study My Word" Counselor Marianne C. Sharp (Address Delivered at the Annual General Relief Society Conference, October 7, 1959) O we ever stop to think of the knowledge that would be left to us as Latter-day Saints if the scriptures were taken away? If there were a catastrophe and our copies of scripture were destroyed, how much would remain in our minds to serve as a guide to us personally and as a reservoir of knowledge by which we could guide our children and strengthen family ties? We may recall the importance which the Lord placed upon the Nephites having the Brass Plates by the words which the spirit said to Nephi: "... It is better that one man should perish than that a nation should dwindle and perish in unbelief" (I Nephi 4:13). And Nephi then remembered the words which the Lord had spoken to him in the wilderness, that his seed would prosper if they kept the Lord's commandments. — Nephi writes in his record that he knew they could not keep the commandments according to the law of Moses unless they had the law, and the law was engraven upon the plates of brass. Today we do not live by the law of Moses but by the law of the gospel, and the Lord in his mercy has provided us not only with the Old Testament, but also with The Pearl of Great Price, 'The Book of Mormon, the New Testament, and The Doctrine and Covenants. These scriptures contain the law of the gospel, and we need to study them all for our salvation. If we would gain individual salvation we must not only read the scriptures, but we must be obedient to the Lord's commandment to search the scriptures and to "... Study my word..." (D & C 11:22). Though we may have all the scriptures bound in our homes,. If they are not studied, they are closed books to us. I am sure we have all realized that as we seek to study the word of the Lord prayerfully, our understanding may be suddenly enlarged over a verse which we had read many times previously. It has been said that to learn to play a piece of music one must learn and forget it twice, but that the third time one learns it, it will not be forgotten. The need to study the scriptures and not just read them has been impressed on me as I have read of the appearance of Moroni to Joseph Smith on the night and early morning of September 21 and 22, 1823. Not once, or twice, but three times that night Moroni appeared and rehearsed the same scriptures with additional advice on the second and third visits. The next morning Moroni related for a fourth time to the Prophet all that he had related the night before and commanded Joseph to tell his father of the vision and commandments he had received. S I see our obligation as mothers in strengthening our families through a study of the scriptures, it falls into three parts. First, to study so that we know the law of the gospel by which we live today; second, to apply the law in our own © lives and obey the commandments; and third, to teach and train our children both by the word and by the living example. The law of the gospel to parents instructs them to teach their children "... To walk uprightly before the Lord" (D & C 68:28). As mothers we are constantly having to make decisions. I can testify, as I am sure you can, that through prayerful study of the scriptures answers and solutions come to us. I think of a woman whose husband died painfully on the battlefield. Words of scripture comforted her. "And it shall come to pass that those that die in me shall not taste of death, for it shall be sweet unto them" (D & C 42:46). When we suffer in righteousness, our own misfortunes become dwarfed by the patience Job manifested through his sufferings and of his paean of thankfulness and joy, "For I know that my redeemer liveth..." (Job 19:25). If our suffering comes from unrighteous conduct, the glories which may be won through repentance are exemplified in the life of Alma the Younger. Whatever the trials and tribulations we undergo in_ this mortal life of testing, there would seem to be a parallel in scripture for our guidance. Paul has written "For whatsoever things were writ- 722 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1959 "STUDY MY WORD" ten aforetime were written for our learning, that we through patience and comfort of the scriptures might have hope" (Romans 15:4). Of course, the transcendent hope comes from the study and contemplation of the life and work of the Savior, and seeking to do his will. S we receive strength and understanding ourselves, we are better able to train our children and strengthen our families. A beautiful example in scriptures is the training given to Paul's "son in the faith" Timothy. Paul writes to him: When I call to remembrance the unfcigned faith that is in thee, which dwelt first in thy grandmother Lois, and thy mother Eunice; and I am persuaded that in thee also (2 Timothy 1:5). And later Paul wrote: But continue thou in the things which thou hast learned and hast becn assured of, knowing of whom thou hast learned them; And that from a child thou hast known the holy scriptures, which are able to make thee wise unto salvation through faith which is in Christ Jesus. All scripture is given by inspiration of God, and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness: That the man of God may be perfect, throughly furnished unto all good works (2 Timothy 3:14-17). You will recall the faith of the 2,060 sons of Helaman who trusted in the seemingly impossible, based on their simple but unconquerable faith. Of them Helaman wrote:. Yea, they had been taught by 723 their mothers, that if they did not doubt, God would deliver them. And they rehearsed unto me the words of their mothers, saying: We do not doubt our mothers knew it" (Alma 56:47-48). Are we as mothers of this last dispensation instilling into our children a simple but unconguerable faith? It is a question cach of us must answer for herself. Let us ever remember, in conclusion, that all scripture is not found bound within the volumes of the four standard works of the Church. We believe in continuous revelation and that those scriptures which come from our prophcts today "when moved upon by the [oly Ghost shall be scripture, shall be the will of the Lord, shall be the mind of the Lord, shall be the word of the Lord, shall be the voice of the Lord, and the power of God unto salvation" (D & C 68:4). When the First Presidency issues a statement, such as they did recently on keeping the Sabbath Day holy — not only is it, in part, a rcstatement of scripture given in carlier dispensations, but it is the scripture which inspiration directs us to obey today. As mothers we have a keen responsibility to accept current scripture and teach obedience of it to our children by word and example. My heart overflows with gratitude to the Lord for the blessings which are mine, as they are yours, to have the scriptures which contain the law of the gospel. May each sister in the Church search the scriptures, study the scriptures, and obcy them, and train her children to do likewise that family ties may be strengthened to endure throughout eternity. Strengthening the Family Through Observance of the Sabbath Counselor Louise W. Madsen (Address Delivered at the Annual Relief Society General Conference, October 7, 1959) N these davs of lax observance of the Sabbath, when the temptations to use it for our pleasure are great, it is well to be reminded that the Lord places great importance upon the proper observation of the Sabbath, and that it has been a law unto men from the beginning. So great is the importance that he, himself, established the pattern of observance. In the history of the creation, as recorded in Genesis, we are told that he labored six days, or periods of time, making the heaven and carth, the sca and all that in them is, and devoted the seventh day to rest. Shortly after the children of Isracl were released from bondage in egypt, the Lord, in a great manifestation of his power and glory, gave to Moses the 'Ten Commandments, the fourth of which is, "Remember the sabbath day, to keep it holy." The keeping of the Sabbath was to be a sign throughout the generations of Israel, that the people continuously remembered that it was the Lord who sanctified them, through keeping his commandments. The Sabbath was to be a perpetual covenant between the Lord and the children of Israel. "And the Lord spake unto Moses, saying, Speak thou also unto the children of Israel, saving, Verily my Sabbaths ye shall keep: for it is a sign between me and you throughout your generations; that ye may Page 724 know that I am the Lord that doth sanctify you" (Ex. 31:12-13). The Sabbath was instituted for man's benefit. The most positive and weighty reasons are recorded throughout the scriptures for keeping the Sabbath Day. 'That the obligation is as binding upon Latterday Saints as it was upon their fathers is made known in a revelation to the Prophet Joseph Smith appearing in 'The Doctrine and Covenants: And that thou mayest more fully keep thyself unspotted from the world, thou shalt go to the house of prayer and offer up thy sacraments upon my holy day; For verily this is a day appointed unto you to rest from your labors, and to pay thy devotions unto the Most High.. But remember that on this, the Lord's day, thou shalt offer thine oblations and thy sacraments unto the Most High, confessing thy sins unto thy brethren, and before the Lord. And on this day thou shalt do none other thing, only let thy food be prepared with singleness of heart that thy fasting may be perfect, or, in other words, that thy joy may be full (D & C 59:9-13). Mothers must prepare their families both physically and_ spiritually for proper observance of the Sabbath. Certainly cleanliness and order should characterize our homes on Sunday, but the week days should be used to bring them to that state. The Lord allowed the wandering children of Israel to gather manna for six days, but on the sixth day they were directed to gather enough for the Sabbath also. With modern refrigerators and stoves, careful planning will allow for most of the food preparation to be made on Saturday, with a minimum of effort expended on Sunday. As to the purchase of food and warcs on the Sabbath, we also have a Biblical example of how the pcople reacted to that pressure. At the time of the Prophet Nehemiah they covenanted, "And if the people of the land bring ware or any victuals on the sabbath day to sell, that we would not buy it of them on the Sabbath, or on the holy day... (Neh: 10:31). F greater importance is the spiritual preparation of a family to observe the Sabbath. Parents should exhibit a willingness to be exemplary and to accept the restrictions on activity on this day. 'The commandment, however, is much more than a negative ""Phou shalt not do any work." Its positive requirements of attending church, studying the words of the Lord, doing good, and being refreshed through prayer and communion with spiritual things should be met by family members. Wisc parents teach their children in their tender years and help them establish habits which conform to proper Sabbath observyance. 'They remain firm in their refusal to allow pleasure seeking and sports to change the spirit of the day. Righteous parents want the blessings of the Lord for their children. He has promised them great blessings in this covenant: If thou turn away thy foot from the sabbath, from doing thy pleasure on my holy day; and call the sabbath a delight, the holy of the Lord, honourable; and shalt honour him, not doing thine own ways, nor finding thine own pleasure, nor speaking thine own words: Then shalt thou delight thyself in the Lord; and I will cause thee to ride upon the high places of the earth, and feed thee with the heritage of Jacob thy father: for the mouth of the Lord hath spoken it (Isaiah 58:13, 14). The Lord claims the Sabbath as his day: to take it for our pleasure is to rob him of his own. 'This is the very way in which the Sabbath is generally broken; it is made a day of carnal pleasure instead of spiritual "delight." While the Sabbath is to be a day of rest, it is not a day of idleness. Rest is not idleness, but is a change from the usual occupations of everyday life, and relief from its wearing, troubling, disturbing elements. Rest is refreshing; and rest on the Sabbath is activity of a spiritual nature which enlarges and feeds the soul. Going to the house of the Lord to worship and learn the principles and practices of his gospel makes it a day of rejoicing and prayer. To keep the sabbath in an idle manner is the sabbath of oxen... To pass it in a jovial manner is the sabbath of the golden calf when the people sat down to eat and drink and rose again to play; to keep it in surfeiting and wantonness is the sabbath of Satan (Commentary on the Whole Bible, page 496). But to keep it as a day to be honored brings the assurance of the fulfillment of the glorious promises the Lord has made. Latter-day Saint families should keep this covenant with the Lord. Our present day Church leaders give us wise counsel as to the blessings of so doing. The sure knowledge of the Lord's provisions and blessings for this day must lead us to "Remember the sabbath day, to keep it holy." STRENGTHENING THE FAMILY THROUGH OBSERVANCE OF THE SABBATH 725 Elizabeth Bennet Winters Appointed to the General Board of Relief Society Edith S. Elliott Member, General Board of Relief Society BLIZABETH Bennett Winters was appointed a member of the Relief Society General Board on September 2, 1959. She was bom in Salt Lake City, Utah, to John Foster and Rosetta Elizabeth Wallace Bennett in the lovely Bennett home on "D" street. Early in her life Elizabeth was taught to share. She used to accompany her father in the quiet of night to Icave supplies on the doorsteps of the necdy. Her sweet spirit is reflected in her cheerful countenance, and her lovely eves are wells of kindness and intelligence. She truly exemplifies the Relief Society motto "Charity Never Faileth." Sister Winters spent her Freshman year at the Utah State Agricultural College at Logan, but returned home to complete her studies at the University of Utah, majoring in home economics and graduating with honors. In 1926 she was married in the Salt Lake 'Temple to Elwood Grant Winters. They are the parents of six lovely children: Rosella (Mrs. Nicholas Stolk), Richard Keith, Jayne, Nell (Mrs. Noel C. Peek), John Bennett, and Mary Ann. Sister Winters began her Church service in the Religion Class group as a teacher. She has taught in or officered several of the other auxiliaries. She was counselor in the West Ensign Ward Relief Society for eight years. Here she learned to love and appreciate the Rclief Society program. Page 726 ELIZABETH B. WINTERS She is a practical sentimentalist, putting first things first. She is humble and has a devout testimony of the gospel of our Savior. She and her husband have made a practice of helping to maintain missionaries in their fields of labor, so that the teachings and blessings of our Heavenly Father may be spread. In 1955 Elizabeth moved with her family back to the home of her parents to care tenderly for her invalid mother for two and one half years before her death. Elizabeth is well qualified for her call to the General Board. She is truly a queen in name, nature, and performance. LaRue H. Rosell Appointed to the General Board of Relief Society Edith P. Backman Member, General Board of Relief Society LARUE H. Rosell was appointed to the General Board of Relief Socicty, September 2, 1959. To know Sister Rosell is to love her. Her winning smile, charming personality, sincerity, humility, and friendliness are but a few of her outstanding attributes. She is a native of Salt Lake, a daughter of Nephi J. And Laura F'ree Hansen. Her mother was active in Relicf Society work. Her father was charitable, civic-minded, always working for the welfare of the community, and was prominent in the building up of Sugar House. He helped lay out tracts of land to develop that section of the city. He was called "Mayor of Sugar House" and a "Hansen Day" celebration was held in his honor. After graduating from the University of Utah, LaRue married Sidney J. Nebeker in 1927. They lived on a ranch near Bear Lake for fifteen years. They had four children: Sidney J., who received his Master's Degree from Harvard; Conrad, who is studying medicine at the University of Pennsylvania; Mrs. Richard K. (Mary Janet) Winters, mother of three children; and David who is a student at the University of Utah. Sister Rosell became a widow in 1942. She and her children then lived for three years in Logan with the family of her brother-in-law, President E. G. Peterson, on College Hill. In 1946 she moved to the Federal Heights Ward in Salt Lake City, where she has mainLARUE H. ROSELL tained a beautiful, spiritual home for her children. She has served in both ward and stake positions in Relief Society, Primary, Sunday School, and_ has been President of Emigration M. I. A. Stake Board and President of her own ward M. F. A. In 1954 she was married to Carl H. Rosell, a prominent business man whose activities in the Church have been outstanding. When Sister Rosell received her call to the General Board, she and her husband had just completed two years service as stake missionaries. Her many experiences with the youth of the Church, her exceptional executive ability, humility, and sincere testimony will contribute added strength to the General Board. Page 727 Jennie Randall Scott Appointed to the General Board of Relief Society Christine IH. Robinson Member, Gencral Board of Relicf Socicty JENNIE Randall Scott was appointed to the General Board of Relief Society, September 2, 1959. She comes to her new position with a rich background of service, knowledge and_ ability. One of Sister Scott's favorite quotations is found in Joshua 1:9, where it is written: "Be strong, and of a good courage; be not afraid, neither be thou dismayed: for the Lord thy God is with thee whithersoever thou goest." Born and reared in a home of devoted Latter-day Saints who gave a lifetime of service to the Church, Sister Scott began her Church activities as a young girl of fourteen. At the age of nineteen she was sclected as a member of the Ogden Stake Sunday School board. She was called as a missionary to the Western States Mission. It was here that she met her future husband George L. Scott. 'They were marnied in the Salt Lake 'Temple. Soon after their marriage, Brother and Sister Scott moved to the West Coast. Later they moved to Portland, Oregon, where Brother Scott served as President of the Portland Stake for over fifteen years. During this time Sister Scott worked cheerfully by his side. Besides helping and encouraging her husband in his work, she occupied many positions of responsibility and trust in the Sunday School, the Mutual Improvement Association, and in the Relief Society. As a Relief Society worker Sister Scott was an outstanding visiting Page 728 JENNIE R. SCOTT teacher. She was an inspirational teacher of theology for fifteen vears, president of a ward Relief Society, and president of Portland Stake Relief Society from December 1954 to February 1959 when she and _ her husband moved to Bountiful, Utah. Brother and Sister Scott are the parents of three children, all of whom are college graduates, and all of whom were married in the temple. They have presented the Scotts with six lovely grandchildren. As counseled by Joshua, Sister Jennie Randall Scott is strong, courageous, humble, but undismayed in her new assignment. With her firm faith, her strong testimony of the gospel, and her great capacity and willingness to work, surely the Lord will be with her whithersoever she goeth. Report and Official Instructions President Belle S. Spafford (Condensed from the text given at the Officers Mecting of the Annual General Relief Socicty Conference, October 7, 1959) regular feature of this session of the Annual General Relief Society Conference is the presentation of a brief report of the status of Relief Society, together with a few new General Board instructions. Relief Society is growing in numbers, scope, and influence. 'The leadership is consistently good, and the quality of work being done is creditable. General Board Since our last General Conference, the Gencral Board has been augmented by the appointment of four new members: Sister Fanny Steenblik Kienitz, University Stake; Sister Elizabeth Bennett Winters, Ensign Stake; Sister LaRue Hansen Nebeker Rosell, Emigration Stake; and Sister Jennie Randall Scott, who has recently moved from Portland Stake into Bountiful Stake. Organizations and Reorganizations At the close of 1958, there were 270 stake Relief Society organizations, an increase of twenty-two over the previous year. 'There was a total of 4,321 ward and branch Relief Societies, an increase of 188. 'There were forty-six mission organizations, an increase of one over 1957. During 1958 there were fortyseven reorganizations in the stakes, and sixteen in the missions. Membership 'There was an increase in Relief Society membership during 1958 of 10,117, making a total membership of 193,553. Our Church-wide potential membership is estimated to be 387,238, based on the number of Latter-day Saint families reported in the 1958 annual reports. Using our estimated potential as a_ basis, we are reaching only fifty per cent of the sisters whom we should be reaching. Today we are living in a complex and changing period of time. Women need to realize that in a world sorely in need of stabilizing influences, they have a responsibility to be active in building the kingdom of God. Relief Socicty membership will be a strength to them. Attendance We note a slight increase in average attendance at mectings, it being 37.9% for 1958 as against 36.7% for 1957. We suggest that you urge ward Relief Society presidents to be cognizant of attendance records of every Relief Society member, and that they exert special effort to increase attendance records by bringing into activity every woman who has no valid reason for nonattendance. Missions It is gratifying to read reports of the work of Relief Society in the missions of the Church. While some missions lost to stakes some of their strongest societies, still records are excellent, and the appreciaPage 729 tion shown by the sisters for their Relief Society membership is impressive. Compassionate Service We are encouraged by the way in which Relef Societies in both stakes and missions are meeting their responsibilities to persons in distress. Experiences we have had recently, convince us that devotion to our assignment to render compassionate service is as alive and strong in Relief Society today as at any time in its history. Figures from the annual report also tell an impressive story of accomplishment. During 1958 there were 293,876 visits made to the sick and homebound, almost 18,500 more than the previous year. There was an actual increase over 1957 of 6,718 eight-hour days bedside nursing care. 'This is the highest record yet achicved by Relief Society in this important area of service. Hours of Other Compassionate Service In the new Ward Record Book, which goes into effect January 1960, for a three-year period, in addition to recording "Visits to the Sick and Homebound"; "Days Care of the Sick"; and "Assistance at Time of Funerals"; space is allowed under the heading "Hours of Other Compassionate Service' to record the number of hours spent by the sisters in rendering other types of compassionate service upon assignment or with the approval of the Relief Society president. This would include hours spent in such services as caring for children during the period a mother is confined to the hospital, time spent in assisting with housekeeping during the illness of a mother, time spent in bathing an aged sister, or in accompanying a sister to the doctor's office or hospital, or similar services. Time spent in one's home preparatory to rendering a small service, such as the time spent in preparing an article of food, would not be included. The wise judgment of the ward Re- © lief Society president will determine what is to be included under the new heading. Church Welfare Relief Society continues to lend support to the Church Welfare Program. During 1958 there was a total of 477,896 hours contributed by the sisters to the Church Welfare Program upon assigninent of Relief Socicty, an increase over 1957 of 133,713 hours. Counting Hours on Welfare Projects The ruling for counting the number of hours contnbuted by the sisters to the Church Welfare Program will be based on the following ruling: In reporting the number of hours of welfare service for both Relicf Society and Church Welfare records, the mumber of hours of work contributed by all females on any project the end result of which is for the benefit of the Church Welfare Program, should be included. This ruling holds whether the assignment be given by Relief Society, other Church auxiliaries, or the Priesthood. The time contributed by sisters receiving welfare assistance is to be counted. (Service given by members of the Relief Socicty presidency in the performance of their regularly assigned duties in the Welfare Programm, such as attendance at welfare meetings, home visits by the Relief Socicty president, the recruitment of women for work on the projects by the work director counselor, and the time spent by the employment 730 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1959 REPORT AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS counselor in placing females in employment, are not to be counted. Also time spent by the secretary-treasurer in recording welfare service would not be counted.) Recording Number of Women Assisting on Welfare Projects It is desired that every Relief Society sister, whose circumstances permit, will be given opportunity to participate in one or more welfare projects. In the new edition of the Ward Record Book, space is provided for recording the number of Relief Society members who assist on these projects during the calendar year. \Vhen the service is given once, the work director counsclor will give the information to the secretary-treasurer and a check will be placed on the Relief Society roll opposite the name of the participating sister. 'This record will be of value in equalizing assignments. Relief Society Handbook for Welfare The Relief Society Handbook for Welfare recently has been carefully reviewed. In the new _ edition, which is to be published this coming season, the basic instructions remain the same as in the edition presently in use. There will be, however, some difference in the way the instructions are set up. This has been done merely for convenience and clarity in reading. "lhe Food Guide" remains the same, as does the table "Standard Measures of Food." Therefore, those who have copies of the present edition will have no need to obtain a copy of the new edition. We urge a careful study of it by Relief Society presidents, inasmuch as_ it gives guidance in one of our most important welfare services. 731 Welfare Summary Sheet The use of the "Welfare Summary Sheet," heretofore included in The Relief Society Handbook for Welfare, has been discontinued, since the information called for on the form will hereafter be tabulated monthly in the Ward Record Book, under the heading "Summary of Welfare Services," with the information being given to the secretarytreasurer monthly by the Relief Society president and the work director counselor respectively. Bi-Monthly Welfare Mectings Requests are frequently made by stake Relief Society presidents for suggestions as to what might properly be taken up in the Relief Society departmental sessions of the bi monthly welfare meetings. At best, we can give you only a few general suggestions, since the agenda for each of the individual departmental sessions in a regional bi- 'monthly welfare meeting is made up in consultation with, ead at the direction of the executive committee of the regional council in the regional planning mecting held prior to the bi-monthly meeting. In the case of stakes outside regions, the agenda is taken up with the stake president at the stake welfare meeting held prior to the regular bi-monthly stake welfare meeting. Speaking in general terms, any matters related to Relief Society's effective participation in the Church Welfare might be included in the agenda, such as a study of the Church Welfare Handbook, The Relief Society Handbook for Welfare, the "Clothing Bulletin," official bulletins and circular letters issued by the Church Welfare Com- mittee, or record keeping as it relates to Relief Society's participation in the Welfare Program. It would be appropriate to consider such matters as how to interest the sisters in contributing time and labor to the Program. A discussion of effective procedures in producing clothing which meets Church standards in style and workmanship might be advisable, or effective procedures in meeting the requirements of the employment program. Profitable discussions often center around proper procedures in making a family visit. Under no circumstances would Relief Society work other than welfare be taken up in these meetings. Visiting Tcaching It is gratifying to note the increasing strength of the visiting teaching program. There were $1,988 visiting teachers, constituting 42.3% or nearly half of the Relief Society membership, who made a total of 3,349,502 visits, or an average of 8.6% visits to each Latter-day Saint family. 'There were approximately 225,000 more visits made in 1958 than during the previous year. This is commendable and extremely important in view of the significance of visiting teaching in the well-being of Latter-day Saint families and in the strength and accomplishments of Relief Society. In the new edition of the Visiting Teacher Report Book which goes into use January 1960, there have been included only instructions directed to visiting teachers in the performance of their calling. A new feature of the Visiting Teacher Report Book is the inclusion in the center of the book of detachable slips to be used as a notice of the visit. 'These detachable slips will replace the "Notice of Visit" slips formerly issued in pad form. Visiting Teaching Film: "Unto the Least of These" We are pleased to announce that. A visiting teaching film entitled "Unto the Least of These" has been prepared for use in the stakcs of the Church. It will also be available for ward showings; however, showing on a stake basis will be given preference. The story is the w ork of Sister Christine H. Robinson, a member of the General Board, who is also the writer of the Visiting Teacher Messages, "Truths to Live By," and who has a deep understanding of the purposes and value of visiting teaching. 'The film has been produced with a talented cast by skilled technicians of the Brigham Young University AudioVisual Aids Department, under the capable direction of Mr. Wetzel O. Whitaker. Music included in the film is a composition of Sister lorence Jepperson Madsen, member of the General Board, rendered by a combined chorus of Singing Mothers from the Southern California stakes. The film — a 16 MM. — ls available to rent for $10 postpaid, per showing, through writing the Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah. We suggest that reservations for the use of the film be made well in advance of the date planned for its showing. Education Program The educational courses of Relief Society offer excellent learning opportunities for Relief Society mem- 732 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1959 REPORT AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS bers in religious, cultural, and social aspects of living; they also make a primary contribution to the quality of the regular weekly meetings. There was at the close of 1958, a total of 16,064 class leaders teaching the lessons, an increase of 999 (almost 1,000) over 1957. During the forthcoming educational season, the theology department will continue for the third consecutive year a study of The Doctrine and Covenants; the visiting teacher messages "Truths to Live By" continue to be taken from The Doctrine and Covenants; and the literature department enters into its second year's study of "American Literature — A New Nation Speaks." The social science department offers a new course "Spiritual Living in the Nuclear Age" designed "to consider ways in which we can increase our emotional and religious maturity and develop the personal characteristics which will enable us more fully to live the abundant life as prescribed by Christ." Audio-Visual Aids for Literature and Social Science Courses The Brigham Young University Audio-Visual Aids Department, working under the direction of the General Board's literature and social science committees respectively, has prepared for distribution to Relief Societies, upon order, a kit for each of these two departments, containing pictures suitable for use in the wards in presenting the lessons. The literature kit will sell for $3.75 postpaid; the social science kit will scll for $3.50 postpaid. (The General Board does not have these for sale. Please order direct from the Brigham Young University Audio-Visual Aids Department. ) 733 Work Meeting It is of interest to note in the annual report that the work mecting continues to be the second best attended meeting, preceded only by the theology meeting. We urge that you keep these meetings of value to the sisters by planning programs of practical use to them in their homemaking. The meeting is properly titled "The Work Meeting" having to do with homemaking, which is dignified and important work. Since sisters are given work to do during the meeting, care must be exercised to preserve an orderly, yet happy, informal, social atmosphere. The home management discussions for 1959-60 are on "Physical Safety Factors in the Home." A request has been made for a clarification of the recommendation of the General Board regarding the holding of socials and outings as work meetings during the summer months. 'The General Board has always regarded social activitics as an integral part of the program of Relief Society, and the promotion of the social well-being of the sisters as a function of the work mecting. Therefore, summer outings, and socials or luncheons, even when held in places other than the mectinghouse, if arranged under the direetion of the Relief Society president, and open to the general membership, and conducted in conformity with regulations set down by the General Board for the conduct of work meetings, may be regarded as work meetings. This would take into account such regulations as prayer, either prior to leaving for the function or sometime during the activity, a recording on the roll of those in attendance, the recording of minutes, and the financing of the activity in line with established policies. 'This statement is not intended to imply that summer meetings should be exclusively, or even prefcrably, outings or — socials. Whether this type meeting is held rests with the ward Relicf Society presidency, with the decision based on circumstances and the interests and needs of Relief Socicty members within the ward. Number of Non-Sewed Articles to Be Recorded in Ward Record Book In the new edition of the Ward Record Book in the minutcs of the monthly work mecting, space is provided for recording the total number of non-sewed as well as completed articles made at the direction or under the supervision of Relicf Socicty, whether they are completed at home or at work meeting, and whether or not they are for the individuals themselves. Included as non-sewed articles would be articles upon which textile painting, crocheting, tatting, knitting, or netting has been done and on which there is no sewing. Handicraft articles, such as. Flowers, aluminum trays, leather work, table arrangements, Christmas decorations, and similar items also would be counted as nonsewed articles. Magazine We express appreciation to presidents and Magazine representatives for their efforts in behalf of the Magazine. At the close of 1958, the paid subscription list totaled 154,057, an increase of 4,627 over 1957. In 1958 there were sixteen neon and 597 districts and branches listed on the Honor Roll. There were 237 stakes out of a possible 270 with 1918 ward organizations listed on the Honor Roll. Singing Mothers Our Singing Mothers choruses continue to grow in number and their beautiful singing wins high commendation everywhere. At the close of 1958 there was a total of 2,564 wards and branches with Singing Mothers choruses, an increase over 1957 of 166 choruses. There were '38,896 singers participating in the choruses, an increase over the previous year of approximately 3,000 singers. 'This is a gratifying record of a unique and cultural program. "Union Meeting" Name Changed to "Stake Relief Society Leadership Meeting" You will be interested to know that hereafter, by action of the General Board, the meeting presently referred to as the "Union Meeting" will be designated as the "Stake Relicf Society Leadership Meeting." Ward Officers and Class Leaders Meeting Established; Ward Preparation Meeting Discontinued We also announce that by recent action of the General Board, the ward preparation meeting, heretofore recommended, now will be discontinued. In its stead, ward Relief Societies will hold, periodically, a ward officers and class leaders mecting as needed. 'The frequency of holding such a meeting will be determined by the ward presidency. The General Board suggests that perhaps two such meetings a year would be advisable — one just prior 734 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1959 REPORT AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS to or soon after the opening of Relief Society in October for the educational year; and a second early in the new year after the compilation of the annual report. 'The purpose of this meeting will be to consider matters of common concern to officers and class leaders, to keep the group united in support of pro- 735 grams which affect the Society as a whole, and to promote generally the well-being of the Society. May we continue to be faithful and may the Society continue to go forward in a manner pleasing to those who preside over us and to our Heavenly Father, I sincerely pray. Days Grace Ingles Frost That day is lost, In which no song is sung.... No kind word spoken, And no good deed done, The day that harvests Bounteous happiness Is one in which Were sown those seeds that bless. Lot Always Will Shey Come Elsie McKinnon Strachan Not always will they run toe me With little hurts, with need of praise. Not always will they come—but you, Oh, keep a nced for me always! When time discards these nimble hours, These nursemaid-playmate roles 1 fill, When our small girls are women tall, Stay close, my darling, need me still. Need my affection, necd my care, In all the things you plan and do, When, once again, my daily world Revolves round you. Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, November 1, and November 15, 1899 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WoMmEN oF ALL NATIONS" FROM SUMMER LAND: We drive for miles and miles and see nothing but orange, lemon, fig, prune, pomegranates and all kinds of useful trees, as well as every kind of fancy tree that is supposed to grow in a country where it is summer all the vear around... It having been the dream of my life to spend a winter in Southern California, you can imagine what it is for me to read of the cold weather elsewhere, then turn, first to the quantities of roses that my friends provide me with, and then look out and see the orange trees laden with green fruits, and at the same time see the spring making its appearance in the lilac buds.... —(Mrs.) L. S. Dickinson Ontario, California RELIEF SOCIETY IN OMAHA, NEBRASKA: We have a fine time when we meet, and lovely meetings. I do not feel that I make the best president, but I try to do the best I can and ask our Father in heaven to help me in my labors. We dearly enjoy meeting when the Saints are together.... 1 know we have the true Gospel, and I am glad I have received this knowledge and wish every one could see it as plainly as I do. I am much pleased with the dear little paper, the Exponent. I read everything in it, and then wish there were more to read. —Addie S. Stone, Pres. MOTHERHOOD Motherhood: Seeing with her clear, kind eyes, Luminous, tender eyes, wherein the smile Is like the smile of sunlight on the sea, That the new children of the newer day Need more than any single heart can give, More than is known to any single mind, More than is found in any single house, And need it from the day they see the light.... —Charlotte Perkins Stetson VISIT TO A GREAT NOVELIST, MARIE CORELLI, AT HALLE CROFTE, ENGLAND: The house is quaint; there are three gables front and everything betokens peculiarity. The great beams overhead in the entrance room are lettered.... The house was formerly the home of Dr. John Hall, who married Susanna, the elder daughter of Shakespeare. It is very sweet to be so warmly received by a great author when one is far from home and totally unknown except by name, as was the writer. She (Marie Corelli) came forward to meet her caller with all the grace of a real Duchess, and was as elegantly dressed. She wore heavy white silk with a profusion of white lace, and jewels that were dazzling.... We talked freely of books and places.... She sent for... Refreshments, and served them herself in the daintiest fashion in the finest Sevres china and silver service.... She said "O, now, Mrs. Wells, you must have my two books I am busy writing now...." —Mrs. E. B. Wells Page 7/36 INA KRUSCHEV accompanied her husband Nikita Kruschev, Russian Premier, on his visit to the United States in September. Also making the trip were the daughters of Kruschev by a former marriage, Rada and Yulia. HE Women's Bureau of the Department of Labor, after a careful exploring of the problem, has published a booklet, Future Jobs for High School Girls. 'This lists employment opportunities in thirty different fields for girls who wish to go to work immediately upon completing high school. The booklets cost forty cents each and may be ordered from the Superintendent of Documents, United States Government Printing Office, Washington 17, D. C. MBS. L. H. (Elizabeth Fetzer) BATES, of Salt Lake City, Utah, who became blind through an accident eight years ago, is a musician who wanted to continue composing for sighted people as well as for the blind — in braille notation, which she mastered along with braille lettering. She decided music could be written on a typewriter and designed a code that makes it possible for people who see to read music so written. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon RINCESS BEATRIX, twentyone-year-old heir-apparent to the throne of the Netherlands, received a royal welcome upon her arrival in New York, September 10. The Princess is a student at the University of Leyden. Eldest daughter of Queen Juliana and Prince Bernhard, she made her visit to New York particularly as a climax to the yearlong celebration commemorating the exploration of the Hudson River by Henry Hudson (in September 1609). HALIMA EMBARAK ANEGAY is the first woman diplomat to: represent her country abroad. She arrived in Washington D. C. In July 1959 to serve as cultural attache in the Moroccan Embassy. The — twenty-five-year-old widow holds a Bachelor's Degree from the University of Cairo and has attend-. Ed schools in Casablanca, Cairo, and Madrid. She speaks English, Spanish, and French, in addition to: her native Arabic. LELAND LOVELACE of Chandler, Arizona, is the author of Lost Mines and Hidden Treasures,. An authoritative account of both facts and legends bearing upon a colorful phase of Arizona _ history. Parts of her book have been purchased for television use. Page 737 MT ORIAL m9 VOL. 46 NOVEMBER 1959 NO. 11 Si hanksgivin g TO Latter-day Saints the celebration of Thanksgiving is a tradition rooted deep in the past. We remember with joy the coming of the Pilgrim Fathers to this land "choice above all other lands," knowing full well that they were led by the hand of the Lord. Despite the lean harvest of the summer of 1621 and the difficulties of their lives, Governor Bradford decreed a day of thanksgiving and rejoicing after the harvest had been gathered in, to thank God for their survival and to praise him for the mercies of the year past. 'This example of faith spread to other colonies in New England. During the Revolutionary War Congress frequently recommended days of thanksgiving and prayer. At its close many states adopted the custom of an annual day of thanksgiving. There was, however, no national observance until the persistent campaigning of Mrs. Sarah Josepha Hale won President Lincoln's support and he appointed, in 1863, "a day for national thanksgiving, praise and prayer." The holiday has long been celebrated in Canada, and many other nations have annual days of prayer and thanksgiving. America was not the first to proclaim such a day. Ancient Israel observed one of the oldest thanksgiving celebrations, the "Feast of the Tabernacles." 'The Lord instructed Moses to have the families of Israel gather together in holy Page 738 convocation "... When ye have gathered in the fruit of the land." The families assembled in the open. Air and constructed booths of "boughs of goodly trees, branches of palm trees, and the boughs of thick trees, and willows of the brook." Here they would "keep it a feast unto the Lord," after performing certain religious rites and with prayers of thanksgiving. (See Leviticus 23:39-41.) There are several aspects of these traditional celebrations that should be part of our observance of Thanksgiving. The first, is that 'Thanksgiving is essentially a religious holiday, the proper celebration of which should include voicing of gratcful acknowledgment and recognition of the hand of Providence. 'The second, is that it is a day of feasting to celebrate the rich blessings of a bounteous harvest. And the third, is that it is a day of gathering together. Some people may ignore the spiritual aspect and use the day for recreation; some may gather together with relatives for feasting and visiting; but Latter-day Saints should keep the day in a manner pleasing to the Lord, in appreciation of its full meaning. How can we be worthy of blessings unless we show gratitude? Gratitude is a virtue lauded by the prophets of all ages, a quality of character to be taught and sought and cultivated. Ingratitude is a sin. "Thou shalt thank the Lord thy EDITORIAL God in all things" (D & C 59:7). We must learn to be thankful in adversity as well as in prosperity; to praise God in sorrow as well as in joy. The truly humble and sincere never approach the Lord to ask for a blessing without pouring out their hearts in thankfulness for the blessings that are already theirs. Thanksgiving is a family gathering day; one in which the traditions of the Nation and the traditions of the family may be observed. The Lord has indicated that he is pleased 739 when families gather together in the spirit of worship. A family who lovingly observes the traditions of its fathers enjoys an enduring relationship. 'To create or maintain a family tradition is to forge a link in a chain binding the members in a closeness of spirit that holds even though they are miles or continents apart. Many of these special family remembrances are connected with Thanksgiving Day. —L. W. M. She Long Cold Maude Rubin Now the white-winged ship had left.... Bereft Of home and things beloved, they faced the new; Tried not to let old longings stir their hearts— (Each parts with what he loves!) A prudent few Had brought along a chest, a chair or two, Some spoons and platters, half-remembered song To lend a touch of home.. They plowed new loam; Their sturdy fence rows pushed the wilderness, Walled out The white distress.... So, fed on faith, wrapped in the cloak of prayer, They weathered the long cold— Found springtime there! D iff us LO "Nv Avonell S. Rappleve I once thought that my words and deeds affected only myself. Then I threw a pebble into a pool and watched the concentric circles of water ripple gently and quictly to the farthest edges of the lake, until they lapped against the shore on all sides. A room where spring-scented lilacs wafted delicate perfume to every corner. I entered I dropped a crystal of methyl violet into a beaker of water and saw the water transformed into a deep purple liquid. Then I realized that, like the pebble, the perfume, and the dye, my thoughts and words and deeds, whether good or bad, diffuse throughout my world and touch the lives of those who stand within the circle of my life. Sair or Salse aces The Lord our God be with us, as he was with our fathers.... That he may incline our hearts unto him, to walk in all his ways, and to keep his commandments, and his statutes, and his judgments... ITE, face which we present before the dearly loved members of our families, before our friends and neighbors, and the face which we know in our hearts to be our own, should be the same. Only by this means of honesty and accord can we feel that serenity which comes with a full acknowledgment of our desire to live each day without affectation, and without spending any of the precious hours of life in pretense or attempting to establish before others a picture of oursclves which we know is not true. The commandment to know oursclves requires much consideration, for always we are in the condition of striving to close the distance between our hopes for ourselves and the knowledge that we are only travelers on the road to perfection. (1 Kings 57-58). Perhaps, at times, we are like the woman who was being entreated to buy a new cookbook, and who answered: "A new cookbook will not be helpful to me, for Iam not doing the cooking now as well as I know how to do it." None of us is really making her life as beautiful, as full of service, as rewarding, as she knows how to do. We know in our hearts that the face which is ours can be improved, and that by careful weighing of all our words and deeds, we can achicve a greater harmony in our own hearts, and we can then approach our Heavenly Father in prayer with more humility. A wise Relief Society president once advised a sister who came to her for help in a trying situation: "Whatever confronts you, remember the welfare of others, and always to be kind." 'This way of conduct surely would be in harmony with woman's natural intuition to give sympathy and to be charitable. Then, in place of a face expressing sorrow or regret, a woman may present for herself, and for all those who are her associates, a face of hopefulness, of joy in service. She may then realize that her face ls fair because her thoughts and_ her aspirations become more beautiful in harmony with her desire to know herself and her possibilities — as a woman who has dedicated her life to the ways of kindness, knowing that "Charity Never Failcth." BE HONEST WITH YOURSELF Page 740 The Shining Gift Rosa Lee Lloyd Mer McMillen put the bowl of stew and dumplings on the table in front of her husband Fred and handed him the silver ladle. Ten-year-old Judy smacked her lips. "I'm hungry, Daddy. I've pushed Mrs. Gladstone in her wheelchair all afternoon. She buys bushels of Christmas presents. Where does she get all her money, I'd like to know?" "So would I," Bill said, gloomily. "Tll bet she has it in that purse she carries. No wonder she likes Christmas. She doesn't have to worry about presents." Mary winced. Bill was such a good-looking boy, with broad shoulders and bright dark eyes like his father. She wished she had extra money so she could buy that old wreck of a car he had been saving for since September. He worked at Gnizwald's after school and took odd jobs at night. "Bill is right," Peg agreed, her pretty mouth pouting, "Christmas makes us wish for things we can't have." "Children!" Mary's gentle brown eyes scolded them. "Christmas is the most precious day of the year, and it means more than just presents." She knew that Peg was unhappy because the living-room carpet was so shabby she was ashamed to ask her friends in for a holiday party. Her heart reached out to Peg, just seventeen, blue-eyed and sweet as a rosebud, with her blond hair in a flowing pony-tail. She had been baby-sitting the past year and had bought her own clothes and most of Judy's. But the children could be so thoughtless at times. Mary sighed, looking at Fred's worried face. He had a good job at Hammond's Appliance Company and had been top salesman for years, but household expenses were so high there wasn't any money left for extra things. So she had rented their front bedroom to Mollett Gladstone who had come back to Lakeview for the Christmas season because she loved the wintertime here. 'The town was a white fairyland when it snowed and everyone went down to the lake to skate. Mrs. Gladstone had stayed in her room tonight because she had been out all day and was too tired to sit at the table. "Mrs. Gladstone's got weak knees," Judy said. "Judy!" Mary scolded. "Mrs. Gladstone has arthritis, so don't speak of it jokingly. She is a very wonderful lady." "Oh, she is, Mama!" Judy nodded her head until her pigtails waggled. "Tll bet she's rich," Bill chimed in. ""Squalie Bradshaw says she's got money somewhere." Fred's brows puckered in a dark frown. "Son," he said, "I've told you that I don't want you running around with Squalie Bradshaw. He's a wild one and has some wrong ideas. He's even quit school." Page 74] "But he lives next door!" Bill protested. "And he drives a truck for Gnzwald's. When the boss says to work with him, what shall I do?" "You can be pleasant to him," Fred conceded. "But you don't need to chum with him." "He's not so_ bad," stubbornly. Fred didn't answer. He ate his dinner silently so Mary tried to smile and changed the subject. Bill said, HE telephone rang and Peg hurried to answer. "It's for you, Maia," she called, so Mary went to the hallway. It was Annie Ebermyer, who was trying to get the old group of college gitls together. Could Mary let them come to her house for the Christmas party? Mary felt her heart thud. Imagine her friends in her living room with the worn-out carpet and the bumpy old sofa. She loved every one of them, but she just couldn't invite them here until she had a new carpet. "T'm so rushed," she said, weakly. "T know, " Annie Ebermyer agreed. "And my house is full of guests. We'll just wait until we hear from you, Mary." Mary's hand trembled as she put the receiver back in its cradle. Peg touched her shoulder, and Mary knew she had heard everything. She forced a smile. She had always tried to be an example of cheer and courage to her children. "I will have the group here," she decided aloud. "Peg, how will it look if we take up the carpet and wax the old pine floor? And we'll put Grandmother McMillen's paisIf we we can tint the curtains toley shawl over the lounge hurry, night." Peg's arm went around her mother tenderly, and Mary felt her fresh young cheek against her own. "Mama," she said, "youre an awful dope to do it. But I love you for it. I wish I had your spirit." "You have, dear," Mary said, try- ° ing not to show what an effort she was making. Peg shook her head. "I don't think I could have my friends here on a bare floor," she said, doubtfully. "Nonsense!" Mary scoffed. "We'll have everything clse so pretty no one will even notice!" At that moment Judy came out of Mrs. Gladstone's room ready to cry. "Judy!" Mary stooped to gather her in her arms. "What is it?? ' dear? "It's the weatherman! Oh, Mama, Mrs. Gladstone's television says we're not going to have a white Christmas in Lakeview!" "He might be wrong," Mary soothed her. "Anyway, let's not worry until it really happens." She turned to Pat and Bill who wanted to ski, "We'll have a shining, white Christmas," she reassured them, as she hurried into the living room to take down the curtains. It was a busy evening and by the time she was ready for bed she was very tired. "You work too hard, honey," Fred said kindlv as he looked at her over the top of the evening paper. "T don't mind the work," Mary answered, "but sometimes — well, I do worry about the children. They're planning on going up to 742 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1959 THE SHINING GIFT Twin Peaks to ski and that's thirty miles away!" "They can't go!" he said firmly. "But how can we keep our children home if all their friends go?" she demanded. "We'll have to interest them, Mary. If we had a new carpet we'd give a party." His eyes searched hers. "Peg told me you're having your group in spite of everything." "Why certainly!" "Her dark eyes flashed. "Do you think [d let our children think of those things as barriers to happiness. Tl see that they have more fun here than anywhere else." RED suddenly smiled. "You are a trooper!" he beamed. "Any man can feel rich with a wife like you, Mary." He touched her hand. "T've been thinking, honey. We can get a carpet and a sofa on credit." She sighed, achingly. She wanted them so much, but Fred must have peace of mind, and debts worried him, especially because he worked on commission and business slowed up after Christmas. If they were going to spend money, she wanted most of all to help Bill get that old car. A boy needed something like that to work on in his own back yard. "Fred...." She took a deep breath. "I'd rather buy that old car for Bill." "So would I!" he laughed. "How did you know I would, Mary?" "Oh, I always know," she said. "We feel the same way about the children." "Well then, let's wait about the carpet," he agreed. "The company might give the bonus checks on Christmas Eve." 743 "But Christmas Eve is day after tomorrow," she told him. He opened his wallet and took out five ten-dollar bills. "Wrap this as a gift for Bill," he told her. "I've been saving a dollar at a time." Mary couldn't speak as she took the money. This fifty dollars meant Fred had been skimping on_ his lunches and Saturday golf and he hadn't had his hair cut so often. But he has a son, she thought, as pride flowed through her, and that makes up for any sacrifice. It was nearly noon the next day when she finished hanging the clean, tinted curtains in the living room. She stood near the window to admire them. 'Then she saw Squalie Bradshaw drive the truck beside the curb, and there were Judy and Mrs. Gladstone in the seat with him. Mary rushed out the front door. "Look, Mama!" Judy called. "Squalie drove us home!" "The wheel came off my chair," Mrs. Gladstone explained. "Then this nice boy came along and brought me home. It's been a real pleasure up here in the front scat." Mrs. Gladstone's usually pale face was pink and smiling, and her eyes had a gay twinkle. Squalie grinned as he turned to her. "TIl carry you," he said. "My! I do appreciate all this," she laughed. "What is your name, young man?" "Charlie Bradshaw," he answered. "We call him Squalie," Judy interrupted. Mrs. Gladstone frowned. "That sounds like baby-talk, Judy. I think it's high time we call him Charlie." Charlie straightened his shoul- ders, and he seemed even taller than his six-feet-two as he went up the steps carrying Mrs. Gladstone. Judy ran off to play but Mary followed them inside. "Well!" Mrs. Gladstone sighed happily. "Thank you, Charlie. Will you come to see me real soon?" He was looking at her television set. "We could watch television," she offered. "I quite enjoy the football and the bowling." "Yes," he said eagerly. "And the basketball?" "Do you play basketball at school?" she questioned. "I don't go to school." His voice was suddenly sulky. She sat bolt upnght. "You don't go to school! Now tell me why a boy your age isn't going to school?" He shoved his hands in his pockets. "I have to work," he. Said. "Anyway, school is the Durie" He shut the door behind him and a minute later the truck roared down the street. "Tell me about that boy," Gladstone demanded. "I know, Mary." Mrs. Must ARY sat down beside her and explained about Charlie. He lived with his father in the rooming house next door; but his father was gone for months at a time. So Charlie had sort of grown up all alone, and people in the neighborhood didn't invite him in because he seemed rather wild and mean. "We should all be ashamed," Mary said, bending her head. "I thought today how kind he was when he carried you in." Mrs. Gladstone's blue eyes had little sparks in them. "Td be mean, too, if a whole neighborhood treated me that way," she snapped. "Something should be done about that boy!" Yes, something should be done about him, Mary thought as she went back to the kitchen to polish the silver, but Fred seemed determined to ignore him. She had just sat down at the ° table and opened the chest when Mrs. Gladstone came to the doorway. "Mary...." Her voice trembled and her hand was unsteady on her cane. "My — my purse — is gone!" Mary wet her lips as she sat there staring at Mrs. Gladstone. "There was a lot of money in it, Mary," she went on. "And my diamonds were tucked down inside." "Now tell me," Mary began, 'where do you remember seeing it last?" Mrs. Gladstone explained she had it that morning when she and Judy went to visit the rest home, but after she was in the truck she wasn't sure whether she had it or not. "Let's call Charlie," Mary suggested. "We can get him at Grizwalds!" Mrs. Gladstone shook her head. "No," she said, "that would cast suspicion on a boy like Charlie. No, Pll just wait awhile." She went back to her room, determinedly. The day dragged by. Every time the telephone rang, Mary hoped it would be news about Mrs, Gladstone's purse. When Fred came home she told him about it, and they went together to her room to suggest that she call the police. 744 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1959 THE SHINING GIFT "T won't do it," she said. "Everyone will blame Charlie. I like that boy. I want to help him. He has good eyes and a kind mouth when he isn't hurt about things, and this would hurt him. It might be the end of his job and send him off alone somewhere without a friend. No, a boy's soul is worth more than money or diamonds." "But the police..." Fred argued. "No!" she said. "I can afford to take a chance on a boy like Charlie. I'm going to wait and trust the Lord. And Ill be obliged if you won't tell the children or anyone else about it." HE next day was the sunnicst December twenty-fourth in Lakeview's history. Mary stood at the kitchen window watching Judy sitting on the porch steps. It doesn't look like a_ white Christmas, Mary thought with a sigh, and in more ways than the weather. Fred had been told he wouldn't get his bonus check, and Bill hadn't come home until midnight. Peg had been baby-sitting until even later. Fred had spoken so gruffly that Bill had gone straight up to bed. She and Fred were heartsick with worry over Peg and Bill. They were at the age when the world outside their home seemed a very fascinating place. Children should appreciate their homes and_ their parents more, she thought fiercely, biting back the tears. It was time for Mrs. Gladstone's ten o'clock glass of milk, so she took it to her room. The place was cluttered with bits of wrapping paper and gay ribbons, but Mrs. Gladstone was not there. "She took a taxi," Judy explained 745 when Mary stepped out on the porch and looked up and down the street. "She wanted to go alone, Mama, to visit her friends. She was all dressed up in her rose taffeta dress and her fur cape." Mary sat down on the steps beside her and gazed up at the sun. Neither spoke for a moment, then Judy pressed her head against her shoulder. "Mama," she said, "'you told me the McMillens will have a shining white Christmas even if it doesn't snow. Kemember?" "Yes, dear," Mary answered, carefully. "What I really meant was that being grateful for the Lord's blessings makes us shine inside. We have so much to be grateful for, Judy. We have each other and Daddy and Peg and Bill...." Judy jumped to her feet. "Mama, let's dress up pretty, the way Mrs. Gladstone did. She says we owe it to each other to look our prettiest. May I wear my pink dress with the ruffles?" Mary's laugh was like a bell. "All night! We'll do it. Peg can wear her blue silk, and I'll wear my green lace." "Goodie!" Judy bubbled over. "Let's be all dressed when they come home. We'll make everything shine, Mama!" ARY had called Fred earlier, asking him to pick up Bill and Peg and call at the rest home for Mrs. Gladstone who had been gone all day. It was almost seven when they came in, Peg, rosy-cheeked with stars in her eyes, Bill with a big grin, and Fred smiling in his big, easy way. "Mama!" Judy pulled her down to whisper-in her ear. "Look how thev're smiling. IT 'bet they're shining inside because they're grateful for us!" "Of course they are," pered back. "T couldn't find Mrs. Gladstone," Fred explained. Bill swung around. "Mrs. Gladstone! Why didn't vou ask me, Dad? She took Charlic to buy him a new suit. Ic and I found her purse today. I gucss you knew she lost it?" Mary whisRED and Mary looked at each other, but neither spoke. "Anyway," Bill hurried on, "it had been pushed back under a heap of packages in the truck. Charlie found it. We were on our way here with it when we saw her on the street. She insisted on this new suit for Charlie and one for me, too. Says we're both old cnough for a real suit. I don't think Charlie would have accepted it, but I could sce how much she wanted to dress him up, so I told him I was all for it. Hey! 'Phere's the truck now!" Mary opened the door and Charlie carried Mrs. Gladstone inside and put her in a chair. She was holding her purse, and she looked at Mary with a significant twinkle in her eyes. Charlie turned to go, but she caught his hand and held it in both her own, "Marv," her voice had chimes in it. ""Vhere's plenty to eat, isn't there? For all of us, I mean?" Mary looked at Fred, and her heart lifted and sang as he nodded his head. "Of course there is!" she answered gaily. "Charlic, please stay for dinner. "We sure - would, in, Charlie bent his head, but not before Mary had scen his lip tremble. "T. Camit en." hie: began, "Te'll stay!" Bill said heartily and slapped him on the back. Soon everyone was busy unwrapping packages, but Mary and Fred were both watching Bill when he opened the box with the fifty dollars and the note that told him it was to help pay for his car. "What d'ya know!" he gasped. Then he swallowed hard. "Thanks, Mom — and Dad," he murmured. At last it was time for Mary and Fred to open their present which was an envclope addressed: "To the dearest parents in the world from Bill, Peg, and Judy." Mary could hardly breathe as she unfolded the paper inside. It was a gift certificate from the Lakeview Furniture Company, giving them their choice of new carpet and a sofa! Silently she smiled at them. Tears were glistening in her eyes, but they made cverything more shiny bright. While she and Fred had been struggling to give their children a happy Christmas, their children had been working overtime to gct something for them. Their love was the perfect, shining gift. She looked around at the happy faces. How wonderful, she thought, to have a family and to share our blessings with Charlie and Mrs. Gladstone. She met Fred's cyes, and_ his smile was young again and confident. "Tt's a beautiful world, Mary," he whispered gently, "a very beautiful world!" We'd love to have. You." "-Fred_ joined 746 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1959 A /Tlessage and an Answer Irom a Visiting 'Teacher AST night she spoke in sacrament meeting. She was calm and poised and charming. Her talk was outstanding in that my youngest child listened with as rapt attention as the older members of the congregation. Her talk Jasted only ten minutes, but I gloried in her radiance, her enthusiasm, her sincerity. I remembered back two years, to the first time we had called at her home as Relief Society visiting teachers. We had been told by the former pair, "Well, you won't get to see her, she works — and they never come out to anything anyway." But, I reasoned, they are members, perhaps we should make the effort. Our district included two schoolteachers, and by starting late in the afternoon we could find them at home — and lastly call on her. On the first visit she was distant and brittle. The second time she didn't answer the door. Perhaps she wasn't at home, but all the evidence pointed to the fact that she was avoiding us. However, after that time she always received us, but when we stated the topic of our message, she would say "Oh" and quickly change the subject. But we persisted in making our friendly visits and could sce her gradually becoming more receptive. We would include in our conversations thoughts from the message and finally state the scriptural quotation before we took our leave. A most satisfying experience was the day she chided me for having to read parts of the lesson because I was not adequately prepared. 'Then we knew that she was accepting our teachings, if not actually looking forward to them. After about a year of visits, we were able to discuss the message with her, a great satisfaction. And then, one night she and her husband called to take their children home from a dance. We were friendly with them and were almost their only friends in attendance, although many folks were familar to them. 'They danced a few times and said they wished it had occurred to them that older people were welcome — they loved dancing and would cnjoy helping to put over an affair such as that. I mentioned this to members of the bishopric. Our M. I. A. Was just then in need of new dance directors. 'They were approached, and after some months, finally felt needed enough to accept the position. These days they attend Sunday School with their children, instead of delivering them to the door and going home to work in the garden or lounge in front of the fire. They also attend sacrament meeting frequently. The worth of souls is great in the eyes of the Lord. How can we help our Relief Society visiting tcachers to know that their visits may help some choice sister to become active and to lead her family into activity? Page 747 Chive Ways to Put "You in Yuletide Barbara Williams AYBE vou're planning a big open house during the holiday season, or maybe you're hoping friends and relatives will visit informally, but Christmas will be more colorful for your guests (and more fun for you), if you will put yourself into your table settings. And what better way to personalize a table than with a bright, new, handmade cloth? Fabric counters are now displaying cheery yard goods that are both extra wide and easy to launder. And notion counters offer star and holly shaped sequins, pre-cut felt in Christmas motifs, tinkling bells, and gav assortments of fringes, braids, and trimmings to send any Mrs. Santa scurrying for needle and thread. Here are five ideas to help you get started on a merry Christmas: 1. Probably one of the easiest and yet most versatile tablecloths can be accomplished with a solid color fabric of red, Hal Rumel DAINTY TABLECLOTH MADE. OF PINK NYLON NET FRINGED WITH GOLD White felt Christmas trees, adorned with pink sequins and pearls, glisten from the four corners of this cloth designed by the Monument Park Ward Relief Society, Salt Lake City, Page 748 Utah FIVE WAYS TO PUT "YOU" IN YULETIDE 749 Hal Rumel A GAY FELT CLOTH BRIGHTENS A SERVING TABLE FOR WARM CIDER Whimsical Santas smile from the eye-catching, scalloped border of this cloth designed by Florence C. Williams green, or pink (almost any material 42" or wider will do, but chino cloth is fairly inexpensive and irons with almost no effort), and a buttonholer. Cut the cloth and napkins in desired size and hem either by hand or machine. Next make 4" buttonholes in parallel pairs %" apart cither around the border or sprinkled in the corners of cloth and napkins. The buttonholes must be in pairs because through them you will tie jingle bells (with narrow ribbon of contrasting color) which can be removed when the cloth is laundered. If the material you select is thin, be sure to use a double thickness under the buttonholes. For variety of decoration, tie small candy canes, sprigs of holly, or miniature tree ornaments through the holes. 2. Table talk will be lively over a cloth of bright red and white striped chintz fringed with red. For napkins choose a fabric of solid red, and applique candy canes from the striped material — cut diagonally, of course. 'Tiny bells tied through buttonholes made on the canes (as described above) add extra interest. 3. Filmy and feminine, nylon net provides a setting for the most special Christmas occasion, yet is one of the most inexpensive fabrics available. Sew wide satin ribbon or metallic fringe or lace around the border, and applique the cloth with felt Christmas trees, holly wreaths, or poinsettias. Rhinestones, sequins, and beads may be sewed to the felt or ribbon, or, if small enough, directly to the net itself. Nylon net must be dry cleaned or hand spotted when food is spilled, but since food stains don't readily show, the material requires little care. You may prefer to use another cloth under the net 'to help protect your table, however, {04 i B cr 3 F cc LL LULLDD 1 DDLLLL R ppDDDDDDDDD _ LY LL, BByDSDBSDpD R J ara LU TLL m m Le +. D Par]: +b LLILE TLD DDD DLE LLELL DD DDD DOLLE LL LL R popbbbbhopbhb? — BBP SEB DoEbbppp R CROSS-STITCH CHRISTMAS TREE DESIGN R — RED L — LIGHT GREEN D — DARK GREEN M — METALLIC THREAD 4. For the homemaker with more time, cross-stitch embroidery on white linen or Indian head is classic in appeal. Search the needlework catalogs for Christmas designs, or better yet, create your own sleighs, stars, or angels. A simple Christmas tree pattern may be used. 5. Perhaps the most colorful and interesting cloths of all can be made from bright red or green felt, decorated with. Original or packaged Christmas motifs. Although impractical for a dinner table since the cloth must be dry cleaned, felt makes a festive covering for an hors d'oeuvre table or to center a hot cider punch bowl, where there is little danger of spilling. Felt needn't be hemmed and, therefore, lends itself to unusual scallops or peaks around the border. Gay center runners of felt with Christmas applique may also be used on top of your washable cloths. There they are — five ways to put "you" in Yuletide. But may we add a sixth? Why not purchase an extra length of material to "put yourself" as well in a gift for someone special? Nounatn Chavber Lula Walker Ambition lights my son's young eyes, He's always asking "why" and "how.', To untold heights he's bound to rise Some distant day, but as of now "He doesn't. Dare go very -far:-— This Everest — the cookie jar. 750 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1959 Selma Larson Spjut Makes Shi Sweaters and Crocheted Tablecloths SELMA Larson Spjut, Salt Lake City, Utah, has knitted a beautiful ski sweater for each of her two children and her seven grandchildren. Beautifully designed and made of all-wool yarn, these sweaters are treasured by the family, of Swedish descent, who enjoy outdoor activities. Mrs. Spjut also loves to crochet, working patiently on edges for smaller tablecloths and also completing large, decorative tablecloths such as the one in Queen Anne design illustrated in the picture. Gift items, such as crocheted doilics and knitted ski gloves, have been presented to many relatives and friends. Mrs. Spjut's cooking recipes for Swedish dishes have been shared with friends, and she is an excellent cook and gracious hostess. She is a devoted member of Relief Society. Frosty Verse Iva Willes Wangsgaard A tree must be a pocm sung With silent rhythms marking time, lor where the evening fog was hung The trees are lyrics done in rime. Page 751 The New Day Hazel K. Todd CHAPTER 2 Synopsis: Lynn Marlow, a dress designer, who lives in Chicago and is engaged to David Talbot, returns to Springdale, her home town, to visit her Aunt Polly. She recalls the love she used to feel for Johnny Spencer. HEN Lynn reached the stream deep in the willows, without even remembering what Mr. Jensen had said, she seated herself on a smooth white rock and pulled off her high-heeled pumps and her nylons and dipped her toes into the gurgling water. It was sharply cold, telling of melting snow somewhere up the mountainside. But after a few minutes her feet became accustomed to the cold and she was lost to the tingling sensation, lost because hundreds of memories floated to life among the willow trees and whispered to her from the cobblestones. She and Johnny were pounding the bark off a willow limb for spring whistles. She and Johnny were racing up the stream in their bare feet, slipping on the rocks, falling in the water, chasing water skaters. It was so much fun to chase water skaters. She remembered, with a little embarrassment, how Johnny had caught her when she was quite a young lady, chasing water skaters, because, in a moment of reverie, a big long one had looked so inviting. But now the years sped away, and she and Johnny walked along the path on their graduation night. It was after the exercises, after the Page 752 dance, and the moon spread white light through the willow branches. She thought, how handsome he is with his dark hair and the white boutonniere. Her graduation frock was lovely. She had designed it all herself. Aunt Polly had spent days on the ruffles. It was pink and white, and Johnny had told her it was the most elegant thing he had ever seen. "Of course," he had qualified, "because it's for you." Johnny had plucked some of the violets to put in her hair. And with his arms about her, he had said, "They are purple like your eyes, Lindy. I hope our children all have purple eyes. And all the little girls we will name Lindy." And she had laughed at his foolishness. But then had come the shadow. He had held her hands tightly in his. "Oh, Lindy, you can't go away clear to Chicago. It's too far. You don't need to be a dress designer. Let Uncle Merideth, or whoever he is, give it to some other g'rl. Haven't we always said we belong together since we're both orphans, you with Aunt Polly, and me with my grandmother? Stay and let's plan our house by the mill." But it had sounded so thrilling to go all the way to Chicago and learn to be a dress designer. Since she was a little girl she had drawn pictures for Aunt Polly to follow to make her dresses. Anyway, with Johnny's arms THE NEW DAY about her, the future seemed like a bright promise as she assured him, "There will only be a year, and then I will come back, and we will build the house by the mill and live happily ever after." UT the year stretched longer and longer. Each time she mentioned going home Uncle Merideth put her off with lavish praise for her work and bright promises for the future. And Lynn loved her work. She would sit by the hour fascinated with the creations that came from her pencil. Johnny's letters begged her to come back. His pleas became more urgent, until one day in early spring, Lynn, remembering the path through the willows, the long walks and all the things they had done together, knew that she must go home to the house by the mill. Suddenly she could hardly wait to tell Uncle Merideth that this time she was really going. Then came the shocking news from Aunt Polly. Johnny's grandmother had died, and Johnny had joined the Marines. Next she knew he had married a Southern girl with dark hair. Aunt Polly had sent her a picture clipped from the town paper. At first it had been hard for her to realize that she had lost Johnny. She would wake suddenly from a sleep where she and Johnny were chasing water skaters or she would sit up in bed to find that she was not dancing with Johnny, not sipping sodas in Mr. Jensen's drug store. Uncle Merideth had been very good to her. He patted her shoulder, praised her work, and gave her another promotion. So she threw herself into her work with such zeal 753: that twice Uncle Merideth suggested she take a trip to Springdale for a rest. But she never went. And since time has a way of mending heartaches, she began to put her sorrow away. Until the letter from Aunt Polly saying that Johnny had brought his wife and two babies home, a boy and a girl, and he was building a house. That night Lynn cried in her pillow for the house by the mill that should have been hers. Twice Aunt Polly came to Chicago to visit Lynn, but she didn't like the long rides, and she was not used to the crowds of people. It all made her so nervous that she told Lynn, on the last visit, that she. Would never make the trip again. "Oh, Lynn," she said, "why don't you come home! I can ncver get used to your absence. You have been gone so long." But not until Aunt Polly's letters. Began worrying Lynn, could she bring herself to go back to the scenes of her childhood. UT now there was David 'Talbot. He had walked into her life one day when she sat on a green sloping hillside. She had been riding alone through the forest preserve. It was a warm day in spring, and the green hillside had looked inviting, strctching away to the edge of the trees. So she had stopped the car and accepted the invitation of the rich green carpet. 'The grass was soft. And cool and the air fresh and sweet with only the faintest hint of a breeze. Sitting there, leaning on her arms with her hands anchored. In the grass, she was oblivious to all else save the pleasantness of the surroundings. And then she heard. The click of the camera. She looked up at David standing there with his camera. He was tall and lean, with a thatch of blond hair, and he was smiling in a captivating sort of way. "Forgive me, for taking your picture, Miss Meadow Nymph," he said with perfect ease. "But you sce, I have been tramping about looking for something to shoot. And when I saw you sitting there with your hair blowing like that I knew 1 could nev cr find anything half so lovely again.' "Oh," Lynn said, a little embarrassed, and started to scramble to her feet. "Oh, please don't get up," he said. "It looks so pleasant there in the grass. Would vou mind if I sat down a minute beside you?" T'was so easy to sit there and talk with him. As they talked they learned they had mutual friends, and their wards were quite close to each other. And it was so natural to go on seeing him, and even to promise to marry him. Except, that night she couldn't sleep for remembering the path through the willows, and the house by the mill. David was already a successful architect and he planned for her a lovely home on a hillside that they both loved. He wanted to begin at once, but, somehow, Lynn kept waiting. Then one night David was very quiet. She walked with him to the door to say goodnight. He looked at her with his calm sincerity. "Lynn," he said, "more than anything else in all the world I want to make you my wife. But I cannot share you with a ghost from the past. If you can't forget this — Johnny, then I want to free you from your promise and go out of your life." As she looked into his face and felt his quiet strength, a warm security possessed her. "David," she said, "let's make it an autumn wedding." And so they planned. Aunt Polly wrote she hoped Lynn would be happy, but wouldn't she | please come home for a visit before the wedding? Still Lynn had not quite been able to make up her mind. And then she realized there was something wrong in Aunt Polly's letters, little hints about letting the garden go, about not doing my sewing, about phoning for grocerics, instead of driving the car. Lynn knew then she must go to Aunt Polly. She chose a time to tell David when they were sitting on the grassy slope of the countryside. For awhile he didn't say anything. And Lynn hurried to explain that it was Aunt Polly, that she was sure Aunt Polly was ill or something. David put his hand under her chin and looked into her face. "Please, my dear Meadow Nymph," he said with his easy smile, "I do not want you to think I disapprove of your going home. By all means go to Aunt Polly." "But I want you to take me.' He looked at her as ae there was something hidden in the purple depths of her eyes that he longed to find. "No, Lynn, I want you to go alone, back to the scenes of your childhood, back to the things you used to do. Live with them, and then, one day when you Ww ant me to come, I will be w aiting." And then she knew she had never quite promised her whole self, not 754 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1959 THE NEW DAY because she didn't want to, but because she was not sure that part of her was not back on the willow path, back in the house by the mull. Be a HE quick, sharp cry of a child suddenly obliterated past visions. With a start, Lynn pulled her feet from the water and realized that they were quite numb with cold. At the same time, she caught sight of the tousled head of a child struggling about in the grass and leaves by the trail. Barefoot, she ran to it, a little girl, with a mass of red-gold curls tangled about her head. Quickly she picked the tot up in her arms to find her knee scratched and bleeding. 'The little girl looked up at Lynn with fright-filled eyes. With a tissue, Lynn wiped the blood and leaves from the little knee and found it was not more than a scratch. She sat down with the child in her lap, on an old stump that she had sat on many times before to pull slivers from her feet or to wipe the water from them. "Look," she said, wrapping her handkerchief around the injured knee, "we will fix it all up like new." The little girl looked up from the bandage into the face of her benefactor. And then she squirmed out of her lap to the ground. "Peter," she called in a frightened little voice, "Peter, come get me." And then she saw a pair of eyes in a freckle-sprinkled face, pecking furtively through a willow clump. "Ts that Peter?" Lynn asked, catching hold of the little girl's hand. But the child quickly withdrew her hand and ran half crying toward 755 the place where the face had so suddenly disappeared. Lynn snatched her shoes, and slipped them onto her feet, as she ran after the child. And in a few minutes she had caught up with the two of them making a fast getaway down the trail. The boy stopped, undecided, on the path with the small girl clinging frantically onto his hand. 'The wrong words might send them scurtying away into the bushes. She looked about her quickly. A willow branch swaying gently near, caught her eye. "Did you ever have a_ willow whistle?" she asked, thankful to the willow. "Course we did," the boy said. "Our Dad makes us whistles "Does he?" Lynn kept watching the boy's face. 'here was something familiar about the way the hair fell over his forehead. "If we had a knife, we'd make a whistle." HE pulled down the willow limb and broke it from the tree. A long piece of bark twisted loose, leaving a naked slippery strip. "Just night if we had a knife." For a minute the boy stood quite aloof. 'Then he said, eveing her keenly, "I got one." Ie dug into his pocket and brought out a battered pocketknife. Again he stood, half undecided, and then he handled it to her. As she pounded the bark from the willow with the handle of the knife, the two children watched, the little girl hanging to her brother's shirt. A strange thing to be doing, Lynn thought. Her eyes went again to the boy's face. His hair — and his eyes. Somewhere in the past there were dark gray eyes, fringed with heavy lashes. She laid the whistle down a minute and looked into their inky depths. And as she did, a chill froze her, for, with sudden recognition, she knew those eyes. She knew them without a doubt. And they fit perfectly into the surroundings, the creek, the willows, the whistle lying on the grass, everything! 'They were Johnny's cyes! These, then were Johnny's children — children who might have been hers. She looked at them standing there, and a wave of longing swept over her. But all that was long ago. There was no nced to be disturbed. Yet her hands shook so that she was unable to replace the bark on the willow limb. This is silly, she thought, but I can't stay here now. I have to think. She laid the whistle down hurriedly again beside the knife. Her mind was working frantically as though she were a culprit trying to escape capture. "Tm sorry," she said in confusion.. "T must go. Get your father to make a whistle." She got hurriedly to her feet, avoiding their eyes. And with her heart thudding dully with an old familiar ache, she went down the willow path to Aunt Polly's. (To be continued) " Samitiar ace Gwen Marler Barney I know vou as I know my dearest friend, Your grief is mine, your laughter and your look. How strange that you should walk so close to me, Yet I should find you only in a book.! C/ iff Dwe [ lin g Mlother Ruth H. Chadwick You toted rocks and mortar up the tall, Thin ladder reaching skyward to a door, And built a room against the stony wall High above the valley's verdant floor. You made a home within that rock-formed cell, So drab, yet safe from enemies below. There you found a way, providing well For each day's needs, your mother-heart aglow. You bore a race of stout and fearless men, Nurtured at your bosom, taught from birth To walk with faith though danger lurked, and then, Through discipline and toil, to prove their worth. 756 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1959 ees — LESS N DEPARTMENT Sheology—The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 21 — Lessons in Obedience Elder Roy W. Doxey (Text: Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 30 and 31) For Tuesday, I'ebruary 2, Objective: "Be faithful unto the end, and lo, [am with you. Conference of the Church was appointed for September 1830, but just prior to this assemblage the Prophet Joseph Smith and others had gone to stay with the Whitmers at Iayette township, New York. As we have learned from Lesson 18, Hiram Page claimed to receive revelations for the Church. When the Prophet learned about Brother Page and his seer stone, it brought sorrow to him because of the influence which Satan had upon some of the members of the Church in deceiving them. Because of these conditions, revelations numbered 28 and 29 were received. When the September conference convened, the subject of the seer stone was discussed. It developed that Brother Page and those who had been influenced by him recognized that only one person was empowered to receive revelation for the Church. They, therefore, re- 1960 2"? (D&C 31:13). Nounced the purported revelations and harmony was restored. It was at the conclusion of this conference that the two revelations pertaining to this lesson were received — Sections 30 and 31. In What Do You Place Your Trust? The short revelation numbered Section 30 is directed to the three sons of Peter Whitmer, Senior, at whose home the Prophet was staying. Before this time, the Lord had made known that these men — David, Peter, and John — had a calling to make known the truths of the everlasting gospel. 'This opportunity to participate in the Lord's work was to be of utmost worth to them in bringing souls unto the Lord. (See Sections 14,15, and 16.) The time had now come when they were to "declare repentance unto this generation." (See Section 30:4, 5, 9-11.) Page 157 It appears that the revelation to David Whitmer (verses 1-4) constitutes a rebuke for his following Ehram Page with his purported revclations. The words of the Lord to David may also be pertinent to us as a lesson in obedience. Consider yourself as being taught by the Lord in these words:. Vou have feared man and have not relicd on me for strength as you ought. But your mind has been on the things of the earth more than on the things of me, your Maker, and the ministry whcreunto you have been called; and you have not given heed unto my Spirit, and to those who were set over you, but have been persuaded by those whom I have not commanded (D & C 30:1-2). As a member of the Church, wherein have you trusted in man rather than trusted implicitly in the word of the Lord? How often have you, as a worker in the Church, considered the things of the earth (world) to be of more importance than the work of your Maker? Have you given heed to the Spirit and to those who have been placed over you, or have you been influenced by other considerations, be it men, women, or the material things of life? If so, how thankful we should be for the principle of repentance, a part of which is the resolution to do better. What lesson does this provide for us? We must lay a secure foundation on the principles of truth with the knowledge that deviation from the course of the Lord leads to lost privileges and blessings. Lesson From the Life of Thomas B. Marsh In the application of the lesson objective and to understand Section 31 of The Doctrine and Covenants, we should know something about Thomas B. Marsh to whoin this revelation was directed. The life story of Brother Marsh affords us an opportunity to leam several lessons. In addition to the important principle of obedience, we learn lessons of the necessity to follow the leadership of those over us in the Church, and that any per-: son may depart from the truth, the consequences of which bring sorrow. Furthermore, repentance may not always restore one to his former standing in the kingdom of God. For a period of about eight years Brother Marsh was a devoted member of the Church, but in a year of apostasy, when several of the leading brethren became disaffected, Ths was excommunicated (in 1839). In 1857 at Florence, Nebraska, he was re hue svaetl and came to Utah where he spent his last days. Spirit of Apostasy Shortly after Thomas B. Marsh was baptized, the Lord gave a revelation, Section 31, directed to him through the Prophet Joseph Smith. Of special interest to us are verses nine and twelve which read as follows: Be patient in afflictions. Revile not against those that revile. Govern your house in meekness, and be steadfast.... Pray always, lest you enter into temptation and lose your reward (D & C 31:9, 12). This counsel is prophetic in view of Brother Marsh's apostasy. Elder George A. Smith in a general conference address tells the following reason for this apostasy: When the Saints were living in Far West, the wife of Marsh and Sister Harris agreed to exchange milk, in order to enable each of them to make a larger cheese than 758 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1959 LESSON DEPARTMENT they could do separately. Each was to take to the other the "'strippings" as well as the rest of the milk. Mrs. Harris performed her part of the agreement, but Mrs. Marsh kept a pint of "strippings" from each cow. When this became known the matter was brought before the Teachers, and these decided against Mrs. Marsh. An appeal was taken to the Bishop. He sustaincd the Teachers. If Marsh had obeyed the Revelation and governed his house in humility and with steadfastness, he would have righted the wrong done, but imstcad of doing so, he appealed to the High Council. Marsh, who at the time was President of the Twelve, possibly thought that the Council would favor him, but that body confirmed the Bishop's decision. He was not yet satisfied, but appealed to the First Presidency, and Joseph, the Prophet, and his two Counsellors consented to review the case. They approved the findings of the High Council. Was Marsh satisfied then? No. With the persistency of Lucifer himself, he declared that he would uphold the character of his wife, "even if he had to go to hell for it' (Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, Revised Edition, page 167). Follow Leadership Conceming this circumstance, Elder Heber C. Kimball told a Salt Lake congregation that about the time Brother Marsh was preparing to leave the Church, he received a personal revelation consisting of from three to five pages, which he read to Brothers Kimball and Brigham Young. In it God told him what to do, and that was to sustain brother Joseph and to believe that what brother Joseph had said was true. But no; he took a course to sustain his wife and oppose the Prophet of God, and she led him away. We told him that if he would listen to that revelation he had received, he would be saved; but he listened to his wife, and away he went (Journal of Discourses, 5, pp. 28, 29). The seriousness of Marsh's apostasy is idicated in the further comment made by Brother George 759 A. Smith upon the occasion mentioned above. The then President of the Twelve Apostles, the man who should have been the first to do justice and cause reparation to be made for wrong, committed by any member of his family, fook that position, and what next? He went before a magistrate and swore that the "Mormons" were hostile to the State of Missouri. 'That affidavit brought from the government of Missouri an exterminating order, which drove some 15,000 Saints from their homcs and habitations, and some thousands perished through suffering the exposure consequent on this state of affairs (Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, Revised Edition, page 167). Man May Fall From Grace In a short autobiography, Brother Marsh wrote that after he had apostatized he went to Richmond, Missouri, where he met David, John, and Jacob Whitmer, and Oliver Cowdery, who had all apostatized: I enquired seriously of David if it was true that he had seen an angel, according to his testimony as one of the witnesses of the Book of Mormon. He treplied as sure as there is a God in heaven, he saw the angel according to his testimony in that book.. I interrogated Oliver Cowdery in the same manner, who answered similarly (Millennial Star, Vol. 26, page 406). It will be remembered that Thomas B. Marsh, as one of the members of the first Quorum of the Twelve, was a testator to the truth of the book of Doctrine and Covenants. A general assembly of the Church was held in Kirtland, Ohio, on August 17, 1835, to take into consideration the work of a committce appointed to compile the revelations into a book. This action was taken "to see whether the book be approved or not by the authorities of the Church: that it may, if ap- proved, become a law and rule of faith and practice to the Church." During the course of the meetings, Brother W. W. Phelps read the written testimony of the Twelve, as it appears in the "Explanatory Introduction" to The Doctrine and Covenants. (The minutes of this assembly comprise chapter 18 of the Documentary History of _ the Church, Volume II.) Notwithstanding the great manifestation which came to the three special witnesses of The Book of Mormon and the Lord bearing record to the souls of the witnesses to The Doctrine and Covenants through the Holy Ghost shed forth upon them, some of these witnesses apostatized and were excommunicated. It is not our present purpose to suggest all of the reasons why men having such testimonies do depart from the truth, but the lmportant thing for us is to learn Icssons from the experiences of those who have become apostate. When The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was organized, the Lord declared that a person might fall away from the truth. And we know that all men must repent and believe on the name of Jesus Christ, and worship the Father in his name, and endure in faith on his name to the end, or they cannot be saved in the kingdom of God.... But there is a possibility that man may fall from grace and depart from the living God; Therefore let the church take heed and pray always, lest they fall into temptation; Yea, and even let those who are sanctified take heed also (D & C 20:29, 32-34). From What Do Men Fall? And so it has been. But from what do men fall away? Here is Brigham Young's answer: Everything that there is good, pure, holy, god-like, exalting, ennobling, extending the ideas, the capacities of the intelligent beings that our Heavenly Father has brought forth upon this earth. What will the apostate receive in exchange? Continuing, President Young said: I can comprehend it in a very few words. These would be the words that I should use: death, hell and the grave. That is what they will get in exchange. We may go into the particulars of that which they experience. 'They experience darkness, ignorance, doubt; pain, sorrow, grief, mourning, unhappiness; no person to condole with in the hour of trouble, no arm to lean upon in the day of calamity, no eye to pity when they are forlorn and cast down; and I comprehend it by saying death, hell and the grave. This is what they will get in exchange for their apostasy from the Gospel of the Son of we (Journal of Discourses, Vol. 16, page 160). When Brother Marsh returned to the Church, he bore witness that his period of apostasy was one of misery and affliction. He stated:... Let no one feel too secure; for, before you think of it, your steps will slide. You will not then think nor feel for a moment as you did before you lost the Spirit of Christ; for when men apostatize, they are left to grovel in the dark (Journal of Discourses, Vol. 5, page 206). Follow a Straight Course But what is it that leads members of the Church from the truth? In the case of Brother Marsh, it seemed such a small thing in what his wife did, but he, as he confessed later, was a very "stiffnecked man." Many times it is the small, inconsequential thing that leads one away, as President Young one time put it: 760 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1959 LESSON DEPARTMENT Very trifling affairs are generally the commencement of their divergence from the right path. If we follow a compass, the needle of which does not point correctly, a very slight deviation in the beginning will lead us, when we have traveled some distance, far to one side of the true point for which we are aiming (Journal of Discourses, Vol. 12, page 125). On the other hand, if we adhere to the commandments of the Lord, keeping a steady course on the straight way to eternal life, we shall secure to ourselves joy and happiness in this life and the crown of righteousness in the life to come. In this connection, The Book of Mormon prophet, Alma, counseled his son Helaman by making reference to the compass or director which worked according to their fathers' faith in God, as follows: Therefore, they tarried in the wilderness, or did not travel a direct course, and were afflicted with hunger and thirst, because of their transgressions. And now, my son, I would that ye should understand that these things are not without a shadow; for as our fathers were slothful to give heed to this compass (now these things were temporal) they did not prosper; even so it is with things which are spiritual. For behold, it is as easy to give heed to the word of Christ, which will point to you a straight course to eternal bliss, as it was for our fathers to give heed to this compass, which would point unto them a straight course to the promised land. And now I say, is there not a type in this thing? For just as surely as this director did bring our fathers, by following its course, to the promised land, shall the words of Christ, if we follow their course, carry us beyond this vale of sorrow into a far better land of promise.... See that ye look to God and live. (Alma 37:42-45, 47). What else is there which leads people from the kingdom of God? As in the case of Thomas B. Marsh, 761 it was an unwillingness to follow the leadership of the Church, but to become a law unto himself. When men and women feel that they can flaunt the laws of God and thereby become independent of the counsel of their leaders in the Church, whether it be the bishop, stake president, or the Gencral Authorities, they set for themselves a course of action, which, if not repented of, will lead to loss of the Spirit of the Lord and eventual apostasy. Notice how this rejection of the counsel of those over Brother Marsh lost for him the spirit of the Lord in the case mentioned above by Elder George A. Smith. The loss of the Spirit brought blindness to him, and he spent his time in looking for the evil:.. And then, when the Devil began to lead me, it was easy for the carnal mind to rise up, which is anger, jealousy, and wrath.... I thought I saw a beam in Brother Joseph's [Smith] eye, but it was nothing but a mote, and my own eye was filled with the beam... And as Brother Heber [Kimball] says, I got mad, and wanted everybody else to be mad. I talked with Brother Brigham and Brother Heber, and I wanted them to be mad like myself; and I saw they were not mad.... Brother Brigham, with a cautious look, said, "Are you the leader of the Church, Brother Thomas?" I answered, ''No." "Well then," said he, "Why do you not let that alone?" (Journal of Discourses, Vol. 5, page 207.) Contrast — Obedience and Disobedience On the other hand, if Thomas B. Marsh had applied the admonition given him years before in the revelation from which this part of our lesson is taken (Section 31:9, 12), and, when the time of deviation from the straight course of the gospel plan began, if he had repented, great would have been his blessings. Sometimes a contrast sharpens one's understanding of such possibilities. About the same period when Brother Marsh apostatized, Elder Parley P. Pratt partook of the spirit of apostasy. In relating his own experience, we may also learn a lesson. About this time, [1837], after I had returned from Canada, there were jarrings and discords in the Church at Kirtland, and many fell away and became enemies and apostates. There were also envyings, lyings, strifes and divisions, which caused much trouble and sorrow. By such spirits I was also accused, misrepresented and abused. And at one time, I also was overcome by the same spirit in a great measure, and it seemed as if the very powers of darkness which war against the Saints were let loose upon me. But the Lord knew my faith, my zeal, my integrity of purpose, and he gave me the victory. I went to brother Joseph Smith in tears, and, with a broken heart and contrite spirit, confessed wherein I had erred in spirit, murmured, or done or said amiss. He frankly forgave me, prayed for me and blessed me. Thus, by experience, I Icarned more fully to discern and to contrast the two spirits, and to resist the one and cleave to the other. And, being tempted in all pomts, even as others, I learned how to bear with, and excuse, and succor those who are tempted (Autobiography of Parley P. Pratt, 1874 Edition, pp. 183-184). Summary How does one lose a testimony of the gospel? It does not come abruptly, but, in most instances, gradually. We may well consider the masterful way in which the late Elder John A. Widtsoe answered this question. Starvation of a testimony usually begins with failure to keep properly in touch with divine forces, to pray. Then desire to learn and to live the gospel law soon weakens. Sacred covenants are forgotten. Study of the gospel is set aside for some other study or activity. There is less and less participation in the life of the Church. Eyes are blurred so that the laws of life are forgotten.... There are many attacks by the evil one upon a weakening testimony. Commonly, a fecling of superiority, ending in ambition for office, overshadows all else and leads to testimony starvation. Personal ambition has always been a destructive force in human lives. Sometimes, and closely related to the feeling of superiority, are false interpretations of scripture. These rise to such magnitude, though at variance with accepted, revealed Doctrine, that they endanger the spiritual life of the individual. 'The various cults that arise, like mushrooms, from time to time, are but variations of this manner of destroying a testimony. They can always be recognized, for they are in opposition to some principle or regulation of the Church. Most frequently, however, the loss of a testimony is due to finding fault with one's fellow believers, and with the Icadership of the Church. Every action of bishop, stake president, or General Authority seems wrong, to such unfortunate pcople. Their vision distorts the world and_ all in it. The dying testimony is easily recognized. The organizations and _ practices of the Church are ignored; the radio takes the place of the sacrament meeting; golf or motion pictures, the Sunday worship; the cup of coffee, instead of the Word of Wisdom; the cold, selfish hand instead of helpfulness, charity for the poor, and the payment of tithing. Soon, the testimony is gone, and the former possessor walks about, somewhat sour and discontented, and always in his heart, unhappy. He has lost his most precious possession, and has found nothing to replace it. He has lost inward freedom, the gift of obedience to law ("What Does It Mean to Have a_ Testimony?" Improvement Era, May 1945, pp. 273, 280). Ouestions for Discussion 1. What docs it mean to trust in man rather than in the word of the Lord? 2. Show how Section 31 is prophetic concerning Thomas B. Marsh. 3. How did Brother Marsh's apostasy affect the Church? 762 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1959 LESSON DEPARTMENT In what way did Brother Marsh know the truth of The Doctrine and Covenants, and under what circumstances did he learn that the testimony of the witnesses of The Book of Mormon was true? 763 5. Relate the two uses made in the lesson of the compass. 6. Contrast the disaffections of Brothers Marsh and Pratt. 7. Name ways in which one may lose a testimony of the gospel. Visiting Seacher ITlessages— Truths to Live By From The Doctrine and Covenants Message 21—'Wherefore, Hear My Voice and Follow Me, and You Shall Be a Free People. "(D&C 38:22). Christine H. Robinson For Tuesday, February 2, 1960 Objective: To show that freedom can only be secured by hearing and following the Savior's teachings. REEDOM and free agency constitute the basis of the entire gospel plan of salvation. It is a divine truth that, regardless of the shackles men try to impose upon themselves and upon each other, our Father in heaven's plan for his children is one of free agency. This thought is expressed in this well-known verse: Know this, that every soul is free To choose his life and what he'll be, For this eternal truth is given That God will force no man to heaven. (Hymus, "Know This, That Every Soul Is Free," William C. Gregg, page go) Next to life itself, freedom is the most precious gift that God has given to man. It was bestowed upon us before the formation of this world. Because Lucifer sought to destroy man's free agency, he and his followers were cast out of heayen. 'The Savior's plan of free agency was adopted, and we were given the gospel plan of salvation which would guide and redeem mankind here upon the carth. Christ came to this earth and gave his life that we might be a free people. Lehi, The Book of Mormon prophet, tells us that:... The Messiah cometh in the fulness of time, that he may redeem the children of men.... And because that they are redeemed... They have become free forever, knowing good from evil; to act for themselves... (2 Nephi 2:26). President McKay has said, Next to the bestowal of life itself, the right to direct that life is God's greatest gift to man.... Man's success or failure, happiness or misery, depends upon what he seeks and what he chooses (Pathways to Happiness, pp. 399, 401). Some of us are prone to think of freedom in terms of civil and political affairs. Yet, although it is tremendously important to our wellbeing and happiness that we have our political liberty, freedom of the spirit ls even more important. Recently an apostle of the Church went to an oppressed country to hold a conference with Church members there. Some 550 came to the meeting, many at great sacrifice and at considerable personal danger. After a spiritual feast, these saints returned to their homes. Some of these members might have escaped into the bright sunlight of freedom. Yet, because of their desire to preserve spiritual freedom, these members returned to their homes that they might continue their efforts to keep the light of this spark from being extinguished. These members believe with the apostle Paul that, "... Where the Spirit of the Lord is, there is liberty" (II Cor. 3:17). Our Doctrine and Covenants message this month emphasizes the freedom which comes from listening to and following the Savior's teachings. He has promised that if we learn his laws and commandments and apply them to our lives we will be a free people. We must, however, seek continuously for a knowledge of his truths. 'The Savior himself declared, "... Ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free" (John 8:32). As we seek to preserve our freedom, we should be alert to another type of bondage which can enslave us. 'This bondage we impose upon, ourselves through harmful habits and negative and destructive thinking. 'his self-inflicted bondage can remove our freedom more effectively than even the slavery imposed by tyrants. The best way we can keep from falling under this type of bondage is to accept the Savior's counsel and following his teachings. Both by precept and example the Savior has shown us how to keep love in our hearts and how to keep ourselves from destructive thoughts and influences. Someone has wisely said, "Freedom is not free — if we want to keep it — we must love it, live it, work for it, even fight for it." Work IT leeting—Physical Safety Factors in the Home (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Discussion 5—Hobby Hazards Charlotte A. Larsen For Tuesday, February 9, 1960 Objective: To show that a hobby worth practicing is worth practicing safely; that a constant use of safe practices will eliminate many of the hazards that are threats to individual health and welfare. Home Hobby Hazards casual review of the major hobbies practiced in and around the home enables one to list approximately a dozen hazards which present outstanding possibilities for accidental mishaps. Any hobby worth developing is worthy of the effort 764 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1959 LESSON DEPARTMENT on the part of the hobbyist to practice it safely. Safety means knowledge in most instances. Gardening The raising of flowers and foodstuffs for pleasure and profit certainly dates back to the beginning of man's habitation on this earth. Modern developments and chemical aids enable one to do this now better than ever before. It can be suggested, however, that the very chemical agents which purge the soils of parasites, rid the plants of bugs and insects, and free them from fungi and molds also have effectively booby trapped the garden, the garage, and the basement. Despite a tremendous effort on the part of the manufacturers, each year there still occur unneeded deaths and mishaps from the careless and improper use of these agents. When using garden insecticides and fumigants, gardeners should be sure young children are not where they can inhale spray or dust drift. Insecticides can be harmful if they come in contact with the skin. It is wise to wash hands and face immediately after using sprays and dusts. Directions should be followed implicitly. Store in a place inaccessible to children and those who do not understand their use. Padlocks are cheaper than doctor bills. Injuries from power lawn mowers are increasing. 'Ihe rotary mower is the most dangerous. Any object which is thrust into the blades is cut horizontally. Wear heavy shoes to protect toes in case you back up the mower too far. All twigs and stones, bits of glass, metal, or wood 765 should be cleared away before mowing, as they may be lethal weapons when caught and thrown by the blade. Careful instructions regarding the safe operation of a mower should be given by the seller and. Carried out by the operator. Suggestions for Making the Yard Safer Stumps, uneven places, holes, and protruding rocks should be eliminated. 'Vhey can cause falls. Garden tools, hose, rakes, and digging forks can cause permanent injuries if left where people can stumble over them. The clothesline should be high enough for an adult to walk under. Guy wires for newly planted trees should be plainly marked. Heavy bird baths or statuary should be well anchored in the ground to avoid danger of pulling them over. Sprinkler heads should be low enough to prevent tripping. Firearms Ownership of firearms has always been a popular hobby for purposes of hunting or target shooting. FEvidence of the dangers of this hobby exists in two to three thousand accidental firearm deaths in the United States each year. The majority of deaths from firearms occur, not in the field in search of game or on the target range, but in the home. 'These seem especially treacherous since one-fifth to onefourth of these deaths involve children under fourteen years of age. Guns discharged by persons playing with them or pointing them in fun account for more than onefourth of all deaths from firearms. Many fatalities result from weapons 766 going off while they are being cleaned or loaded or while they are being demonstrated or examined. 'Voy guns or B B guns may also be dangcrous. Air rifles at close range can be very powerful and cause serious damage. Cap guns and exploding caps can cause serious burns. Many communities now ban their use. Bow guns or bows and arrows can be dangerous both to the user and to other persons. Use a soft, heavy target and be sure no one is in the range of fire. Slingshots or anything that shoots rocks or sharp objects is very dangerous to bystanders. Eye injuries have often been caused by these sharp objects shot from slings. Kite Flying Kite flying is a happy activity which can turn to tragedy if good safcty rules arc not followed. Points that should be observed are: 1. Never use metal or wire in the frames or tail, and never use wire, tinsel, or twine with a metallic substance for the kite string. 2. Never cross streets or highways when flying kites. 3. Never fly kites in damp weather because wet string can conduct electricity. 4. Keep away from radio and TV aerials and power lines when flying kites. If a kite gets tangled in high tension wires, make no attempt to get it loose, and never touch any fallen wires. Do-It-Yourself Safety Use only the right tools for the job. Remember that all portable power tools must be electrically grounded. Keep your workshop floor clean. Oil, sawdust, scrap lumber are potential hazards as well RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1959 as fire traps. A stecl shaving, which flies from a grinding machine, or a sliver, when a do-it-yourself fan is careless at his electric saw, may cause blindness and severe injuries. When using power tools, read operating directions carefully before use and follow them. Lye shields or safety glasses are a must when chips might fly. Keep your hands: away from moving parts. Better still, disconnect the power and wait until moving parts have stopped, in clearing away debris. Guards are placed on machinery for your protection, use them. Keep children away while you work, and be sure they don't experiment with machinery when you are not around. Lock up the power supply and cutting tools. Water Sport Hazards Many cities are passing laws to protect children from falling into swimming pools on home premises, requiring fences usually at least four feet high with self-closing gates and self-latching devices. Every swimming pool should be equipped with life preservers, and every one should be taught how to use them. Lily ponds should be covered with wire coverings. Accidents, the biggest killer and crippler of children and adults, are preventable. Accidents are caused; they do not just happen. The truth is that most accidents in the homes could be avoided with a little care, common sense, and information. Questions 1. What are some of the most common garden hazards? 2. Could your sewing machine be a safety hazard? LOL 2BD¢ o00'gz JO d}B}Sd SI] POU 0} duo AVY} OBB JV IWOY Payyeo sea oy 'IDYILJ SI] JO Yop oy ye [UN "purl -[OF] pure 'siuieg "uopuoy ut suo je AoIUS sBAr oY 'ULLUATUIS B JO ZUIpdd1g puv Uovonps oy} Sutsmb -O8 UIBdq 0} UdAIS OSB }e puUR[sUy 0} Wag "Y}Od wWdyy WIELD JOFUIOD YAY pynoo oy oY seAX PE IORI 'UMO S}I SB LUI LUE] JYSIUU 9IN} "JUD JOYRIO 'BOLIOUTY UL Jel 'purepsuny ut quads aI9A\ siBoA Sil] J[BY DUIS "HOY oy} soyysnl uvy} oo WII] BUIMOUY JO prBMII OY} JOR "TyRIU -oq uosiod oY} JaAodsIp 0} yUDUUYST{d -UWoINV puv IOUOY YSNoIYy} 99s 0} yuIyFIP st jt yeYyR YINoS Areuoynyjo -AD\-o1d ay} JO URLDTUDD IOIRAtD dy} JO YA oy} ozIpoquudAs p1dg WRIA, soop Apjusoyiuseut os (E94 "Lt dd axa) (PrLtblot) pisg wert yy "AOU Pu Udy} Y}OG DAI] puv _ JoLIeq-dtul} Iq} YRoIq,, UBD OA LOY BUIpRoI Aq 'Alo}VINIIV pue Ayjeuosiod o}01m Ady} osneooq (p) 'oarosqo Ady] yeYAr uUBY] IoWOq SIDAIOSGO DY} AOLTY 0} JUIOD IA\ 'O. A18 Ady} suoivzoidioyut oy} pur syuowu -UoD IY} Jo syalqns oy} Aq (9) 'pueysIy J 9IN[ND MOU B YOU IAA (q) 'surjos [enjzeu Mou ev UL OWWOY ye ore aM (B):[BUOTSUDLUIP-InoJ ysvo] ye St pareaor immo 'oy Ady} sv speuinol 194} pel 0} siapynoys Moy} JOAO aod oa se '9IoJIIOU_], "ySaq SOMSOP MdY} IAIOS 0} poyooid ADY} JUDLUUIDAOS puP 'Oo1dUL -WWOd 'A}OIDOS JO WIOJ WY 'pdadly -oq Aoy} FeyAr 'poary Aoy} MOY: Ares Aayy ojdoad ayy ut Avy $}sa19} Ut onI} MY} Juq 's1OOP-jo-nNo owoY ye 919M pure 'Ajudey Joy poariosqo 'oimjeu PaAO] INdoddADIDD op URd{ UNE [MD PUSUN Pop ee 'A[UO Spied -jsod ainyord pure saoidioaid wey} 19 -yyer ajdoad soaoy pure soos IdA1Osqo oy} jt Aprepnorjied qe ye o1ayy 10M DAL Jl JOPUOAA SU OYRLU 0} SI IOyJOUe Aq poquosap diy owes of} vay 0} puy 'Aiou Ajonbrun st yt di} outres OY} OYLUE dA\ OUT YORa "BuIA\OIS pue Joe oie aM jy gqysisuoo AN] -UNOD IY} BUIDOS,, S9Op Jey Ar Jo 'ABA dY} UO DUO ING =, /919Y} UIdq JOA dA J,, 'osveiyd pezey oy} JoyN ATeUy puv 'papuayxo Josuyo1oy yy sdeu poppojun 19A0 SuLdaoy, ursoq Aoyy 19} aq Ue se OOS s¥ ysnl sia10[dx9 jo sjuvpusosop Auetu Aq udas aq snut Avp St} 0} WAI UI 0} ALOT, AlWUNOD a{TYA 'sjnos otwWOsoIN}UDA UIB}IOO OF ISUd[BYO I[qUsIsal ue poaoid sAvaye sey, Al}UNOD MOU, Jo DIN] OYJ, "lO}VIOqI] puke lozvonpo yeas B UIdq IOAD sey TIAL "lopoLIKYyO URQUOWY Apa JO suUOTENTPAD OA\y yseIVUOD OF,: aATVA! GO og6t 'gt Aiwniqoyy 'Aepson J, 104] (gft-Let '€9-€L -dd 'yIoX MON 'ssoig uapAiq 'sapyos douaieD puv jez] 'cy soute{ Aq 'omnzvsoqT $vouaury: yooq}x9 [,) sqooe[ "§ queg Ioply 4na028Ae19 pun pkg: siaAsasqo Ainjue-yjusajyb61q OMJ—E| UOSsaT syeadg uoneny May) VV —oinyesoyq S POO 9479 D4999 JO Dementi Studio Richmond, Virginia WILLIAM BYRD acres and become one of Virginia's first gentlenien. In London he had studied law at the Middle 'Temple, absorbed Pope and Swift, and was an intimate friend of the leading dramatists of the day, Congreve and Wychcerly. Tle toyed with the idea of becoming a man of letters, and wrote some satirical verses in the style of the day which still survive. For his excellent description of an albino Negro, he was asked to join the Royal Society, a connection which he prized throughout his life, just as he prized his many scientific and cultivated friends in England with whom he kept up an intimate correspondence until his death in 1744 at age seventy. He returned three times to represent the colony of Virginia at the court of England, sometimes. Staying "at home" for several years. Thus, because his version of a "Bible Commonwealth' continued to remain in Mother England, and because he had no feclings toward England but loyalty, affection, and enjoyment, he was far more the Englishman in America than were, either the Puritans, the Quakers, or the mixed founders of the Middle Colonics. In large measure William Byrd loved Virginia because he had succeeded in bringing so much of his English life there. 'The mansion he built at Westover on the James River stands today as one of the loveliest country estates in Virginia. (See Text, page 15.) 'Though his lavish manner of living cost him dearly, and for a time placed him in heavy debt, he furnished his home with elegant carved furniture, drapes, sculpture, and personally commissioned oil paintings of many of his English friends. His personal lbrary of 3,600 volumes was second in size only to Cotton Mather's; that he used it constantly is proved not only by his many allusions to classical culture in his writings, but by his average day, as recorded in his secret diary, published for the first time after 1940: January 27, 1711 I rose at 5 o'clock and read two chapters in Hebrew and some Greek in Lucian. I said my prayers and ate boiled milk for breakfast. I danced my dance. It rained all night but held up about 8 o'clock this morning. My sick people were all better, thank God Almighty. I settled several accounts; then I read some English which gave me great light into the nature of spirit. I ordered Tom to plant some (1-c-s) seed. I ate goose giblets for dinner. In the afternoon 768 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1959 LESSON DEPARTMENT my wife and I took a little walk and then danced together. 'Then I read some more English. At night I read some Italian and then played at piquet with my wife.. I said my prayers and had good health, good thoughts, and good humor, thank God Almighty. A lifetime member of the Supreme Council, a sort of senate composed of a few wealthy Virginians, he died as its president. He was receiver of the king's revenues. 'The founder of Richmond and Petersburg, he added 150,000 acres to his estate during his lifetime. Byrd's Character The code of a gentleman to which William Byrd paid supreme honor has much to recommend it, for he achieved a tolerance and an understanding for the viewpoints of others which often opposed the interests of his own class and station. Although a faithful member of the Church of England, he had sympathy for Catholic France and Spain's stern attitude toward Indian and Negro, even while he, a slaveowner, hoped for a democracy encompassing all colors of people. Himself a wealthy aristocrat, he nevertheless suffered with the poorer classes of people and with those surveyors wading through the aguish green desert of the Dismal Swamp, so brackish and humid-hot that in their sixty-five miles of anguish they found no animal life whatsoever, not even birds. An American gentleman, William Byrd was "the constant enemy of all exorbitant power, and_ hearty friend to the liberties of his country." Most important, life for Colonel Byrd was good here and now, and heartily to be enjoyed. Responsible, keen, creative, and just, both 769 in his own business interests as in his relations with others, his greatest literary achievement was to take the portrait of a primitive, savage country, spicing his account with irony, sparkling wit, and humor, and employing his smooth narrative and dramatic powers to good advantage. Though it be trivial or tragic, he softened the edge of his world with humor, which verifies his gentlemanly qualities of judgment and draws us to him. The History of the Dividing Line Published for the first time in 1841, almost a century after his death, his journal, The History of the Dividing Line, tells of Mr. Byrd's experiences while surveying the boundary separating Virginia from North Carolina, to which place all the dregs of humanity had escaped. In his other journals we find his apt phrase combined with his insight into people, as when he went on an inspection tour of his lumber mills and found them "both standing as still for the want of water, as a dead woman's tongue, for want of breath." He knowingly defined man as "so very pliable a thing, and frail, when women have the bending of him." Te ever pokes gentle fun at husbands dominated by their wives, at ministers who seem to preach only for pay, and at the backwoods inhabitants of "lubberland" too lazy to be responsible: The Men, for their Parts, just like the Indians, impose all the Work upon the poor Women. 'They make their Wives rise out of their Beds early in the Morning, at the same time that they lye and Snore, till the Sun has run one third of his course, and disperst all the unwholesome Damps. 'Then, after Stretching and Yawning for half an Hour, they light Dementi Studio Richmond, Virginia "WESTOVER," VIRGINIA, HOME OF THE BYRD FAMILY their Pipes, and, under the Protection of a cloud of Smoak, venture out into the open Air; tho, if it happens to be never so little cold, they quickly return Shivering into the Chimney corner. When the weather is mild, they stand leaning with both their arms upon the corn-field fence, and gravely consider whether they had best go and take a Small Heat at the Hough [Hoc]: but gencrally find reasons to put it off till another time ('Text, pp. 80-81). He tells of wolf-pits dug so deep that "When a Wolf is once tempted into them, he can no more Scramble out again, than a Husband who has taken the Leap can Scramble out of Matrimony." Everywhere he sees human foibles, which he acknowledges with a light touch, which makes him one of our earliest, delightful writers. Michel Guillaume Jean de Crevecoeur (1735-1813) Quite commonly the best way to find truth is to import someone to point out to us exactly what it is, and precisely the spot under our very noses where it can be found. Before Crevecoeur the American species did not exist because no one had bothered to define it, even though specimens of it were walking about everywhere. Though the literary contribution of this observer of carly Americana is not large, it is vital. And just as Byrd was an English aristocrat living in Virginia, yet slowly made into a new person by "the silent pressure of environment,' so was Crevecoeur always the Frenchman, spending the last twenty-three years of his life in his native Normandy and the capitals of Europe. But he was also aware of the new way of thinking which he had found only in America. Surely he depicted it with such emotional power only because he first felt these new surges of power within himself first of all. When he writes his memorable question, "What is an American?" he himself best exemplifies the answer. 770 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1959 LESSON DEPARTMENT His Life Pattern Born in Caen (kan), Normandy in 1735, Crevecoeur was educated in France and England. At nineteen he was a soldier in the French army. He was wounded at the battle for Quebee, lost his leutenancy, and became a naturalized colonist. As a surveyor he traveled through the Ohio Valley and the Great Lakes region as far west as Detroit. In 1769, when he was thirty-four years of age, he married and settled down on a farm in Orange County, New York, where he lived for cleven years. When the Revolution broke out, he was caught between the two factions. A gentle, peace-loving man, he had come to hate war above all else; furthermore, he had pledged his allegiance to Britain. Yet England was his mother country's traditional enemy, and he _ feared reprisals from his neighbors, if he turned active Tory. Imprisoned for two months by Royalist forees who suspected his motives, he fled in confusion to England, then France, leaving behind his farm and family. When he published his Letters From an American Farmer in 1782, he became a literary lion in the salons of Paris, where Rousseau's dreams of the "noble savage" led the romantic French to see in Crevecocur and his American experience the embodiment of such an idea. Through the influence of Benjamin Franklin and his French friends, he, this "sauvage American," was appointed consul to the United States. Upon his return to New York he found his farm burned by Indians, his wife dead, and his children missing, but within the year he located them in Boston where 77\ they were being reared by a sympathetic family. He worked hard to keep alive a strong friendship between the two nations, and returned to Europe for the last time in 1790 when he was fifty-five, remaining in Normandy, Paris, London, and Munich until his death twentythree years later. At his death he left three folios of unpublished writings, almost all of them dealing with his American years as a colonial farmer, for there his heart most truly lay. Crevecoeur's Beliefs Crevecocur was a sentimentalist, and idealist, and a romantic. With his feelings his only guide, he caught the overwhelming feeling of pride in possessing his own land and running it as he pleased; the goal which for so long had been the fondest hope of land-hungry, oppressed masses of Europeans. Like Franklin and Jefferson, he believed that the farmer was the most important man in the young Nation's future, since it was he who lived nearest to nature as he made her produce food to sustain all men. Furthermore, because of this intimate relation with nature, the farmer was more independent, and cnjoyed greater freedom from the corrupting influences of cities, governments, and organized religion. He loved peace and order above all else, and was vitally interested in the humanitarian movements of the day which would abolish slavery, financial greed, rebellion of the poor, mobs against their masters, and war. A friend truly said of him that he was a "philanthropist, a man of serene temperament and pure benevolence. The milk of human kindness circulates in every vein." One of our most staunch early environmentalists, he wrote his lyrical praises of Amcrica because here alone he saw working the ideal environment, which in turn produced his ideal American. As he wrote in Ins Letters: Men are like plants; the goodness and flavour of the fruit proceeds from the peculiar soil and exposition in which they grow. We are nothing but what we derive from the air we breathe, the climate we inhabit, the government we obey, the system of religion we profess, and the mode of our employment (Text, page 131). We suspect Crevecoeur of being something of a literary poseur when we learn of his intention early in the progress of the uncomfortable Revolutionary War to escape with his famrly to the unspoiled, primitive West to live in a tepee in splendid simplicity next to nature, but ending up instcad by leaving his family (for what reasons we cannot know with certainty) for the luxurious, aristocratic salons of Paris. We must agrec that this sentiment is excessive when he weeps at the destruction of a beaver dam, even more so when he envisions the beavers weeping, too, but we must also recall that it was not such moping which has earned him a permanent place in American literature. Acknowledging Crevecoeur's faults, Ict us turn to his more successful use of emotion as phrased in his third letter from his book Letters From an American Farmer. It is in his informal essay, "What is an American?" that we find stated the two great concepts which Crevecoeur gave to our tradition: the relation of the frontier to our Nation's growth and welfare, and America as the great melting-pot out of which a new type of man emerges. "What Is an American?" John Smith was rhapsodic in his praises of the New World lushness and productivity, but he was rashly premature. Benjamin Franklin envisioned a future America grown' great upon her agriculture, but he farmed for a few years only, and then was a scientist. His Autobiography is written as a product of the city; it tells only of urban challenge and success. Therefore, Crevecoeur becomes indispensable, and it was his hymn to agriculture which first gave enduring body to one of the central and most enduring American beliefs. He warns in gratitude against two dangers the independent farmer has escaped: the tyrannies of European government and the dangerous chaos of the trapping, hunting frontier, lying as far removed from law and order as from the benevolent influence of the ordered, peaceful farmer's life. Writing of a people and a time when nine out of ten workers were engaged in agriculture, his "What is an American?" is the word equivalent to Edward Hicks' famous series of paintings depicting agricultural tranquillity entitled "The Peaceable Kingdom." His praises of America's virtues are not modest, but his words are moving. Those who read them in America were proud; those who read them abroad often were moved either to jealousy or action, for very nearly he describes a mortal millennium, as the following random excerpts show: What a train of pleasing ideas this fair spectacle must suggest; it is a prospect 772 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1959 LESSON DEPARTMENT which must inspire a good citizen with the most heartfelt pleasure.... The rich and the poor are not so far removed from each other as they are in Europe. Some few towns are excepted, we are all tillers of the earth.... We are all animated with the spirit of an industry which is unfettered and unrestrained, because each person works for himself. A pleasing uniformity of decent competence appears throughout our habitations.. There, on a Sunday, he sees a congregation of respectable farmers and their wives, all clad in neat homespun, well mounted, or riding in their own humble wagons. We have no princes, for whom we toil, starve, and bleed: we are the most perfect socicty now existing in the world. Here man is free as he ought to be... (Text, page 129). Defining this as "every person's country' where "there is room enough for ev erybody," he answers his question, "What is an Ametican?" He is an American, who, leaving behind him all his ancient prejudices and manners, reccives new ones from the new mode of life he has embraced, the new government he obeys, and the new rank he holds. He becomes an American by being reccived in the broad lap of our great Alma Mater. Here individuals of all nations are melted into a new race of men, whose labours and posterity will one day cause great changes in the world.... The American is a new man, who acts upon new principles; he must therefore entertain new ideas, and form new opinions. From involuntary idleness, servile dependence, penury, and useless labour, he has passed to toils of a very different nature, rewarded by ample subsistence—This is an American (Text, Pp. 130-131). Noting that the "rich stay in Europe," he recognizes the limits of the poor and middling European when first he arrives.. But he very suddenly alters his scale; two hundred miles formerly appeared a very great distance, it is now but a trifle; he no sooner breathes our air than he forms schemes, and embarks in the designs 773 he never would have thought of in his own country (Text, page 133). Succeeding in his endeavors he feels pride in his success, and:. Becomes as it were a member of the family. He begins to feel the effect of a sort of resurrection; hitherto he had not lived, but simply vegetated; he now feels himself a man, because he is treated as such; the laws of his own country had overlooked him in his insignificancy; the laws of this cover him with their mantle his heart involuntarily swells and glows; this first swell inspires him with those new thoughts which constitute an American (Text, page 133). Crevecoeur was a successful man of feeling. He felt deeply—sometimes rashly, but often truly, at least truly enough to move the hearts of those who have found in his words their own glow of pride and well-being as they attempt to express how they feel toward America. It was he who first saw how our American environment melts all people into one; it was his prose which first expressed the concept Emma Lazarus incorporated into her poem which is now emblazoned on the base of the Statue of Liberty: Give me your tired, your poor, Your huddled masses yearning to breathe free, The wretched refuse of your teeming shore. Send these, the homeless, tempest-tossed, to me: I lift my lamp beside the golden door. Thoughts for Discussion 1. From Byrd's style of writing, how might one surmise that he had spent his most impressionable years in London? 2. Did he describe the inhabitants of the North Carolina "Lubberland" to belittle them? 3. Why is it important to remember that Crevecoeur was a farmer? 4. What did Crevecoeur find peculiarly new about an American? For HOSE YOu lQVE JHEMOST +. Ee Pn ee 3: Fie filled, with spirteual vila. The G ff bring lasting enjoyment over the » Years... $Tglere, offered for the firse time, is a choice collection of all the best-loved Christmas",, paintings of the celebrated.";: ff American artist Arnold Friberg. Hlere, with hand-lettered Biblical texts, finely printed in rich duotone and handsomely hard-cover bound, is all the rich, warm Truth.. The great, ringing, * beauty of the Christmas spiric «such as no artist before has *,, so masterfully expressed. | -Wlere is the perfect gift'. For those especially dear to ' you, who appreciate the fine and the deeply spiritual. Fe ee. +. A. Oe Ege, =. 2... To bring an extra portion of Chrisunas warmth into the lives of those very "* special oe here ie very special gift for... Mother and Dad, your Serviceman or missionary, the convalescent, the student or teacher. Ydeal woo, as [mPORTANT.) /n order to bé reasonably assured of receiving your book(s) in time for your Christmas giving, mail your order in 5 A Dec.]. We cannot assure pre-Christmas delivery of Bs, 5 fs nly yi ° ye ee? Aoa Vane BEJHIEHEM PRESS, DEPTR, 5867 TOLCATE LANE, Saty LAKE Ci 17 @3250 per copy, postpaid. Enclosed find!_______ No CODs please Nie City Zone. State. Special Chrisemas remembrance ¢ for employees and associates. * ' Jo make sure your copy) of this first edition is reservecl for ou canty, fill out and mail the Coupon Clon. NOW! Allow about three week for delivery. Received from outside the continental United States. Please send me 7 'v $ 5950 copies of Arnold Fribergs litle Christmas Book Social Sctence—Spiritual Living in the Nuclear Age Lesson 4—The Individual and Religious Maturity — Part | Elder Blaine M. Porter For Tuesday, February 23, 1960 Objective: To consider some criteria of religious maturity and the role of religious maturity in spiritual living. ~ HE task of carefully and objectively analyzing the criteria and role of religious maturity will probably be our greatest challenge in this course of study. As was pointed out in a previous lesson, an individual grows and develops in many different ways from infancy through adulthood. We grow and mature physically, intellectually, socially, emotionally, and religiously. Most of us achieve our full physical stature and maturity with little or no difficulty, thanks to sufficient food supplies and adequate medical serviccs. 'The general availability of educational facilities and the great variety of communication media in the world of today stimulate the intellectual maturing processes for almost all of us. Perhaps because less attention has been given to the processes whereby social and emotional maturity are achieved, more of us fail to experience the potentialities which are within us in these areas than is true in our physical and intcllectual development. In spite of the universality of religious philosophies, it is the opinion of many students of human behavior that more of us are retarded in our growth toward religious maturity than in any of the above mentioned areas, Perhaps this can be explained by recognizing that as we emerge from childhood we give up the self-centeredness of thought and feelings only under pressure. Ordinarily, environmental pressure does not require a maturity of religious outlook as forcefully as it does other forms of maturity, because an individual's religion is usually regarded by others as his own business. It is easy for us to remain self-centered and wishfulfilling. Hence, in probably no other area of our maturing processes do we find so many residues of childhood as in the religious attitude of adults. Religious Maturity—An Invitation to Inner Growth The true gospel of Jesus Christ is not a religion consisting of essentially juvenile formulations, but rather a religion which encourages the individual to develop all the characteristically human powers within him. When Jesus of Nazareth said, "Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect" (Mt. 5:48), he was extending an invitation to maturity. The world of his time could not understand his mature insight. The insight, in fact, so flatly contradicted the contemporary Page 775 776 CHORAL MUSIC for RELIEF SOCIETY CHORUSES ( ) Come Ye Blessed of My Father—Madsen.20 ( ) Go Ye Forth With My Word—Madsen...25 ( ) Incline Your Ear— Wilkes 02.2. 20 ( ) Lord, Hear Our Prayer—Verdi.........20 ( ) Lord's Prayer— GateS -ooeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee 20 ( ) Music—Marsden.....20 ( ) My Redeemer Lives —Gates ooo. 20 ( ) O Lovely Land, America—Madsen...20 ( ) Open Our Eyes— Macfarlane.............. 20 ( ) Send Forth Thy Spirit—Schuetky.......20 Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank | DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY I | 15 E. Ist South ' | Salt Lake City 11, Utah Piease send the music indicated above. |! (1 On Approval (0 Charge ' CO Money Enclosed | 1 \ \! | A, r Z Q 2 o un 7) ity & State ALTULILALILLULLL) 15 E. Ist South 145 NORTH UNIVERSITY, PROVO e! Salt Lake City 11, Utah RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1959 conception of power, authority, and privileges of the ruling class, that those who were bred in those conceptions angrily crucified him. In his Sermon on the Mount and many other teachings, he tried to get the people to see that their way of life was no true path to happiness, but, rather, the "abundant life" consisted of a repudiation of their pattern: "Blessed are the meek.... Blessed are the merciful.... Blessed are the pure in heart.... Blessed are the peacemakers..." (Mt. 5:5, 7-9). "It is more blessed to give than to receive..." (Acts 20:35). "Therefore all things whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them..." (Mt. 7:12). Some Basic Assumptions Religious maturity is built not only upon beliefs (faith) but also upon behavior (work). It is directly related to, if not dependent upon, the parallel development of emotional maturity. Certainly, such characteristics or attributes as acceptance of self and others; adaptability and flexibility; orientation to environment; an integrated — philosophy of life; acceptance of responsibilities and knowledge must be present in order for the religious maturing process to occur. (See Lesson 2.) Accepting this premise, then, we can proceed in our efforts of growing towards emotional maturity and religious maturity together. Perhaps it might be well, also, to state that our consideration of religious maturity will be based upon the assumption that religion has. The potentialities for accomplishing the greatest good in the lives of individuals and for mankind in gen- LESSON DEPARTMENT eral. 'This assumption is stated as a protective measure against those who might cite that religion has been responsible for such tragedies and inhumanities of man to man as war, inquisitions, persecutions, burning of witches at the stake, bigotry, and prejudice. The fact that some human beings cloak their activities of unrighteousness and inhumanity under the guise of religion does not reflect upon religion itself. As we proceed now in an attempt to establish some criteria of religious maturity, let us recognize that this maturity cannot be gauged by a predetermined standard of belief or practice with which we are personally pleased or to which we personally subscribe. To say that a person is not mature because he does not have the same religious views as do we, and to impose our views as a test of maturity would be impertinent. This point is illustrated in the following statement by President McKay, "We believe the scriptures to be true, but it is the responsibility of every Latter-day Saint to interpret them for himself." Let us now consider some criteria of religious maturity. Criteria of Religious Maturity 1. Knowledge and awareness of "the abundant life." The religiously mature person must assume responsibility for gaining all the knowledge he possibly can regarding the context of "the abundant life" as taught and exemplified by the Savior, and the direction in which he must move in order to achieve it. He sees it as a growing process and recognizes that progression in the direction of achieving 'the abundant life" comes through diligent study, 777 reflective thinking, and communion with the Creator. Some symptoms of religious immaturity in this respect are represented by those who try to take over an ancestral religion much as they take over the family jewels. These individuals are those who believe that by some process of inheritance from their parents or magical accomplishment of God they will automatically know and understand the content and process of "the abundant life." 'They are ones who uncritically accept the teachings of their parents with the attitude that "what is good enough for my father is good enough for me." Such individuals may be conspicuous in memorizing passages of scripture and cliches, but they often fail to internalize or make religious beliefs a part of themselves. The term "'internalize" is used here to mean making a part of one's self. To illustrate: A teen-ager may have been told, during his early years of childhood and adolescence, by parents, teachers, bishops, and General Authorities, that sexual morality is an important part of the gospel of Christ. He may have learned his lessons well enough that he is able to repeat these teachings in Sunday School classes, in two-and-one-half minute talks, and in private conversations. But this is not proof that he has made this particular teaching a part of his life or that he will conduct his behavior by this standard. Unless he has thoroughly examined it within his own thinking, he has not necessarily made it a part of his code of living. When someone is enticed to follow a course of action contrary to the teachings of the Church, the words may come to his mind that he should not do this because his parents said he shouldn't or his bishop said he shouldn't, etc. But there may come an occasion in his life when this will not be sufficient to guard against the temptations which may be set before him. A person in such circumstances may finally say, "I don't care if my teacher did say this, I want to do otherwise." On the other hand, if a person has carefully, objectively, and prayerfully analyzed this concept or teaching and _ has arrived at the conclusion that he is going to follow the course of action stated by the teachings of the Church—not just because his parents, teachers, bishops, or General Authorities have said to, but because this is the kind of person he wants to be, he can then say "no" to an invitation more easily and more convincingly because he then is doing what he wants to do, not what someone else wants him to do. When he has arrived at this stage of thinking, he has "internalized" or made a part of himself this particular belief. To be more explicit. Certainly it is appropriate, and perhaps the only way during the early years, when children are growing and developing, that we must teach them and expect them to conduct their behavior in a line with our teaching, because we have said so. But as a person moves toward adulthood, he must move beyond conforming to other people's standards, if he is going to move toward religious maturity. This same principle applics to many other teachings of Mormonism which could just as casily have been used to illustrate this point, such as honesty, Word of Wisdom, tithing, etc. There is nothing in the teachings of Christ which even hints that "the abundant life" is accomplished through indulgence or ease of living. Rather his teachings in _ all respects are a challenge to every individual and he made it clear that each person is responsible for his own acts and for achieving his own salvation. Christ set an example for us. He taught us the principles of Christian living. He died in order that our sins might be forgiven and new opportunities provided for us. He made it clear that he was opening the door to us for these opportunities, but that it is our responsibility to achieve them. Man in his spiritual life is a seeker of the best, a seeker of values. In contrast to this, we see man in his intellectual life being a seeker of facts. Both are desirable. 2. Spiritual freedom. President McKay described the intellectual and spiritual hills which he believes will lead to happiness. The first hill that we ascend I shall name Soul Freedom. There cannot be happiness without free agency. If the soul feels circumscribed, harassed, or enslaved by something or somebody, there cannot be true progress. That is why some of the nations today are wrong, and some day in the future will have to change their policy. God intends men to be free. With that decision we turn around on the hill Soul Freedom and see an extended view. Within us is a sense of strength and confidence. There is hope; there is exhilaration. We are independent and we can make the best of our lives (McKay, David O.: Pathways to Happiness, pp. Xii-niii). If the individual is to be encouraged or even permitted to experience the potentialities within him for spiritual living and religious maturity, he must have an environment in which he can exercise his freedom of the soul. A social environment which seeks to enforce conformity of thinking and which ls highly critical of spiritual exploration would appear to discourage the freedoms which God intended man to have. Religion does ill if it clings to old interpretations of human life simply because it has built these into revered institutions and practices. Where a being as complex and inadequately known as our own nature is being dealt with, there is need for a constant alertness to new discoverics and implications. For this is precisely what man appears to be: A mind on the way to knowing more than it has known before. Today, we discover more in ourselves than was hitherto even suspected (Overstreet, Harry A.: The Mature Mind, page 265. W. W. Norton & Company 778 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1959 Announcing 'the NEW_instryctional materials. Packet for <o Ye. Ai peat eae. EET OE fe Nath Se o's g® \S ' Pees. & ~ SE ETS a Shae. A "3 SS PPP 3 ches 2 Rhyne py Social Science Lessons ' ' y asd % Sniect< a iio PTO? LY ye tyb iw ow. ARI tan, aaa be ah trang Especially made to accompany the 1959-60 lessons | Spiritual Living in the NUCLEAR AGE Kit includes seven 117x114' pictures in full color: The Nuclear Age; Modern Advancement through Science; Balancing the Scales; The powerful influence of the Home; The Pathway to Spirituality; The Gospel in Action; and Pathway to Peace. These pictures have a general application for all Social Science lessons, and may be used many times. Kit contains instructions for use. Price: $3.50 postpaid anywhere from Audio-Visual Center, Brigham Young University, Provo, Utah 780 Mason & Hamlin The Stradivari of Pionos EVERETT PIANOS Finest Toned Spinet Piano Built THE WORLD'S FINEST Cable-Nelson Finest Low Priced Piano Built We specialize in all music for Relief Society Beesley Music Co. Pioneer Piano People 70 S. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH ZIMS CRAFTS — HOBBIES Established 1932 ALL the NEWEST and BEST at LOWEST PRICES Send for our Free Catalog Full of the NEWEST IDEAS For BAZAARS Christmas Giving Decorative Materials Plus—All the Old Standards Zims Hobbies 240 East 2nd South Salt Lake City 11, Utah RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1959 Inc., New York, N. Y., publishers. Used by permission). Growth toward wholeness, The "spiritual life" is a balanced life in which one does not overdo some phases of living to the serious neglect of others. The religiously mature person develops the ability to see things in perspective so that he does not find himself 'caught in the web" of minor details, statistics, rules, rituals, etc., with the result that basic principles are forgotten or omitted. In colloquial terms, he does not lose sight of the forest for the trees. Religious maturity includes a total outreach and all-inclusiveness and the religious philosophy of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints certainly represents outreach and inclusiveness. 'This can be illustrated by such organizations within the structure of the Church as the Rslief Society, YWMIA, YMMIA, Sunday School, and Primary, which, through their very unique programs, contribute to the intellectual, spiritual, and social welfare of their members. The Church Welfare Program serves specific needs and is an "outreach" to provide services and opportunity to give, as well as to provide security for those in need. 'The more recent inauguration of the "Be Ilonest With Yourself" posters which have been displayed in Church buildings and Church schools throughout the world represent outreach and _allinclusiveness. Life, for the religiously mature person, then, consists of growth toward wholeness. Perhaps this is what Paul had in mind when he said: LESSON DEPARTMENT When I was a child, I spake as a child, I understood as a child, I thought as a child: but when I became a man, I put away childish things (I Corinthians 13:11). If all life is to be related to a common source, then we must work toward integrating our understanding of it; we must recognize the need of orienting our religious faith and background to the expanding world in which we live. 'As we seek to explain the relationship between our experience and God, we must find in life an integrated and _harmonious pattern. As part of achieving religious maturity, then, one is able to integrate modern scientific thoughts and discoveries with his religious concepts. We do not wish to imply that the religiously mature person can fully integrate and explain all aspects of life. 'There are bound to be many areas in which he will lack understanding, but the religiously mature person has thought about these difficulties and problems; he has not turned away from them or admitted easy solutions that are not consistent with the facts he knows. He is striving toward wholeness. He is developing a comprehensive philosophy of life which provides coherence to the world about him and enables him to make his life harmonious with it. Thoughts for Discussion 1. What kinds of experiences promote the development of religious maturity? 2. What kinds of experiences hinder the development of religious maturity? 3. What are some illustrations of religious maturity in the teachings of Jesus? 4. Consider how the teachings of the Latter-day Saint Church contribute to the development of religious maturity. 781 5. In what ways do immature religious practices and beliefs perpetuate themselves? Supplementary References McKay, David O.: "Spirituality, The Goal in Life,' The Improvement Era, December 1956, pp. 914-915. McKay, David O.: "To Know God," The Improvement Era, June 1957, page 52. McKay, David O.: "The Eternal Virtues," The Improvement Era, February 1957, PP- 77-78: Jif Hl. Ope Iris W. Schow Hope is the songster in the heart, The tugging breeze that fills the sail, The smile upon the future's face, The sense that nght will yet prevail. A 1 ED 1 RD () ED (D(C) <- ( ( 0m ED Oe HAWAII TOUR Latter-day Saint group going to Hawaii in November 1959. On all Hawaii tours avoid disappointment and make reservations early, at least one month prior to departure. ROSE BOWL PARADE We have a Rose Bowl Parade Tour leaving in December. Inquire early and make early reservations. EUROPE 1960 Reservations made anywhere in the world, chartered tours or individual. MARGARET LUND TOURS 4708 Holladay Blvd. Salt Lake City, Utah Phone: CR 7-6851 SD () SD () SD (ED ( ) ND (> ER (> RD () ED ( ) <D ( ) <() <ED-( ) <D-( ) < () <D () --( - > ¢ ) SD (> <> ( ) <> (> <> ( <C> () GRD ( ) QUEEN (<Q ( ) GER ( ) QUEEN ( ) QUEEN (> QUEEN ( ) QUEEN ( > <Q ( ) <Q ( ) <Q (> <Q ( ) <Q ( ) <Q () CD SD > <D- ¢ ) ND ¢ ) <D- ( ) RD ¢ )-<ND ¢ > <END¢ > <D ( )-< ( ) <D () -D-( 10 \? * GET FULL HOUSEPOWER UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. © BEAUTIFUL e HANDY e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover—$2.50; Leather Cover—$3.80 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Distance fram Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles 0....35 150 to 300 miles 00. 39 300 ta 600 miles 00. 4S 600 to 1000 miles ou... 54 1000 to 1400 miles _...00. -64 1400 to 1800 miles —.. 76 Over 1800 miles.87 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-2581 33 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah Page 782 GIFIS GIFTS GIFTS Make Pembroke's Your Christmas Headquarters! Mail Orders are promptly handled 24 East Broadway SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH and Sugar House Saee Gifts Alice Whitson Norton While walking through a meadow, This strange thought came to me: Of all the blessings that were mine, And absolutely free— A sky of constant changes, Twilight at close of day, The twinkling stars in heaven, The moon and milky way; Raindrops as sweet as music, A red bird in a tree; A garden filled with roses, A humming honeybee— Each one a shining object Of nature's matchless art, To keep me reaching upward With reverence in my heart. The Little Musician Evelyn Fjeldsted Music in the wind accompanied her On inspiration's silent way; And flowers in the shadows waking, With rhythm seemed to bend and sway. Her thoughts were like the drifting leaves, Light and winged and free from earthly gain;. Melodies from far would call to her To improvise in nature's reign. Her fingertips were swift and sure To prove a mood or talent rare, And we who listened followed her, Above the commonplace to visions there. And now her music in another sphere Is heard, and we have only echoes here. ARE YOU AN UNPUBLISHED AUTHOR? IF YOU HAVE A BOOK LENGTH MANUSCRIPT you would like to have published, our editorial staff will be glad to consider it | on a co-operative basis. OUR PROGRAM_ HAS LAUNCHED MANY NEW WRITERS. Submit your work for free editorial evaluation and further information. We consider all types of material: Fiction, Poetry, Juveniles, Religious Books, Educational, and Scholarly Work. GREENWICH BOOK PUBLISHERS, INC. Attention: Mr. Wright 489 Fifth Avenue New York City, New York HAWAIIAN TOUR Leaving Nov. 5th and 12th Prices start at $485.58—fly both ways, round trip from Salt Lake City. Visit Oahu, Kauai and Hawaii (Less $66.33 if tour is met in Oakland) TOURNAMENT OF ROSES PARADE CHRISTMAS HOLIDAY TOUR 8 days including San Diego and Tijuana, Mexico MEXICAN TOUR February 1960 and June 1960 also student tour in June 1960 Visit Book of Mormon places. For itinerary write or phone ESTHER JAMES TOURS 460 7th Avenue Phone: EM 3-5229 Salt Lake City 3, Utah EL 5-0268 Beginning and advanced classes start soon. Type your letters, minutes, reports, genealogy sheets, etc. LDS BUSINESS COLLEGE 70 North Main — EM 3-2765 Salt Lake City, Utah Page 783 VIDA FOX CLAWSON TRAVEL SERVICE Recognized For Experience, Integrity, Service and the best in travel since 1933. HAWAII Be there for the big Historical Statehood Day Celebration which begins Thanksgiving Day, November 26, 1959. Travel one way on the Lurline and one way Pan American Air Lines. We have another tour to Hawaii which will leave on January 13, 1960. HOLIDAY TOUR Our Holiday Tour will include the Tournament of Roses Parade in Pasadena, California, as well as other outstanding features. Priced at just $69.90. EUROPE Before you buy your European Tour ask for one of our European Programs. You really will get the most for your money. Grand Tour leaves June 10, 1960. Economy Tours leave at different dates. VIDA FOX CLAWSON 216 South 13th East Phone: DA 8-0303 Salt Lake City 2, Utah AQ Shades of Plastic Foam FOAM Ye"x39" wide...........--. 10 yards $8.00 FOAM V4" to 3" thick for making slippers, mattress toppers, ironing pads, cushions. Dan River Ginghams,........ Reg. $1.19 yd. 79c Dacron Bats 72x90 ou esectecesesecteeeeeees$2.49 Dolls, undressed, 47-87-11) ooo eeseeeeeeee 29¢ up Undecorated Powder, Kleenex, Jewel boxes. Tote Bags, all sizes and colors. Candles in glass—Colored Beeswax. Sequins—glitter—glue—beads—shells—leaves Stamens—Chenille—Styrofoam sheets, balls, eggs. Handicraft, Hobby Supplies—Toys—Gifts. Orders shipped day received. Stake Relief Societies, or Civic groups in the Western States wishing to be included in Mrs. Tingey's Handicraft Demonstrations, write immediately for date reservations and details. TINGEY'S COUNTRY STORE "Handicraft Center of The West'' 3456 North State Highway 91 Lehi, Utah Phone PO 8-2852 Page 784 Birthday Congratulations Ninety-six Mrs. Mary O. Uive HEAP Magrath, Canada Ninety-five Mrs. Avice VERNON MAYNARD Anderson, Indiana Ninety-four Mrs. ALMIRA JACK Sanford, Colorado Ninety-two Mrs. Harriet Paris SWEETING CLAWSON Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Evronora FLamMmM JACOBS Falls Church, Virginia Mrs. FvizaBeTH THomas SHAW Los Angeles, California Ninety Mrs. Marie Butt Scumipt West Jordan, Utah Mrs. Sopure Buti DiITTMER Ferron, Utah (Twin of Mrs. Schmidt) Mrs. Lucy Erziis GranamM GREEN Union, Utah Mrs. Ontve D. ANDERSON Nephi, Utah Mrs. Mary R. Murenuy Norris Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. CarouinE HEATH Melba, Idaho Mrs. ALFREDA COVEY Salt Lake City, Utah FAMILy NIGHT FUN Shirley and M any games, hobbies Suits that are instruct; as really "fyy" are recom in this smal] treasure-ch Ame that wil] hel ily ties and build attitudes,! SAW ANOTHER ANGEL FLY Carter E, Grant om colorfy] history of the That's what little girls are made of. And that's what Thanksgiving feasts are made of. Stuffed turkey, cranberries and candied yams, not to mention pumpkin pies topped with whipped cream and cookies, cakes and candy, all help make Thanksgiving the happy holiday it is. Almost everything on our Thanksgiving table needs "sugar 'n spice" to make it nice. For your fancy Thanksgiving recipes and throughout the year, use U and I Sugar. It's as fine, as white, as pure a sugar as money can buy. 46 NO. 12 DECEMBER 1959 a O > Dividers of the Stars Vesta P. Crawford ",.. When Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea in the days of Herod the king, behold there came wise men from the east...." From out the orient hills in haste they come To seek a nameless Prince whose star shall rise From out the shadowed kingdoms of the earth To shine forever in the eastern skies. The Magi move by ancient prophecy Against the columns of a lesser law, And know of chariots in the aisles of time More brief than those the Medes and Persians saw. (Swift their shadows pass, Swift as a blade on seeded grass....) Perhaps where sceptered Nineveh is dust, The thrones departed and the temples gone, They cross the channeled rivers of the plain And mark the walls of shattered Babylon. (Oh, hurried travelers on the path of stone, Seek the tall gate, seek the hill town.) Dividers of the stars and keepers of the spheres, Moving through shadows in a cone of light, They come unto the high Judean hills With haste, across s the broken fields of night.. X OX * * (Oh, men of earth, Listen to the words again — As wise men heard them long ago, "Good will — good will to men.") The Cover: Madonna and Child, from a painting by Fra Filippo Lippi National Gallery of Art, Washington, D. C. (Samuel H. Kress Collection ) Frontispiece: Worship of the Wise Men, from a painting by Hoffman Copyright 1924 by Eugene A. Perry Cover Design by Evan Jensen Cover Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press From Tear and Sar Mrs. Belle S. Spafford and Counselors Dear Sisters: While attending the Bakersfield Stake conference recently, the following incident came to my attention. Knowing it will be of interest and a source of satisfaction to you, I pass it on with congratulations. Over a period of time one of your subscribers failed to receive The Relief Society Magazine. This was the fault of the United States Post Office. It was being delivered to the home of a neighbor of the same name. The mistake was finally discovered, and the neighbors became acquainted. The person who teceived the Magazine had become greatly interested in it, had contacted the missionaries, and has been converted and baptized into the Church. 'The above is just another evidence of the value of your Magazine and the general excellence of your work. Again my congratulations, my love and blessings. —Elder Hugh B. Brown of the Council of the Twelve Salt Lake City, Utah The Magazine has been so very helpful to me as education counselor, not only with the wonderful lesson outlines, but with the appropriate poetry that appears. We use poems to close our literature lessons, and usually find one in the current Magazine that tics right in with the lesson: '""The American Dream" lesson was followed by the poem on page 478, July 1958; Lesson 3 on Roger Williams was followed by the poem of page 640, September 1958; the lesson on the Puritan women was followed by the poem "Baking Day" on page 672, October 1958, and so forth. —June Eggleston Inglewood, California I would like to tell you 1 thoroughly enjoy The Relief Society Magazine. Issues of this Magazine, presented to me as a gift, were responsible for my first interest in the Church. I am very grateful and appreciative of the wonderful blessing I found through The Relief Society MagaZ1ne. —Helen Hurr Covina, California Page 786 I must tell you how I enjoy the beauty of the covers of our Magazine. I especially love the farm scenes on the September and October covers. Having been reared on a large farm, such pictures return many precious expericnces. The poems "Yet Beauty Comes'? By Iris W. Schow, and "These Cool Acres' (frontispiece) by Dorothy J. Roberts in the October issue truly feed my soul, and I enjoyed "A'' Is. For Apron by Nene H. Kingsbuity — pioneer strength and beauty we need to have recalled. The editorials are always very fine indeed. ''A Standard for Government" (by Vesta P. Crawford, in September) is beautifully and powerfully given, and the lovely editorial "Establishing Family Patterns' (by Marianne C. Sharp, in October) is so much necded. When I read "Making Christmas Ornaments Can Be Fun" (by Hannah Nowell, in October), I almost yearned to have my family small again and enjoy making the ornaments with my children. —Mabel Law Atkinson Dayton, Idaho I think the Magazine's new dress is beautiful. Queer how a touch of color can add so much in appeal and uplift. Only trouble is I would like to frame each cover, and my house would not stand for that. No story in the Magazine has appealed to me so much as "A" Is for Apron (August, September, and October 1959). I think Mrs. Kingsbury has done a very commendable work in using an old form in a completely new way. The story tells so many things, the time period, living patterns, emotions, devotion, and memories. I would like her to know I enjoyed every word of it. It is a story that goes below the surface. —Dorothy C. Robinson Boise, Idaho I cannot withhold my desire another month to tell you how beautiful the cover pages have been this year. They are inspiring to look at and stimulating. The Relief Society Magazine is a wonderful medium by which the talents of the womcn of the Church can be expressed. —Lucile O. Petty Ogden, Utah THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - - First Counselor Louise W. Madsen - - - - - = = = = Second Counselor Hulda Parker - - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Josie B. Bay Elna P. Haymond Elsa T. Peterson Edith S. Eliott Christine H. Robinson Annie M. Ellsworth Irene B. Woodford Florence J. Madsen Alberta H. Christensen Mary R. Young Fanny S. Kienitz Leone G. Layton Mildred B. Eyring Mary V. Cameron Elizabeth B. Winters Blanche B. Stodderd Charlotte A. Larsen Afton W. Hunt LaRue H. Rosell Evon W. Peterson Edith P. Backman Wealtha S. Mendenhall Jennie R. Scott Aleine M. Young Winniefred S. Pearle M. Olsen Manwaring RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor 2 - - - - a - - - - - = Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford VOL. 46 DECEMBER 1959 NO. 12 Co ntents SPECIAL FEATURES Every Family a Missionary Family 2.......... CecccsscescscestecceesssssesecsenesessssesesceseneceeseseecceseaeeesHenry D. Moyle 788 Howard William Hunter of the Council of the Twelve. Annual General Relief Society Conference 22.2... Eee cccecccececccceeeeseeeneneceeecae.... Hulda Parker 802 Relief Society Magazine Awarded Cover Citation 805 The Literature of Christmas -Mabel Harmer 806 Mcke This Caller Welcome... National Tuberculosis ASSOCiCtON o.. Cecscsesessseeescsseecececenseneseesecs 816 FICTION The New Day — Chapter 3 Hazel K. Todd 830 From Near and Far Sixty Years Ago Woman's Sphere ou... Editorial: The Supreme Gift.. Ramona W. Cannon 811 Marianne C. Sharp 812 The 129th Semi-Annual Church Conference 20.0..... CcecceecceceeneeeseeeeeeeeeVesta P. Crawford 813 Notes to the Field: Emergency Orders for Temple-Burial Clothing. 815 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities Hulda Parker 835 Birthday Congratulations. Cceeccccccseesecssceeecceeeeeeees 863 FEATURES FOR THE HOME Flower Arrangement — New Fashioned — Old Fashioned ooo... EececseescceeeneeesceeesSylvia Pezoldt 815 Apricot Salad..; ee Edna Lind Cole 822 Say ''Merry Christmas'' With Fancy Yeast Rolls;.. Ruby K. Smith 823 Elva M. Tingey Makes Beautiful and Useful Articles With Plastic Foam oi.. Iteeecctecesceeeececeeeeee 829 JETP SXCNIG KC) acceso eR EE eeJoan Staley 829 When Mothers Sing wieeeccecccccecessseceecccesessseeserssecesseseeeceeceneces Leona F. Smith 834 LESSONS FOR MARCH Theology — And the Kingdom Grew ooiceecicsceccsessscssesssssteeseeseseeseccessecsssssessessesansceneseeseneasesRoy W. Doxey 839 Visiting Teacher Messages — ''And The Book of Mormon and the Holy Scriptures Are Given of Me for Your Instruction".....000000... Christine H. Robinson 845 Work Meeting — Safety Precautions in Medicine and Household Items Charlotte A. Larsen 846 Literature — Thomas Paine, Revolutionist. Briant S. Jacobs 848 Social Science — The Individual and Beauty — Part TT wuBlaine M. Porter 855 Dividers of the Stars — Frontispiece oo... CceeecesssceccecessecsssssencesceceeessessececscessecsseseesVesta P. Crawford 785 To Hold Us Fast: Clara Steen Chesnutt 798 No Christmas Here? Maude Rubin 798 These Cliffs Hold Melody poco EEEElsie McKinnon Strachan 801 Handel's ''Messiah"'.... Hazel Loomis 809 Home Impressions _; Hannah C. Ashby 816 Night Sky Before Snowiall Eva Willes Wangsgaard 822 We Walk With Angels ris W. Schow 838 A_Story_Never Old.. Maude ©. Cook 860 Winter Bride - Ree nana d. Seen r teat ttasscseccesseesaneecece fobs csnceeneetVesta N. Lukei 862 SOD care cece EEE - Gwen Marler Barney 862 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Copyright 1959 by General Board of Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Editorial and Business Offices: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah: Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy; payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No baci numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. The Miracle Mile ooo. Ccceceteccccccecccesecssceseseeeeccssecesseeceecceeencesseeeesceseesceneeceseeeeeee Oh, Traveler! Occccceeececccsssceesessseceescececeuseceetaeseusscsestanseeeescessesseceeneees Leola Seely Anderson 817 Leslie Savage Clark 834 Every Family a Missionary Family President Henry D. Moyle Of the First Presidency (Address Delivered at the General Session of the Annual General Relief Society Conference, October 7, 1959) 'M sure, my brethren and sisters, especially my sisters today, that I was never more grateful than I am today, for the realization that I have that I continue to live under and to enjoy the inspiration of my mother. When we add to that the inspiration of a good wife, we are most fortunate of all men, I am sure. I have been conscious, as I have sat here this afternoon, that you sisters represent the mothers of the Church. They, in turn, influence the homes of the Church in which there are 1,600,000 members of the Church. The scope and sphere of your influence are continually growing and increasing, not only so far as numbers are concerned, but, I am sure, that your influence is being felt progressively to a greater and greater degree. This must be the case because of the increase, influence, and efficiency of the work of these fine sisters — you all — all the Relief Society workers of the Church. So it is little wonder that when the sisters of the Relief Society, Sister Spafford, Sister Sharp, and Sister Madsen, call upon any of the Priesthood to perform any service, we feel it necessary and essential to put aside all else to render that service. Now these few thoughts make me even humbler than I was when I came in here today to speak to you, and I pray with the other speakers that what I have to say will be helpful and beneficial to us in the accomplishment of the great Page 788 work of the Relief Society of the Church. I start out with a statement found in this month's Era written by our beloved President David O. McKay: © "Whate'er thou art, act well thy part." 'These words impressed a lonely, homesick missionary some fifty-nine years ago and _ inspired him to do his duty. Had he not been reared in a home where the gospel was lived and taught daily, he might not have recognized that he was not doing his duty at the beginning of his first mission. President McKay tells us this story of this experience when he was on his mission in Scotland: His companion was Peter G. Johnston. 'They were discouraged. 'They had been snubbed in tracting. They were homesick. They were walking around this ancient castle, and, in the words of President McKay, they were not doing their duty. That is hard to imagine isn't it? "As we re-entered the town I saw a building half-finished," President McKay writes, "and from the sidewalk to my surprise I saw an inscription carved in stone on the lintel of the front door. I said to Brother Johnston, 'I want to go over there and see what that inscription is." He hadn't gone more than halfway until he read these words carved in stone: "Whate'er thou art, act well thy part" (David O. McKay, The Improvement Era, October 1959, page 727).. Today our part is to envision the EVERY FAMILY A MISSIONARY FAMILY future role of the Relief Society, to be better able to prepare our sisters for the work of the present. With such a wish in my heart, I might in humility say as Alma said anciently: O that I were an angel, and could have the wish of 'mine heart, that I might go forth and speak with the trump of God, with a voice to shake the earth, and cry repentance unto every people! Yea, I would declare unto every soul, as with the voice of thunder, repentance and the plan of redemption, that they should repent and come unto our God, that there might not be more sorrow upon all the face of the earth. But behold, I am a man, and do sin in my wish; for I ought to be content with the things which the Lord hath allotted unto me (Alma 29:1-3). MUCH as we think we would like to foresee that which is to transpire in the future, the likelihood is that to always be forewarned, especially too far in advance, would not always result in our being forearmed. Nevertheless, the Lord does inspire and prepare us in his own way for that which lies ahead. I call to mind a faith-promoting incident in the life of Wilford Woodruff: He said that once when he was visiting up in Randolph, in Rich County, he was impressed by the spirit that he should leave for home, but for one reason or another, primarily the persuasion of the pcople — they wanted to keep him there — he delayed his departure until later in the week. This prompting of the spirit continued with him and so he arose toward the end of the week early one morning, having breakfasted, he harnessed his team and started off across that bleached country, even worse than 789 it is now, I am sure, from Randolph to Wasatch. On his way he was overtaken by a terrific snowstorm, blinded, he had to leave it to the horses to find their own way; and, finally, in the providence of the Master, that evening they arrived at Wasatch. He said. That when he got to Wasatch the hubs of his wheels were under the snow. He says, "I think they [the horses] must have got there by inspiration. I stayed there until Monday night. I made up my mind then that whenever the Lord told me to do anything I would do it. "T speak of this,' Brother Woodruff says, "because every man should get the Spirit of God and then follow its dictates. 'This is revelation. It doesn't make any difference what the spirit tells you to do; it will never tell you to do anything that is wrong." Now inasmuch as we do not foresee all that we might were our faith and works greater, we can draw on our past experiences for the great help they afford in determining what our present plans should be. The past mirrors, in a way, the future for us all. The road is plainly marked out for us. 'The Prophet Joseph Smith's statement points out the way. I think his feelings, portrayed in a rather homely way, are peculiarly fitting for the consideration and the guidance of the Relief Society sisters. President Smith said: I see no faults in the Church, and therefore let me be resurrected with the Saints, whether I ascend to heaven or descend to hell, or go to any other place. And if we go to hell, we will turn the devils out of doors and make a heaven of it. Where this people are, there is good society. What do we care where we are, if the society be good? I don't care what a man's character is; if he's my friend — a true friend, I will be a friend to him, and preach the Gospel of salvation to him, and give him good counsel, helping him out of his difficulties... It is a time-honored adage that love begets love. Let us pour forth love— show forth our kindness unto all mankind, and the Lord will reward us with everlasting increase; cast our bread upon the waters and we shall receive it after many days, increased to a hundredfold. Friendship is like Brother Turley in his blacksmith shop welding iron to iron; it unites the human family with its happy influence (D. H. C. V, page 517). EVER exact of a friend in adversity what you would require in prosperity.... For man, what is he [regardless of what he demands], he cannot possess himself of his own life... There is one thing under the sun which I have learned and that is that... The righteousness of God is just, because it exacteth nothing at all, but sendeth the rain on the just and the unjust, seed time and harvest, for all of which man is ungrateful (1843), MSS. Historian's Office: Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, page 317). The best measure or principle to bring the poor to repentance is to administer to their wants. The Ladies' Relief Society is not only to relieve the poor, but to save souls (D. H. C. V, pp. 24-25). Whatever degree of excellence we attain in the society of the Church, the result must directly reflect the conditions of the Relief Society. The Relief Society has always set the pace. It has always reflected the best to be found in our homes. It has been an example toward which the women of the Church have advanced in their own _ individual homes. It has furnished the inspiration which has impelled the individual members of the group to progress. Therefore, our duty today as mothers in Israel is first of all to conform our lives strictly to the principles of the gospel, developing in the home the spirit and power of obedience. Obedience to the law of the home and to the law of God should be synonymous. Then the home becomes the place where the souls of all the family are saved. The work of this generation is being built upon the works of the past and will furnish the foundation upon which the next generation can stand and advance. From _ our homes must come the missionaries of the Church, the quorum presidents, the bishops, the stake presidents, mission presidents, and the heads of auxiliaries, the General Authorities of the Church. Surely no greater accomplishment can be achieved in life, no greater joy experienced than in the mission field, at home or abroad. I know that which the Lord hath commanded me, and I glory in it. I do not glory of myself, but I glory in that which the Lord hath commanded me; yea, and this is my glory, that perhaps I may be an instrument in the hands of God to bring some soul to repentance; and this is my joy. And behold, when I see many of my brethren truly penitent, and coming to the Lord their God, then is my soul filled with joy; then do I remember what the Lord has done for me, yea, even that he hath heard my prayer; yea, then do I remember his merciful arm which he extended towards me (Alma 29:9-10). HE work of the Relief Society becomes more and more the work of saving souls. You are an instrument in the hands of the Lord, ordained of the Lord through revela- 790 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1959 EVERY FAMILY A MISSIONARY FAMILY tion to assist in bringing about his purposes, a great auxiliary to the Priesthood of God. For behold, this is my work and my glory — to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man (Moses 1:39). The Relief Society aim should be, Every son a worthy missionary. The power and influence of the Church in the world could not be over-estimated or over-exaggerated if all our homes were presided over by returned missionaries who have enjoyed on their missions the spirit thereof and retained that same spirit throughout their lives to bless and inspire their families. My sisters, your sons of today will of necessity be the heads of the households of Latter-day Saints tomorrow. You know they will reflect in their homes and in their conduct, in large measure, the homes from whence they came. They will carry with them through life the spirit, the attitude, the faith, the teaching, the example of their mothers. Is not this the task of the Relief Society today, to promote faith and virtue and good works in the homes of the Latter-day Saints through the influence of the mothers? To fulfill our responsibility we must first learn the principles of the gospel. Joseph Smith was not called to found a new religion nor give to us a new organization. His whole mission and that of the Church has been to recognize and re-establish that which was anciently given to man by God, and for the perpetuation of that for which Jesus fulfilled his mission here in the flesh. The Church is constantly reassured that Jesus Christ is its head. The Doctrine and Covenants tells us: 791 Behold, Jesus Christ is the name which is given of the Father, and there is none other name given whereby man can be saved; Wherefore, all men must take upon them the name which is given of the Father, for in that name shall they be called at the last day (D & C 18:23-24). THE Lord taught Joseph Smith that the atonement of Jesus Christ was sufficient ground work for the reconciliation of man with God. He taught that the atonement rendered due satisfaction to the justice of God for the violation of his just and holy laws. We are told by Paul that, Though he were a Son, yet learned he obedience by the things which he suffered; And being made perfect, he became the author of eternal salvation unto all them that obey him (Hebrews 5:8-9). That we might know how to obcy him, he brought to earth the scheme of things, by which through repentance and the remission of sins man could return to his former home in the heavenly kingdom of our Heavenly Father. Paul said: For I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ: for it is the power of God unto salvation to every one that believeth; to the Jew first, and also to the Greck (Romans 1:16). To us all the gospel plan of salvation is given through the mercy of God born of his great love for us his children. This is best evidenced by the writing of John: For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life (John 3:16). Over and above all, the atone- 792 ment of Christ assures us all of participation in the resurrection from the dead. We are all common heirs to eternal life. Paul said: If in this life only we have hope in Christ, we are of all men most miserable. But now is Christ risen from the dead, and become the firstfruits of them that slept. For since by man came death, by man came also the resurrection of the dead. For as in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive (I Corinthians 15:19-22). The words of Nephi throw further light upon our status in the three great spheres of our existence, our pre-mortal, our mortal, and our life after death. And now, behold, if Adam had not transgressed he would not have fallen, but he would have remained in the garden of Eden. And all things which were created must have remained in the same state in which they were after they were created; and they must have remained forever, and had no end. And they would have had no children; whercfore they would have remained in a state of innocence, having no joy, for they knew no misery; doing no good, for they knew no sin. But behold, all things have been done in the wisdom of him who knoweth all things. Adam fell that men might be and men are, that they might have joy. (2 Nephi 2322-25). UCH is the Plan of Salvation, which is ours. The restored gospel awaits men's acceptance. Through obedience to the laws and principles of the gospel mankind will be redeemed, even from his RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1959 own sins as well as Adam's transgression. We are constantly aware of the importance of man. We can never read the psalmist without appreciating his importance, for the psalmist has said: What is man that thou art mindful of him?.. Thou hast made him a little lower than the angels, and hast crowned him with glory and honour. Thou madest him to have dominion over the works of thy hands; thou hast put all things under his feet (Psalms 8:4-6). Joseph Smith was further taught that in this dispensation of the fulness of times will be gathered together in one, all things in Christ, both which are in heaven and which are in earth, even in him. In this dispensation God will consummate his work in relation to the redemption and _ salvation of the world. For this reason it is called the dispensation of the fulness of times, and into it flow all other dispensations. In it are revealed all other knowledge of the principles to be believed and the ordinances to be obeyed. All keys of authority and power held by former prophets are once again restored to the earth. The atonement of Christ contemplates saving the lives of the living and the dead. The new dispensation is a system of philosophy as well as of religion. Indeed, the true religion must give us the true philosophy of life. Religion must appeal to the understanding as well as to the emotional nature of man; it must measurably satisfy his rational mind as well as fill his spiritual EVERY FAMILY A MISSIONARY FAMILY longings, quench his thirst for righteousness. Many people say, I live a good life, that is enough. I do not need your counsel nor your church. There are many ways to heaven. There are those who think that the important thing in religion is to live it rather than understand it, just as there are those who think it is better to live rather than to understand life. But as a matter of fact, religion in its most exalted phases cannot be lived without making reasonably clear to the understanding the problems of existence, just as life cannot be truly lived without some knowledge, at least, of the near purposes of life. Joséph Smith himself made no attempt to create a system of philosophy. At various times he made utterances of great truth. I quote. A few of them. "The glory of God is intelligence." "It is impossible for a man to be saved in ignorance." "Whatever principle of intelligence we attain unto in this life, it will rise with us in the resurrection.".. The elements are eternal.. The elements are the tabernacle of God; yea, man is the tabernacle of God, even temples.... 'The elements are eternal, and spirit and element, inseparably connected, receive a fulness of joy." HE intelligence or spirit had no beginning, neither will it have an end. [Jesus] "was in the' beginning with the Father." "Man was also in the beginning with God. Intelligence, or the light of truth, was not created or made, neither indeed can be." "... This is my work and my glory to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man." "And truth is knowledge of 793 things as they are, and as they were, and as they are to come.' Wouldn't it be wonderful if the world realized the truth of this following revelation of the Prophet: "All kingdoms have a law given; And there are many kingdoms; for there is no space in the which thcre is no kingdom.... And unto every kingdom is given a law; and unto every law there are certain bounds also and conditions" (D & C 88: 36-38). Behold, there are many called, but few are chosen. And why are they not chosen? Because their hearts are set so much upon the things of this world, and aspire to the honors of men, that they do not learn this one lesson — That the rights of the pricsthood are inseparably connected with the powers of heaven, and that the powers of heaven cannot be controlled nor handled only upon the principles of rightcousness. That they may be conferred upon us, it is true; but when we undertake to cover our sins, or to gratify our pride, our vain ambition, or to exercise control or dominion or compulsion upon the souls of the children of men, in any degree of unrighteousness, behold, the heavens withdraw themselves; the Spirit of the Lord is grieved; and when it is withdrawn, Amen to the priesthood or the authority of that man. Behold, ere he is aware, he is left unto himself, to kick against the pricks, to persecute the saints, and to fight against God. We have learned by sad experience that it is the nature and disposition of almost all men, as soon as they get a little authority, as they suppose, they will immediately begin to exercise unrighteous dominion. Hence many are called, but few are chosen. 794 No power or influence can or ought to be maintained by virtue of the priesthood, only by persuasion, by long-suffering, by gentleness and meekness, and by love unfeigned; By kindness, and pure knowledge, which shall greatly enlarge the soul without hypocrisy, and without guile— Reproving betimes with sharpness, when moved upon by the Holy Ghost; and then showing forth afterwards an increase of love toward him whom thou hast reproved, lest he esteem thee to be his enemy; That he may know that thy faithfulness is stronger than the cords of death. Let thy bowels also be full of charity towards all men, and to the household of faith, and let virtue garnish thy thoughts unceasingly; then shall thy confidence wax strong in the presence of God; and the doctrine of the priesthood shall distil upon thy soul as the dews from heaven. The Holy Ghost shall be thy constant companion, and thy scepter an unchanging scepter of righteousness and _ truth; and thy dominion shall be an everlasting dominion, and without compulsory means it shall flow unto thee forever and ever (D & C 121:34-46). RUE philosophy is truth. Philosophy would be greatly helped in search for truth if it had but a clear conception of what it was trying to find, hence the importance of a clear, accurate definition. Truth leaves philosophy unnecessary. Pilate asked Christ, "What is truth?" Pilate did not understand Christ's declaration to him. When Pilate said to him, "Art thou a king, then?" Jesus answered: "Thou sayest that Iam a king. To this end was I born, and for this cause came I into-the world, that I should bear witness unto the truth. Everyone RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1959 that is of the truth heareth my voice" (John 18:37 ff.). Now Joseph Smith's definition of truth appeals with irresistible force to the understanding of man as we have just indicated from the 93d Section of the Doctrine and Covenants: And truth is knowledge of things as. They are, and as they were, and as they are to come (D & C 93:24). We all love that hymn which our Brother John Jaques wrote here in the carly days. It gives us greater strength to carry on: Then say, what is truth? "Tis the last and the first, For the limits of time it steps o'er. Though the heavens depart and the earth's fountains burst, Truth, the sum of existence, will weather the worst, Eternal, unchanged, evermore. (Hymns, page 143). Following within this definition of truth is the following revelation which we read in the Book of Moses: And worlds without number have I created....... Behold, there are many worlds that have passed away by the word of my power. And there are many that now stand, and innumerable are they unto man.... The heavens, they are many, and they cannot be numbered unto man; but they are numbered unto me, for they are mine. (And the Lord hasn't given them to man yet.) And as one earth shall pass away, and the heavens thereof even so shall another come; and there is no end to my works, neither to my words (Moses 1:33, 35, 37-38). EVERY FAMILY A MISSIONARY FAMILY ATTER may be resolved in radiant energy, the scientists tell us. They say energy may be brought back to matter, sun, and stars. Let us hear a conclusion of the whole matter. We read from Ecclesiastes:... Fear God, and keep his commandments: for this is the whole duty of man. For God shall bring every work into judgment, with every secret thing, whether it be good, or whether it be evil (Ecc. 12:13-14).... The race is not to the swift, nor the battle to the strong, neither yet bread to the wise, nor yet riches to men of. Understanding, nor yet favour to men of skill; but time and chance happeneth to them all (Ecc. 9:11). Thus saith the Lord, Let not the wise man glory in his wisdom, neither let the mighty man glory in his might, let not the rich man glory in his riches: But let him that glorieth glory in this, that he understandeth and knoweth me, that I am the Lord which exercise lovingkindness, judgment, and righteousness, in the earth: for in these things I delight, saith the Lord (Jeremiah 9:23-24). Those who are satisfied that any church will do, should read Job and ask themselves whether or not their church teaches them the answer to the problems which were propounded by the Lord to Job, when the Lord said to Job: Gird up now thy loins like a man; for I will demand of thee, and answer thou me. Where wast thou when I laid the foundations of the earth? Declare, if thou hast understanding. Who hath laid the measures thereof, if thou knowest? Or who hath stretched the line upon it? Whereupon are the foundations there- 795 of fastened? Or who Jaid the corner stonc thereof; When the morning stars sang together, and all the sons of God shouted for joy? (Job 38:3-7). How can we do as Paul directed the Ephesians? Put on the whole armour of God, that ye may be able to stand against the wilcs of the devil. For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places (Eph. 6:11-12). I ask again, how can this be accomplished if we do not have the true plan of life and salvation as revealed to us in the latter days by our Father in heaven? Ask again, does this plan of ours and the power to administer the plan in every detail leave any questions to be asked? For 130 years we have had this power made manifest unto us. We have been the recipients of the choicest blessings of our Heavenly Father. We have become more and more susceptible to the promptings of the Holy Spirit. We anticipate today the needs of the present to prepare ourselves for the problems of tomorrow better than ever before. More strength is given to each generation. A keener insight into the future is ours. I am sure we have progressed in our work to a far greater degree than has science. We stand upon a firmer foundation than does any other human activity. Were we to see all things in their true perspective, there would be no doubt about our position in this respect in anyone's mind. Ens AKE one simple example. All the world prays for peace. It is not the knowledge and understanding of man no matter how far into the realm of learning they penetrate that will solve this all-important problem. We start with the words of the Prophet Joseph to whom was given the vision and wisdom to have prevented our Civil War in his day. He said then to the peoples of this Nation: Now, O people! People! Turn unto the Lord and live, and reform this nation. Frustrate the designs of wicked men.... Break off the shackles from the poor black man, and hire him to labor like other human beings; for "an hour of virtuous liberty on earth is worth a whole eternity of bondage." Abolish the practice in the army and navy of trying men by court-martial for desertion. If a soldier or marine runs away, send him his wages, with this instruction, that his country will never trust him again; he has forfeited his honor. Make honor the standard with all men. Be sure that good is rendered for evil in all cases; and the whole nation, like a kingdom of kings and priests, will rise up in righteousness, and be respected as wise and worthy on earth, and as just and holy for heaven, by Jehovah, the Author of perfection.... Oh, then, create confidence, restore freedom, break down slavery, banish imptisonment for debt, and be in love, fellowship and peace with all the world! (D. H. C. VI, 204-206). In our own day, President David O. McKay, as he leads us today, declares: THE ATOMIC BOMB IS NOT THE THREAT. The most ominous threat to the peace and happiness of mankind in this the twentieth century is not the probable misuse of the atomic bomb, but the dwindling in men's hearts of faith in God. "Epochs of faith are epochs of fruitfulness; but epochs of unbelief, however glittering, are barren of all permanent good." President McKay goes on to say: The soul is the fountain from which the peace of the world will spring. Centered in the heart also are the enemies to peace — avarice, ambition, envy, anger,. And pride. 'These and other vices which bring misery into the world must be eradicated before permanent peace is assured. There shall have to be felt in the hearts of men more consideration for others — there shall have to be manifested around the coming peace table at least a little of the Christ spirit — do unto others as you would have others do unto you. (See Matt. 7:12; Luke 6:31.) (Gospel Ideals, PP. 295, 298) I have talked to you about some of the problems which confront us today. Let us proceed with the idea that sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof. We must all of us approach our responsibilities day by day with these thoughts in mind. We may well remember the prom- _ ise of the Savior of mankind to all of us: _ But seek ye first the kingdom of God, and his righteousness; and all these things shall be added unto you. Take therefore no thought for the morrow: for the morrow shall take thought for the things of itself. Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof (Mt. 6:33-34). Let us follow the admonition and the leadership of President McKay. He says further: Decide what your duty is, ever remembering that the greatest battle of life is fought within the silent chambers of your 'own soul.. Many of the important doctrines of the Church I have here called 796 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1959 EVERY FAMILY A MISSIONARY FAMILY to your attention. We must learn these principles of the gospel. Then and then only can we teach them to our families. NOW the gospel. Love the gospel. Live the gospel. Save souls — pour forth love. Be willing to recognize and receive inspiration. Raise sons to be worthy missionaries. Administer to the needs of the poor. Use a mother's influence to promote faith, virtue, good works in the home. Then and only then can you give your families the greatest heritage which parents can bestow upon their offspring. When you thus utilize your talents and your opportunities, you can realize in full measure the dream of power and accomplishment for which Alma wished. Then can you fulfill the charge given us of the Lord: Now behold, a marvelous work is about to come forth among the children of men. Therefore, O ye that embark in the service of God, see that ye serve him with all your heart, might, mind and strength, that ye may stand blameless before God at the last day. Therefore, if ye have desires to serve God ye are called to the work; For behold the field is white already to harvest; and lo, he that thrusteth in his sickle with his might, the same layeth up in store that he perisheth not, but bringeth salvation to his soul; And faith, hope, charity and love, with an eye single to the glory of God, qualify him for the work. Remember faith, virtue, knowledge, temperance, patience, brotherly kindness, godliness, charity, humility, diligence. 797 Ask, and ye shall receive; knock, and it shall be opened unto you... (D&C 4). ITH these thoughts, I challenge you as Relief Society sisters to return to your homes with renewed enthusiasm and greater determination to live the gospel in its fulness. President George Albert Smith, in his dedicatory prayer of the "This Is The Place" monument, radiates the spirit of peace. Tracing the guided course of mankind from Book of Mormon times down to the present, President Smith says this in his prayer: Grant, O Father, that the hearts of the people who dwell in the United States of America, may be turned to righteousness, that they may appreciate what it means to dwell in a land favored above all other lands.. And, O Father, in the midst of confusion that is everywhere, and uncertainty, bless us in America, that we may repent of our foolishness, our lightmindedness and our wrongdoing, realizing as we should, that all the blessings that are worthwhile come to us only as a result of honoring thee and keeping thy commandments. The pathway of righteousness is the highway of peace and happiness. Help us Lord, to walk in thy pathway... How can we, Heavenly Father, as we live in the world and enjoy the influence of thy spirit, fail to be at peace with one another? With all my heart and soul I invoke the blessings of our Heavenly Father upon you, my sisters, that this great work of the Relief Society may go forward and onward and upward until it affects not alone the lives of the 1,600,000 members of the Church, but carries its influence and its power and its effectiveness into the lives of the nations of the 798 REL earth. I bear witness to you today that this very process is under accomplishment and that Sister Spafford has expanded, through her travels and through her inspiration and her leadership in this great movement, the influence of the Relief Society into other great nations of the earth, and so the work will go on. We are the Church of Jesus Christ. He lives. He is the Son of the living God, the Redeemer of IEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1959 mankind. He has atoned for the sins of the world and he has given to us, in these latter days, a knowledge of himself and of his gospel more priceless than life itself. Here we are gathered today to gather strength and increased faith to carry on his great work, and carry into the homes of all Latter-day Saints a knowledge of God and of his ways.. May his blessings be with us all, humbly IT pray, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. << _- Jo Hold Clara Steen Candle light And stars at night Grow dim. Us Sast Chesnutt Christmas trees and tinseled ropes All must go. But not Of him our hopes Who came proclaimed by angel-song, And promised that as long.. As life shall last. As long A Christmas hope, a Christmas prayer Will be a lovely thing And hold us fast. To share ¢ Tlo Christmas Here? Maude Rubin No Christmas here? This sun-steeped desert cabin Has never worn a wreath of spruce or pine; Nor ever braced its walls against a blizzard, Nor burned a yule log. (Mesquite makes a fine And cheerful blaze!) Now, leaning out my window, I hear a sudden stir among the palms, A desert wind, scented with sage and honey, Is singing its songs of peace, its evening psalms. Beneath this sky-ward dazzle of the stars, I choose my own small Christmas tree tonight, A gnarled and twisted manzanita branch, To dress with shining tinsel, blooms of light! Howard William Hunter of the Council of the Twelve Elder Hugh B. Brown Of the Council of the Twelve... When Nature wants to make a man To do the Future's will: [she] Sets a challenge for his spirit, Draws it higher when he's near it — Makes a jungle, that he clear it, Makes a desert that he fear it And subdue it if he can.... When his fect are torn and blecding Yct his spirit mounts unheeding, All his higher powers specding, Blazing newer paths and fine; When the force that is divine Leaps to challenge every failure and his ardour still is swect And love and hope are burning in the presence of defeat... Lo, the crisis! Lo, the shout That must call the leader out.... —'When Nature Wants a Man" by Angela Morgan, from Forward March, copyright 1918, by Dodd, Mead and Company, Inc., Reprinted by permission. HE entire Church rejoices in the call and ordination of a comparatively young man to be an apostle and special witness of the Lord, Jesus Christ. That the Lord has had this man in training through the years is evident as one reads his life story from the time when he was born in Boise, Idaho, November 14, 1907, through his early schooling then his subsequent move to Southern California, his years of struggle and hard work, his activities in scouting, Church and civic affairs, his steady growth, his undeviating loyalty to country, Church and family, his years of legal education and later years of successCourtesy The Improvement Era HOWARD WILLIAM HUNTER ful practice of law — all combined to prepare and make him ready for the call which came unexpectedly on October 9, 1959. He worked in the Bank of Italy (later merged into the bank of America) for some years and was later cashier at the First Exchange Bank of Inglewood, which with many other banks during the great depression, closed its doors and he suffered heavy loss because of his stockholder's lability. Because of a resolution which he and his wife made early in their marriage, that they would never buy anything, homes, cars, washing machines, dryers, furniture, etc., until Page 799 800 Courtesy The Salt Lake Tribune RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1959 ELDER HOWARD WILLIAM HUNTER AND HIS FAMILY Left to right: Clara May Jeffs Hunter; Elder Howard William TYunter; Louine Berry Hunter, daughter-in-law, holding baby son Robert Mark Hunter; John J. Hunter, son. Another son, Richard A., is serving a mission in Australia. They could pay for it (they have never broken that resolution), they lived in a very humble home for several years. 'They had the courage and fortitude to resist the seductive appeal of installment buying and go without rather than go in debt. They bought vegetables which were cheap but not always fresh, and tencent soup bones when they could have enjoyed 'T-bone steaks. During his preparation for the law, he went to night school at Southwestern University five nights a week and worked during the daytime. He often began studying at 3:00 A. M., even though he had not returned from school the night before until 10:00 P. M. He has always been an indefatigable worker driven by an unquenchable thirst for knowledge. At the end of four years of sacrifice and struggle, he graduated from Southwestern University, cum laude, and has, since that time, been a successful lawyer and_ business man. Elder Hunter is the son of John William Hunter and Nellie Marie Rasmussen Hunter, both of whom HOWARD WILLIAM HUNTER OF THE COUNCIL OF THE TWELVE reside in Southern California. He comes from sturdy, frugal Scotch and Scandinavian ancestry. In addition to his long and varied Church work through the years — bishop, president of high priest quorum, member of stake high council, and nine years president of Pasadena Stake — he found time for civic and business responsibilities. He has always been an enthusiastic scout man, became an eagle scout in 1923 and was later scout master and District Commissioner for scouting in Los Angeles metropolitan area. [NX 1928 he met Clara May Jeffs at a Gold and Green Ball in Los Angeles and they were married in the Salt Lake Temple, June 10, 1931. She stood loyally at his side through the lean years and now, with simple grace and dignity, takes her place as queen of an unusually charming home. The Hunters had three sons, one died in infancy. John J. Filled a mission in Australia, and 801 after coming home married Louine Berry and is now taking pre-legal training at the Brigham Young University. The other son, Richard, is serving aS a missionary in the South Australian Mission. The Hunters, with their sons, enjoyed a roundthe-world tour in 1958. When Elder Hunter was asked about hobbies, he said, "My wife, my boys, and the Church are my chief hobbies." However, he is known to have a large collection of rare coins and a very select Church library, including many original and early editions. Elder Hunter has a warm, charming personality, a ready and winning smile, is an able and inspiring speaker, an excellent administrator, and impresses all who meet him with his enthusiasm, sincerity and humility. His acceptance speech was characteristic of the man, willing, humble, capable and motivated by what he termed * 'an uncompromising conviction." It is a pleasure to welcome this outstanding man into the Quorum of the Twelve. ¢ These Cliffs Hold Melody Elsie McKinnon Strachan These cliffs hold melody. The zylophone of rain, The drumbeat of the sun, The cello-wind, Have spilled a song of color here, Delighting us with music Agate-scored And still. Annual General Relief Society Conference Hulda Parker, General Secretary-Treasurer sessions of the 1959 Annual General Relief Society Conference, leaders of Relief Society were again recipients of the blessings promised by the Prophet Joseph Smith at the time he organized the Society in 1842 when he said: act the various You will receive instructions through the order of the Priesthood which God has established, through the medium of those appointed to lead, guide, and direct the affairs of the Church in this last dispensation;. And this Society shall rejoice, and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time henceforth; this is the beginning of better days to the poor and needy, who shall be made to rejoice and pour forth blessings on your heads. The Officers Meeting began at 10 A. M. In the Tabernacle with 2425 stake Relief Society leaders from every stake in the Church except one and thirty-six representatives from ten missions receiving "instructions through the order of the Priesthood" from the Relief Society advisors of the Council of the 'Twelve, President Joseph Fielding Smith and Elder Mark E. Petersen. President Smith impressed upon those in attendance the importance of the gospel in the lives of the women of the Church and how they, too, can assist in the saving of souls. Elder Petersen instructed Relief Society leaders regarding the great value and function of class instruction in saving souls and in strengthening the home and community. Page 802 President Belle S. Spafford, who in her usual gracious and dignified manner conducted all of the gencral sessions of the conference, reported. In the Officers Meeting on the services and accomplishments of Relief Socicty during 1958 and gave specific directions and counsel relative to the carrying forward of the work of the organization throughout the Church. The music for this session was presented by a 150-voice chorus of Singing Mothers from the Juab Stake under the direction of Vivian P. Hoyt with Alexander Schreiner at the organ. The colorful and impressive roll call was conducted by Secretary-Treasurer Hulda Parker. In the Wednesday, 2 p. M. General Session for Relief Society members and general public, further instruction was given "through the order of the Priesthood" and "knowledge and intelligence" were imparted. Relief Society leaders for the first time had the choice privilege of listening to the wise counsel and admonition given by President Henry D. Moyle as a member of the First Presidency of the Church. He charged the mothers of Israel today to conform their lives strictly in accordance with the principles of the gospel and to develop in_ their homes the "spirit and power of obedience." Preceding his address, President Spafford urged mothers to teach their children the importance and Courtesy The Salt Lake Tribune PRESIDENT BELLE S. SPAFFORD CONDUCTING THE OFFICERS MEETING ANNUAL GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE, OCTOBER 7, 1959 Seated, beginning in the foreground: Counselor Marianne C. Sharp; Former General President Amy Brown Lyman; Counselor Louise W. Madsen; President Joseph Fielding Smith and Elder Mark E. Petersen of the Council of the Twelve, Advisors to Relief Society. Power of prayer; Counselor Marianne C. Sharp emphasized the value of prayerful study of the scriptures in the home, and obedience thereto; Counselor Louise W. Madsen outlined the obligations of mothers toward proper observance of the Sabbath; and Christine H. Robinson, member of the General Board, stressed the importance of spiritual beauty in the home. A s5o00-voice chorus of Singing Mothers from the nineteen stakes in the Jordan Valley Region also inspired those in attendance by their beautiful music. Participants in the chorus were from Canyon Rim, Cottonwood, East Jordan, [ast Millcreek, Grant, Granite Park, Holladay, Midvale, Millcreek, Mount Jordan, Murray, Murray South, Olympus, Sandy, South Salt Lake, Valley View, West Jordan, Wilford, and Winder Stakes. All three selections rendered were compositions by Latter-day Saint musicians — "Go Ye Forth With My Word" and "Come Ye Blessed of My ANNUAL GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 803 Father" by Florence Jepperson Madsen of the General Board, who also conducted the chorus, and "Music" by Carlyle D. Marsden and words by J. G. Brainard. Roy M. Darley was at the organ. Wednesday evening between 7 and 10 P. M., approximately 2,000 stake and mission officers were greeted by the General Board in a beautiful atmosphere of music and flowers at the annual reception held in the Relief Society Building. In the Thursday morning departmental meeting in the Tabernacle impressive presentations were given featuring the current theology course on the Doctrine and Covenants, and the American literature course, "A New Nation Speaks." Dr. Blaine M. Porter, author of the social science course "Spiritual Living in the Nuclear Age," discussed this subject. 'The chorus providing the music for this session was the Wells Stake Singing Mothers conducted by Vivienne Fairclough, with Frank Asper at the organ. The visiting teacher messages for the current year were introduced in the 1:30 p. M. Departmental meeting in the Tabernacle. In this session Elder Henry D. Taylor outlined the place and responsibilities of Relief Society in the Church Welfare Program. Separate departmental sessions were held from 1:30 to 4 P. M., for stake and mission secretary-treasurers; work meeting leaders; and the choristers and organists. Other departmental sessions were conducted from 2:45 to 4 P. M., for stake and mission presidencies, Magazine representatives, and class leaders. A showing of a soul-stirring color film "Unto the Least of These," depicting the role of visiting teachers in bringing uplift and encouragement into the lives of their fellow sisters, some of whom may be sick or poor in spirit, started the conference on a high spiritual note. Stake Relief Society presidencies viewed this film in the Uptown ° Theater, Wednesday morning, preceding the first regular session of the conference. As another Annual General Relief Society Conference concluded, it seemed that all in attendance rejoiced with the instructions that had been given, with the knowledge and intelligence they had treceived regarding the work of Relief Society, and there was kindled within the hearts of the Relief Society leaders in attendance a greater determination to carry forward the work of this great organization so as to bring even richer blessings into their lives and the lives of those influenced by Relief Society. The address by President Henry D. Moyle appears in this issue of the Magazine. President Joseph Fielding Smith's address will be published in the January issue, and Elder Mark E. Petersen's and Elder Henry D. Taylor's in the February issue. 'The addresses by President Belle S. Spafford, by Counselor Marianne C. Sharp, and Counselor Louise W. Madsen; and "Report and Official Instructions" by President Spafford appeared in the November Magazine. 'The speech by Christine H. Robinson, a General Board member, will appear in the March issue. The address by Dr. Blaine M. Porter and a few departmental talks will appear in forthcoming issues. Much of the other material of the conference has been mailed to stake and mission Relief Society presidents. 804 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1959 William Beal RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE WINS COVER AWARD Seated, left to mght: Counselor Marianne C. Sharp, Editor, holding the award; President Belle S. Spafford, General Manager, holding the December 1955 Relief Society Magazine, winning cover; Counselor Louise W. Madsen. Standing: Evan Jensen, Art Director; Vesta P. Crawford, Associate Editor. Relicf Society Mlagazine Awarded Cover Gitation THE highest award for quality of colored magazine covers was awarded to The Relief Society Magazine by the Simpson Lee Paper Company in September 1959. 'The award was granted in recognition of the beautiful December 1958 cover — "The Rest on the Flight Into Egypt" from a painting by Gerard David, from the Mellon Collection, courtesy the National Gallery of Art, Washington, D. C. The award plaque was presented to President Belle S$. Spafford, General President of Relief Society and General Manager of the Magazine, by C. L. Nordstrom, Northwest Sales Representative of the paper company. Mr. Nordstrom explained that the award was made after salesmen of the Zcllerbach Paper Company, distributors for the Simpson Lee Company, Page 805 had considered and appraised samples of magazine covers from eleven Western states. 'here were eighty entries competing for the four-color brochure award. Judges selecting the winning entry were professors from the University of California, and Stanford University, a world renowned artist, and two other craftsmen. 'The cover has been placed on permanent display in the Simpson Lee Gallery of Fine Printing at Everett, Washington, and the award plaque has been placed in the library of the Relicf Society building. A similar award was made to the Deseret News Press for the production work on the cover. Ecived this award. Mr. L. C. Jacobsen, Manager of the Press, req She legac of Gia Mabel Harmer ACH Christmas the magazines of the country are filled with Christmas stories and poems, and carols are broadcast over the air waves and chimed by bells. Only a small fraction of the enormous magazine output can really be called literature, but much of it can be enjoyed. A prime example is the poem "The Night Before Christmas." It was written by Clement Moore a century ago to please his own children, and without any thought of publication, and yet, in all probability, no children's poem has been more loved. His description of the "jolly old fellow" made the pattern of Santa Claus that has appeared in pictures and at holiday parties ever since. It was a contemporary of Clement Moore's, however — although in another country — who actually started the annual rash of Christmas stories. From the time Charles Dickens' "Christmas Carol" first appeared in print — to an instant popularity — writers have struggled to emulate that success. Many of these stories are forgotten by mid-January, but a few gems have survived to delight us over and over again. In fact, they are made more precious by long acquaintance. First among these treasured gems, perhaps, is the Dickens story, which was produced for many years over the radio by Lionel Barrymore until his death; it was read by President Franklin D. Roosevelt in the White House annually to his family, and, doubtless, is enjoyed yearly by countless other folk at their own firesicles. Alongside of Dickens, we must rank Henry Van Dyke, who, in his superb short stories, filled in the details of what might have happened at the scene on that Holy Night. In his story of "The Other Wise Man," he weaves the tale of the wicked Herod who ordered the death of all the children in Bethlehem under two years of age. Van Dyke set the pattern for 806 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1959 THE LITERATURE OF CHRISTMAS numerous other stories concerning those who might have been eye witnesses to the events of the nativity. While we realize that these stories come from writers' imaginations woven on the fabric of facts, as told in the Bible by Matthew and Luke, still we like to read them, since the Gospel writers have left us with only a few details. And so, while the Christmas theme has been told, with variations, over and over again, one still appreciates the varied and wonderful ways in which it has been penned. Just like Christmas itself the story never grows old. Among our Latter-day Saint writers, the Christmas story has been treated with the beauty and understanding one would expect from those who have a true knowledge of the great significance of the event. Greatly loved among hymns is Orson F. Whitney's "A Stranger Star O'er Bethlehem." It is too long to be sung usually in its entirety — but all the verses can be read with great pleasure. Another inspiring hymn written by Elder Whitney relates the glorious appearance of the risen Savior to the people of the Western Hemisphere. This hymn presents in rhythmic words the sacred events when Jesus said: "Behold your little ones." (See Third Nephi 17:11-25.) Enraptured stood the multitude, Beholding him their King, At whose command the chosen band Their little children bring.... Oh, Nephite boy, how great thy joy, Such wondrous things to see.... (The Children Sing, pp. 184-185) EXT to the story of the nativity, as told by St. Luke, the carols are probably the best known and 807 loved of all Christmas literature. Even with the frequent repetition on radio and T'V during December, one never grows tired of listening to the lovely "Silent Night" or the merry "Deck the Hall." The practice of singing carols is popular in a great many countries, but the carols and the customs sometimes differ. 'Today, in Italy the shepherds of the rural regions go from house to house singing their carols to the accompaniment — of all things — bagpipes. In Norway, after the reading of the Gospels, all members of the family clasp hands and circle the Chiristmas tree, singing the hymns and folk songs of Christmas not only once, but several times. England is especially famous for its caroling. 'The "waits" as they are called, go from house to house to sing their favorite carols, and usually the members of the family join in. The carolers are often invited into the house for cakes or sweets, or else rewarded with small coins. One of the most popular of all carols, "Oh, Little Town of Bethlehem," was the work of Phillips Brooks, a young American clergyman, who was blessed with a brilliant mind and a fine sense of humor. The inspiration for his song came as he stood on the moonlit hills of Palestine one Christmas Eve, thereby fulfilling a longcherished dream. It is little wonder that, with such a setting, his words take us all to the little town of Bethlehem. Probably the best known and best loved of all carols is the beautiful "Silent Night." It was written long ago in a little village of Bavaria dur- ing a wild December storm. In a tiny wooden church, Franz Gruber tried in vain to play the old organ, but the mice had been there ahead of him and he could get no sounds that could be called music. In distress, he called to Joseph Mohr to write some words for a new song. "Perhaps I could set them to music. Then we can get old Herman, at the foot of the hill, to play the guitar to accompany the singers. In that way we could manage without the organ until it can be repaired." There was little time, but Joseph Mohr went to work, and slowly the words came, "Silent might, holy night, All is calm; all is bright." The words inspired Franz to write music that was equally beautiful, and the new song was finished in time to be sung by the villagers on Chiristmas Eve. When the 'Tyrolians sailed for America they brought with them the gift of this lovely song. SOME of the carols are traditional, with the names of the authors and the composers unknown. Others bear such famous names as Martin Luther, Isaac Watts, and George Friedrich Handel. Henry Wadsworth Longfellow wrote "J Heard the Bells on Christmas Day" in 1863, reflecting the horrors of war, his own son having been som ee in a battle of the Civil War. After lamenting the fact that "there is no peace," he ends his song with renewed hope in these words: Then pealed the bells more loud and deep — God is not dead nor doth He sleep. The Wrong shall fail, the Right prevail With peace on earth, good will to men. Of course the apex of all Christmas literature is the story of the nativity as told by the Gospel writers. John makes one grand statement: "And the Word was made flesh, and dwelt among us..." (John 1:14). Matthew is concerned largely with the visit of the Wise Men and with Herod's decree that all male children in Bethlehem under two years of age should be slain. Mark passes over any details regarding the Savior's birth. And so it remains for Luke to record the tender and wonderful account that has become the best loved and most quoted story in all literature. Each Christmas time one finds new joy in the words: "And Joseph also went up from Galilee, out of the city of Nazareth, into Judaea, unto the city of David, which is called Bethlehem... With Mary his espoused wife, being great with child" (Luke 2: 4- 5). Bethlehem — the City of David — the names in and of themselves are sheer poetry. The lovely little town lies about six miles south of Jerusalem, about 2300 feet above sea level, and the surrounding countryside is more fertile than many parts of the Holy Land. From the hills where David tended his flocks he could gaze over the deep valleys of the Judean desert and the Dead Sea. Tradition and history combine to tell us of the great love David had for his city. He knew all of its caves and fields, its springs and its valleys. It was a love which has 808 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1959 THE LITERATURE OF CHRISTMAS descended through the years to fill the hearts of all Christians. His love for his city was expressed during one of his campaigns against Saul when, with great yearning, he said, "Oh that one would give me drink of the water of the well of Bethlehem, which, is by the gate!" (II Samuel 23:15). When some of the courageous soldiers with him braved the ranks of the Philistines to bring him this water, he declined to drink, but poured it out as a sacrifice to the Lord instead. And so it was that Joseph, being of the lineage of David, journeyed to Bethlehem to be taxed. "While they were there," the narrative of Luke continues, "the days were accomplished that she should be 809 delivered. And she brought forth her firstborn son, and wrapped him in swaddling clothes, and laid him in a manger; because there was no room for them in the inn" (Luke 2:6-7). The song of the heavenly hosts... On earth peace, good will toward men" (Luke 2:14) has been echoed and re-echoed down through the centuries. And while there has never been a time when there was complete peace in all parts of the world, yet who can say what farreaching effects have been the result of those tidings of peace and good will? This we know, indeed, that we can look forward with great joy to the time when Christ will come again to the earth to rule and reign and bring lasting peace to all men. <e Handels Messiah" Hazel Loomis Never was a hand more sure than mine When I wrote note on note The things I heard. My heart beat wild — pages flew beneath my pen — Music impassioned — tender — A prophet's cry — and then a surge — A mighty ocean wall burst forth In joyous praise! The symphony — harps, bells, and cymbals all rose strong — The choir as one great voice. I bowed my head; tears streamed from my eyes, Across my name, George Friedrich Handel, 1741. The ink ran wild, angels seemed to fill my room — Their joy to mingle with my own. Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, December 1, and December 15, 1899 "For THE Ricurs oF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomeEN oF ALL Nations" CHRISTMAS FANCIES: Checrfulness is better than hilarity, and simplicity even in giving is in much better taste than making elaborate presents, or parading one's generosity, as really seems to have come to be the custom in this age. We deal largely in extremes, even in giving... Though we have not wealth to lavish on our loved ones, we can bestow kindness even in words.... Feasting and enjoying the good things of life docs not make up the sum of happiness, not even at Christmas time; elaborate preparations are very wearisome, and the mother is often too much exhausted to share in the children's enjoyment... Or perhaps to answer their questions about the why's and wherefores of Christmas. —FEditorial CHRISTMAS IN SALT LAKE CITY: R. K. Thomas has a fine display of dry goods, artistically arranged for Christmas.... C. R. Savage has a fine assortment of everything in the way of Christmas goods, and old Santa Claus trees and photography. One can purchase magazines there, too.... Margetts book store is well equipped with books, stationery and large and small children's sleds, toboggans and Christmas trees... Magnificent dolls and a great variety of such articles as stationers keep.... The elegant new bookstore of Geo. QO. Cannon & Sons... Has a fine display... In rare pictures, books, dolls and gorgeous toys.... —Scelected A CHRISTMAS PYE: The Newcastle Chronicle of 1770 gives the contents of the famous "Christmas Pye" of the olden time. Its ingredients were two bushels of flour, 20 pounds of butter, 4 geese, 2 turkeys, 2 rabbits, 4 wild ducks, 2 woodcocks, 6 snipe, 4 partridges, 2 neats tongues, 2 curlews, 4 blackbirds and six pigeons, with cggs, sugar, raisins, lemons, oranges, and various kinds of spicery. "It weighed twelve stone." One would wonder where it could be baked; and yet when one knows what grcat fireplaces and ovens they had in those old halls and castles, one might imagine that even such a pie could be put in and baked.... —The Editor MRS. BARRATT'S PARTY: A very pleasant gathering of notable people of this city was given by Mrs. M. M. Barratt at her handsome cottage... December 20. The guests were President Lorenzo Snow and wife, President George Q. Cannon and wife, President Joseph I'. Smith and wife.... Apostles F. M. Lyman and wife, Heber J. Grant, wife, and mother, Anthon H. Lund and Matthias F. Cowley; President Angus M. Cannon and wife, Bishop W. B. Preston and wife and Bishop John R. Winder and wife, Mrs. B. W. Smith, Mrs. E. B. Wells... And others... The guests were seated at tables in the elegant dining room to partake of a sumptuous banquet. President Snow pronounced the blessing. At each plate was a souvenir bouquet.... During the evening attention was called to the beautiful and rare collection of very fine pictures, most of them brought from her home in England. Mr. Sam Barratt gave. Choice musical selections on the piano, and Mrs. E. B. Wells, at the request of President Joseph F. Smith and others, gave an account of the reception given at Windsor Castle by Queen Victoria to the International Council and Congress in London, July 7, on which occasion thirteen women from Utah were present.... —News Note Page 810 AMALIA DE CASTILLO LEDON, Under Secretary of Education and Cultural Affairs of Mexico, was recently honored by President Adolfo Lopez Mateos, when he requested her to read the Grito de Dolores, Mexico's declaration of independence, at the annual observance of national independence. In 1953, Mexican women were given the privilege of voting for local and national government officials, and since that time women have taken an active part in civic affairs. Today, nine women are serving in Congress, three as federal judges; twelve of the government's sixty assistant prosecutors are women. R. SARAH E. STEWART and Dr. Bernice E. Eddy have won recognition and honor for their outstandinig research on viruses as a possible causative agent in some types of cancer. Working together at the National Institute of Health, the researchers demonstrated the potency and versatility of a mouse cancer Virus. ULDA A. ERICKSON, Grantsville, Utah, (100 years old on November tenth), Minnie Peterson Brown, Summit County, Harriet Clawson, Salt Lake County, Tora Nielson Starkie, Uintah County, and Selma Beddous Kelsey, Utah County, are the last living women who trekked across the plains as Mormon pioneers. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon RANCES R. HORWICH, television's famous "Miss Frances" of Ding Dong School, has written a book, The Magic of Bringing Up Your Child. The volume deals sensibly, charmingly, and imaginatively with the problems which arise between parent and child. Miss Horwich has won more than sixty awards from educational and _professional groups. LEANOR GLUECK, as a partner with her husband, Dr. Sheldon Glueck, in the famous husband-and-wife criminologist team of Harvard University Law School, co-operated in the authorship of an authentic and valuable study: Predicting Delinquency and Crime (Harvard University Press). The study, which was carried on for more than thirty years, emphasizes "five highly decisive factors" in family life which condition the conduct of children: father's discipline, mother's supervision, father's aftection, mother's affection, and cohesiveness of the family. OMEN make all the professional baseballs used by professional baseball players in our country today. 'The delicate fingers and twenty-twenty vision of these special workers put into a ball the "capacity to sail over fences." Mrs. Jesse Wison figures that she has stitched more than 150,000 _baseballs. EDIT ORIAL <2 VOL. 46 DECEMBER 1959 NO. 12 She Supreme Gift 6SQ\WN this night shall the sign be given, and on the morrow come | into the world" (3 Nephi 1:13). These were the words of God the Son fortelling his time of birth into mortal life, words uttered to Nephi on the Western Hemisphere, while in far-off Judea, Mary "being great with child" was being found a resting place by Joseph, where the Son of God would be born. It has been approximately 1959 years since then, yet every day every person by his beliefs, convictions, and actions declares his acceptance or rejection of the Messiah. Especially at this season one reads the tender and simple, albeit the glorious words recounting the Lord's birth. The shepherds come again to knecl in reverence at the manger after they heard, in fearful wonder, the heavenly strains "Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good will toward men." The shepherds may never have known of the visit of the Magi; of the flight into Egypt; nor of events which transpired on the Western Continent — of the day and a night and a day when there was light and a new star arose marking the birth of the Savior. For contemporary with the years of Jesus' life, only a little information may have come to one and then another, until his public ministry was companioned by his disciples. But this is the day of the dispensation of the fulness of times when Page 812 all things are gathered together in one, and a Latter-day Saint has available the fulness of the gospel to recreate a sequence of Christ's ministry. As one studies his life from year to year, the delineation becomes clearer, the contrasts sharper, the details fuller, and the radiance and glory brighter as humility, understanding, and worship become ingrained. As life's experiences and _ trials etch one's soul, the significance of the events of the Savior's mission take on a deeper richness. A mother senses more keenly the meaning of a sword which should pierce the side of Mary also; one studies the words of the Messiah for doctrinal knowledge; sickness in the home sends one to read of the healings and promises of Jesus; poverty and want seek solace in the comforting words of the Master. One sins and one hunts for encouraging words spoken to the repentant sinner; one endures trials, without justification to mortal perception, and one contemplates the humiliation and __ indignities heaped upon the Savior, and reflects upon the Lord's silent submission. Mental or physical sufferings recall the exquisite pain of the Redeemer in the Garden of Gethsemane where he sweat drops of blood. One heeds his words to repent, one takes his yoke upon him, and, finally, one struggles for that peace which passeth understanding, bequeathed to all by the Master. From the eminence of the re- THE SUPREME GIFT stored gospel plan of the Savior one may survey and take to himself priceless truths of eternity. Jesus Christ is the Shepherd who guards and preserves the flock in the fold, through whose door alone his sheep may enter who know his voice. The mysteries of godliness are opened to one's searching gaze. Jesus Christ is the way and the'truth; all life is in him. To scale the heights of exaltation, his flaming, living light defines the narrow way of ascent. None enters those jaspered walls but those who have taken upon themselves the name of Christ. Nearly two thousand years ago the Babe was born in a lowly stable. To know him and the Father who 813 gave his Only Begotten Son as the Supreme Gift to the world, is the meaning of Christmas. Each individual places the value of this Gift to himself. The blind, the indifferent, the wicked value the Gift as did those of the Savior's day who "went back and walked no more with him"; who "went away sorrowful"; who "sought to take him." They were among those who cried "Crucify him." But to those seeking to follow the Christ with humble hearts and contrite spirits, the Supreme Gift may bring joy and glorv unspeakable, and the promise of eternal life. —M. C. S. She ro9th Semi-Annual Church Conference Hii 129th Semi-Annual Conference of the Church was held in the Tabernacle, Salt Lake City, Utah, October 9, 10, and 11, 1959, with our beloved President David O. McKay conducting all six general sessions and the Priesthood meeting. 'Two members of the Council of the Twelve were absent. Elder Harold B. Lee was touring the South American Missions, and Elder Marion G. Romney was visiting the missions in Europe. The radiant autumn weather and the spirit of inspiration and brotherhood in the gospel brought joy and a fecling of renewed devotion to the thousands who heard again the words of life and salvation from prophets and servants of the Lord. The lofty and uplifting music was presented on I'riday by the Singing Mothers of the Jordan Valley Region under the direction of Florence Jepperson Madsen of the General Board of Relief Society; on Saturday by the University of Utah Choral Society, the Institute of Religion Chorus, and the Bonneville Strings, directed by David Shand; and on Sunday by the Tabernacle Choir under the direction of Richard P. Condie, assisted by Jay E. Welsh, with Alexander Schreiner and Frank W. Asper at the organ. Elder Howard W. Hunter, President of Pasadena Stake, California, was sustained as a member of the Council of the Twelve to fill the vacancy in the quorum occasioned by the appointment of Elder Henry D. Moyle, in June 1959, as Second Counselor in the First Presidency. The conference addresses reviewed the life and teachings of the Savior, and emphasized the glorious privi- leges and responsibilities concerned in accepting and living the fulness of the gospel of Christ as restored in the latter days by the Prophet Joseph Smith. In his opening address on Friday, President David O. McKay spoke of the continuing significance and import of the apostle Paul's instructions to Timothy — 'Preach the word; be instant in season, out of season; reprove, rebuke, exhort with all long suffering and doctrine...." RESIDENT McKay, in emphasizing the divine mission of the Savior, stated: Other great religious leaders among the nations of the world since history began have taught virtue, temperance, self-control, service, obedience to righteousness and duty; some have taught a belief in one supreme ruler and in an_ hereafter; but only Christ broke the seal of the grave and revealed death as the door to immortality and cternal life. If Christ lived after death, so shall men, each one taking his place in the next world for which he is best fitted. Since love is as eternal as life, the message of the resurrection is the most comforting, the most glorifying ever given to man.... RESIDENT J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Discussed the effects of paganism in the world and the mission of the Church in combating the influence which seeks to establish a godless world.... I think this is the first time in all history when God's people have been faced with an organized paganism more ot less guided and directed by one who denies God and says he is unconvertible from his atheism.... The plan is really one of exterminating God and Christianity. Into our hands has been placed through divine ordinations the Holy Priesthood after the Order of the Son of God. In our hands is the responsibility of carrying forward... God had declared that the Lord will never take away or give to another people the authority and the Gospel Plan which we have. I want to bring home to every one of you brethren and sisters of the Church, and to others so far as I may speak, the scriousness of this situation. You cannot mollify an unconvertible, you may not hope that after his ends are' gained, for any but the treatment he has administered upon others.... Please, brethren and_ sisters of the Church, keep the home fires of testimony and knowledge of the gospel and of God and of Jesus Christ, keep the home fires burning in your home, in your Priesthood quorums.... I bear my testimony that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ, the Savior of the world, the Redecmer of mankind.. RESIDENT Henry D. Moyle, in reviewing the first Article of Faith, declared: "Upon this Article of our Faith is the Church founded. Jesus Christ, our Lord and Master, is the son of the living God." His teachings began with his own baptism in the waters of Jordan at the hands of John by immersion, and John had therefore been duly commissioned of the Lord to perform this ordinance. Could he have emphasized the importance of baptism in any better way?... We... See Christ on the mountain teaching his disciples whom he had chosen... The principles by which men could control their lives, and should control them. Out of these teachings we have the Sermon on the Mount. Would that it were understood by all men. But all men do not understand the teachings of Christ. His teachings are sufficient to have taught all who have heard and all who have read... That they should have recognized him as the Son of the living God.... How grateful we are that he gave us the Sacrament of the Lord's supper and commanded us to meet frequently and 814 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1959 THE 129TH SEMI-ANNUAL CHURCH CONFERENCE 815 partake of that Sacrament and renew our courageous and faithful and devote covenants to keep his laws and obey his their lives to the gospel. Commandments, even as we covenanted to do at the waters of baptism. I bless you with increased testimony of God's existence, increased testimony of the divinity of Christ's mission, his life, T the concluding session of the his death, his establishing of the gospel. Conference, when the hearts of -- - / pray God to sanctify to our good.....: ' the blessings and testimonies of this great saints were filled with gratitude and conference, in the name of Jesus Christ. Jov, President McKay blessed the Amen. Saints and commissioned them to be —V. P. C. Notes TO THE FIELD Emergency Orders for SompleBurial Clothing FUMERGENCY orders for temple-burial clothing are accepted at any time by the Relief Society General Board Temple-Burial Clothing Department in Salt Lake City, Utah. The department is open daily, 8:30 A. M., to 5:00 P. M., on weekdays and 8:30 a. M. To 1:00 P. M., on Saturdays. Emergency orders for temple-burial clothing may be placed on holidays or week ends when the department is not open by calling the L. D. S. Church operator in Salt Lake City, telephone EMpire 4-2511. In doing so, explanation should be made to the Church operator that it is an emergency order and the party calling would like to be connected with the member of the temple-burial clothing department who is handling emergency orders for temple-burial clothing. The clothing will then be sent immediately according to instructions provided by the customer, <-> <= Hower Arrangements at Tlew-Fashioned ns Old-Fashioned SvIvia Pezoldt Port short-stemmed flowers through the holes in a plastic doily which covers a shallow bow] of water. By using a round, lacy, white doily with a careful arrangement of colorful flowers inside the border, it will look like an old-fashioned bouquet. lake Shis Caller WVolcome Submitted by the National Tuberculosis Association HAT veteran tuberculosis fighter — the Christmas Seal — is calling on vou again this year. The -aamiel Christmas Seal Ictter from solleniieny TB associations is making its way into homes all over the Nation. On your response to its message depends the chance of continuing the battle against that constant menace to every individual and every home. When the first Christmas Seal was introduced, fifty-two years ago, tuberculosis was called the White Plague. Unfortunates who came down with 'TB were shunned and extended as little hope as there was scientific knowledge of the disease. Christmas Seal contributions over the last half century have done a tremendous amount to change that dismal picture. Now the Christmas Seal, with its familiar double-barred cross, has become a symbol of hope. This year Christmas Seal money will help some 3,000 voluntary TB associations to fight an estimated 70,000 new cases of TB in this country. Tuberculin skin tests and chest X-rays will search out unsuspected cases, which, if left undiscovered, could infect others. Health education will help keep TB from ever developing. Medical research will continue its efforts to overcome T'B wherever it develops. Your 1959 Christmas Seal contribution helps to protect your family from tuberculosis. Give for Christmas Seals and use them. Q Home Impressions Hannah C. Ashby Her active feet once pattered through the doors, And vibrant voices filled the rooms with song. Her eager helpers did the family chores, And like young nursery trees, grew straight and strong. The years sped swiftly by on soaring wings; There was no time to stop or hesitate. The constant care of a growing family brings Demanded action now, that could not wait. As buds to blossoms burst with coming dawn, The children quickly flowered with learning's light; And all too soon the childhood hours were gone; The world had lured them forth to try their might. Like carvings deeply etched in marble base, Those home impressions time cannot efface. Page 816 The Miracle Mile Leola Seely Anderson OU can walk a mile down Wilshire Boulevard any night in December and meet a miracle. 'There is a small but brilliant sign just the other side of one of Hollywood's big department stores that tells you this is it: 'The Miracle Mile. You may see only the fabulous glitter of a man-made empire, or you may see a sudden and strange light, as Louisa Devore did, about cight o'clock on the night of December 23d as she walked the Miracle Mile with her daughter, Nancy. Wrapped in furs and_ bright scarves, they were a striking couple even among the throngs of welldressed, package-laden people, but though she walked with the measured tread of confidence, Louisa Devore knew panic in her heart. She felt the rapier thrust of icicles in the air swirling in from the ocean, and although the Miracle Mile blazed light as day, the sky above was blackly impenetrable. Mark, Mark, where are vou? Her silent cry spiraled into the night and found no answer. Her shattering widowhood still ached and destroyed with its loneliness. 'Though it had been nearly six months since Mark's sudden heart attack, her loss seemed as poignant tonight as at first. Christmas without Mark was like summer without sunshine or winter without hope. Louisa slid her arm through Nancy's and held her tightly. She still had Nancy, a vital part of Mark—like him in her quick gencrosity, her gay, laughing spirit. Without her there would be no going on. Tonight the girl seemed restless and preoccupied. She misses her father, too, Louisa brooded. Holldays had always been such fun. It had become a ritual to walk the Miracle Mile before Christmas [ve to enjoy the elegance of the displays and the storybook dramas in the windows. And Mark had always insisted on buying them something special—a cloud of nylon, celestial blue, or maybe a stole iridescent with sequins, like a star remembered. Or perhaps a sack of popcorn, or a Christmas elf. Louisa forced her errant thoughts back. Nancy had been talking all the way down the street, not in the usual torrent of excited chatter, but thoughtfully. Louisa drew closer to her daughter. Panic was a shadow, so near. "Paul says you have to be away from all this to appreciate what Christmas really means," Nancy spoke softly. "He says all the surface show and high-pressure commercialism make him ill since he spent a Christmas overseas. He thinks.. "Paul says, Paul thinks'"—Louisa's taut nerves grew tighter still. She knew Paul Candland was a fine young man; she knew he was ambitious and intelligent and halfway through law school. He was also terribly in love with her daughter, and that was frightening, too. "Paul thinks every second generation should be born poor—just so we don't lose the wonder of livPage 817 ing. He says doled-out money is a narcotic that gives people the idea the world owes them a living, when actually it only owes them the right to earn it. Isn't he splendid? He thinks — oh, wait, Mother! You really should see this!" HE maneuvered Louisa expertly through the crowd into a jewelry store entrance and pointed into the show window. A fabulous solitaire winked each of a thousand facets at them. Around it the other stones were lesser stars. "That's the ring he's going to get me. We picked it out last night." Louisa gasped, "Why, that ring would cost more than Paul makes in a year!" "Sure!" Nancy smiled. "But, as Paul says, the best is none too good for me!" Louisa stiffened. "I thought Paul objected to five-dollars-down deals. I thought Paul was the independent type, who asked nothing from anyone, who planned to fight the dragon single-handed and bring it back to you on his silver charger!" At the edge in her voice, Nancy looked up. "Oh, he isn't going to get it right away. Maybe in the next fifty years, though." Louisa's lips relaxed slowly. Nancy chose her words more carefully. "No, Paul's going to finish his law course in the East. He has been offered a part-time job in a legal firm while he studies at the university. He's leaving before the New Year, Mother." Louisa's breath stopped in her throat and anguish piled up behind it. Nancy wanted to go across the continent with Paul! Her last comfort would slip away unless she could stop it. She must stop it! "He's a wonderful person, Mother. He's thoughtful and kind and he works so hard. I'm afraid he'll overdo it when he's away off there alone, with no one to look after him. He says there's so much to learn and time goes so fast...." Off there alone? At hope. With him?" Nancy raised blue eyes misty with tears. "Not as long as you want me here, Mother. He thinks you need me now more than he does." I do—I do! Louisa cried silently. Pll always need you. Maybe away off there Paul will find somebody else.... She turned quickly from the window to stop her guilty thinking. Her relief rushed out in unconsidered words. "Tll make it up to you, Nancy. Why don't I buy the ring you want, and you'll have it while you wait...?" Nancy's look shamed her. "I don't think Paul would like that. Besides, he knows I don't need a ring to wait. From my bedroom window I can see the angel Moroni shining at the top of the temple out on Santa Monica, and I can wait." Oh, to be young again, to have time and faith! As through a mist Louisa's lost gaze drifted—then riveted—to a shop window opposite the jeweler's. 'There was nothing gaudy or brilliant in it. A tiny blue and white pastry shop with a single display. In letters of gingerbread a foot high it spelled out the name "Louisa," and an obbligato of Christmas bells tinkled softly in the background. Louisa gasped "You—you aren't going ~ HOCK jolted Louisa alive. Suddenly she was young again 818 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1959 THE MIRACLE MILE Impelled, she raised her eyes from the gingerbread name to the face of the short, roly-poly woman who nodded and smiled at her through the window. Louisa swayed unsteadily. The woman's ash-blond hair was swept up to a flat bun on top of her head, and her eyes were twinkly and China-blue. Her gay cotton dress, like a generous sack of flour, was tied in the middle by an immaculate white muslin apron. Moving without volition, Louisa pushed open the door of the blue and white shop, and a wave of spicy fragrance rushed to mect her. A strange excitement possessed her. Don't be silly, she commanded herself. It is more than twenty years since Granny Straus died. Yet give this little lady a bright blue bowl and a batch of feathery "windcakes" in the making, put her in a spotless kitchen away off in a tiny Utah village, and she could almost be dear, precious Granny Straus, the only mother Louisa Devore had ever known. "The Sint Nikolaas koek in the window..." she began. The little woman beamed. "You know this cake, yes? You are Dutch, too, maybe?" Louisa nodded. "My grandmother was. The name—why did you use 'Louisa'?" "Is a common name in Holland. Ts also my name, and the name of my granddaughter." She smiled and bobbed her head. Louisa drew a slow, stabilizing breath. Of course. How foolish can a sensible woman get! "Saint Nicholas cake," Nancy repeated. "Didn't you used to tell me about that, Mother—that it meant something special?" 819 The little woman rubbed her hands down the sides of her apron. "But, yes. The cake is put on the mantel on the eve of Sint Nikolaas. The size, how high it ls, tells everybody have you been a good girl this year. A very high cake—a very good girl. You wish to haf cake made for you?" Nancy gurgled, "Let's Mother! One for Paul, too!" Louisa's drooping chin came up. Why not? Christmas is for remembering loved ones and_ precious things and symbols that have had a part in fashioning one's life. The back door of the shop swung open and a little man came in. A host of wonderful smells came with him—cinnamon and apples and spices rich as the Magi. He was short and stocky and almost bald, with a face like a Rubens' cherub on which a mischievous boy has painted a Van Dyke beard. ITHOUT uttering a word, he captured Louisa's vagrant emotions and spun her thoughts back twenty years. All the way back to a tiny railroad station in a vast white valley asleep at the foot of the Rocky Mountains. It was Christmas vacation, the last one she had spent at home from school. As she had stepped into the snow from the ancient passenger car, Gramp had shuffled out of the halfburied station to mect her, a veritable Santa in his fur pillbox and ear muffs, which were as much his trademark as the short white beard at which he tugged whenever he was perplexed. All in a moment he had embraced her, told her how pretty she was, and tucked her into the sleigh under a heavy patchwork quilt. 'The team of spirited bays had leaped forward at his signal. It was like flying to the tinkle of silver sleigh bells. She had loved the sting of wind in her face, laughed at the snowballs tossed up ito her lap by the horses' prancing fect. Down the single street of the tiny village, square little Dutch houses were lined up companionably like a row of children in bed. TTere were security and permanence as unchanging as the mountains. "Could I get you maybe a glass of vater?"' the little man penis the counter asked softly, smiling at Louisa Devore. "You look sick." His voice. That accent. Louisa tried to clear her head. This was absurd. 'There was no snow in Southern California, no matched bays pulling two-runner sleds, no blue Dutch house, and no Gramp with wise, understanding eyes. Not for twenty years had there been. Yet the little shop breathed the same cherished fragrance, the same warmth and simplicity. 'The past lived again in these two friendly persons so like those she had loved most. Seeing them called up living pictures of forgotten things. Pioneers from foreign lands strong in a new faith, who knew so well where wisdom lay. They had planted in her heart guideposts deep and firm and immovable. Like the advice about love—love is. Giving and sharing and never thinking about yourself until everybody else is thought of! Love. Louisa Devore turned suddenly to look deep into her daughter's eyes. How like Granny's they were. How like Granny this child of hers was. She might have been the one to whom Granny gave her priceless advice. Think of everybody clsc first. Louisa's cheeks flushed. "We'll take the cakes, Nancy. One for Paul, too. We'll have a Dutch Christmas right here in the middle of Hollywood." And we'll shut out the glamor and glitter, she promised silently. ANCY began to bubble. "We'll make manikins, Mother, to hide our presents in — like you used to tell me about when I was little." Louisa fumbled in her wallet and Jaid a bill on the counter. "Make us a Merry Christmas gingcrbread, too," she said rapidly. "Only spell it with an "X! It will be a more convenient size." The two smiles faded. The couple exchanged perplexed glances, and the little lady broke into voluble Dutch. Louisa caught a word here and there, and nostalgia surged up in her again. Quickly she added her card to the bill. "Send the cakes early tomorrow, will you? We must have time to alter our decorations." "I'm sorry," the little man said gently. "The names we will do, yes. But the Merry Xmas, no. Ve never put an 'X? In Christmas Ve can't take der Christ out," he finished simply. The impact of memory was like a bolt of lightning. Just so Gramp would have said it—just so he did say it—more than twenty years ago. "No substitute for der Christ Child, Louisa. Christmas then vas real jewels brought by devout kings with priceless incense and rich spices laid at a Baby's feet; 'tis the inno- 820 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—-DECEMBER 1959 THE MIRACLE MILE cence of woolly white lambs, und der integrity of parental devotion." Louisa took Nancy's arm and leaned against her. "Forget that one cake, then. The others—tomorrow.' At the door she turned to look at them again. "Thank you. Thank you very much," she whispered. UTSIDE the lights struck her full in the face. Up and down Wilshire blazed the Miracle Mile. The crowds had thinned, and within her vision were three pseudo Santas plying their trades. One rang a bell over a black pot; one whistled mechanically, his body encased in two battery-lighted boards; a third sat inside a show window making promises to the starry-eyed child on his lap. "If everyone taught Christ as sedulously as people do Santa, what a different world this would be," Nancy mused aloud. Louisa scarcely heard her. Clearly from the hills above Hollywood shone lights in the darkness. Lights of homes like hers. Fabulous, many of them, possessing real jewels and rare perfumes—and Why not parental devotion as well? The kind Gramp taught her the day he met her at the station and took her home for the last time, Louisa's thoughts owed out in a murmur. "You never did see the little blue house where I grew up, cid you, darling? It was a beautiful house—I thought." Nancy looked quickly at her mothcr, and as quickly away. Gently she guided her on down the Miracle Mile. "T wish you could have seen it as it was when I came home that last 821 Christmas. Granny had been gone six months, but my Sint Nikolaas keoke stood on the mantel as always, a very big koek it was. And there was appelbalen in the kitchen, and a pine log fire laid in the parlor...." Gramp had knelt to light it. The fame had sent a dainty red tongue exploring and begun its feast with pungent pleasure. The old man stood up and, taking his pretty granddaughter's shoulders in his big hands, had looked into her troubled cyes. "Gramp knew what was bothering ine, Nancy, even before I told hii. He knew about Mark—he had met him early in the fall. And he knew, without telling, that I wanted to martv him and go awav to California. But how could I leave my old Gramp alone—so alone?" "Silly child!" Gramp had said, shaking her gently. "Tow little you know of life and luff!" Ile had taken out his huge red handkerchicf and blown his nose loudly. "I'l never be alone. Granny is not far away. I haf only to close my eyes and she is there in her chair, rocking and smiling, and bidding me pick up the match I've untidily dropped on the hearth." He had stooped and thrown the match into the flame. "She's smiling now." "Come to California with us, Gramp," she had pleaded, as they sat before the fire, her head on his overalled knee. "No, child," he had said gently. "T haf my home, my horses, my friends, and my memories. You have a life of your own to live. You vill come back and show me a grandchild, and I will be proud of you and the baby. It will be like der first Christmas of all, ven a lid- 822 dle One was King of peace and love." His knotted old fingers had stroked her bright hair. "Remember, child, those who love us best are never far away. 'They sce and know und understand. Und der Chrst— he loves us most of all." Louisa Devore smiled at her daughter. Dear, generous Nancy. She would have Ict Paul go and stayed behind, all without complaint. But what Nancy didn't know and Louisa had just remembered was that one must walk the last mile alone. Christ did—up Calvary. Gramp did—he never saw RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1959 Nancy at all. Gently Louisa Devore disengaged her arm from Nancy's. Past the blaze of the shops the radiance of the Miracle Mile becomes subdued. Down near the end of it, on a clear night. One might see the stars, if one was looking up. Louisa raised her head. A huge white shaft pointed straight to the sky. It might have been only the gleaming towcr of a building, but it seemed to be measuring the distance between a human heart and heaven. "Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you...." f Night Shy (Bo ore Snowfall Eva Willes Wangsgaard The sky was an uncut sapphire Set in mother-of-pearl, Nested in pale wool combings, Multiplied swirl on swirl. The earth was a gray cat sleeping Curled on a cold gray floor. The sky was an uncut sapphire With a white star at its core. ' Apricot Salad Edna Lind Cole 2% c. Apricots, fresh or canned 1 pkg. Orange gelatin 1 c. Apricot juice 1 c. Hot water Dissolve gelatin in hot water. Add the apricot juice and lemon juice. 1 c. Walnuts coarsely chopped 1 tbsp. Lemon juice 1 ¢. Crcam whipped Chill this mixture until thickened. Then remove from pan and fold in whipped cream and nuts. Return to tray and finish chilling until firmly set. Servings. This recipe makes six generous Say "Mlerry Christmas © With Fancy Yeast Rolls Ruby K. Smith N the year's happiest holiday — when the first Christmas greetings and the excitement of unwrapping colorful gift packages are over — be ready with something special for that holiday breakfast or brunch. An easy way to tempt the appetite on this day of days, is to serve your family and friends with some of the festive variations of yeast rolls. Reserve one day during the week before Christmas to make all the bread and rolls necessary for the holidays, and let the aroma of freshly baked bread in the kitchen stir nostalgic memories of "the bread Mother used to make" at Christmastime. First, bake the bread, and while the fragrant loaves are cooling on the shelf, turn your attention to the basic recipe for raised rolls. Dough for rolls is softer than bread dough, since the amounts of sugar and fat are increased, and eggs are added. When the dough is ready for shaping, try some of the many variations of size, shape, and supplementary ingredients with which the finished product will delight your family. Just let your imagination run riot, as you roll, cut, and twist the dough, and combine it with spices, raisins, nuts, candied cherries, fruit-cake mix, grated lemon rind, frostings, or colored cake trim. 'Then, for good measure, remove the crust from a loaf of bread, cut it into bun-sized pieces, and dress them up with icing and holiday garnishes. As you work, give the children a chance to help, and they will surprise you with their original ideas. Doucu ror Sweet Yeast ROLts 1 yeast cake or 1 pkg. Dry yeast % c. Lukewarm water 1 c. Milk ¥% c. Sugar ¥ c, shortening 1 tsp. Salt 2 eggs (beaten) 4 ¢. Sifted flour (For whole-wheat rolls, use ¥% whole-wheat flour) Soften yeast in warm water. Scald fresh milk and cool to lukewarm, or combine dry or condensed milk with warm water to make one cup. Add sugar, shortening, salt, softened yeast, and eggs. Batter. A few minutes, then knead thoroughly, until surface is very smooth. Remove beaters and add remainder of flour to make a soft dough. Add part of flour and combine in mixer to make a smooth Let rest Place in greased bowl, cover, and let rise until a little more than doubled in bulk. Punch down, and divide in portions for different kinds of rolls. Needed. Keep unused portions covered until Shape rolls on floured, canvas-covered board, as desired. Place on greased cookie sheet, cake pan, or muffin tins. Top of rolls with milk or egg-white glaze. If icings or Otherwise, brush with melted fat. Other toppings are to be added, brush Cover lightly, and set in warm place until doubled in bulk. Bake in moderate oven (375°), 20 to 25 minutes, or until lightly browned. Other desired decoration, and cool on rack. Remove from oven, add icing or any Prepare fillings and toppings while waiting for dough to rise. Page 823 824 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1959 Courtesy General Mills, Inc. CINNAMON ROLLS CINNAMON ROLLS Use one-third recipe for sweet roll dough. Roll into a long narrow sheet 4 inch thick and 6 or 8 inches wide. If dough is too elastic to keep oblong shape, let it rest a few minutes and roll again. Brush with melted shortening, leaving one inch on long edge. Sprinkle generously with cinnamon roll filling. Moisten edge with water, roll as for jelly roll, seal moistened edge, and shape into smooth roll. Cut in onc-inch slices, and place on greased baking pan with cut side down. Brush with eggwhite glaze, and let rise until doubled in bulk. Bake in moderately hot oven (375°) 20 to 25 minutes. Brush with powdered sugar frosting and cool on rack. For holiday cinnamon rolls, use fruit-cake mix in filling, and sprinkle a dash of green or red cake trim over frosting. CuristMas 'Twists Use one-third recipe for sweet roll dough. Shape small picces of dough between the palms of your hands, into very thin rolls. Cut rolls 4 inches long. Cross two rolls to make an X, then curl each end out and in to make a broken figure 8. Place on cookie sheet, and brush with egg white. Let rise until doubled in bulk. Bake until lightly browned. Remove from oven, spread with icing, and decorate with raisins or candied fruit. Innumerable variations, using twisted rolls of dough, such as these, are possible. Let the children help you do the shaping and twisting for some of these variations, as follows: SAY "MERRY CHRISTMAS" WITH FANCY YEAST ROLLS 825 Snails: Cut rolls of dough 7 inches long. 'I'wist ends in opposite directions, and curl around on baking sheet in form of snails. Double snails are made by curling ends of rolls in opposite directions. Pretzels: Bring ends of roll together, and loop center of roll halfway over. Bowknots: 'Tic 6-inch roll in a knot with loose ends. Rosettes: 'Tic 8-inch roll in knot, and tuck ends under dough. Braids: Pinch three or four long rolls of dough together at one end. Braid loosely, and pinch together at other end. Make them small for individual rolls, or large for loaf-size pan. Double Twists: Twist end of long rolls in opposite directions, then twist 2 or 3 of them together in loose roll. Christinas Wreaths: Make braids or double twists long cnough to arrange in circle on cookie sheet. Brush with egg white and sprinkle generously with green cake trim. Place clusters of candied cherrics to represent berries. Other decorations are as follows: es 66h Wa Courtesy General Mills, Inc. CHRISTMAS TWISTS 826 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1959 Fruit-Filled Twists: Brush surface of shaped rolls with egg white. Let rise to double in bulk. Make depression in center of roll and fill with jam, jelly, or preserves. Bake until light brown. Brush with powdered-sugar icing. Nut Twists: Brush rolls with egg white, and roll in finely chopped nuts before shaping on baking sheet. Decorate with candicd cherries or other garnishics. Cruover Lear Rois Mold small pieces of dough into round balls about 1 inch in diameter. Brush with melted fat, and place three balls in cach section of an oiled muffin tin. Let rise and bake as for other rolls. Variations Ustnc Batis or Dovucit Rolls of many shapes may be made from small balls of dough. Mark patterns on a cookie sheet with melted fat, and Iet the children make balls of dough to form crescents, triangles, hearts, stars, etc. If Sally decides to make the initial S, the others will also want to shape their initials, To decorate, roll the balls of dough in crushed nuts or lemon sugar, or garnish with candied fruit or colored cake trim. Another delightful variation is to form the balls of dough with a maraschino cherry or other candied fruit in the center of each one. Hal Rummel DECORATED CHRISTMAS TREE CHRISTMAS TREES Roll dough % inch thick. Cut two or three 2-inch squares. Cut squares diagonally to make triangles with one long side. Shape a tree trunk of dough on cookie sheet, and arrange triangles, with long side down, one above another, to represent branches of tree. Brush with egg white, and sprinkle generously with green cake trim. Press fruit cake mix into dough at intervals to represent the ornaments and gifts. Let rise and bake as other rolls. SAY "MERRY CHRISTMAS" WITH FANCY YEAST ROLLS 827 Burrer Frakes (Fan Tans) Roll the dough into an oblong sheet % inch thick. Brush with melted fat and cut in two-inch strips. Stack strips four or five high, and cut off in 2-inch squares. Place, cut side down, in greased muffin tins. Let rise and bake as other rolls. Cinnamon or }emon-sugar may be sprinkled over dough before cutting, to add flavor to rolls. Burreruorns Roll dough into circular shape, 9 inches in diameter and % inch thick. Brush with melted fat. Cut into 12 or 16 wedge-shaped pieces. Roll each wedge, starting at wide cnd and rolling to point. Arrange on baking sheet, and brush with melted fat. For crescents, curve on pan. Let rise and bake until lightly browned. Fruit Foups Prepare dough as for other rolls. When ready to shape, roll on floured board % inch thick. Cut rolled dough into 3-inch squares. Place one teaspoon of date or apple-raisin filling in center of cach square. Told corners over filling and pinch edges together. Place in greased muffin tins, let rise, and bake. Fruit folds may also be baked on cookie sheet, with two opposite corners folded over filling, and other corners left open. Jelly or preserves may also be used for filling. Houipay Frurr Breap 1 recipe swect roll dough "2 ¢ shredded citron % ¢. White raisins % ¢. Chopped maraschino cherries Mix as for rolls, adding fruit to sponge before last flour is kneaded in. Knead until smooth, and Ict mse until doubled in bulk. Shape mto round loaf in a g-inch oiled cake pan. Let nse, and bake in moderate oven (350°) for 45 minutes, Brush with melted fat while warm. Pecan Loar one portion sweet roll dough % c. Finely chopped pecans ¥% c. Pecan cream filling powdered sugar frosting egg-white glaze Roll prepared dough into square 10 by 10 inches, %4 inch thick. Spread Pecan Fillmg over %8 of surface, leaving % free along one side. Told plain side, envelope fashion, over filling, then fold again, bringing lengthwise edges together. Press edges to seal. Cut folded dough lengthwise into three strips. Stretch cach strip, twisting ends in opposite directions. Coil the stnps loosely, end to end, in a well-oiled round cake pan. Begin coil in center of pan, and seal the ends of strips as they are put together. Brush with egg-white glaze, and let rise for one hour. Sprinkle with half of chopped pecans. Bake in moderate oven until lightly browned (375° — 25 minutes). Remove from oven, brush with powdered sugar frosting, and sprinkle with remaining nuts. Serve in wedge-shaped picces. Fituincs AND 'J'oppincs Filling for Cinnamon Rolls "4 ¢. Sugar 2 tsp. Cinnamon Yc. Raisins or currants Stir together, and sprinkle over rolled dough, which has been brushed with melted fat. Lemon Sugar 2 tbsp. Grated lemon pecl "A ¢. Sugar Stir together, and use for filling or topping. (Grated orange pecl may be used in same way.) Nuts, Jams, Jellies, and Preserves can all be used for casy and flavorful fillings and toppings. Egg-white Glaze 1 egg white 2 tbsp. Water sugar as desired Mix together, and brush over rolls just before shaping. (Do not use brush which has been used for melted fat.) Confectioners' Powdered Sugar I'rosting 2 ¢. Powdered sugar 1 or 2 tbsp. Top milk or cream 1 tsp. Vanilla dash of salt Add just enough milk or cream to the sugar to give it a spreading consistency. Add flavoring. Date Filling 4% ¢. Brown sugar Mix sugar and flour in small sauce- 1 tbsp. Flour pan. Add water and stir until smooth, % c. Finely chopped dates lemon juice, and cool. 1 tsp. Lemon juice Apple-Raisin Filling 1 c. Thick applesauce 1 tbsp. Butter or margarine 2 tbsp. Brown sugar 1 tsp. Nutmeg "2 ¢. Raisins Combinc and stir until well mixed. Pecan Creain Filling % c. Butter or margarine 1 egg yolk 1% ce. Sifted powdered sugar % c¢. Finely chopped pecans 1 tbsp. Flour 2 drops almond flavoring Combine and stir until well mixed. 828 Ye ce. Watcr RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1959 Add dates, and cook until thickened. Add rn POs 56 aaa hia 72 Singey Makes (Bee ul and Useful Miia x Wit Plastic Soam Le Picture shows Flyq M. Tingey of Lehi, Utah, holding one of the bags which she made by Weaving and trimming it with plastic foam, Also illustrated are many other unusual gift articles made from plastic foam: dolj dresses, flowers, dress hangers, a lampshade, and house slippers. Mrs. Tingey has developed Many original designs and has made hundreds of articles using this beautifully colored and casily washable ma. Terial. Sofa pillows and fancy bed pillows made from the foam make lovely gifts, -lace mats, covers for appliances, table place mats, and other articles can be made in any of the forty different colors which plastic foam provides, Mrs. Tingey has shared her hobby with hundreds of women and has given many demonstrations of her craft. She has instructed the blind, the Physically handicapped, and the aged to enjoy pleasant hours with this interesting hobby. In 1955, Mrs, Tingey and her husband initiated another hobby — they opened an old-fashioned store where / women are invited to come and share their ideas and display their handwork, or Fruit Salad Joan Staley 1 C. Mandarin oranges (drained ) ' ¢. Coconut, shredded 1 c. Chunk Pineapple (drained ) 1 ¢. Sour cream 1 Cc. Small Marshmallows Mix together all ingredients and let set over night in the ice Dox, Page 829 The New Day Hazel K. Todd CHAPTER 3 Synopsis: Lynn Marlow, a dress designer, who lives in Chicago and is engaged to David Talbot, returns to Springdale, her home town, to visit her Aunt Polly, and to find out if she has really forgotten her love for Johnny Spencer. Johnny had married a Southern girl who had died, leaving two children. After her arrival in Springdale, on her way to her aunt's home, Lynn mects Johnny's children. Y the time Lynn reached the turn in the trail where she must leave the path along the stream, and climb the little hill which led to the small brown house where she had grown from childhood, she was very much ashamed for allowing herself to be so disturbed. She had mostly replaced the pounding of her heart at seeing Johnny's children, for the new excitement of meeting Aunt Polly. And again the dread arose in her of finding something wrong. She had reached the top of the hill now, where the orchard was. My! How the trees had grown! She looked at the apricot trees that she had helped Aunt Polly transplant from seedlings. And there was the big apple tree with the limb sticking out where she had swung as a little girl. The blossoms had come and gone, leaving tiny green knobs hanging among the new leaves. Beyond the fruit trees was the garden. Lynn looked, expecting to see it filled with last year's dead stalks and weeds. But it was as she had always known it, neat rows Page 830 of rich black soil hilled into long columns. 'The green things were barely showing through the black dirt. Lynn paused a minute and bit her lip thoughtfully. Aunt Polly must not feel too badly. Then, before she knew it, she had reached the door with the low knob. It was half open and the sun shone in on the rose-patterned rug. She sniffed. That pungent odor of ginger and molasses could come from nothing else but Aunt Polly's freshbaked gingerbread. She opened the screen door and went in with a beating heart. The old, well-known articles about the room loomed before her in sweet nostalgia. Aunt Polly was not there. But there was the red velvet sofa, the tall china closet with the dear familiar dishes, the high-backed rocking chair with the basket of needlepoint roses. How often she remembered as a child sitting on the floor and leaning her head against that basket of roses. "Aunt Polly," she called excitedly. There was no response. Lynn walked into the kitchen. There was the high red stool where she hid sat and pecled the potatoes for dinner. She went over and sat on it with her feet on the round. Her eves traveled over the cupboard, with its rows of blue china plates, its teakettle stencils. There was the old ceramic cat hanging on the wall, with the length of string dangling from its whiskers. 'The kitchen was THE NEW DAY spotlessly clean, as she had always known it. And there on the cupboard was the gingerbread. Lynn slid the long bread knife from the varnished flower pot holder, and cut off a generous piece. Sitting there eating spicy gingerbread, after so many years, seemed very natural to Lynn. She should have come back long ago—when she first met David. David would fit perfectly in this pleasant old kitchen, with his quiet serenity, his easy congeniality. And he would love the gingerbread. She wished he had come with her. She paused a minute in the bite she was about to take. Just why, for sure, wouldn't he come with her? She looked at the door without seeing it. Aunt Polly would love David. She could see her fussing about doing things for his comfort. THE door was opening now, and Aunt Polly was standing there looking at her, her apron overflowing with green dandelions. Her round face was flushed with wonder, but full and pleasant, with only a few added wrinkles. For a minute she stood, and then she slowly let go her hold on the apron, allowing the bright green foliage to tumble about her feet. "Lindy! Lindy!" she gasped, "where did you come from?" Lynn gulped down the mouthful of gingerbread, and then they were in each other's arms, crying and laughing and saying foolish things. Finally, Aunt Polly wiped her face with her apron and dragged Lynn into the living room. "Land sakes alive, child," she exclaimed, "we act like two old fools or a couple of kids instead of two grown women." 831 She pulled Lynn down on the sofa beside her. "Now, young lady, tell me what in the world brought you back to Springdale after all these years of staying away on purpose!" Lynn was looking Aunt Polly over lovingly but closely. "Because you dear old Auntie," she said, "you let me believe you were ill, so I would come home." Aunt Polly ignored the accusation. She patted Lynn's hand. "It's wonderful, just wonderful," she kept saying over and over. When, finally, Lynn found herself alone in her old bedroom with the sloping ceiling and the window with the ruffled curtains where the early morning sun used to peep through in summertime and awaken her, she sat down on the gay patchwork quilt and wondered. Seeing Aunt Polly and the home of her childhood was so sweet, but seeing Johnny's children had awakened in her an ominous fear. Again and again she told herself she would not let it bother her. 'Those years belonged to her no more. Or did they? The gray depths of a child's eyes so like his father's, a squirming little girl with tangled curls — and what of Johnny? Was he really just a part of the past? Or were the old ashes of that past burning, lying smoldering, ready to be fanned again to open flame? Lynn buried her face into the feather pillow and shed a few, unsummoned tears. "Oh," she said, "something is happening to me. I must go away before it hurts all over again." So she turned her face toward the flowered wallpaper with a resolution that on the morrow she would return to Chicago and Uncle Meti- deth, to lier dress designing, and to David whom she would wed in the fall — no, it would be an earlier wedding. Me ook sk ok ook HE was awakened by spring sunshine streaming through — her window just as it used to do. She looked about her in bewilderment. The soft ruffled curtain, the blue columbines climbing the wallpaper, and the sounds of pots and _ pans somewhere couldn't belong to her world. She lived in a wide brick house in Chicago where she looked through her window to sce rows of houses and tall skyscrapers. She lifted her hand from the bright quilt and let it slide softly down the blue columbines. Yes, they were there. They were all there — the flowers on the wallpaper, the sun pecping through the window, the... She sat up and slid her legs over the low bed so that her fect rested on the firm braided rug. She gazed at the sun streaming in. It was a bright spring day with birds chattering in the apple trees. Down across the hill she could see the houses of Springdale settled quietly there where she had seen them so many times before. Beyond it the road wound away like a gypsy ribbon. Her gaze shifted to the line of willows that hid the creek and the path where last night she had met Johnny's children. And then, unbidden, across the meadow to the mill. And in a moment she had found what she involuntarily sought, a house that looked tiny and far away from her bedroom window. She looked searchingly at it as though from this distance she might know what was inside. The faint sizzle of bacon frying caine to her. Aunt Polly would have breakfast waiting. She must get dressed. 'hen she remembered that her things were at Mr. Jensen's drug store. She looked instinctively toward the closet where her clothes used to be. It would be interesting to see what still might be hanging. There that she could wear. Opening the door was like meeting old friends after a long separation. There was the green striped skirt that she had worn to the Girls' Day matinee dance. And the pink plaid gingham with the rosebud buttons. And there — Lynn caught her breath. There was her graduation dress with the rows and rows of pink ruffles. She had saved it for a special occasion that never came, Impatiently she pushed it farther back into the closet and slid the pink gingham almost roughly from the hanger. With trembling fingers she buttoned the rosebud buttons down the front of the yoke. As she did so, she caught a glimpse of herself in the mirror. She paused a minute and smiled. Then she went closer, and with one hand, pulled back the hair. Yes, that was the way she used to look. She fumbled in the drawer with her free hand and pulled out a red ribbon which she tied in a bow around her hair. Out in the kitchen where Aunt Polly was preparing breakfast, she gasped at Lynn standing in the door. "Why, child," she said, the egg turner in mid-air, "you're just like you used to be." And she wiped her eves with the corner of her apron. With the old impulsiveness Lynn 832 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1959 THE NEW DAY went to Aunt Polly and threw her arms around her neck. "Oh, Aunt Polly, it is wonderful to be home again with you and all the dear things in this house." For a minute Aunt Polly stroked the brown hair and then she took her handkerchief from her pocket and wiped her face. "Mercy sakes alive, Lynn, come and eat your breakfast before you have me crying like a baby." She pushed her toward the chair where Lynn sat half crying and half laughing. "Oh, what a pair we are, Aunt Polly!" she laughed. "But after all, shouldn't we be allowed a few tears in celebration!" And then she thought to herself, I can't leave her today. It would break her heart. Pll wait until tomorrow. It will be easier that way. But each day found it no easier, until there were five tomorrows gone, each with a broken promise to herself that she would return. On each day Lynn had avoided the willow path, nor did she look in the direction of the mill. ND then David called. "Oh, David," she said. "T meant to come back the next morning as soon as I found Aunt Polly was not ill. But it has been wonderful to see her again." He didn't answer at once, and then he said, "Lynn, have you seen all your old friends?" She was silent, then, knowing without his saying. "I — I... I have just visited Aunt Polly." "Lynn," his voice was tender, " want you to see Johnny, wil] you?" She stood a minute more without answering. And then slowly she 833 realized she must do as he asked, for both of them she must. "Very well, David," she said. "I will see him." "Lynn, darling.... "Yes, David?" "Don't forget to call when you want me to come. And.. "Yes, David?" "I just want you to know that I love you very much and I will be waiting." And then the receiver clicked and that was the end of it. Lynn stared at the telephone hanging on the wall where it had hung ever since she could remember. "Is something wrong?" It was Aunt Polly standing in the door with an armfal of rhubarb. "Oh," Lynn said, and pulled herself back to reality. "No. No... David just called. He...." A quick frown puckered Aunt Polly's forehead. "He isn't trying to get you to come back already, is he?" Lynn gazed out the window. "No," she said. "He wants me to see Johnny." There was a moment of silence. And then Aunt Polly went over and laid the rhubarb in the sink. "What did you tell him?" She was turned so Lynn couldn't sce her face. "IT said I would see him." Aunt Polly started breaking off the big green leaves of the rhubarb. "I wondered if you still like fresh thubarb pie as you used to." Lynn walked over to the sink beside Aunt Polly, and began breaking the long pink stems thoughtfully. "Aunt Polly," she said, "what is? Johnny like.... I mean, what does he do?" Aunt Polly paused a moment, a big leaf in her hand. She was gazing through the window. "He is lonely," she said. "But doesn't he ever go out, do things, I mean?" "I think he never goes anywhere he doesn't have to." "Mr. Jensen says he comes to the drug store." "Yes, but not much else." "Doesn't he ever come here, Aunt Polly?" "No. I have tried dozens of times. But he always makes excuses. He has never been in this house since you went away." Lynn looked mutcly out the winclow. "We used to try to take things to him after his wife died, but he refused to answer the door. Once MavRee and I took some things to the children, but he wouldn't accept them and sent us away." Lynn let the rhubarb slide slowly into the sink. "Aunt Polly," she said, "would you mind if I went for a little walk? I.... I want to think." Aunt Polly's hand touched Lynn's tenderly. "It's a wonderful day for walking," she said. "'There's a little breeze that just makes your feet itch." Lynn looked at her gratefully. And then she reached over and kissed her cheek. "You're a dear, Aunt Polly. How did I ever live without you for so long?" (To be continued ) Of, Sra veler! Leslie Savage Clark The roads of Galilee were long For weary sandaled fect, And lonely was the way that led From Nazareth's home street. Upon the hills were foxes' dens, Where wide green branches spread — The birds had nests, but One could find Nowhere to lay his head. Oh, Traveler, to whom the hopes Of troubled mankind cling, Pass not our cloor, accept, we pray, Our hearts glad welcoming! When Mothers S. Ing Leona F. Wintch HERE is magic in the melody that a mother sings. Father hears her dear voice as he nears his threshold. The day's cares are lifted when Children love to hear her sing. They know, then, that all is right with their world. Every mother has a song to sing, and she will be better for singing it. Of her melody lightens labors and dissolves discords. This swect vial of expressed love. The miracle A concert of harmonies come from 834 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1959 _FROM_THE FIELD |Z Hulda Parker, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes I'rom the Ficld" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Relief Society Handbook of Instructions. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES En@tograph sent ts, Verny J. Olson és F cy: - SOUTH SALT LAKE STAKE (UTAH) CONDUCTS SEWING COURSE Front row, seated, left to right: Louise Clark; Edna Green; Verny J. Olson, President, South Salt Lake Stake Relief Society; Lydia Y. Burrows, Stake Work Director Counselor; Dora Phillips; Myrtle Gaylor.. Second row, standing, left to right: Janet Hinckley; Arlene Adamson; Gerrie Moore; Floyce Humpherys; Sylvia Pehrson; Estella G. Walbom; Letha Wright; Edith Garrett, Stake Secretary; Verle Wood, instructor. Sister Olson reports: "South Salt Lake Stake Relief Society held a ten-weeks sewing course sponsored by Work Director Counselor Lydia Y. Burrows. Three sisters from each ward were invited to take the course. Each sister made a book of samples containing the information given in the course, and this book will be taken to the wards. "The subjects considered were: seams, tucks, hems, zippers, bound buttonholes, setting in sleeves, gussets, collars, binding armholes for sleeveless dresses, and cutting and fitting patterns. The class instructor was Verle Wood." Page 835 836 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1959 Photograph submitted by Eva N. Dalton PANGUITCH STAKE (UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, April 12, 1959 First Counselor Vera Anderson, and Nina Steele, organist, are seen at the left in the front row; Iletta D. Reid, the chorister, stands at the left in the third row. Eva N. Dalton, President, Panguitch Stake Relief Society, reports: "A sixty-five voice Singing Mothers chorus of the Panguitch Stake Relief Society furnished music for both sessions of stake quarterly conference April 12th. Six of our seven wards participated. This was the second performance of our chorus at stake conference in the past two years. The choruses from the various wards have also rendered special numbers for stake union meetings. Under the direction of Iletta D. Reid and Nina Steele, the chorus has grown in numbers and in spirit of service. Their performance at the April conference was most inspiring." BENSON STAKE (UTAH) VISITING TEACHERS HONORED AT SOCIAL July 1959 Front row, seated, left to right: Norma C. Bodily, President, Benson Stake Relief NOTES FROM THE FIELD 837 Society; Rozella Kingsford; Nellie Morrison; Sarah Sorenson; Ann Naegle; Rachel Jamison; Martha Smith; Hannah McMurdie; Victoria Erickson. Second row, standing, left to irght: Agatha Allen, stake First Counselor; Ruby Jensen; Irene Traveler; Esther Christensen; Lucina Peart; Sarah Leavitt; Marie Christoffersen; Grace Bingham; Rosa Pitcher; Annie Buxton; LaPriel Webb. Third row, standing, left to right: Ruth White, stake Second Counselor; Emelie Myler; Eva Christensen; Neta Benson; Elsie Eppick; Edna Fackrell; Elvira Elwood; Jennie Layne; Ettie Kent. Fourth row, standing, left to nght: Venna Van Orden, stake Secretary; Minerva Jones; Rose Spackman; Hedvig Bingham, stake visiting teacher message leader; Libby Purser; Winona Johnson; Clara Johnson; Thelma Christensen; Delecta Karren; Florence Rich. J Sister Bodily reports: "All of the visiting teachers in the stake were invited to the social, but special honor was given to the group appearing in the picture, who have served as visiting teachers for thirty years or more." Photograph submitted by Marion N. Pinkston LOS ANGELES STAKE (CALIFORNIA) DEAF BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY SINGING MOTHERS Front row, left to right: Gloria Wolf; Dixie O'Brien; Fern Brandenburg; Madeline Christensen. Back row, left to right: Rhoda Moulder, branch Relief Society President; Helen Melton; Irene Smith; Lois Hite; Rebecca Judd, chorister. Marion N. Pinkston, President, Los Angeles Stake Relief Society, reports: "The Singing Mothers of our Deaf Branch are an inspiration to all of Southern California. They provide 'music' for many sacrament services in the various wards upon invitation, and are the highlight of every program upon which they appear. The director is insistent that they 'sing' with expression, both with the signs made by their hands and the smiles on their faces. They use as their signature song 'Peace I Leave With You.' The sign they are portraying in the photograph is 'Peace.' None of these sisters can hear a sound." Photograph submitted by Alice C. Christensen FRENCH MISSION, BRUSSELS (BELGIUM) BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY SINGING MOTHERS Front row, left to right: Diana Mathieu; Rose Marie Denoyelle; Catherine Jadot; Jeanne Stuyck; Eulolie Dumont; Emilie Lenders; Emilie Schumm; Elsie Deschant; Elder Kent Gerber at the piano. Second row, left to right: Pauline Debatte; Marie Robeets; Madame Neskins; Maric Renoit. Third row, left to right: Augusta Bonfond; Mary McSeutens; Louise Hochsteyn; Clemence Williams; Marguerite Vantuykom. Alice C. Christensen, President, French Mission Relicf Society, reports: "This group has been organized to assist at the special Relief Society Sunday evening programs and other special programs of the branch. They are finding much joy in this activity. This is the first group of its kind in the mission, and we hope to have several others this coming year." We Walk With Angels Iris W. Schow Through childhood, she who ministers to needs And causes the whole universe to smile, Makes '"'Mother" the one earth-pervading word Synonymous with "'Angel'' for awhile. Yet with the years the world-traversing heart Finds in the: very young the undefiled, And "Angel," in the lexicon of age, Becomes the synonym for "Little Child." 838 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1959 ——— | — DEPARTMENT — — Theology—The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 22 — And the Kingdom Grew Elder Roy W. Doxey (Text: The Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 32, 33, and 34) For Tuesday, March 1, 1960 Objective: To learn ways by which the kingdom of God grew in the beginning of this dispensation. EFORE the Church was organized in this dispensation, the Lord revealed that the field was white already to harvest and that to those who thrust in their sickle with their might, rich treasures would accrue in the saving of souls in the kingdom of God. Concurrent with this promise The Book of Mormon was translated and published to the world as a new witness for Jesus as the Savior. The Lord had made known, early in this dispensation, that it was his purpose to bring The Book of Mormon information of the Nephites and Lamanites to their descendants. (See D & C 10:48-51.) In addition, this divine record indicated great promises and blessings for the descendants of Lehi. (See 2 Nephi 30:5; 3 Nephi 5:22, 23; 21:26.) Appointment of Missionaries to the Lamanites By the time the conference of September 26, 1830, convened, there was considerable interest shown toward the Lamanites on the part of some of the elders present. Before this conference, however, the Lord by revelation had called Oliver Cowdery on a mission to this people. (See D & C 28:8-10.) Peter Whitmer, Jun., and Ziba Peterson were assigned to accompany him. (See Section 32:2- Conversion of Parley P. Pratt Parley P. Pratt had accepted the gospel only one month before this time (October 1830). His conversion to the gospel in recciving a testimony of the truth of The Book of Mormon is typical of the manner in which the kingdom of God has grown. In his own words, we read: I opened it with eagerness, and read its title page. I then read the testimony of several witnesses in relation to the manner of its being found and translated. After Page 839 this I commenced its contents by course. I read all day; eating was a burden, I had no desire for food; sleep was a burden when the night came, for I preferred reading to sleep. As I read, the spirit of the Lord was upon me, and I knew and comprehended that the book was true, as plainly and manifestly as a man comprehends and knows that he exists. My joy was now full, as it were, and I rejoiced sufficiently to more than pay me for all the sorrows, sacrifices and toils of my life. I soon determined to see the young man who had been the instrument of its discovery and translation (Autobiography of Parley P. Pratt, 1874 Edition, page 38). The strength of his conversion was so great that he traveled to Palmyra, New York, the home of the Smith family, for further information. Hyrum Smith, the Prophet's brother, who had already been promised that he would have ",.. The power of God unto the convincing of men" (D & C 11:21), and Parley P. Pratt remained up almost all of the night discussing the claims of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. After leaving the Smith home the following morning, he continued his account: This discovery greatly enlarged my heart, and filled my soul with joy and gladness. I esteemed the Book, or the information contained in it, more than all the riches of the world. Yes; I verily believe that I would not at that time have exchanged the knowledge I then possessed, for a legal title to all the beautiful farms, houses, villages and property which passed in review before me, on my journey through one of the most flourishing settlements of western New York (Autobiography of Parley P. Pratt, 1874 Edition, page 4o). Sidney Rigdon a Convert The Prophet Joseph Smith wrote in his history of the Church (D. H. C. 1:120-125) that soon after the appointment of the brethren to this Lamanite mission, they journeyed westward preaching in the various villages through which they traveled. In the vicinity of Kirtland, Ohio, their missionary efforts among the white people brought immediate results. Brother Pratt had been a preacher for the organization known as "Disciples of Christ" or "Campbellites" before his conversion to the true gospel. It was because of his activities in that organization that he stopped over to visit with friends belonging to that church. Among these people was Sidney Rigdon, who presided over one of these same churches. The missionary practice followed today of presenting 'The Book of Mormon to missionary contacts was done in this case. Sidney Rigdon indicated that, although he believed the Bible to be a revelation from God, he did not feel the same way about The Book of Mormon. This being the first time, however, that he had scen the book he would read it with the purpose of determining whether or not it was of God. By permission of Mr. Rigdon, the missionaries were given the opportunity to preach to his congregation. When this was done, Mr. Rigdon told his people that what they had heard was of such an extraordinary character that it required their most serious consideration. 'These missionaries converted a number of Mr. Rigdon's parishioners. Within two weeks, and after careful reading of The Book of Mormon, together with prayer, Mr. Rigdon was fully convinced of the truth of the work. 840 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1959 LESSON DEPARTMENT The Lamanite Mission by Parley P. Pratt Parley P. Pratt has given us our best first-hand account of the Lamanite mission with its successes among the white people in Ohio especially, as well as the work accomplished among the Lamanites. (See Autobiography of Parley P. Pratt, pp. 49-59-). In and around the Kirtland region the interest in the message of the missionaries was so high that people thronged by night and day so that the missionaries hardly had time for rest. Meetings were convened in different neighborhoods, and multitudes came_together soliciting our attendance while thousands flocked about us daily; some to be taught, some for curiosity, some to obey the gospel, and some to dispute or resist it (Autobiography of Parley P. Pratt, page 50). In two or three weeks from the time of their arrival in that region, the missionaries had baptized one hundred and twenty-seven, and _before long it had increased to one thousand. Simeon Carter, who is mentioned in some revelations later, upon reading The Book of Mormon, walked fifty miles to Kirtland where he was baptized and ordained an elder. He returned to his home and within a short time a branch of the Church was organized there with sixty members. The missionaries continued their journey farther west preaching to both whites and Indians until they reached the western frontier in Jackson County, Missouri. Brother Pratt relates that this was about fifteen hundred miles from where they started, most of which was traveled by foot over a period of 841 four months. The missionaries had preached the gospel to tens of thousands of people, including two nations of Indians. This was the first mission of the Church west of New York State. During this time many hundreds of people were converted to the true Church. Just west of Independence, Missoura, was the settlement of the Delaware Indians whose interest in The Book of Mormon increased day by day until nearly the whole tribe began to become responsive to its message. The excitement thus created came to the attention of sectarian missionaries and Indian agents who ordered the Latter-day Saint missionaries from the area. "Thus ended our first Indian Mission," wrote Brother Pratt, "in which we had preached the gospel in its fulness, and distributed the record of their forefathers among three tribes, viz.: the Catteraugus Indians, near Buffalo, New York, the Wyandots of Ohio, and the Delawares west of Missouri (Autobiography of Parley P. Pratt, page 61). Thus the kingdom of God grew, with the greatest success among the Gentiles. The Book of Mormon was one of the principal means which gave to the truth-seeker a testimony that the gospel of Jesus Christ had been restored. In the true missionary spirit, Brother Pratt continued: We trust that at some future day, when the servants of God go forth in power to the remnant of Joseph, some precious seed will be found growing in their hearts, which was sown by us in that early day (Autobiography of Parley P. Pratt, page 61). Today's Activities Since 1830 our people have taken the message of The Book of Mormon to the descendants of Father Lehi. In recent years a renewed effort has been made to proselyte the Indians in the United States. One of the first tribes to be contacted in the eastern states was the Catteraugus tribe near Buffalo. Because of this missionary work among these Indians, a branch of the Church presided over by a Lamanite convert on that reservation, is in operation. A Church-owned chapel was dedicated there in 1957. The Book of Mormon was a new volume of scripture and a powerful converter of men, and it was the means by which many of the missionaries and investigators learned of great fundamental teachings of the gospel of Jesus Christ. (See Lesson 13, The Relief Society Magazine, November 1958, pp. 758-764.) Section 33 In The Doctrine and Covenants, Section 33, Ezra Thayre and Northrop Sweet were called to preach the gospel (verse 2). In calling these brethren to this work, the revelation provides us with an understanding of the reason for the growth of the kingdom of God and the need for participation in missionary activities. There was an urgent need in the beginning of this dispensation for people to know that the world religiously had become corrupted. A great apostasy or falling away from the teachings of the Savior had made its inroads into every part of the Lord's vineyard. And my vineyard has become corrupted every whit; and there is none which doeth good save it be a few; and they err in many instances because of priestcrafts, all having corrupt minds (D & C 33:4; See also 2 Nephi 26:29). The importance of this evaluation of the world, when given, and as an evidence for the truth of the restored gospel, is well stated in the following comment on this verse: Many object to the teachings of the gospel on the subject of the deviation from the original pattern, They take exception to the picture of total corruption presented but this only confirms the truth of the gospel. We have in holy writ successive portraits of human nature taken at various times. One was taken before the deluge: ''All flesh had corrupted his way upon the earth" (Gen. 6:12). Another is presented by Eliphaz, in Job: "Man, which drinketh iniquity like water" (Job 15:16). David viewed the conditions in this light: "The Lord looked down from heaven upon the children of men, to see if there were any that did understand, and seek God. They are all gone aside; they are all together become filthy; there is none that doeth good, no, not one" (Psalm 14:2, 3). Paul, in his day, repeats this and draws a terrible picture of man outside the influence of the gospel (Rom. 3:10-18). ""There is," he says, "'no fear of God before their eyes." The picture presented in the Revelations given in our day has the same features. "They [the sects] were all wrong." "My vineyard has been corrupted, every whit." Let the reader compare these statements with those quoted from the Bible, and he will feel convinced that they originated in the same source — the foundation of truth. The purpose of God in presenting these pictures is to call men to repentance. Even those who are doing good, according to the best of their understanding, err in many respects because of "priestcraft" (Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, Revised Edition, page 173). The need for a restoration of the gospel of Jesus Christ arose out of the fact of a departure from the truth; consequently, the Church was called out of the wilderness or apostasy. It was this apostasy from the gospel and the restoration that 842 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1959 LESSON DEPARTMENT John saw in vision. (See Reyvelation 12:1-6; 14:6-7.) The Eleventh Hour The dispensation of the fulness of times is referred to in this (Section 33 of The Doctrine and Covenants) and other revelations as "... The eleventh hour, and the last time that I shall call laborers into my vineyard" (D & C 33:3). (See also D & C 43:28; 95:4.) The prediction that the Lord would gather his elect from the nations of the earth in this last time is fully affirmed by the members who have come into the gospel net. It is worthy to notice that the "elect'"' of the Lord are those who believe in him and hearken unto his voice. (See verse 6.) The gatherers in this important activity are the missionaries who are always counseled to work devotedly in thrusting in their sickle and "... Reap with all your might, mind, and strength" (D & C 33:7). This counsel is as pertinent today as in other dispensations of the gospel, and the rewards to the gatherers are as sure. The Rock of Revelation The kingdom of God grew as people accepted the gospel — faith, repentance, baptism in water for the remission of sins and the receiving of the Holy Ghost. There is no other way to hearken to the voice of the Redeemer and to be saved. The gospel of Jesus Christ and its organization, the Church, is founded upon the "tock" of revelation. Men and women know of the truth of the gospel by the power of revelation to their souls. Continuance in the true faith insures to them 848 that the "gates of hell," the powers of Satan in the spirit world, will not hold them from their eternal reward because they have won the victory by overcoming evil on the earth. (See D & C 33:10-13.) What was to make the kingdom of God, the Church, grow in this dispensation? A knowledge of the great apostasy whereby the Lord's vineyard became corrupted in its every part; the restoration of the gospel and Church in the last days; the revelation of the Lord given to men whereby they might know of these facts; and The Book of Mormon as a source of knowledge of that gospel and of its truth. Section 34 and a Prophetic Element With the conversion of Parley P. Pratt, many able men came into the Church through his _ preaching. Among these was his brother Orson Pratt, one of the most ardent missionaries that this dispensation has seen. Joining the Church at the age of nincteen, he immediately set out to visit the Prophet Joseph Smith, who was residing about 200 miles away. Many converts to the true Church of this period sought counsel from the Prophet. The prophetic nature of many of the revelations given through Joseph Smith is_ well-known among Latter-day Saints. In Section 34 we find a revelation part of which has been literally fulfilled, if we are thinking of the element of prophecy. Although short in length, it is deep in meaning. Orson Pratt, A Missionary Orson Pratt is told that he is blessed because he has accepted the 844 gospel (verse 4), but more blessed is he because he is now called to preach the gospel (verse 5): To lift up your voice as with the sound of a trump, both long and loud and cry repentance unto a crooked and _ perverse generation, preparing the way of the Lord for his second coming (D & C 34:6). Important indeed is this prophetic clement in the quoted verse concerning Brother Pratt's call to proclaim the gospel "... Both long and loud...." If there was ever a man in this dispensation who served faithfully and devotedly in the missionary work in building up the kingdom on the earth, it was Orson Pratt. Over a period of fifty years it is said that he traveled more miles, preached more sermons, studied and wrote more upon the gospel and science than any other man in the Church. It would be reasonable to believe that this revelation (Section 34) served as a factor in his achieving this tremendous record. 'The Lord declared:.. Lift up your voice and spare not. Therefore prophecy, and it shall be given by the power of the Holy Ghost. And if you are faithful behold, I am with you until I come (D & C 34:10-11). Brother Pratt's missionary work included at least eleven missions to the eastern part of the United States, with seven different missions to Great Britain and Europe. Hundreds of people came into the fold of Christ through these efforts. One of his difficult missionary assignments was in Scotland where he labored for nine months raising up a branch of more than two hundred members. True to the call which came in 1830 by this revelation RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1959 (Section 34), he knew that he was preparing the way of the Lord for his second coming. His literary works, which were many, emphasized the need for preparing oneself for the glorious coming of the Savior (D & C 34:7-9). It was Orson Pratt who arranged the text of 'he Book of Mormon and The Doctrine and Covenants in chapters and verses, with footnotes and references, as published in 1876-1879. In this lesson we have scen how the kingdom of God grew by the Lord raising wp men cquipped to labor with all their might, mind, and strength in a field that was white already to harvest. They had a message which bore the stamp of divine approval and which, by the Spirit of the Lord, was carried into the hearts of men. One instrumentality by which this was done, as it iS today, was The Book of Mormon. Questions for Discussion 1. Give some of the reasons for the members of the Church being interested in the Lamanites. 2. In what way does the story of Parley P. Pratt's conversion to the restored gospel help you to understand the power of The Book of Mormon as a_ missionary tool? Do vou know of other examples of conversion through The Book of Mormon? 3. According to The Doctrine and Covenants, Section 33, what messages were the missionaries to make knowar to those whom they contacted? 4. In what way would you believe that the prophecy in Scction 34 was fulfilled in the life of Orson Pratt? 5. In what ways may I, who have the benefits of the Church already built on a firm foundation, make contributions to the growth of the kingdom of God? Uisiting Seacher ITlessages— Truths to Live By From The Doctrine and Covenants Message 22—"And The Book of Mormon and the Holy Scriptures Are Given of Me for Your Instruction.. ""(D & C 33:16). Christine H. Robinson For Tuesday, March 3, 1960 Objective: To show that only by studying and knowing the scriptures and by putting them into action in our lives can we benefit from the Lord's instructions. HE Lord has declared that he has preserved the holy scriptures for our inspiration and instruction. A consideration of the marvelous way the scriptures came into being and have been protected throughout history, shows that the Lord's hand has ever been present in their preservation. The reality of this divine preservation can particularly be seen in the way The Book of Mormon records were written and preserved. When Nephi and his three brothers were sent back to Jerusalem to obtain the brass records in the custody of Laban, they encountered almost insurmountable difficulties. In the face of these obstacles, they were about to abandon the project. Nephi, however, inspired by the Lord, convinced his brothers that they must persevere. He knew that it was wisdom in God that they should obtain these records so that the teachings of the holy prophets could be preserved for this generation and for generations to come. With the Lord's help the brass plates were obtained. 'The Nephite prophets preserved them and wrote their own history on gold plates, and the entire set of records was miraculously preserved to come forth in the latter days as the Lord decreed. The Book of Mormon records were preserved by inspired men, many of whom did not know specifically why they kept them. Nephi, when he was instructed to make two sets of plates, stated:.. The Lord hath commanded me to make these plates for a wise purpose in him, which purpose I know not (1 Nephi 9:5). One wise purpose was clearly shown when the Prophet Joseph Smith was commanded by the Lord to use the small plates of Nephi in translating the part of the Nephite records lost by Martin Harris. (See D & C 10:38-46.) The great prophet Mormon, the abridger of 'The Book of Mormon, who was the custodian of all the records written and handed down by his ancestors, cared for them in full knowledge of their real importance. He knew that by so doing, he was following the instructions of the Lord. (See "The Words of Mormon" 6-7.) Mormon's son Moroni, who abridged the Book of Ether, also knew that The Book of Mormon Page 845 846 records would be preserved for the instruction of future generations. He said:. Out of the earth shall they come, by the hand of the Lord, and none can stay it; and it shall come in a day when it shall be said that miracles are done away; and it shall come even as if one should speak from the dead (Mormon 8:26). The Prophet Joseph Smith described 'The Book of Mormon as:. The most correct of any book on earth, and the keystone of our religion, and a man would get nearer to God by abiding by its precepts, than by any other book (D. H. C. 4:461). The Bible is a collection of sixtysix books which describe God's dealings with mankind on the Eastern Hemisphere. This great scripture has come to us through many translations, and is the word of God as far as it is translated correctly. The Pearl of Great Price, another RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1959 of our standard scriptures, contains the writings and teachings of Moses as revealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith, and the writings of Abraham which came miraculously into the Prophet's hands and were translated by him with divine help. 'The Doctrine and Covenants is our only truly modern scripture. It is a compilation of revelations designed for our guidance and given by the Lord through the Prophet Joseph Smith. Regarding the scriptures, dent Wilford Woodruff said:. The Bible, the Book of Mormon, the Book of Doctrine and Covenants contain the words of eternal life unto this generation, and they will rise in judgment against those who reject them (Journal of Discourses 22:335). PresiTruly, the holy scriptures have been given by the Lord for our instruction. Yct, they cannot achieve their purpose to guide us throughout our lives unless we study them and put their teachings into action. Work IT leeting—Physical Safety Factors in the Home (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Discussion 6—Safety Precautions in Medicine and Household Items Charlotte A. Larsen For Tuesday, March 8, 1960 Objective: To show the great responsibility of every homemaker to wage an intensified battle against poisons which take a high toll of lives among our children. HE problem of accidental injury and especially accidental poisoning in infancy and childhood has long been of great concern to professional and lay groups. We are in a new era with regard to poisons. 'The danger lies in the thousands of recently developed household items. 'The committee on toxicology of the American Med- LESSON DEPARTMENT ical Association reports about 250, ooo brand-new chemical products available for industrial, farm, and home use. Few if any of these items are designated as poison. A number of external medications and household items that have proved unsafe if swallowed by children are: Rubbing alcohol, tooth-ache drops, spirits of camphor,' corn and callous removers, footpowders, furniture polish, bleaches, disinfectants, lye, soap, silver and shoe polishes, bluing, ammonia, cosmetics, nail-polish remover, deodorants, perfume, shaving lotion, moth balls, untreated crayons, dyes, ink, and varnish. These products are among those involved in a study of 1,033 cases made by the Chicago poison control center. 'There is still much to learn about some poisons and the symptoms they cause. Carbon tetrachloride is coming to be known as extremely dangerous. Helpful Hints Don't be misled as to whether a product is dangerous just because it does not say Poison or For External Use Only on the label. Never put anything poisonous on food shelves. Keep containers tightly covered. Lock cabinets containing poisons. Poisonous Household Drugs and Chemicals Household drugs and chemicals seem to attract many a child, and often the unthinking parents are to blame. Prevention is the best policy. Keep alert. Every mother should know if there is a poison control center in her city, so if an emergency arises, immediate help can be had. 847 Medicines — Know About the Medicines You Use! For your own protection you should read the drug label with care. It is required to tell certain things so that the medicine may be used safely. Many drugs may be harmful if used without a_physician's supervision. Your physician is. Your safeguard in the use of prescription drugs. Take an Inventory of Your Medicine Chest! Clean out your medicine chest regularly. Know what hazards your cabinet is harboring, and how long each item has been on the shelf. Were the nose-drops purchased last fall, or the fall before? Are those pills the ones we got when Jimmy had hay fever or when Mary had a sore throat? Solve this problem by jotting down the date of purchase on the label of every medicine you buy before you place it on the shelf. It is also wise to write the name of the medicine if you know it, and the illness for which it is prescribed. This would help decide which medicines to discard, and would avoid the discarding of expensive medicine unnecessarily. Paste the list inside your medicine chest or near the shelf where your medicines are kept. When the time comes to discard a. Medicine, don't just drop it into the wastebasket, or even into the garbage can. Flush it down the toilet. Medicine has a kind of fascination for many children. Liquid and pills can be easily poured into the toilet; salves and ointments should be scooped out of jars or squeezed out of tubes into toilet paper and flushed away. Cautions Never take anything internally in the dark; turn on the light and read the label carefully. It's a good idea, too, to read the instructions twice, including the small print. Poisoning can be prevented by observing caution and never being negligent in storing and using medicines. Questions 1. Why is it necessary to read the labels and instructions before taking medicines? 2. Are you a victim of miracle, cure-all advertisements? 3. What precautions can you take to make sure of the safety of your family from accidental poisoning by medicines? Ab itoha tute — meters Literature — A New Nation Speaks Lesson 14—Thomas Paine, Revolutionist Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: America's Literature, by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes, Dryden Press, New York, pp. 137-148) For Tuesday, March 15, 1960 Objective: To evaluate Thomas Paine's contribution to the ideal of freedom. Calumny Against Paine FEW men have been more vilified than Thomas Paine. Several times he was hanged and buried in effigy, shot at while living on his New York farm, spat upon, and refused the right to vote in the very country which he did as much as any other to create. Englishmen directed their cobblers to drive hobnails in the design of a T into one heel, a P designed into the other, that they might grind Thomas Paine into the dirt with their every step. If the boogeyman was too tame to subdue misbehaving children, mothers used their supreme threat, "Better be good or Tom Paine'll get you." In absentia England tried him as a traitor, and convicted him; France left him in jail for ten months, deathly ill of an ulcer, and only chance saved him from the guillotine because the cross signifying he was to be taken was made on the open side of the door, and was absent when the door was closed; all this happened within walking distance of Gouverneur Morris, the American consul in Paris, who knew of his imprisonment but did nothing to end it. Paine, finally was freed through the efforts of the succeeding consul, James Monroe, who nursed Paine in his own home for eighteen months, believing him too ill ever to recover. Upon returning to America, Paine was so poor he had to borrow a dollar to pay for his passage across the Delaware River; even the liberal Quakers refused him burial in their sacred ground, and after his bones 848 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1959 LESSON DEPARTMENT had been buried on his own farm for ten years, an English journalist, William Cobbett, was so filled with his remorse at having opposed Paine that he took his remains to England, there to build a monument over them in Paine's honor. But at Cobbett's death seventeen years later no one knew the whereabouts of Paine's body. Yet breathing or buried, the immortal Tom Paine was a_ living idea; and his one idea was revolution—revolution necessary and now. If such a rabble rouser and troublemaker was condemned and ignored by his own contemporaries, why does he deserve our attention, even possibly our praise? Is his one illustrious success in America of sufficient moment to cancel out his life of failure, loneliness, persecution, and living oblivion? If he was a tactless hothead who alienated his own contemporaries, what can make him any different for us? Our great advantages in evaluating him are time and distance. We are sufficiently removed that we can see the whole, and therefore know and judge as his own world never could. 'Time has tended to minimize his failures and weaknesses, particularly in recent decades, and has permitted us to realize the stature of his idealism and his necessary role in the birthing of a new Nation. Paine's Life (1737-1809) Born in 1737 in England, to a Quaker corsetmaker and his wife, Paine attended Thetford village grammar school and in his early teens ran away to sea. At age twenty he married, became -once more a staymaker, continuing his interests 849 in astronomy, mathematics, and philosophy. 'These interests he acquired through attending lectures by various members of the Royal Society, but mostly through conversation and argument in the local coffeehouses. His wife died within the year, presumably of childbirth, and Paine lived in four English villages, married again, but was legally separated after three years of incompatibility, cause unknown. With his later friends Paine would never discuss his personal past, though sometimes he made kindly references to his Quaker father. He never mentioned his mother, yet he called on her in her old age, and made arrangements through a third party to give her enough money each vear to keep her. Ile became excise collector for the Crown at Sussex, but was fired for passing excise goods without inspecting them. He was not endeared to his employer, since in 1772 he spent most of his time badgering members of Parliament for a "living wage," attacking them both in person and with a printed pamphlet, a procedure unheard of in Paine's time, when wages were set in each district by the Justice of the Peace. Still striving vainly to find his niche in life, he purchased a tobacco shop, but it soon failed and Paine was declared bankrupt. When in 1774 he first came to Benjamin Franklin's attention, he was thirty-seven years of age and a failure at everything he had tmied. His bookseller friend Clio Rickman, described him as of medium height "and rather athletic; he was broadshouldered and stooped a little. His eye, of which the painter could not convey the exquisite meaning, was 850 full, brilliant, and singularly piercing; it had in it the muse of fire." It was this eye brilliance which attracted Franklin to him. Thinking him a promising young man, he wrote him letters of recommendation to friends in Philadelphia. With nothing to lose, and all to gain, Paine arrived in Philadelphia November 30, 1774, and for cighteen months served as editor of the Pennsylvania Magazine, more than doubling its circulation with his liberal editorials on dueling, rights of women, need for a copyright law, evils of slavery, and kindness to animals. Te had been in the colonies only five months until a group of enraged farmers fired on British troops at Lexington on April 109, 1775. Tom Paine had great decisions to make. Whcre did he stand? Even more important, where stood the thirteen colonics? On August 23, 1775, England issued a proclamation stating that the colonies were in a state of rebellion. In this golden hour it was Tom Paine who changed rebellion to revolution by convincing the thirtecn colonies that it was their destiny to become a separate Nation. Save for Benjamin Franklin, who referred to Tom Paine as his "political son," scarcely any of these transplanted Englishmen had ever dreamed of anything but preserving their sacred rights as Englishmen, not even George Washington, elected Commander-in-Chief of the Army the day preceding the Battle of Bunker Hill. Between Lexington and the publication of Paine's Common Sense almost nine months later, the following events occurred: The Continental Congress met; colonial forces captured Fort Ticonderoga; British forces bombarded RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1959 Rhode Island, laid siege to Boston, burned Falmouth, Massachusetts, and Norfolk, Virginia; used Boston's Old South Church for the stabling of horses, while General Howe ordered Old North Church and a hundred homes destroyed for firewood. Still, General Washington said, "We have not raised armies with ambitious designs of separating ° from Great Britain." It cannot be stated that Paine, more than any other influence, reshaped men's minds to desire separation; instead his Common Scnse was the only influence to establish such a goal for the taking up of arms. His powerful words appcared at just the nght moment. As is evidenced by their wildfire popularity, they expressed what most of the colonists believed in their hearts, but could not say. Or if they had not believed it, previously, they did after reading Paine. Common Sense In October 1775, five months after Lexington, Benjamin Franklin proposed to Tom Paine that he write a history of the rebellion which the latter agreed to attempt. Dr. Benjamin Rush was at Paine's home as each chapter was completed, and it was he who gave the pamphlet its title and found a publisher sufficiently courageous to publish it. Later, Paine recalled that when he landed in America he found "the disposition of the people such, that they might have been led by a thread and governed by a reed." But in his own mind there was no confusion or hesitation, for he wrote, "My own line of reasoning is to myself as straight and clear as a ray of light." Within three months the pam- LESSON DEPARTMENT phlet sold 120,000 copies in the colonies, soon followed by four European editions and a total sale of more than one-half million. (Paine donated all his royalties to the Continental cause.) No one on either side of the Atlantic escaped its impact. Conservative John Adams said, "History is to ascribe the Revolution to Tom Paine'; George Washington saw it "working a powerful change in the minds of many men" towards separation, and throughout the army it was read to the Continental soldiers while standing in formation. By thus giving direction and certainty in a moment of confusion, Paine helped the colonists to see and feel a new common cause which eventually resulted in the emergence of a Nation, and it was his imagination which first conceived the name "The United States of America." The title, Common Sense, like the masquerade of giving only "simple facts, plain arguments, and common sense," recalls the genius of Antony's oration over the dead body of Caesar. When Paine reassured the readers he was appealing only to their "instincts for truth, decency, and fairness," they flattered themselves that it was these qualities alone which Paine exercised, both within them and himself. In reality Common Sense is a rhetorical powder keg with the fuse lighted and sparking. He uses every device to inflame his hearers—to jar them alive to a new definition of their relationship to Mother England and to their own freedom. And this was precisely what was needed. Irony, ridicule, emotional torrents, barbed phrases—all are here, and in a cre- 851 ative brilliance which Paine never again achieved. Listen to some of the passages which proclaim Tom Paine as the most effective pamphleteer and persuasive arguer of the Revolution, and probably of our entire American history: The Sun never shined on a cause of greater worth. "Tis not the affair of a City, a County, a Province, or a Kingdom; but of a Continent—of at least one eighth part of the habitable Globe. 'Tis not the concern of a day, a year, or an age; pos-~ terity are virtually involved in the contest, and will be more or less affected even to the end of time, by the proceedings now. Now is the seed-time of Continental. Union, faith and honour. The least fracture now will be like a name engraved with the point of a pin on the tender rind of a young oak; the wound would enlarge with the tree, and posterity read it in full grown characters.... I have heard it asserted by some, that as America has flourished under her former connection with Great-Britain, the same connection is necessary towards her future happiness, and will always have the same effect. Nothing can be more fallacious than this kind of argument. We may as well assert that because a child has thnved upon milk, that it is never to have meat.... But she has protected us, say some. That she hath engrossed us is true, and defended the Continent at our expense as well as her own, is admitted; and she would have defended Turkey from the same motive, viz. For the sake of trade and dominion.... This new World hath been the asylum for the persecuted lovers of civil and religious liberty from every part of Europe. Hither have they fled, not from the tender embraces of the mother, but from the cruelty of the monster; and it is so far true of England, that the safe tyranny which drove the first emigrants from home, pursues their descendants still.... I challenge the warmest advocate for reconciliation to show a single advantage 852 that this continent can reap by being connected with Great Britain. I repeat the challenge; not a single advantage is derived. Our corn will fetch its price in any market in Europe, and our imported goods must be paid for buy them where we will.... Everything that is right or reasonable pleads for separation. The blood of the slain, the weeping voice of nature cries, "Tis Time To Part. Even the distance at which the Almighty hath placed England and America is a strong and natural proof that the authority of the one over the other, was never the design of Heaven... (Text, page 139 ff.). Taunting the readers' imaginations with the image of besieged Boston, "that seat of wretchedness"' whose inhabitants now can only "stay and starve or turn out to beg," Payne asks how we can again be fnends with England after such cruelty: But examine the passions and feelings of mankind: bring the doctrine of reconciliation to the touchstone of nature, and then tell me whether you can _ hereafter love, honour, and faithfully serve the power that hath carried fire and sword into your land?... But if you say, you can still pass the violations over, then I ask, hath your house been burnt? Hath your property been destroyed before your face? Are your wife and children destitute of a bed to lie on, or bread to live on? Have you lost a parent or a child by their hands, and yourself the ruined and wretched survivor? If you have not, then are you not a judge of those who have. But if you have, and can still shake hands with the murderers, then are you unworthy the name of husband, father, friend, or lover, and whatever may be your rank or title in life, you have the heart of a coward, and the spirit of a sycophant (Text, pp. 141- 142). It was such fiery brilliance from the pen of our master phrase-maker which convinced our forefathers they should revolt, not rebel. Between the two lies all the difference, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1959 and all the gratitude we owe Tom Paine, regardless of whatever else he had been or was to become. World Revolutionist As editor, soldier, and the author of sixteen issues of The American Crisis, Paine continued to serve his country throughout the war. The first Crisis, which appeared in De-° cember 1776, has the same impassioned brilliance as Common Sense, and is almost as famous. It begins: These are the times that try men's souls: The summer soldier and the sunshine patriot will in this crisis shrink from the service of his country; but he that stands it NOW, deserves the love and thanks of man and woman. Tyranny, like hell, is not easily conquered; yet we have this consolation with us, that the harder the conflict, the more glorious the triumph (Text, pp. 137-138). Thanking God that he feared not, he kept alive hope in darkest hours, was sent on a desperate last appeal to France, where his reputation was largely responsible for the success of his appeal for money, munitions, and clothing. From the moment this convoy reached our shores, our fighting force's fortunes continued to improve until Cornwallis surrendered at Yorktown. Granted a farm and an annuity of eight hundred dollars for his services to his country during the Revolution, Paine continued to write, but he also invented the smokeless candle and an iron bridge which he was promoting in France just before their own revolution broke out. Here he became a close friend of our Ambassador, Thomas Jefferson, with whom he had so much in common. He returned to England where he published The Rights of LESSON DEPARTMENT Man, which expressed his view that "Government, like dress, is the badge of lost innocence," and which made his most sustained: appeal for the abolishment of monarchy. It was this book which caused him to be so much hated by his brother Englishmen who still loved their king, despite his human faults. Benjamin Franklin had - said, "Wherever liberty is, there is my country." Paine believed and acted his conviction that "Where liberty is not, there is mine." He proclaimed his strong conviction that the American and the French Revolutions were but the beginning, and that soon men_ everywhere would be freed of their chains which traditional governments imposed upon them. "The world is my country, all mankind are my brethren, to do good is my religion...." It was in this spirit that he went to France to try helping the international revolution there. Soon after the fall of the Bastille, which was the symbol of aristocratic cruelty and oppression, Lafayette gave Paine the key to the Bastille to be sent to Washington. Even though he could not speak any French, Paine was elected to the French Assembly, and was one of nine men chosen to draft a constitution for the new France. But in 1793 when the guillotine: became popular and the Assembly voted to kill Louis XVI and his family, Paine fearlessly opposed their decision to kill their king, for which his French friends imprisoned him to show their disapproval of his independence. Agaim, in contrast to Franklin's philosophy of "getting on in the world," Paine was not practical. Declared a traitor in England, im- 853 prisoned in France for saying what he thought, he next proceeded to alienate all Christians by publishing his The Age of Reason, really in the hope of saving some common belief in God among the French, who were being carried away by their excesses during the revolution. While he never tried to convert anyone to his own views, he believed wholeheartedly in his right to state his religious belief even as he granted the same right to everyone else. Nevertheless he attacked the Bible as being false theology, and a secondhand account of false revelation which he could not accept. Appearing almost ten years after the end of the American Revolution, almost twenty since he wrote Common Sense, this book was reviled by the new American generation which had forgotten Paine's past _ services. Though he never opposed Jesus as being the greatest teacher and most moral of men, Paine's attempt to justify his deistic or "Natural Religion" in place of the Bible, caused him to be universally hated. When he returned to America eight years later he found his life a miserable one. If only he could have chosen the moment of his death, he might have died a hero; as it was his great tragedy was to live too long and speak too often what he believed, regardless of the consequences. Yet in his earlier years speaking the truth as he saw it, even when he was alone in his opinion, was the source of his greatness, and so must it ever be for so untrammeled a nature as Paine's. Religious Beliefs Paine's credo of religious belief formed part of the first chapter of 854 The Age of Reason (Text, page 143). Stating his belief in God, in "happiness beyond this life," and in the equality of man, he disavows belief in any creed. However, he can never be called an infidel, since by his own definition: "Infidelity does not consist in believing or in disbelieving; it consists in professing to believe what he does not believe" (Text, page 143). Paine's Bible is the creation, both of man and of the marvelous world in which he lives, since "Every man is an evidence to himself, that he did not make himself'? (Text, page 147). He believed that man can come to know God only through his reason, and that, by using the methods of science, man can possess the "true theology." Because it was rational and reasonable, Paine believed that the "moral duty of man consists in imitating the moral goodness and beneficence of God manifested in the creation toward all his creatures." True to his early Quaker influence, he believed that the world had become too reasonable and enlightened ever again to admit that any human suffering or cruelty was necessary. If man were freed from the evils of traditional social, economic, and political dominations, he would be benevolent to his own kind since "man is naturally the friend of man, and... Human nature is not of itself vicious." If unhampered by institutions, man's reason and humanity would inevitably bring kindness and peace to society. Humanitarian With such a philosophical core, Paine wrote his Agrarian Justice and other pamphlets advocating the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1959 specific reforms which were the fond dreams of his later years. He opposed slavery, dueling, capital punishment, and, most of all, social and financial conditions which caused unbelievable suffering among the poor. While the far-sighted Paine advocated international copyright laws, disarmament, and an international association of nations, his most radical proposal was to tax the wealthy so that every person should receive fifteen pounds at age twenty-one, and from age fifty on, ten pounds a year. Such a sum would provide a decent minimum income, and stop the mass begging by the aged which for so long had characterized the "civilized" world. Tom Paine deserves our gratitude and our study of his mind and writings, not so much because he was either good or bad, as because he was throughout his life a spark. At the crucial moment he quickened men's imaginations into action, and they, seeing good in his writings, did what their new-found convictions dictated they must do. Tom Paine wrote that, whenever a problem arises, we should clear away all precedent and think as if we were the first men who ever thought. This he did throughout his life, with the amazing results we have just reviewed. But most amazing is it that a militarily unskilled minority of English would dare insist that they were right in their concept of man and government, that the greatest nation in the world was wrong. Such sheer creative seeing and doing required a superabundance of courage and faith. In these qualities Tom Paine led the colonists to action, victory, and identity as a separate Nation. LESSON DEPARTMENT Thoughts for Discussion 1. Why was Paine hated and forgotten for so many years, both before and after his death? 2. Do you agree with John Adams when 855 he says, "History is to ascribe the Revolution to Tom Paine'? 3. Which of Tom Paine's literary skills made Common Sense such a dynamic document? 4. Why has he often been called a citizen of the world? Social Science—Spiritual Living in the Nuclear Age Lesson 5—The Individual and Religious Maturity—Part Il Elder Blaine M. Porter For Tuesday, March 22, 1960 Objective: To consider some criteria of religious maturity and the role of religious maturity in spiritual living. (Note: For purposes of continuity, the teacher should briefly review the lesson from last month.) OME of the processes of achieving religious maturity were briefly considered in last month's lesson. We then embarked upon the task of trying to establish some criteria for religious maturity. The following three have been discussed: (1) Knowledge and awareness of "the abundant life'; (2) Soul freedom; and (3) Growth toward wholeness. We continue now with criterion number four. 4. Practical (dynamic) application of religious beliefs, A mature religious system of beliefs supplies its own driving power and becomes dynamic in its own tight. Allport states: Yes, I venture to assert that the most important of all distinctions between the immature and mature religious sentiment [systems of beliefs] lies in this basic difference in their dynamic characters. Immature religion, whether in adult or child, is largely concerned with magical thinking, self justification, and creature comfort. Thus it betrays its sustaining motives still to be the drives and desires of the body. By contrast, mature religion is less of a servant and more of a master in the economy of life. No longer goaded and steered exclusively by impulse, fear, wish, it tends rather to control and to direct these motives toward a goal that is no longer determined by mere self interest (Allport, Gordon W.: The Individual and His Religion, page 260, The MacMillan Company, used by permission). The gospel which Christ taught is a religion of doing; a religion of positive action. The religiously mature person within the framework of Christianity, must, of necessity, be involved in a life of dynamic action. James was most emphatic in this matter: What doth it profit, my brethren, though a man say he hath faith, and have not works? Can faith save him? If a brother or sister be naked, and destitute of daily food, 856 And one of you say unto them, Depart in peace, be ye warmed and filled; not-: withstanding ye give them not those things which are needful to the body; what doth it profit? Even so faith, if it hath not works, is dead, being alone. Yea, a man may say, Thou hast faith, and I have works: shew me thy faith without thy works, and I will shew thee my faith by my works. Thou believest that there is one God; thou doest well: the devils also believe, and tremble. But wilt thou know, O vain man, that faith without works is dead? (James 2:14-20) The negative aspects of religion are important, but certainly the religiously mature person cannot live by the "thou shalt nots" alone. Lowell Bennion presents a challenging question in this regard: Well might each of us ask himself: are you a Latter-day Saint because of the things you don't do primarily or because of the things you do? Is religion for you mainly inhibitory and restraining, or is it a program of action, a life of devotion and service (Bennion, Lowell: Teachings of the New Testament, Salt Lake City, Deseret Book Company, 1956, page 141). The religiously mature person is not one who is satisfied with where he is, with the status quo; he is actively seeking to improve the life situation. People have good intentions; but the religiously mature person not only has good intentions, he actually puts these intentions into operation. If a man's highest value is success, if love, truth, justice, tenderness, and mercy are of no use to him, he may profess these ideals but he does not strive for them. He may think he worships the God of love, but he actually worships an idol of his real goals which are rooted in materialism. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1959 Man will seek the haven of the church and of religion because his inner emptiness impels him to find some security, but he often is concerned only with the survival of religion and of the churches. Professing religion is no guarantee of being religious. One measure of this aspect of religious maturity was stated very: concisely in the Biblical admonition: "... By their fruits ye shall know them" (Mt. 7:20). The religiously mature person is not only concerned with his awareness of religious teachings but he is genuinely concerned with developing the skill to apply them. The religiously mature person in his diligent attempts to actively apply the principles of religious living, develops a genuine concern for the welfare and happiness of. Others. He is one who has emerged from childish egocentricity and is taking an active, affectionate interest in the needs of others. 5. The sense of glory in life. The scriptures tell us "The heavyens declare the glory of God; and the firmament sheweth his handywork" (Psalms 19:1). 'The religiously mature person recognizes that glories surround him. He stands in reverent amazement of the many elements which constitute the universe and life that are beyond his own comprehension, beyond his own accomplishments. As questioned in the book of Psalms, "What is man, that thou art mindful of him? And the son of man, that thou visiteth him? For thou hast made him a little lower than the - angels, and hast crowned him with glory and honour" (Psalms 8:4-5). Reverence for life inevitably re- LESSON DEPARTMENT sults in humility—a hallmark of the religiously mature person. He provides leadership and authority when things important to him are to be done or said, but at the same time he is far from being overwhelmed with thoughts of his own goodness. No wholesomely critical person can ever be impressed with his own spirituality." His insight into himself is so keen and his vision is so vast that perspective does not allow him to see himself as anything but an imperfect representative of something much better than himself. It is this that makes growth possible. Albert Schweitzer points out that the idea of reverence for life offers itself the realistic answer to the realistic question of how man and the world are related to each other. Of the world man knows only that everything which exists is, like himself, a manifestation of the will to live. With this world he stands in a relation of passivity and activity. On the one hand, he is subordinate to the course of events which is given in the totality of life; on the other hand, he is capable of affecting the life which comes within his reach by hampering or promoting it, by destroying or maintaining it. (Reference, Albert Schweitzer: Out of My Life and Thought, New York, Henry Holt and Company, 1933, page 267 ff.) As a being in active relationship with the world, he comes into a spiritual relationship with it by not hving for himself alone, but feeling himself one with all life that comes within his reach. Let a man once begin to think about the mystery of his life and the links which connect him with the life 857 that fills the world, and he cannot but bring to bear upon his own life—and all other life that comes within his reach—the principle of reverence for life. Existence will thereby become harder for him in every respect than it would be if he lived for himself, but, at the same time, it will be richer, more beautiful, and happier. Life will become, instead of mere living, a real experience. With this kind of approach to living, an individual is able to see beneath the surface; see beyond the horizon. He has the ability to sense the inwardness of things. As he looks at a school building, for example, he does not see just a building, but recognizes this as a place where learning occurs, where interaction is taking place. He is able to see the interior, to sense the functioning of what is going on there. And, likewise, the religiously mature individual 'senses the inwardness of people. He sees the potentialities within them and constantly seeks to move toward the goal of helping himself and other people. He seeks, as Socrates prayed, "Make me beautiful in the inward soul, and may the inward and the outward be as one." The abundant life might be interpreted as consisting mainly of loving God, loving oneself, loving one's fellow men. 6. Acting in faith. The religiously mature person acts in faith and, because of his faith, he has an optimistic view of the future. He believes in law but believes also in the liberty to act within the law to do things within law freely. It is characteristic of the mature mind that it can act wholeheartedly even without absolute certainty. It can be sure without being cocksure. We are not positive that we shall be alive tomorrow, but it is a good hypothesis to proceed on. We are not certain that the social agencies of our big cities are decreasing the margin of suffering and evil in our midst, but it scems like a probability worth backing. It is still less demonstrable that you and I will succeed in the goals that we have respectively set for ourselves; but it is the mere chance of success that nerves us for sustained and eager endeavor. The odds for success do not have to be large in order to keep us going.... Faith is a risk, but everyone in some way or other is bound to take it. (Allport, Gordon W., The Individual and His Rehgion, page 72, The Macmillan Company, used by permission ). Faith not only serves as a dynamic force to impel us on to greater things, but it can serve also as an anchor which can help provide a feeling of security much needed in the rapidly changing and complex world of today. Wherefore, whoso believeth in God might with surety hope for a better world, yea, even a place at the right hand of God, which hope cometh of faith, maketh an anchor to the souls of men, which would make them sure and _ steadfast, always abounding in good works, being led to glorify God (Ether 12:4). The importance of faith along with love was pointed out when we were told "And if you have not faith, hope, and charity, you can do nothing" (D & C 18:19). No claim is made that the above criteria represent an exhaustive list. Establishing a definition of, or criteria for, religious maturity is a most difficult task. Let us hope that the items mentioned above provide something tangible about which we can discuss, think, and consider, as we attempt to evaluate our own religious maturity. Let us now look for a moment at the role of religious maturity in spiritual living in a nuclear age. The Role of Religious Maturity The demands of living spiritually in any age but, particularly, in this nuclear age, require the traits, characteristics, and qualities of the religiously mature person. As man has developed the almost unbelievable mechanical advances which may permit him to destroy himself, the ability to love and to forgive becomes even more essential than in the past. Our own personal development should be of vital concern to all of us. Paul told us in essence that no matter how many other things we have, that without love in our hearts and in our lives we are as "sounding brass or a_ tinkling cymbal"—we are nothing. If we are to maintain our good mental health and achieve a feeling of personal satisfaction and security, we must counteract the unrest and anxiety which exist in the world with knowledge and awareness of the abundant life. We must insure the conditions which will permit freedom of the soul in order that, independently, we can make the best of our lives. Our planetal awareness in the nuclear age emphasizes the importance of growth toward wholeness in order that we may develop an attitude of outreach and inclusiveness. Our skills of. Applying and practicing our religious beliefs must be perfected so that faith will be matched with works. If we can develop the sense of glory in life, a reverence for life, perhaps 858 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1959 LESSON DEPARTMENT we will seek to nurture and enhance it rather than destroy it. Then, acting in faith, we can exert our every effort toward achieving good works, and toward improving the life situation. Goal Reaches Beyond This Life A word of caution needs to be expressed for us to-keep in mind, as we attempt to evaluate ourselves against these criteria of religious maturity. We must not expect ourselves to be perfect or absolutely consistent in our religious maturity. More than within any other area of the maturing processes, with the possible exception of emotional maturity, its fashioning is always unfinished business. The goals we have set represent a heavy assignment and, for most of us, call for more than can be accomplished in this life. We are yet imperfect human beings on our way toward perfection. Even though a person may have developed strong religious beliefs and ranks high on the scale of religious maturity, he undoubtcdly finds, on occasions, that his conduct is not consistent with his beliefs. Paul recognized this fact when he said: For the good that I would I do not: but the evil which I would not, that I do (Romans 7:19). Impulse often wins out and many of the things we would not do, we do; and much that we would do, we leave undone. We must develop love and extend compassion for all people. The religiously mature person never wants to take misunderstandings as final; never wants to take the estrangement of a person from himself—from his best self— as final; never wants to take an apathy 859 toward life as final. 'The religious person in his contacts with other people, whether he operates as a therapist to get a discorded life moving again or whether he operates as a parent getting children back on good terms with each other, or whether he operates as a member of the community somehow bridging a gap between two groups that haven't been getting along, or whatever he is, a religiously mature person wants that which has stopped the growth of life to be removed, wants to enact the principle of the second start (Mrs. Bonaro Overstreet, Devotional Address delivered at Brigham Young University, June 1958). Dr. Harry A. Overstreet stated: Either, in religion, we serve a_ belief that encourages man's growth or we serve a belief that keeps him immature. The two beliefs are basically and forever incompatible (Overstreet, Harry A.: The Mature Mind, page 271, W. W. Norton & Company, Inc., used by permission). Vital Importance of Increasing Level of Religious Maturity We could list many reasons justifying the importance of each and every one of us diligently working toward increasing the level of his religious maturity. But two stand out in glaring significance. One, the challenges of living creatively, harmoniously (or perhaps even liying at all) with one another in a nuclear age emphasize the need for rapidly producing a generation of emotionally and religiously mature persons. And two, the possibility of man eventually becoming like God, achieving the Latter-day Saint philosophy of eternal progression and accepting the invitation of Christ o "Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven ls perfect," (Mt. 5:48) must surely be built upon the foundations of emotional and religious maturity. 860 CHORAL MUSIC for RELIEF SOCIETY CHORUSES ( ) Come Ye Blessed of My Father—Madsen.20 ( ) Go Ye Forth With My Word—Madsen...25 ( ) Incline Your Ear— Wilkes.0...22----------+- 20 ( ) Lord, Hear Our Prayer—Verdi.........20 ( ) Lord's Prayer— Gates -02...2-.222eeeee eee 20 ( ) My Redeemer Lives —GatesS _o... Eeee 20 O Lovely Land, America—Madsen 20 ( ) Open Our Eyes— Macfarlane.............. 25 Send Forth Thy Spirit—Schuetky...... 20 Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement as your order blan DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 15 E. Ist South Salt Lake City 11, Utah Please send the music indicated above. (1 On Approval (1 Charge OO Money Enclosed Or Z Qa. & oO "a a k TTT 15 E. Lst South 145 NORTH UNIVERSITY, PROVOe Salt Lake City 11, Utah RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1959 Thoughts for Discussion 1. Do you have other criteria of religious maturity to suggest? 2. What can an individual do to increase the degree of his religious maturity? 3. Discuss the implications of religious maturity for living in the nuclear age. 4. What are some of the problems which result, both in our personal lives as well as in society, from religious immaturities? Supplementary References McKay, David O.: ""The Right Life... The Happy Life," The Improvement Era, March 1958, pp. 142-143; 205. McKay, David O.: "True Education," The Improvement Era, March 1957, pp. 141-142. McKay, David O.: "Inner Peace," The Improvement Era, January 1958, page 21. A Story Tlever Old Maude O. Cook I did not watch with shepherds On that Judean hill, As angels sang their anthem Of "Peace on earth — Good will." I was not with the Magi Who traveled from afar And found the little Christ-child By following a star.. I was not at the manger To offer gifts of gold, But I have loved the story. That never will grow old. And as I kneel in homage, Though centuries away, I feel his presence near me On this blest Christmas Day. Vida Fox Clawson Travel Center Dear Friend: If you are interested in HAWAII, remember we have tours going every month. Our 1960 EUROPEAN folders are now ready and will be gladly sent to you upon request. Write or Phone: VIDA FOX CLAWSON 216 South 13th East Salt Lake City 2, Utah Phone: DA 8-0303 40 Shades of Plastic Foam FOAM Ve"'x39" wide......-....-+-- 10 yards $8.00 FOAM ¥''x39" wide..../¥3 yard....30c, Oy Lo]: i eeeA5c FOAM Strips cut any width, 1' to 9", eeeach 5c to 25c CHENILLE, all colors _.......20000.....-. Per yard 5c CHRISTMAS CARDS, 50 beautiful! Cards 4 i eT oi $1.00 Tote BagsUndecorated Plastic Boxes..25¢ up DOLLS, undressed 4/'-6-87-1177.0 ww.29¢ up Christmas Beads, balls, leaves, berries Roca eA one ene epececocco se EEaCObunch 15c Dacron Bats, 72x90") wooo ececeeeeteeeeee eens$2.49 Border Prints, percale.................... Per yard 49c Dan River Ginghams........ Reg. $1.19 yard 79c Handicraft, Hobby Supplies-Cards-Toys-Gifts. Order shipped day received. Prices plus postage. Stake Relief Societies, or Civic groups in the Western States wishing to be included in Mrs. Tingey's Handicraft Demonstrations, write immediately for date reservations and details. TINGEY'S COUNTRY STORE "Handicraft Center of The West" 3456 North State Highway 91 Music for Christmas @ PIANO SOLOS @ PIANO FOLIOS @ CAROL BOOKS @ ORGAN MUSIC @ CHORUSES FOR SINGING MOTHERS Sent on l-week Approval We are the Intermountain HAMMOND ORGAN Representatives Sacred and Secular Piano Alb. No. 1 Sacred and Secular Piano Alb. No. 2 (Just off the Press) By SELDON N. HEAPS $1.00 each @ Add 10c for Postage GLEN BROS. MUSIC CO. ' 246 So. Main Salt Lake City, Utah Beginning and advanced classes start soon. Type your letters, minutes, reports, genealogy sheets, etc. LDS BUSINESS COLLEGE 70 North Main — EM 3-2765 Salt Lake City, Utah Page 861 Lehi, Utah Phone PO 8-2852 ARE YOU AN UNPUBLISHED AUTHOR? IF YOU HAVE A BOOK LENGTH MANUSCRIPT you would like to have published, our editorial staff will be glad to consider it on a co-operative basis. OUR PROGRAM_ HAS LAUNCHED MANY NEW WRITERS. Submit your work for free editorial evaluation and further information. We consider all types of material: Fiction, Poetry, Juveniles, Religious Books, Educational, and Scholarly Work. GREENWICH BOOK PUBLISHERS, INC. Attention: Mr. Wright 489 Fifth Avenue New York City, New York © BEAUTIFUL e HANDY e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover—$2.50; Leather Cover—$3.80 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Distance from Salt Loke City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles oo... Eeceececeee 35 150 to 300 miles.... - 39 300 to 600 miles..... 45 eS 600 to 1000 miles..... 54 1000 to 1400 miles...... 64 1400 to 1800 miles 0.0... -76 Over 1800 miles 87 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-258] 33 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah Page 862 Winter Bride Vesta N. Lukei The world in beauty goes Beneath pure satin snows. With icy diamonds decked And sun-bright sequins flecked. The winter world's trousseau Of fragile flakes of snow Is pristine beauty lost When snow and ice defrost. F Seven Gwen Marler Barney Kiss the freckle on her face, Tie ribbons in her hair, Too soon she'll turn to love's embrace And leave you dreaming there. TOURNAMENT OF ROSES PARADE CHRISTMAS HOLIDAY TOUR 8 days including San Diego and Tijuana, Mexico Also Grandstand Seats for the Rose Parade Cinerama, Knott's Berry Farm Forest Lawn, Marineland China Town, Disneyland MEXICAN TOUR February 1960 and June 1960 also student tour in June 1960 Visit Book of Mormon places. GUATEMALA Book of Mormon Archeological Sites Tour leaving August 1960 HILL CUMORAH, July 1960 For itinerary write or phone ESTHER JAMES TOURS 460 7th Avenue Phone: EM 3-5229 Salt Lake City 3, Utah EL 5-0268 Birthday Con gratulations One Hundred Mrs. Mary Marrua CARDON MERRILI Preston, Idaho Ninety-nine Mrs. CrELestTiA Terry. PETERSON Fairview, Utah Ninety-eight Mes. Atvira Burnuant THOMAS E] Monte, California Ninety-seven Mrs. Marie Houst CurisTENSEN Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-five Mrs. Mary Boune Cardston, Canada Mrs. Cora Linnsay AsuTON Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-four Mrs. ELLEN HawTuorRNeE Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Paunine B. Ware Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-three Mrs. Sarau Eten Burton Fouicer Ogden, Utah Mrs. Mary Largam Rep Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-two Mrs. Mary Anw Pitcner CouLaMm Pleasant Grove, Utah Mrs. RoseLtta ARVILLA HARRISON STORRS Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Satiy PERRY Powell, Wyoming Ninety-one Mrs. Wi1Luie Bonp GoLsan Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Louisa Haac ABEGG Done Tucson, Arizona Mrs. Matinpa TirorNsBpuryY STEVENS. Ashland, Kentucky Mrs. Jutia ScrLappr ANDRUS Melba, Idaho Ninety Mrs. Mary Brioop Linrorp Logan, Utah Mrs. Saran JOSEPHINE Burrows PoTTerR Magna, Utah Mrs. Mary R. Murpyy Norris Salt Lake City, Utah o, > > () <> () > () <1 @. Sem 0-0 EO a ( Gq | )<D- ¢ HAWAIIAN TOUR Leaving December 16, 1959 Also in January and February ROSE BOWL PARADE We have a Rose Bowl Parade Tour leaving in December. Inquire early and make early reservations. Shorter Tour $65.00 EUROPE 1960 Reservations made anywhere in the world, chartered tours or individual. > 0D 0D 0D 0D UND 65 6- > ¢: a> (aC MARGARET LUND TOURS 4708 Holladay Blvd. Salt Lake City, Utah Phones: CR 7-6851 IN 6-2909 (> ADC) RD () RD {> (>> €) EAD ¢) ND €) SAID) GAN (ERR C) GE (QD (><> (> ERD () GD) D> () ED () EDC) DC) 1 OED OBSePage 862 = = Ps wt iv 9 o) fed, 4 | Se > bar — ~ z ba: £4 ES ad ro = a) = Milton R. Hunter This first volume describes Dr. Hunter's tour of Book of Mormon lands in Mexico. His encounter with White Indians... Relics and ruins that substantiate Book of Mormon claims. And Central America. Gorgeous illustrations. HE THAT 2. BOOK of MORMON Page 864 1. CHRIST in ANCIENT AMERICA Milton R. Hunter Volume II of "Archaeology and The Book of Mormon" centers upon Quetzalcoatl, the "White Bearded God" of Indian legend whose origin parallels the Book of Mormon account of Christ's visit to the Western Hemispere. Lavishly illustrated. 3.95 ARCHAEOLOGY and The 3. HE THAT LIVETH Doyle L. Green A beautifully-written story on the life and mission of our Savior for young people. A wonderful book for every LDS family lbrary. Contains ten full-color full-page reproductions of paintings by Danish Master Painter, Carl Henrik Bloch. I DESERET BOOK COMPANY ] 3 25 | 44 East South Temple ls Salt Lake City, Utah | | Gentlemen: | | order............ I have an account. Please charge. Amount | | enclosed §................ For encircled (numbered) books: | | 1 2 3 t I Name: | sete Deseret(=: Book Co. | City. Eee Zone........ State... " 'ash 1 j Residents of Utah include 21/,% Sales tax. Enclosed you will find............ Check............ Money | 44 Esst South Temple -- Salt Lake Cw wy Delights -~* ah! NS For all those tempting, tasty candies,. ¥. Cookies and other Yuletide delights, Bes aA <. Use the finest, purest, sweetest sugar we; '| f ( made — U and I — sparkling-white 'tg - St Ne..: re P) — and available in handy one-pound Paget ¢ cartons: brown, fine granulated, superfine dessert, and powdered. —_—— __ Beneficial Life Insurance Company Beneficial Building Salt Lake City, Utah Please send folder giving ful] details about the Family Benefactor Plan. Name... Address City... ~ ~ | "pe vik ee a 8 Now you can insure the whole family with a single Family Package Policy Whether it's a TV supper or an insurance program, many families like their purchases all in one package. Beneficial's new Family Benefactor Plan is a real family package that will fit whether you're just starting in the family business — or have an economysize houseful. Best of all, if your family increases, so does your insurance — and at | ' BENEFICIAL LIFE BI oe | Virgil H. Smith, Pres. Salt Lake City, Utah oo. Zone... State... I no increase in cost! One low-cost, easy-toremember premium payment protects the entire family — Dad, Mom, and all the children, including those that haven't come on the scene yet. Is this the package for you? Send coupon below, or ask your Beneficial agent to tell you more about the benefits of this unique policy.
