A Tes Year s ITlessage to 'Doubt lot, Sear lot S 1954 begins its year's span, the general board expresses gratitude for the righteousness of the lives of Relief Society members during the past year, and for their accomplishments not only in things of material value, but, above all, in the things of the spirit. Through study and faith and works encouraged by membership in the divinely inspired Relief Society, Relief Society women, reading the signs of the times, are prayerfully strengthening their testimonies so that their faith will sustain them, their hope increase and blossom into a charity which will envelop others in need of its healing. Known to them is the fulfillment of prophecy. In their hearts is a longing for the peace of the millennium; and the words of Tennyson, recently studied in Relief Society, find an echoing response: Ring out old shapes of foul disease; Ring out the narrowing lust of gold; Ring out the thousand wars of old; Ring in a thousand years of peace. Because of wickedness, most men have ceased to anticipate the millennium. They ascribe to modern discoveries of nature's secrets, signs of the earth's dissolution. They deny the Maker of the worlds and his purposes, and the mission of his Son, the only name under heaven given among men, whereby we must be saved." Though "heaven and earth shall pass away; yet my words shall not pass away, but all shall be fulfilled," the Lord has told the inhabitants of this earth. But having ears they hear not, and having eyes they see not. To the righteous there are comfort and everlasting joy in the words of the Lord. As this new year grows old, let Relief Society members become safe-folded in the flock of the Master, for he has promised: "Fear not, little flock, do good; let earth and hell combine against you, for if ye are built upon my rock, they cannot prevail.... Look unto me in every thought; doubt not, fear not." This is our prayer for our sisters of Relief Society, hte eofoaf jer Manan C From Near and Sar I am deeply impressed with the amount of labor you have expended with the Library of Congress and other sources to secure the pictures and information on the framers of the Constitution (October 1953). It is a very valuable piece of work.... I doubt that few schoolrooms have, in convenient form, these pictures and the accompanying thumbnail sketches. —G. Homer Durham Vice-President, University of Utah Today I especially want to thank you for the Magazine, and for the article "The Renovating and Dressing of Dolls" (by Thelma Standering, November 1953). Recently I had given my four-year-old daughter a doll that had been mine when I was a small child. Well, she left it out in the rain last night and the doll just looks awful—the whole body is all bumpy. Well, after reading that article, I have hopes for this doll and two others that I want to fix up. So, instead of feeling like crying, I feel like singing. I'm not artistic, but I do have hopes. —June W. Robertson San Mateo, California I know that thousands of sisters must fee] about our wonderful Magazine as I do. What care and good taste and discrimination you do exercise in its compilation. I am so proud to let my friends and sisters know how important it is to me. Let me call attention to page 752 ' in the November issue. That little fourline poem by Cynthia A. Scott is well worth headline publication in my estimation. How carefully it is written and how true the messagel —Clara Hore Park San Mateo, California Roxana Farnsworth Hase, long-time contributor to The Relief Society Magazine, has recently had her poems collected in a delightful anthology Delicious Lumps, published by Vantage Press, New York City. The poems are entertaining reading for the family and many of them have been used in plays, programs, and pageants. Page 2 It certainly was a thrill to the Box Elder Chapter of the American Association of Penwomen to -have three of their five poets appear together in the November Relief Society Magazine (Eleanor W. Schow, Maude O. Cook, and Renie H. Littlewood).... Of course the poetry is the first thing we look for in the Magazine, but, as most of us are Relief Society members, we are also interested in other features of the Magazine and enjoy every bit of it. —Renie H. Littlewood Brigham City, Utah I am glad you editors enjoyed my poem "Suds" (November 1953). I tried to think of the most unlovely thing to me and write a poem about it. —Ivy Houtz Woolley Ogden, Utah OUR MAGAZINE Here's something we all love so well Our Magazine, dear Magazine; The help it gives each tongue can tell Our Magazine, dear Magazine. Wherever L. D. S. Are known We want to find in every home A sister who is proud to own Our Magazine, dear Magazine. —Annie M. Ellsworth, President Central States Mission Relief Society (Verses may be sung to the tune "MIA, Our MIA") I should like to take this opportunity to tell you how much I enjoy The Relief Society Magazine, especially since it is impossible for me to attend Relief Society meetings, as we live nearly fifty miles from the nearest branch of the Church. The Magazine keeps me in touch with what the sisters are doing, and when we are in a location where I can attend the meetings, I am sure I shall feel at home. I enjoy all the stories in the Magazine, and the articles and poetry immensely. —Maurine B. Hansen Rocky Boy Agency Box Elder, Montana THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOA Belle S. Spafford - - - - - President arianne C. Sharp - - - First Counselor Velma N. Simonsen - - - - _ Second Counselor Margaret C. Pickering - - - Secretary-Treasurer Mary G. Judd Evon W. Peterson Christine H. Robinson Charlotte A. Larsen Anna B. Hart Leone O. Jacobs Alberta H. Christensen Edith P. Backman Edith S. Elliott Mary J. Wilson Nellie W. Neal Winniefred S. Florence J. Madsen Louise W. Madsen Mildred B. Eyring Manwaring Leone G. Layton Aleine M. Young Helen W. Anderson Elna P. Haymond Blanche B. Stoddard Josie B. Bay Gladys S. Boyer Edi RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ditor - _ - - = - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Edito - - = = S - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - = - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Vol. 41 JANUARY 1954 NO. 1 Contents SPECIAL FEATURES A New Year's Message to 'Doubt Not, Fear Not'' 1 Individual Welfare in a Time of Plenty Carl W. Buehner 4 Award Winners Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest 10 Wings Over the West—First Prize Poem Lizabeth Wall Madsen 11 A Stone in the Wilderness—Second Prize Poem Dorothy J. Roberts 12 To Shield a King—Third Prize Poem Alice Morrey Bailey 13 Biographical Sketches of Award Winners in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest........ Scsssccesscce- 15 Award Winners—Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest 16 One Wild Rose—First Prize Stor Dorothy Clapp Robinson 17 First Ladies of Our Land—Parrt II]....: a.... Elsie C. Carroll 23 Support the March of Dimes Basil O'Connor 31 My 'Calendar Elsie Sim Hansen 41 Winter Is for Mothers.. Lucille Waters Mattson 71: FICTION New Year's Choice Dorothy Boys Kilian 32 Moon Music Louise Morris Kelley 38 The Deeper Melody—Chapter 4 Alice Morrey Bailey 42 GENERAL FEATURES From Near and Far x 2 Sixty Years Ago 34 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 35 Editorial: A Happier Life in the New Year Marianne C. Sharp 36 Notes to the Field: Relief Society Assigned Evoutetl Meeting of Fast Sunday in March............ 37 Bound Volumes of 1953 Relief Society Magazines ey Award Subscriptions Presented in April 37 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities Margaret C. Pickering 48 FEATURES FOR THE HOME Melvina Bennett Clark Makes Braided Rugs 47 LESSON DEPARTMENT Theology: Righteousness and Good Government Leland H. Monson 54 Visiting Teacher Messages: 'But There Is a Resurrection, Therefore the Grave Hath No Victory" Leone O. Jacobs 58 Work Meeting: Spending Your Home Furnishings Dollar—Soft Floor Coverings.............. Rhea H. Gardner 59 Literature: Robert Browning 'Poet of Personality'' Briant S. Jacobs 61 Social Science: The Philadelphia Convention Albert R. Bowen 66 POETRY Amateur Gardener's Reward Sudie Stuart Hager 22 Little Girl Before the Piano Mabel Jones Gabbott 33 I. Would Not Have You Weep....... Christie Lund Coles 46 Love's Destiny Ada Marie Patten 47 Winter Night Beatrice K. Ekman 53 Old Year Grace Sayre 60 Swift Sketch Thelma J. Lund 72 Color Notes of Dawn Elsie McKinnon Strachan 72 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 40 North Main, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Individual Welfare in a Time of Plenty Bishop Carl W. Buehner Of the Presiding Bishopric (Address Delivered at the Annual General Relief Society Conference, September 30, 1953] 'T' is a most inspiring experience | to be here this morning with the leaders of the great Relief Society organization from all over the Church. If my arithmetic is correct, over ninety-nine per cent of all the stakes are represented here this morning, and I think I saw one sister stand up who is here from New Zealand. I have a great love for New Zealand after the two weeks I spent there. This is marvelous. I have learned to love your Relief Society presidency more than I will ever be able to tell you. They are great leaders, very inspiring leaders, and I am sure that the affairs of the Relief Society are in wonderful hands. If I am a little nervous this morning, it is because I am not accustomed to speaking to such a large conference of women. You look like a beautiful flower garden. I feel like the counselor recently conducting a quarterly conference. The stake president, we learned, was in the hospital with a very serious operation, and the counselor was a little nervous, too. During the course of the meeting he said, "Our choir will now sing 'Let the Mountains Shake for Joy.' " You understand what I mean. It was wonderful to hear Sister Spafford's report of the accomplishments of this great organization— to witness the roll call this morning. It is tremendously interesting Page 4 to sit on the stand, and observe sisters standing up in large groups, representing the stakes from all over the Church. I enjoyed the wonderful report of Sister Wright, Sister Stoddard's very excellent talk, and the beautiful music. It is just a real thrill to be with you in conference this morning. I have been assigned a welfare subject to discuss with you. This may bring you out of the clouds and back down to earth, but I know of no subject more interesting to all of us than our security. I have a great love for the Welfare Program, and have heard some outstanding testimonies of its application to members of the Church. I am sold on it all the way. Inside the covers of the little blue Welfare handbook, we have, in my opinion, the greatest security program that man has ever seen. It should be so, for it is the Lord's program of taking care of his children. I sincerely hope we appreciate it and do something about it. The subject I am to discuss this morning is "Individual Welfare in a Time of Plenty." 'This indicates we may not have taken advantage of the good years we have enjoyed to prepare ourselves for the time of need. I would like to make one or two observations relative to the program that may present a little different approach from the manner in which it has been presented to us in the past. That which will be discussed, I am sure, will not reveal anything new, but I trust will be helpful in seeing our problem. NUMBER one is that literally we are all welfare cases. I assume we have not thought of the problem in this way, but most of our time, our energy, and our money is spent to take care of the physical comforts of the body. This does not infer that we must ask anyone for assistance, but certainly, all we work for, and the result of our labor are largely required to take care of our physical comforts. I have often thought of the many things we could do with the money we could have were it not all required for this purpose. Think of our physical condition for a moment. If we are sick, we want to get well. If we are hungry, we want to eat. When we get too warm, we want to get cool. When we are too cold, we want to get warm. Besides this, we need clothing, shelter, and the many other comforts our body requires. This is what commands a great deal of our effort, our energy, our time, and our finances. The second observation I should like to make is that there is little difference between those of us who seem to have all we need and those in need of assistance. So many things can happen so swiftly to change our situation from one of comparative comfort to one of distress. I am thinking of drouth, frost, floods, famine, fires, strikes, illness, and other circumstances that come quickly to cause us distress, and prevent us from earning our normal livelihood. As an example, just recently I was in a stake where the major income in the community is derived from the production of fruit. While there, we inspected the bishop's storehouse, and discovered no fruit for distribution. 'This was in the peak of the fruit season, and some people were complaining because of the absence of fruit in the storehouse. After a little investigation, we said, "Look at all the orchards here and the immense production of fruit in this area. Certainly this is one thing the storehouse ought to be filled with." "Ah," but they said, "we had a very severe frost this spring, and we have little or no fruit in our entire area." This has caused a hardship on this community, and many individuals depending on their fruit crop for their income and to make payments on their farms will be in difficulty this year. Besides this, many will not have fruit in their cellars or canned fruit on their shelves because of the loss of the fruit crop. It might even be possible that some might have property in jeopardy because of the loss of income through this severe frost. In some other areas, crops have dried up for lack of moisture. 'The land has been unable to produce because water has been so scarce. Then we have the extreme where there is too much water, where floods have raised havoc with farms and homes. It is not an uncommon thing to pick up a newspaper and to see where the ravage of fire has destroyed the possessions of a family or a group of families. Usually you see members of the family standing at the side of the ruins, and read that everything they possessed has been destroyed. In many of these cases, some agency of the Welfare Program has come to their rescue to assist them in getting back INDIVIDUAL WELFARE IN A TIME OF PLENTY 5 on their feet. This might be the Priesthood quorum, a ward organization, or friends or relatives of the family. We cannot hide the fact that the desire of all of us is security, and so we want to be healthy, we want to be employed, and we should like to be able to take care of ourselves and our families. It, therefore, becomes a very important part of the Welfare Program to follow the counsel of the leaders of the Church, and to prepare in a time of plenty for a time of need which may overtake us sooner than we had planned. To do this insures us of a carry-over in any critical period that might confront us. GOME of us heard the President of the Church a few days ago say that we are living in the most critical period in the history of the world. This being true, we had better take stock of ourselves, our resources, and check the year's supply we have been asked to acquire, and see if we are prepared should tragedy strike. Certainly, as we are confronted by these critical times, we should listen to the voice of warning that has come from our prophet, and prepare ourselves against any emergency that might arise. We are blessed above all other people in that we have a prophet to point the way before us. Some time ago I had the experience of presiding over the Salt Lake Region, known to most of us as Welfare Square in Salt Lake City. We had many experiences which indicated the need for preparation. I recall a strike being called in one of the large industries west of Salt Lake City, which placed 6,000 men out of employment. The strike continued for a period of six months, and during its course, it became necessary for our region to take care of thousands of families whose income had been stopped as a result of this strike. Had these families listened to the counsel given through the Welfare Program, they would have been able to provide for themselves during this emergency, but like most of us, there is a general feeling that when times are good there is no need to prepare for a day in the future. I am sure many of those caught in this situation have come to realize the importance of following the instructions of the Welfare Program. Presently, some people in other industries are having some difficulty. The livestock industry has had some decline in prices. I am acquainted with a man who a short time ago was worth at least half a million dollars, and who in the last thirty days has lost all, even his own home. There are many others in distress. I have observed that many problems are coming to the attention of the General Welfare Committee, problems concerning the saving of the business of some brother. It is not the purpose of the Welfare Program to rescue men who are failing in business, but to see that those who are in distress are supplied with food, clothing, shelter, and the everyday necessities of life. So, we emphasize again the importance of listening to the counsel of our leaders, that we provide as far as possible enough of the necessities of life to provide for ourselves in an emergency. HE question is often asked, "What shall we store?" Because of our scattered situation, and the 6 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1954 varied climate that we represent, it is difficult to indicate item by item what should be stored; but here are some suggestions that might be helpful to all of us. Think back to the days of rationing during World War II. What were the difficult items to secure on your ration cards? I remember shoes were difficult to obtain. Soap was a very difficult item. Persons receiving welfare assistance had more soap than those not on the Welfare Program because we had a soap factory, and were producing soap for our own storehouses. Sugar was a very scarce item, and that is easy to store. Fats are always very difficult to get in time of emergency. Meat was in very short supply. It may be well to get a few cans of meat or fish, and it might be possible for you to can some of your own that you might have some in reserve. Some items of clothing were very difficult to obtain. Styles may change, but we can always acquire some cloth, and have it in our homes from which to make items of clothing necessary to keep the family warm. Paper products were very scarce, and many other items, such as bread. One of the easiest commodities to store and one which has the greatest value for all of us, "Wheat for Man," the Word of Wisdom says. Through the counsel of your county agricultural agents, you can secure the right type of wheat, place it in a tight container, and keep it for a long period of time. I am also thinking of repairs and maintenance to your home. Do you remember how many items were almost impossible to secure during the period of the war, such as plumbing fittings, valves, and items with which to fix leaky pipes? It was difficult even to secure nails to repair a roof and a part of the barn. All metal items were very critical. I think I would keep my home in good repair. You women exercise a great influence on your husbands. I have learned long ago that if we want a good work done in the Welfare Program, the assistance of women usually spells success for the program. Talking these problems over with your husbands usually will bring results and avoid serious difficulties. If members of a ward become enthusiastic about the possibilities of providing against a rainy day, it can ~ become very contagious, and others, through example, will desire to do the same thing. I recall buying thirty cans of wheat in 1944, and placing them in my garage. My neighbor, a high councilman who lived across the street, came over daily to look at my stock of wheat. He eventually almost made my life miserable because he wanted to acquire part of my wheat storage supply. In order to have peace, I finally sold him part of my wheat. Even though I am engaged in the wheat business, and we have thousands of bushels of grain in our elevators all the time, I still feel very secure to have wheat of my own in my own cans at my own home. I look at it once in a while, and from all appearances, it is just as good as when I bought it in 1944. So I say again, wheat can be kept for a long time. I recently attended a quarterly conference with Brother Walter Stover, who you remember was the president of the East German MisINDIVIDUAL WELFARE IN A TIME OF PLENTY 7 sion during very difficult times following the war. We sent large quantities of welfare commodities to him, and he indicated the great blessing that came to those people through this help from the Welfare at the headquarters of the Church. He was particularly overjoyed at the wheat that was sent. He discovered how these people ground it, how they cooked it for cereal, and baked it for bread. He indicated they could eat it in the morning, they could eat it for dinner, and they could eat it in the evening because it had the elements to sustain life. He suggested that you would be surprised what wonderful hamburgers you can make from ground wheat and what a substantial item wheat is, around which you can provide a nourishing food diet. ESIDES the items mentioned, we can always have fruit and vegetables. Wherever possible, we should have a garden. Let's plant and produce that which we can, and then let's conserve the surplus. Continuing his talk in this same conference, Brother Stover _ said, "We have a lovely garden in our back yard. My wife does all the gardening. She raises the entire crop, and because it cannot all be consumed at the time it is ready, she urged me to build a little root cellar. I said to her, 'Mama, we don't need a root cellar for just you and me—we don't eat that much,' but my wife is very conservative. She just won't waste anything. If she cooks a little stew for dinner, we have stew every meal until that stew is eaten up. She won't waste any good food, and neither did she wish to waste any of the vegetables in this garden. I protested the building of a root cellar, but one night when I came home, lo and behold, right in the middle of my garden she had dug a large hole. She secured a few boards, and improvised a roof over this opening, and about that time I decided I had better wake up to what was going on, so I got Mama some bricks to line the root cellar, and I helped her finish the job. I feel much more secure with a root cellar full of fine vegetables than I did to have them on top of the ground where some of them might be frozen, some might decay, and where we certainly would lose the value we had from raising this garden." I should like to read you a few excerpts from a talk given by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., in April 1937. As I have read this talk, and realized the condition in which we find ourselves, I have thought many times how true the scripture is that says, "We have ears, but we hear not." We have enjoyed the training of this program for a long time. President Clark was referring to the difficult situation confronting us in the United States. This is what he had to say: What may we as a people and as individuals do for ourselves to prepare to meet this oncoming disaster, which God in his wisdom may not turn aside from us? First, and above and beyond everything else, let us live righteously, fearing God and keeping His commandments, that we may in part claim His blessings as of right, and not as of mercy only. Along this way only lies happiness and salvation. For the Lord has said: "Wherefore, fear not even unto death; for in this world your joy is not full... Therefore care not for the body, neither the life of the body; but care for the soul, and for the life of the soul. "And seek the face of the Lord always, that in patience ye may possess your souls, 8 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1954 and ye shall have eternal life'' (Doc. & Cov. 101:36-38). Let us avoid debt as we would avoid a plague; where we are now in debt let us get out of debt; if not today, then tomorrow. Let us straitly and strictly live within our incomes, and save a little. Let every head of every household see to it that he has on hand enough food and clothing and, where possible, fuel also, for at least a year ahead. You of small means put your money in foodstuffs and wearing apparel, not in stocks and bonds; you of large means will think you know how to care for yourselves, but I may venture to suggest that you do not speculate. Let every head of every household aim to own his own home, free from mortgage. Let every man who has a garden spot, garden it; every man who owns a farm, farm it. Let us again clothe ourselves with these proved and_ sterling virtues—honesty, truthfulness, chastity, sobriety, temperance, industry and thrift; let us discard all covetousness and greed. HE past ten or twelve years have been very fruitful years. I guess we have lived on borrowed money, but we have all had some of that money. I don't know how we are going to pay it back, but when that day comes, it is not going to be so easy to have the things we have enjoyed during this period of prosperity. I remember so well the story of Joseph. There is not time to relate it in full. You read it in Genesis. You remember how that great leader was sent by the Pharaoh into Egypt during the seven good years to fill granaries with grain, and then you remember the story of the lean years, and how the east wind blew and dried up the country. As you read the story, you can just feel the wind drying up the parched earth and consuming everything on it. It was the preparation in the seven good years that kept the people from starvation in the seven lean years that followed. Now I hope since we have a prophet at our head who has told us, instructed us, encouraged us, and advised us how to avoid any calamity of that kind, that we will listen to him, that we will prepare ourselves, not with luxuries, not with items that are going to spoil because we have an over-abundance of them, but with those necessities that will bring us over an emergency that might overcome us. If we do those things, the Latter-day Saints will have a program that will prove a great blessing and a_ program the like of which the rest of the world would like very much to know about and to have. Since it is ours and belongs to the Lord's people, I hope we will appreciate it and do all we can to prepare ourselves with the necessities that will assist us In any period of emergency that might arise. We can then also be a blessing and help to those who have not listened to the voice of our leaders. I bear you my testimony that I love this great Welfare Program with all my heart. I have heard many testimonies of how it has come to the rescue of the people, the great blessing it has been to them. I promise you that in the future there will even be greater blessings, if we live closer to the instructions that have come to us to prepare ourselves. May the Lord help us to appreciate these great things and the other great programs in the Church for our benefit and our blessing, and may this great Relief Society organization prosper and grow, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. INDIVIDUAL WELFARE IN A TIME OF PLENTY 9 Award Winners Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest HE Relief Society general board is pleased to announce the names of the three prize winners in the 1953 Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest. This contest was announced in the June 1953 issue of the Magazine, and closed September 15, 1 The first prize of twenty-five dollars is awarded to Lizabeth Wall Madsen, Salt Lake City, Utah, for her poem "Wings Over the West." The second prize of twenty dollars is awarded to Dorothy J. Roberts, Salt Lake City, for her poem "A Stone in the Wilderness." The third prize of fifteen dollars is awarded to Alice Morrey Bailey, Salt Lake City, for her poem "To Shield a King." This poem contest has been conducted annually by the Relief Society general board since 1924, in honor of Eliza R. Snow, second general president of Relief Society, a gifted poet and beloved leader. The contest is open to all Latterday Saint women, and is designed to encourage poetry writing, and to increase appreciation for creative writing and the beauty and value of poetry. Prize-winning poems are the property of the Relief Society general board, and may not be used for publication by others except upon written permission of the general board. The general board also reserves the right to publish any of the poems submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at Page 10 the regular Magazine rate. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. There were one hundred ten poems submitted in this year's contest. Many of the poems revealed careful technique and lovely imagery, as well as profound thought development. Twenty-two states were represented in the contest entries, the largest number of entries came in order from Utah, California, Idaho, Kansas, Oklahoma, Wyoming, and Arizona. 'Three entries came from England, one from Scotland, and one from Argentina. The winner of the first prize this year, Mrs. Lizabeth Wall Madsen, was awarded second prize in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest in 1946. Mrs. Roberts and Mrs. Bailey have won prizes in several previous contests. The general board congratulates the prize winners and expresses appreciation to all entrants for their interest in the contest. The general board wishes, also, to thank the judges for their care and diligence in selecting the prize-winning poems. The services of the poetry committee of the general board are very much appreciated. The prize-winning poems, together with photographs and biographical sketches of the prize-winning contestants, are published herewith. DOROTHY JENSEN ROBERTS Second Prize Poem A Stone in the Wilderness Dorothy ]. Roberts Not toward your perfections my still steps yearn Nor after lofty-browed nobilities And altars where I watched your fat rams burn; Not to these am I tender, not to these, Nor to the swinging crane of your mind's power, But toward the small and wan perversities Of personality, the weeds in flower; Toward fractured bones of strength a near one sces, Fallen-sparrow failures mated to my own; To the deviations setting you apart, The frailties which were not yours alone, But were parroted upon my secret heart. A thousand wounds my tongue's blade would atone Could it smite with the staff of honesty And release the crystal waters from the stone Of pride and let you drink their truth with me. Page 12 fi love ere Rache}'s tomb was Washed w. €re clear-eyed Davi t trusting flock. Page 13 And sent his SWeet son 1 14 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1954 He watched them on the roads and led them thence From Nazareth, past Herod's well, by Nain; He saw the faithful Joseph growing tense With fear for Mary, seeking rest in vain Within your bulging walls, his earnest face Reflecting light from door to hopeless door, Until, at last, he found the sheltered place, And rest for Mary on a stable floor. He hid them from the wicked in your crowd, And ears that might have heard a newborn cry Were deaf with sound, the tinkling coins too loud For some to hear hosannahs jn the sky. He saw the shepherds quake; he saw afar The wise men searching out the moving star. * * *£ xk x He holds you yet, oh, little, blessed town, Although that night, and many years, are gone While aliens thread your hills of camel brown. To changing captors you have been a pawn, Unsought, uncherished, and unchanged as then, Untouched by gold within the fertile ring Of commerce, simple in your ways, as when He needed you to shield a newborn King. A million cities, proud and rich and great, Give homage to your memory tonight, And what was whispered once along your street Is sung from housetops, blazed in rainbow light. Though conquered many times, yours yet shall be The final conquest and the victory! Biographical Shetches of Award Winners in the Gliza R. Snow Poem Contest Lizabeth Wall Madsen, who was born in Mt. Pleasant, Utah, and lived there until 1941, has contributed many poems to The Relief Society Magazine. Her poem "I Shall Be Late" was awarded second prize in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest in 1946. She devotes most of her time to being a secretary in Salt Lake City, and being both mother and father to a teen-age daughter, Diane. Whatever few moments are left are used in writing, mostly poetry. Mrs. Madsen's poems have appeared in Ladies Home Journal, Pictorial Review, the Improvement Era, and many other publications. She has won both the Christmas story and poem contests annually sponsored by The Deseret News. She is also represented in the new volume of Utah Sings and other anthologies. A member of the Art Barn Poets, she is a serious student of poetry and poetry writing; her work is characterized by excellent technique, as well as thoughtful content, reflecting a keen observation of nature and a deep understanding of emotions and ideals, which she presents with a discriminating choice of words set in the cadences of music. *®¥ * & Dorothy Jensen Roberts, Salt Lake City, Utah, is well known to the readers of the Magazine who have enjoyed her lovely poems, many of them frontispieces, since 1941. In describing her interests, Mrs. Roberts writes: "I was born in Sweet, Idaho, and spent a few years in the rich fruit country around Boise. Later, I had a few years in the town of Ephraim, Utah, and a storybook adolescence and youth in Cottonwood and Holladay. I attended the University of Utah for three years and have taken extension courses and special classes in literature. For three years I was a schoolteacher. I have been active in all the auxiliaries of the Church, and have especially enjoyed my work in Relief Society. I have two daughters, two precious grandchildren, and a fine husband. As hobbies, my strongest affinity is poetry, and next, playing the violin, with art and sewing following. 'Twice before 1 have been awarded a prize in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest, as well as many other awards and prizes. My poetry and prose have appeared in the Church publications and other newspapers and magazines. I am a member of the Utah Sonneteers, Utah Poetry Society, and the League of Utah Writers." ¥ & & Alice Morrey Bailey, musician, composer, sculptor, artist, and writer, is a remarkably gifted woman. Readers of The Relief Society Magazine are familiar with her poems, short stories, and serials. Her story "The Wilderness" placed first in the 1941 Relief Society Short Story Contest, and "The Ring of Strength" placed second in 1945. In the 1948 Relief Society contests, Mrs. Bailey was awarded first prize in the short story and second prize in poetry. Her poem "Lot's Wife" won first prize in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest in 1951. Her serial "The Deeper Melody" is currently running in the Magazine. Mrs. Bailey's poems have appeared in many anthologies, and in many magazines and newspapers of national circulation. Since girlhood, Mrs. Bailey has been active in Church work. She is now president of the M. I. A. In the Eleventh Ward, Salt Lake City. Alice and her husband DeWitt Bailey are the parents of three children and they have one grandchild. Mrs. Bailey is a member of the Utah Sonneteers, the League of Utah Writers, the Associated Utah Artists, and at present is acting as compositor of technical reports, College of Mines and Mineral Industries, University of Utah, Salt Lake City. Page 15 Award Winners Annual Relief Socte THE Relief Society general board is pleased to announce the award winners in the Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest which was announced in the June 1953 issue of the Magazine, and which closed September 15, 1953. The first prize of fifty dollars is awarded to Dorothy Clapp Robinson, Boise, Idaho, for her story "One Wild Rose." The second prize of forty dollars is awarded to Mary Ek Knowles, Ogden, Utah, for her story "Beside the Still Waters." The third prize of thirty dollars is awarded to Ruth MacKay, Lethbridge, Alberta, Canada, for her story "One Sweetly Solemn Thought." The winners of the first and second prizes have previously placed in the Relief Society Short Story Contest, but the third prize winner, Ruth MacKay, appears for the first time as a contest winner. This contest, first conducted by the Relief Society general board in 1941, as a feature of the Relief Society centennial observance, was made an annual contest in 1942. The contest is open only to Latterday Saint women who have had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication by a periodical of recognized merit. The three prize-winning stories will be published consecutively in the first three issues of The Relief Society Magazine for 1954. Thirty-seven stories were entered in the contest for 1953. Most of these stories were well plotted and well written, and featured realistic Page 16 ty Short Story Contest character presentation and development. The contest was initiated to encourage Latter-day Saint women to express themselves in the field of fiction. The general board feels that the response to this opportunity continues to increase the literary quality of The Relief Society Magazine, and will aid the women of the Church in the development of their gifts in creative writing. Prize-winning stories are the property of the Relief Society general board, and may not be used for publication by others except on written permission of the general board. The general board also reserves the right to publish any of the stories submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rate. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. The Relief Society Magazine now has subscribers in every State in the Union, and in Alaska, Hawaii, Canada, Mexico, Australia, England, France, Germany, South America, South Africa, and other countries. The general board congratulates the prize-winning contestants, and expresses appreciation for all those who submitted stories. Sincere gratitude is extended to the judges for their discernment and skill in selecting the prize-winning stories. The general board also acknowledges, with appreciation, the work of the short story committee in supervising the contest. INSON DOROTHY CLAPP ROB '6S met her mother's eyes don't need you any longer, Mother. T am all tight. I do apPreciate your staying with the children while I was at church," "Donny isn't asleep yet. I could Stay...." "T'll speak to him," Gwen hoped her mouth was not actually as tight as it felt. Te relieye her hands she began gathering the Sunday Papers. "T can't lean on you and Dad forever. You have been so kind." "Kind!" With a sigh Mrs. Owens teached for her handbag. ° her parents' loss. Every moment of loneliness and her every heartache were echoed in their hearts; but tonight alone. After her mother's car had passed from sight, Gwen stood motionless in the driveway. For long minutes she waited, "Why," she whispered, Donny was sit. Ting upright, his chubby fist beating restlessly on the pillow, "Why did Gwen sat on the bed beside him. "S-s-sh. Must not wake baby sister." Donny glanced at his sister's crib. "She is dead as the world," he announced scornfully, by was sleeping "dead as the world." Dark curls clung damply about her gamin face. Her rose. Bud mouth was even as Gwen bent to kiss it, she drew back abruptly. "You don't like her," Donny accused. "Lie down and §0 to sleep." She hadn't intended her tone to be SO Page 17 harsh. 'To counteract it she laid the boy back on his pillow. "You sing and I sleep," Donny proposed. "Darling, Mother can't sing to night. Please be a good boy and go to sleep." "T heard you once," he persisted. She could not do it. Never again would her heart and throat respond to melody. She tried to pat the boy gently, but her hand moved in jerks. Bewildered by his mother's unaccustomed actions, the boy lay quiet. He blinked hard trying to keep awake. Gwen dropped to the floor and buried her face in the bedding. She tried to pray, but could only suffer. Donny's hand reached and grasped one of her fingers. When, finally, it relaxed, she rose stiffly and went into the living room. She turned on the radio, but snapped it off immediately. Seeing the unoffending papers, she snatched at them and tore them to shreds. She stared unseeing at the litter they made on the floor. Automatically, she stooped and gathered the pieces one by one. She went outside to dispose of them. LONG the newly surfaced street lights were snapping on and unblinded windows gave glimpses of family life. Don had bought in this new addition thinking there would be more room for a play yard and that the hazards of town would be at a minimum. He _ hadn't guessed. How could he have guessed how alone she was going to be! She went back inside, but paced restlessly back and forth, from room to room, picking up this, setting down that. Inevitably she came again to look out upon the coming night. Twilight had deepened into a soft purple curtain through which a few stars were peeping. The tang and pull of spring lay sweet and challenging on the air. The song that had refused to be put aside came silently to her lips '... Unknown waves before me roll..." Somewhere angry waves were rolling over Don. Perhaps they had flung him on some barren shore. Perhaps—but she must not think. She must not. She closed the door. Thayne and Lila were new in the ward. Tonight they had sung, "Jesus, Savior, Pilot Me." That had been hard to take, but the love, the possessiveness that radiated from them had been the one thing too much. Of all songs that one had meant most to her in her life with Don. They had been singing it when they met. It was the song Donny had wanted her to sing, and now through it she had lost Don. She had been told she must remember—what was it she must remember? She looked about the room and tried to focus her thoughts. Oh, yes, she must remember life is but a_ prelude. Somewhere Don was still Don, the man she knew so well and loved so desperately. 'That was what she had been taught. That was what she always believed, but tonight belief was not enough. She must know or go mad with despair and loneliness. It would not help to talk to anyone, not even Dad. All had been said that could be said—had been said so many times the words had » 18 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1954 ONE WILD ROSE rompass and chart that had directed Wer life. The flung it Open. The stars were brighter now, though in the direction of town they were dimmed by the street lights. "For a moment the her, looking at her children, Tapped on the pane. "Will you listen for them?" she asked. Sotrey Run along." It was characteristic of Leah that she asked no questions. Wen tried to smile her thanks. She offered no explanation as to where she was going. She did not know where she Was going. She did not care except that the way must lead to Peace. 'Throwing a stole over her shoulders, she went out into the night. She started walking, but with no sense of direction. T had been just such an evening as this when she and Don had met. The M Men and Gleaners from her home ward had gone up the river for a Picnic. They had rid. Because it was darker and could be seen above the others. They had sung all the way, popular songs, sentimental songs, and then someone had started "Jesus, Savior, Pilot lD Me." Perhaps it had been prompt- ' the nearness. Of the road to the river, or perhaps it had been for no reason at alli Gwen had caught Don's clear rich notes through the chorus of voices, and they brought 4 sweetness and fulness to her heart not experienced before. Around the campfire While they were toastNZ weiners she had noticed him again. She had thought he was with Ruby Denman. © was at her side. "You might fall. Getting the rose had been easy was bright and golden beside the dark sheen of his "A wild rose for everlasting love," he said. "Are you sure?" she challenged. "Tam sure of one thing. T shal] Stumbling alone in the darkness, Gwen Temembered how Sure his words had been. Been sure. They had walked back to the group hand in hand, that is, her hand was resting lightly in his, but she was keenly aware of the strength of the fingers that had fumbled with the bobby pin. From that moment there had been no doubt. Don was her other, her stronger self. With him life was a dream materialized. With him she Was strong and capable. Without him she fumbled in a sea of aloneness. But the aloneness she felt tonight was light years removed from that which she had experienced then. Her life had been torn from its moorings; the song, the stars, the spring breeze cried it from every direction. THEY had not waited long. Don had known the horror and spiritual desolation of the South Pacific. He was eager for home and family. When she knelt at the altar and became his for time and eternity, Gwen had been sure, so very sure. 'There was an eternity, and she and Don would share it togethef. Everything that had helped to bring about the marriage had been motivated by love and a sense of unity, and everything about the marriage had been charged with the same calm unison of spirit she had experienced the night they had met. The coming of the babies had lifted their ecstasy to the higher plane of parenthood. Walking, walking in the darkness, Gwen lived again those bright years. She recalled the first time they had sung together in church. They had chosen "Jesus, Savior, Pilot Me" because of its special meaning for them. She loved the poetry of its words, the haunting melody of its notes. She had smiled smugly that night. A kindly fate had chartered their course and spared them the tolling of boisterous waves. She was Gwen and he was Don, and the babies were both of them. 'They were a unit. They would always be a unit. Death was something that came to people, but when two were joined, as she and Don, there could be no real separation. Gwen suddenly became conscious that all the while she had been reliving those happy years her feet had chosen their own path. Where the path led did not enter her mind. The way of going was immaterial. Tonight one relived moment of intimacy had jerked her from her comforting bed of faith. Gone also was her future, her assurance of reunion with Don. She must find these things again, or there was no meaning to life—there could be no life. She could endure the endless days, the interminable nights, the excruciating loneliness of body and spirit, if only she knew. Physically exhausted, she sank to the earth. She looked about as one struggling from a coma. All about her trees elbowed each other and their leaves stirred sleepily. The moon had risen and its reflected light glistened from water. The river! Shock struck the fuzziness from her mind. She had come back. Back to where she had met Don. Here they had come most frequently for their picnics, and it had been the scene of their last one. Once Donny, venturing too near, had fallen into the water. She had screamed with fright and run for him, but Don was already holding him. "He might have drowned," she cried. Don laughed. "He might, if the water had been a little deeper right here, but he didn't. I was here.". He gave the boy a gentle spat. "Now, young man, don't get so close next time." "Tl never come here again." "Why? Donny is a boy. He 20 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1954 Will seek aq €nture and Must leary Motions he tran her hands to handle himself We can't avoid through he hair ang her fingers Ife 5 _Tunning," Caught, Her elbows dropped to her So simple, so Sate, when Don was knees, "Don," She Whispered, here. Tt Was absurd to Worry the Wordlessly, "Don, come back. I tiniest bjt They were 4 unit, comneed you so." plete, teVvocabie, Just when the fragrance first touched Gwen she did not know r — a, = 4 rfect, or a but grady lly it was there, so deli A call = a7 - atic cate, so al] nveloping, 59 'ich jn come an it "lad gone Memories and Promises, She Taised seeking— 0, not seeking, by meet her head T 00n was behind 8 2dventure S happy, for the trees ang he could see little Ww © Was still with, her, though his —. ' letters were Often weeks apart and {htough the "tered light, Guided had hastened to Prepare their home and ea it to her cheek For a h ' had Donn nerve Then, like a delicate spring, hat followed d been nightit Teleased the €nsion fiat ha Mare from Which she had struggled €r tigid for so le She lack of knowledge. How could She ad been taught, ll the Principles Sometime later the mood of ex. She had lived Were but 5 liefs, _ultation Passed, an Gwen was balm Or gr €ving hearts. She didn't alone again, but she Was not lone] Want them. She wanted Don. She She had found Don, and now she Wanted to know. Must go to their babies, Time, maliciously, Tefused to Pass, As she Opened her front door For cons, it seemed, she Sat suffer. Gwen turned for 4 last look at the to Play, but as before, nothing cate Pink above the dark hills, could Penetrate the cloud of her Night was 0n€, and it was a new day. It was a new day for never again would she experience the complete desolation of spirit she had known this night. Now she knew. The thought startled her. How did she know? Did she know? She knew in a positive physical sense that the rose was there before she touched it. She knew because of its fragrance. In just as positive, but less tangible way, she knew Don was still Don. There could be no mistake about the sweet tranquility only he could bring. Like the fragrance, the evidence was there if the substance was not. Was this then knowledge, or was it faith? One bright star lingered in the sky, and she studied it. Again she asked, how far is a star? How far between faith and knowledge? Knowledge, perhaps, was as far as a star, and the path to it as inexplicable as faith. Perhaps, but it no longer mattered. The question had lost its importance. Closing the door she turned toward the bedroom and words came melodiously to her lips: "... [ hear thee say to me, fear not: I will pilot thee." xs Dorothy Clapp Robinson, Boise, Idaho, is well known to readers of The Relief Society Magazine. Her stories have pleased a wide audience for many years, and she is adept at writing serials as well as shorter fiction. She was awarded third prize in the Relief Society Short Story Contest in 1945, and first prize in 1950. '"Writing has been a source of joy to me," she tells us, "for through it I have formed some of the most satisfying friendships of my life. I have served five times as chapter president and State president of The Idaho Writers League, of which I am a charter member. Relief Society, of course, has been the big work of my life. However, I have served in ward and stake capacities in all the auxiliaries, except Primary. At present I am working on the Sunday School stake board. I was born in Colorado, but came to Idaho as a small child. I am mother of five children and grandmother to eighteen— all under ten years of age. The eighteen include one pair of twins born to one of my twins. I am a twin, as was my father. So my material for juvenile stories comes firsthand." <> Amateur Gardener s Reward Sudie Stuart Hager When summer left, the weeds stood high In every vegetable row, And clover blossomed in the grass That I had failed to mow; Each dead bloom-stalk was mummified, The unpruned bushes sprawled, So that I viewed my yard with shame When green-thumbed neighbors called. But winter with his tinseling-brush Has made each drab thing shine; And there's no other garden-spot As glorious as mine! 22 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1954 First Ladies of Our Land WIVES OF THE PRESIDENTS Part III Elsie C. Carroll ANE Appleton Pierce (1806- J 1863) daughter of a college president, loved reading, music, and quiet, studious pursuits. She felt alone in chattering, laughing crowds, and was a sensitive, loving woman, of delicate and fragile constitution. At twenty-eight (in 1834) she was married to the handsome and charming Franklin Pierce, then a member of Congress. During the eight years she spent in Washington while her husband was a Senator, she constantly dreamed of the time they could return to their home in Concord, New Hampshire, and live quietly with their sons. In a social way she did only what was necessary. It was largely because of her unhappiness that her husband did not even finish his last term as Senator. After his resignation he refused to accept a place in the cabinet offered him by President Polk. He declared he resigned so he could be with his family and he did not intend to leave them for any length of time unless his country called in time of wat. Soon the war with Mexico began, and he volunteered as a private but was soon a brigadier general. He became a hero when, after being wounded, he insisted on being lifted to his horse and leading his men into battle. When the war was over he teturned to his law practice, fully inJANE APPLETON PIERCE (1806-1863) tending to keep his promise to Jane to keep out of public life. In 1848 he refused a nomination for Governor. But four years later there was such a clamor for him to run for President that he consent: ed, and almost against his will he was voted into office, and served one term (1853-1857). He was the youngest man up to that time to be President—only forty-nine. A short time before his inauguration their oldest son was killed in an accident. They had already lost their two younger children, both boys. Jane never recovered from this Page 23 24; RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1954 final shock. The people of Washington loved her as she stood dutifully beside her husband at all ceremonies where she was expected to appear. She had the valor necessary to make her do graciously the tasks she dreaded, but which she performed only for her husband's sake and from a sense of duty. After their retirement from the White House in 1857, the Pierces traveled in Madeira and in Europe. Jane died in 1863, and was followed in 1869 by her sorrowing and devoted husband. James Buchanan (1857-1861), fifteenth President, was a bachelor, the first President to enter the White House unmarried and the only one to depart still a bachelor. He brought to the White House to serve as official hostess, his niece Harriet Lane Johnston, who had chosen him among all her relatives to be her guardian when, at the age of nine she was left an orphan. She made a charming First Lady when her uncle went to the White House. Mary Todd Lincoln (1818-1882) was the daughter of a prominent and influential Kentucky family. She was ambitious for her husband, the young Springfield lawyer whom she married in 1842. Her years in the White House (1861-1865) were far from happy, far from her dreams of what they would be. She was watched and gossiped about and laughed at by some who thought it ridiculous to have the wife of a prairie lawyer as First Lady. Willie (William Wallace) the third son, died during Mary's tenure in the White House, and she MARY TODD LINCOLN (1818-1882) never again entered the Blue Room, where his body had lain. However, Mary had a_ good knowledge of political affairs, a fine education, and the ability to make correct, even though often impulsive, judgments. At times she was extravagant in her dress and ran in debt for clothes and jewelry at most of the Washington stores. Over eager to fulfill the requirements of her social position, she was not always at ease and often found herself in embarrasing situations. Mary suffered over her unpopularity. On one occasion, after she had spent hours preparing to go down to a public reception, she stopped at the head of the stairs and said to her husband, ""They do not want me. They say I am a FIRST LADIES OF OUR LAND rebel sympathizer because I was born in Kentucky, and that I give information to the Confederates, and that I am not loyal to you or the Union." The patient Abe agreed that they had a hard position, but reminded her that they had some very loyal friends, and that they were there in the reception rooms waiting for them. So, with head up, Mary went down to their guests. Some of their loyal friends, such as Sumner and Douglas, wanted her to stop the vicious gossip about herself by publishing the facts that she spent much time in Union hospitals helping the staffs with organizing details and cheering Union veterans with her keen wit, and that when she was seen riding unattended down Pennsylvania Avenue she was going to some relief work, not as the gossips rumored, to meet some Southerner. ELIZA McCARDLE JOHNSON (1808 (7?) - 1876) 25 In spite of her sharp tongue and changeable disposition, Mary loved her husband and worried about his heavy responsibilities and grave problems. At last the war was over, and it seemed to her that things would be easier. Lincoln had been reelected and was being hailed as the savior of his country. Mary insisted on his going to the theatre for relaxation. Then came the tragedy of his assassination, April 1 5, 1865. Sad years for Mary followed. Her health was impaired, and the tragedies of her years in the White House had resulted in recurrent emotional and mental instability. After several years of traveling, and periods of treatment in various hospitals, she went to live with her sister, Mrs. Ninian Edwards in the old home town—Springfield, Illinois. After a time Sumner succeeded in getting a pension for her, but she continued to grieve until her death, seventeen years after Lincoln's death, in the same room in which she had been courted. The next First Lady, Eliza McCardle Johnson, married Andrew before his nineteenth birthday. He owned a tailoring shop and she was the daughter of a shoemaker. However, Eliza was able to assist her husband in learning to write, and she read to him while he plied his needle. They lived in the back room of the tailoring shop, but young Andrew was ambitious for learning. He joined a debating society and became known as "the village Demosthenes." During his struggle upward, Eliza took care of their home and helped to make a living for the family. After three terms as Mayor of Greenville, Andrew was elected to Congress, and later served two terms as Governor of 'Tennessee. Then he was elected to represent Tennessee as a Senator. He fought the growing tide of secession, and it was as a Southern Unionist that he was elected VicePresident on Lincoln's ticket. The assassination of President Lincoln in 1865, brought Andrew Johnson to the Presidency and Eliza became First Lady (1865-1869). Eliza, however, was an invalid by the time she went into the White House, but she still gave comfort and encouragement to her husband during the hard years of the reconstruction, while her daughter Martha, wife of Senator David Patterson, performed the duties of official hostess in a very satisfactory manner. Martha won the respect of Washington when the family arrived and she said to a news reporter: ""We are plain people from the mountains of 'Tennessee, and we do not propose to put on airs because we have the fortune to occupy this place for a little while." People respected Martha and admired her integrity. They did not even gossip when it was known that she brought two cows to the Capital, which she milked herself. Her teas and other socials were popular, even when her father was threatened with impeachment. Eliza helped to superintend and organize the first White House Easter party for children, and she was a kind and wise advisor to her children and a friend of all who came to the Executive Mansion. Although her health became increasingly precarious, Eliza outlived her husband six months. She died in January 1876. Julia Dent Grant (1826-1902), who was married August 22, 1848, spent the first years of her married life in one army camp after another. When her husband resigned JULIA DENT GRANT (1826-1902) from the army, they lived for a time on a farm near St. Louis, Missouri, belonging to Julia. But Grant became disabled because of illness and they left the farm. He tried several kinds of work with little success. Then came the Civil War, and it was not long before he was the general who Lincoln declared was indispensable because he won battles. During the war Julia had some dangerous experiences. Once she escaped from a garrison that was about to be taken by hiding herself and her four-year-old son in a box- 26 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1954 FIRST LADIES OF OUR LAND car on a railroad track and waiting there until a train finally picked up the car and she was carried to safety. Her husband came out of the war as the hero who had saved the Union and was chosen President of the United States at the election in 1869, and served two terms in the White House. Julia enjoyed good health and was vivacious and energetic, and of a happy disposition; though she did not enjoy social life to a great extent, she performed her duties as First Lady with grace and charm. Nellie, the only daughter, was martied in the White House in 1874, being the seventh "daughter of a President" to be married during her father's term of office. The wedding was a social event long remembered in the capital. Julia was adored by her husband, who, in the years following his retirement from political life, and during the time of his fatal illness, wrote his personal history of the war years to provide an income for Julia after his death. With her at his side he wrote until he could no longer move a pencil, then whispered dictation of the last chapters, thus winning his last battle for the woman he loved. Ulysses Grant died in 1885, and Julia survived him seventeen years. Lucy Webb Hayes (1831-1889), the next First Lady, who was married in 1852, celebrated her silver wedding anniversary in the White House. Friends said that she looked more attractive on that occasion even than she had at her wedding, a sweet and unassuming bride just out of college. They recognized, however, that the years 27 LUCY WEBB HAYES (1831-1889) had given her an inner depth and oise and faith in herself which well fitted her to be mistress of the White House. There she inaugurated regular Sunday circles which she made attractive, as she did all her social functions, for which she herself superintended the decorations, the music, and the catering. It was said that she always seemed as fresh and charming at the end, even of a big reception, as at the beginning. Her husband always talked over his problems with her and respected her opinions and decisions. He upheld her in her decision not to serve liquor in the White House. There was a loud protest to this edict at first, but she challenged her critics with the question: "Cannot people be as interesting and witty without wine as with it?" And they soon accepted her wish good humoredly. She tried to have a family hour as often as possible when she and the President would devote themselves entirely to their children, helping them with their homework, playing, and reading with them. They had eight children, five of whom grew to maturity. The children had many friends, one of whom declared after a visit to the White House, "I will never be satisfied with a husband who is not President." She had been impressed by the idyllic happiness of President and Mrs. Hayes. His friend later married William Howard Taft, and thus fulfilled her wish. Lucy was adored by the employees of the Executive Mansion. She entertained them and their children on special occasions. On Christmas each child received 'a gift selected by the First Lady herself. The slogan of her life seemed to be: "Nothing is too much trouble if it brings happiness to someone." Once an older soldier of the War of 1812 was brought to the White House to be photographed for some special purpose. 'The new uniform sent for him to wear lacked the stripes to show he was a sergeant. Seeing his disappointment, Mrs. Hayes procured needle and thread and was busy sewing the stripes on the uniform, sitting on the floor, it is said, when a British ambassador came into the room with a group of tourists he was showing around the Mansion. President and Mrs. Hayes left the White House in 1881. She was long remembered in Washington for her visits to hospitals with armfuls of flowers, and for her championship of woman suffrage. When she died, in 1889, flags were lowered at half mast in cities all over the land. Lucretia Rudolph Garfield (1832- 1918) was a Campbellite. She met James Abram when they were both studying 'to be teachers. He was janitor for the Eclectic Institute while he was studying. After a long courtship, they were married, November 11, 1858. James was then principal of Hiram College, in Ohio, delivered lectures and _ sermons, and studied law in addition. Later he became president of the college. They lived on the campus until he entered the army when the Civil War broke out. He was called the praying colonel and had a great influence over men in the army. Once he enlisted sixty men at a ball by telling them of the merrymaking in Brussels on the eve of the Battle of Waterloo. After the war, Mr. Garfield arose rapidly in the political world and was nominated for President in 1880. Lucretia was very reticent and retiring in character, but had the best of judgment. Her husband often remarked that he never had to excuse any of her words. She disliked publicity, but made a pleasing impression during the short time she resided in the White House. The five Garfield children and _ the President's aged mother, Eliza Ballow Garfield, accompanied James and Lucretia to the White House. When Lucretia contracted typhoid fever, her husband was crushed by her illness. As one writer says, "This small, unobtrusive woman had given Garfield mental consolation and support since the ripening of their youthful friendship. He sat by her bed day and night, devoting himself personally to her care." 28 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1954 CAROLINE SCOTT HARRISON (1832-1892) She had the distinction of being married (June 2, 1886) in the Executive Mansion, a bride of twentytwo, standing under a bell of red roses in the Blue Room. She had been a ward of Grover Cleveland following the death of her father, Grover's law partner. The second bachelor to be inaugurated President was then forty-nine. He had known Frances since she was a child. Frances entertained with ease and graciousness at all functions. Sometimes the crowds were so large at the evening receptions that officers would halt the guests a few. Moments, at intervals, to give Mrs. Cleveland a moment's rest. People felt so much at home that they wandered all through the White House, except through the few rooms on the second floor reserved for the President's family, making themselves, as one writer says, "democratically at home." For three years Frances enjoyed being mistress of the White House. Then Benjamin Harrison became President. However, four years later the Clevelands returned. But now times had changed. People criticized and found fault. 'They blamed the President for the business panic of that time. They gossiped about the private lives in the White House, accusing Frances of snobbishness because she refused to let the public caress her baby, and rumoring that there was domestic trouble if she ever went to a concert or theatre without her husband.. Through all this she remained her friendly, gracious self and won back some of the popularity of former years before the end of the term. The second daughter of the Clevelands was born in the White House during the President's second term. In all, four children were born to them. Grover Cleveland died in 1908, and Frances, who was twentyseven years younger than her husband, died in 1947. Caroline Scott Harrison (1832- 1892) and her husband Benjamin were both interested in social service while they were students, and this interest continued after their marriage. In fact, the day her husband was elected President, Caroline spent the early evening in an orphan asylum, and said she was tired as she prepared early to go to bed. When her husband said he would go with her, their son-in-law asked if they were not going to remain up to hear the election returns. Harrison answered, "What good will that do? Should I be defeated, my staying up all night would do no good. Should I win, 30 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1954 FIRST LADIES OF OUR LAND it is better that I be rested and fresh for the activities of tomorrow." Caroline was used to Washington society, for she had lived there six years while her husband was Senator. She performed her duties as First Lady (1889-1892) with poise and cheerfulness, though she regretted the restrictions the etiquette of her position placed upon her, as she must always be ready to receive callers and so could not spend an entire day doing charity work. 31 A joy to both her and her husband was their little grandson, the son of Mary Harrison McKee, who received almost as much publicity during the administration as did the President and First Lady. Caroline Scott Harrison died in the White House, October 25, 1892, a little more than a year before the end of her husband's term of office. Benjamin Harrison died in 1901, two years after he had served as President McKinley's representative to the Hague Peace Conferenee. Support the Mlarch of Dimes Basil O' Connor President, the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis N sixteen short years, the March of Dimes research has broken through tremendous barriers that once stood between man and the conquest of polio. Known to the threshold of victory. Step by step, scientists have advanced from the depths of the unIn opening up a fourth front against infantile paralysis, the National Foundation now strikes directly at the heart of the polio problem. Its objective is to extend protection against this paralytic disease to the greatest number of people—eventually to all people. A polio prevention program is possible today because, through March of Dimes research, science for the first time has in its hands both a limited, temporary preventive agent and a final answer to infantile paralysis. May be the final assault—the practica the needs of human beings. The March of Dimes, already fin trial vaccine which may provide the Today, plans are being made for what 1 use of laboratory knowledge to meet ancing patient aid, scientific research, and professional education, soon will leave the laboratories to fight polio by prevention in the families of the nation. To do this, an additional $7,500,000 will be needed during 1954 alone for the mass production of a trial vaccine, and for the staging of the largest validity test involving human beings in the history of the world. So you see we have reached a crucial point. The polio fight is entering its most important and exbrink of success. Pensive phase. Scientists may be on the These are some of the reasons why we need support so urgently. We must reach all the people with the message of hope and determination during our January drive. New Year's Choice Dorothy Boys Kilian HE recreation hall was decorated just as gaily as in other years, with balloons and crepe paper streamers and Japanese lanterns; the orchestra, imported from St. Louis, sounded like a regular name band, the same old friends were there, whirling around the dance floor calling out holiday greetings to everyone. In fact, everything about the New Year's Eve party was truly festive, except the mood of Dick and Sally. They were sitting out a number, and Dick said earnestly, "Gee, Sally, if you could give me the right answer tonight, it would be the happiest New Year's Eve of my life." "T know," Sally answered seriously. "But, Dick, you wouldn't want me to promise if I weren't absolutely sure, would you?" "No, I guess not," he said slowly. "But, couldn't you possibly manage to make up your mind? After all, it isn't exactly a new problem.... I've been proposing to you at least once a week for three months." Dick smiled ruefully. "I'm very fond of you, Dick, you know that," Sally answered. "It isn't that, it's just that I've always wanted so badly to...." She broke off and looked down towards the orchestra platform. Dick's glance followed hers and he frowned. "It's that singer," he groaned. "I knew the minute the Clarks introduced you to her there'd be a kick-back. Why on earth they had to have a career girl for a house guest, I don't know.: Page 32 And then to drag her to the party and have her show off...." "Dick!" Sally protested laughingly, "you can't blame Ellen Clark for being proud of her friend Madeleine. And it isn't just hearing her that makes me hesitate. All through high school I was crazy about singing, you know that. And then when Uncle Ed wrote this Christmas that he'd pay for lessons if I wanted to go to New York to live with them for a_ few months...." "But, Sally, if you go way off there, it might not be for just a few months. That's what makes me afraid. And I'm interested in your voice, too. There are good teachers in St. Louis, and, if we married, I'm sure we could soon juggle the budget around enough to let you go over there once a week or so for lessons." 6*VOU'RE sweet, Dick." Sally laid a hand over his. "It's a great temptation to say yes, but I keep wondering if I wouldn't always regret having passed up this offer of Uncle Ed's. That wouldn't be good for either of us." "I'd be willing to take the chance, darling," Dick said quietly. "I have confidence that we could work things out all right." "Tet's dance," Sally said suddenly, standing up and gently pulling Dick up beside her. "It's almost midnight, and time is wasting." "All right, Sally," Dick agreed, 'Gf that's the way you want it." "ame one with the jostling crowd of dancers. Around her. "Happy New Year, darling," he saj. Ne Matter what your answer js " "The same to you, Dick" she Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, January 1, and January 15, 1894 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WomMeN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomeEN OF ALL NatTIONs" A HAPPY NEW YEAR is the salutation that greets old and young at the present time, and it is pleasant to hear the cheerful tones repeating the hopeful words that never grow old, but each year brings them back fresh and crisp as ever. The new year comes full of hopefulness from all for better days, and yet the last dear old year brought with it many blessings.... If we as a people should enumerate the blessings of the year that is now numbered with the past, we should find much to rejoice over.... If some extra exertion is necessary that the poor and unfortunate may have food and raiment during the winter, it will bring into active exercise the kindly and generous feelings and sentiments of those who minister to the needy, and every blessing bestowed will enrich the giver. —E. B. W. HOLIDAYS: It is good to observe these days set apart for love and friendship, for this age is so eminently practical that without some such observances, social and family life would lose much of its tenderness and sweetness. The reunion around the festive board, and better still the gatherings at eventide by the hearthstone at home, awaken the most affectionate recollections, or call forth the simple tales one loves to hear repeated of the former days, of the daily labor, or of adventure by land and sea, or the old songs, pleasant games, or work, or pastime. —Selected MESSAGE FROM NEW ZEALAND (Containing news of the bill bestowing full suffrage upon women passed by both houses of Legislature and signed by the Governor.) I was down on the beach this morning, Walked alone by the sounding sea, And from the wild waves in their sobbing, A message was wafted to me..... Oh glorious message! Most welcome; A forecast of vision sublime, Of a full free emancipation At last of all nations and climes. —L. M. Hewlings, Chicago, October 1893 PARTY AT SANDY: A very pleasant party met at the Wardhouse, in honor of our President of the Relief Society Mrs. W. Olsen, before her leaving to visit relatives in Grantsville.... A purse was presented to her with a sum over $20.00 given by the society members. She felt very happy for the honor bestowed upon her. The evening was well spent in speeches and dancing. Refreshments consisting of many delicacies were served... And a general good feeling animated all. —Hilda Larsen, Secretary. A MAP MADE OF SILK: The historical silk map of the United States which was made by Kate D. Barron Buck of this City (Salt Lake City) which received merited praise and took a medal, when exhibited in the Woman's Building at the World's Fair, has been photographed and we have received a complimentary copy.... The map is made of silk from the dresses of the wives of the respective Governors of the several States and Territories. The District of Columbia is a piece presented by the late Mrs. Harrison of the White House. —Editorial notes. Page 34 KING PAUL and Queen Fredetika of Greece aroused the highest enthusiasm during their brief visit to America. Both glamorous in appearance, they are still romantically in love. Their warmth, informality, and personal charm captivated people, but underneath all this Queen Frederika is one of the most admired and respected women in the world today. German by birth, cosmopolitan by education, speaking English with an American accent, because she attended an American school in Italy, she has given a love and intelligence to her adopted people that rarely have been seen in royalty. In Greece she has visited almost inaccessible mountain communities where no monarch ever ventured before, to see and know the many heartbreaking problems of the people, and then to act with unremitting labor to help them. She sets a personal example of thrift and self-sacrifice. VERY year about 28,000 fatal accidents occur in United States homes. HE young are constantly surprising us. Last spring thirteenyear-old Manya Baumbacher, from Utah, skied into seventh place in the national women's giant slalom. (Rhona Wurteli Gillis, of Boise, won the championship.) Mary Ann Mitchell, fourteen, of San Leandro, California, has won sixty-five imWoman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon portant trophies in tennis matches and is considered a real threat to Little Mo (Maureen Connolly) who, at sixteen, won the national women's championship in 1951. At present Mary Ann is ahead of Little Mo's timetable. She is an accomplished pianist and makes many of her own dresses. Judy Marks, of Chicago, only thirteen, ranks as one of America's top horsewomen. She has won 128 first prizes at American horse shows and one international award. D* BULA WILLIAMS, psychologist and counselor, and mother of cinema and swimming _ star Esther Williams, lived in Salt Lake City for ten years after marriage. Since turning sixty, she -has received her Master's Degree, Ph. D., and D. D. E extend best wishes and birthday congratulations to Mrs. Isaac (Mary M.) Jacob of Los Angeles, California, formerly of Utah, ninety-five; Mrs. Janet McMurrin Evans, ninety-one, Salt Lake City; and Mrs. Matthew T. (Mary J.) Bell, ninety, Salt Lake City. T the Jacob's Pillow Dance Festival in the Berkshires, Massachusetts (where Virginia Tanner's young L. D. S. Group thrilled audiences last September), Ruth St. Dennis gave a remarkable performance. At seventy-three, she repeated some of the most difficult dances of her career with remarkable grace and spirit. Page 35 VOL. 41 A Happier Life HE advent of a new year turns one's mind to his mistakes of the past year, and seems to nourish in the heart a resolution to fill the days that Jie ahead with thoughts and actions which will conform in a closer pattern to that set by the Master in mortality. As one sits alone in review, reflection, and judgment over his faults and failings, there comes, as each succeeding year passes, 4 deeper realization and a firmer conviction that only as one keeps the two great commandments, to love the Lord with all one's might, mind, and strength, and one's neighbor as oneself, can one become perfect as his Father in heaven is perfect. Because the whole world is made up of neighbors—of individual families—the commandment to love one's neighbor has universal application. To love one's neighbor, however, does not mean to love the unfortunate neighbor residing miles or thousands of miles away, and ignoring OF disliking the next-door neighbor. Means of fostering love for one's next-door neighbor is found in the ward unit which the Lord has set up. So long as there are poor, distressed, discouraged, and sorrowful Page 36 Qs EDITORIAL JANUARY 1954 in the New Year members within the confines of one's own ward, there is a responsibility to show love of neighbor to them. Then, after having thus shown forth love for one's near neighbor, a general love expressed for mankind has real meaning. Of first importance in obeying and living the second commandment is love of one's own family. "Charity begins at home" is in line with the assertion of Timothy: "But if any provide not for his own, and specially for those of his own house, he hath denied the faith and:; worse than an infidel" (I 'Timothy 5:8). It is imperative that consideration, appreciation, understanding, helpfulness, and love flow around the family circle which will endure for time and eternity. A woman who pours forth devotion and care on neighbors, while neglecting her own sister, is desregarding a vital part of the second commandment. The person who would overcome envy, greed, jealousy, selfishness, insincerity or more serious sins, will find their cure and a happier life in the new year through learning better to love his neighbors as himself. So the Master commanded all men, so may men become perfect. —MCS. Relief Society Assigned Gvening Meeting of Fast Sunday in March 'THE Sunday night meeting to be held on Fast Day, March 7, 1954, has again been assigned by the First Presidency for use by the Relief SoSuggestive plans for this evening meeting have been prepared by the general board and sent to the stakes in bulletin form. It is suggested that ward Relief Society Presidents confer with their bishops immediately to arrange for this meeting. Music for the Singing Mothers should be ordered at once, for binding. It is suggested that wards and stakes have one volume of the 1953 Magazines bound for Preservation in ward and stake Relief Society libraries. A ward Subscriptions Presented in April HE award subscriptions presented to Magazine representatives for hay- Moon Music Louise Morris Kelley For it must needs be, that there is an opposition in all things. If not so, my first-born in the wilderness, righteousness could not be brought to pass, neither wickedness, neither holiness nor misery, neither good nor bad. Wherefore, all things must needs be a compound in one... (2 Nephi 2:11). RANKIE was five years old, and he was not happy. We had hoped he was beginning to be, now that the lonely years were past... The days and years of moving from one temporary home to another—with his father in the service and his mother worried and unsettled. Now his family was complete and solid, like a jigsaw puzzle with the center piece found. Now he belonged to a family, and Frankie had a kindergarten class of two dozen potential friends. Now surely, he should be happy. "Mrs. Brown, we're so pleased with the progress Frankie is making," I told his teacher when she called me in for a conference. "He seems to be much better adjusted now." "He seems to be," replied the teacher. "What, especially, have you noticed?" "Well, his friends at school," I answered, puzzled by her reserve. "He comes home nearly every day with a story to tell about his little friends—how Barry chose him first in a game, or Mickey shared his licorice. The day he brought home an airplane Brian gave him he was simply bubbling." She studied her pencil for a moment. "I'm sorry, truly sorry. He is still hanging back, still on the Page 38 fringe—or farther out. Brian lost his plane on the playground last week," I was stunned. "What more can we do?" I pleaded. "Tf he had one friend, a real, true friend in the group, that friend could draw him in." Mrs. Brown shut her desk drawer and picked up her handbag. "I'm doing what I can, but no combination has taken yet. Perhaps you can find the one friend." How was it that Jimmy became the one? Perhaps because the first day I visited school, he was the only boy besides Frankie who was wearing bib overalls. (I made a mental memo: Buy jeans and cords like the others wear.) Perhaps because he lived just around the corner. (Another memo: Make cookies tomorrow and invite Jimmy in on his way home from school.) We brought Jimmy in slowly, subtly, patiently, as a fisherman lures a wary trout. Some of our casts snagged. When the movie "Destination Moon" came to town, we invited Jimmy to accompany us. We hoped for popcorn passed back and forth, exchange of comments, and delighted nudgings. Jimmy cooperated, but Frankie sat transfixed. Friend and family were forgotten in the wonder of the rocket's flight through uncharted space. His ears MOON MUSIC were deaf to everything but the dialogue and the crescendo-diminuendo of the background music. We chalked up an "S" in science and a "U" in social relations and forgot it. EVERAL weeks later I was spending the early afternoon devising ways to make my little coiled spring unwind enough for a nap. I tuned in on a radio classics hour, hoping for some soft music. They were playing a favorite symphony, sometimes soft, of course, but often triple fortissimo. It became too loud for a lullaby, and Frankie called to me from his bedroom. "Is that 'trip to the moon' music?" "It's called symphony music—a form of classical music,' I explained. "Now, how about that nap?" Ignoring my question, he said, "Tt sounds like 'trip to the moon.' " "All right, we'll call it 'trip to the moon' music." "Do you like it, Mommy?" "Very much." "Then why do you keep turning it off?" "T haven't turned it off," I said. "Sometimes it's very loud and sometimes it is soft and whispery. Then it gets loud again." "Why is it that way?" I replied, "Because it sounds better if it's not all the same." "Why does it sound better?" "Well, it's more interesting. You like ice cream, but if all the food that you ate tasted like ice cream you'd get tired of eating. Your tastebuds like a little food that's spicy, or sour, and a little that's smooth, 39 or sweet, or syrupy, and lots of food that's in-between. But all different. The best music often has some parts thunder-loud and some parts mist-soft and some parts in-between. Now you're just trying to postpone your nap. No more questions." But there came a knock at the door—Jimmy. So, after spending nearly an hour getting Frankie down for a nap, I let him get up to play after all. The friendship project was more important. I waited through supper for him to make some comment about Jimmy, so we could tell how it was coming, but he hardly said a word about anything. He was watching every mouthful of food his father ate—as if eating were some strange ritual. Finally he said, looking earnestly into Daddy's face, "It's not good if it's all the same." "Huh?" was the surprised response. "It's not good if it's all the same, Daddy," he repeated. Puzzled, Daddy turned to me for an explanation, then searched Frankie's face for a clue of what this might be about. Finding none, he agreed absent-mindedly, "All tight. It's not good if it's all the same" and resumed his meal. I explained later. "T wish I understood that boy better," Daddy said. "I feel like I'm failing him when he needs me most." "I know. We've lost the most precious, the most plastic years. Now we have to hurry. There's so little time to help him before it's too late." "And yet we musn't do the wrong thing." "No," I agreed. "If only we could help him not to be unhappy about so many things, then, maybe, after that he could learn how to be happy." "He has security now," my husband said. "He knows we both love him." "But he still doesn't have within himself whatever it takes to meet disappointments and keep going." "Maybe after awhile,' Daddy said hopefully. FTER awhile the stories of school pals stopped, and Frankie hated to go to school. The kindergarten was a modern wonderland, with floor-to-ceiling windows, a playhouse, carpenter's bench, slippery slide, a jungle gym, fireplace, aquarium, painting easels, and cupboards full of toys. Yet he hung back as if he were a frontier youth on his way to "Master Hickory." Then one night it all came out. I was checking to see if the "bairnies were a'cuddled doon." Frankie was asleep, with his face in the pillow. As I tiptoed out I caught a stifled sound—a sob. His pillow was sponge-wet with tears. His little shoulders were shaking now in an effort to keep the sobs from my hearing. Instantly he was in my arms, absorbing that remedy known to mothers before medicine existed. Finally the sobs quieted, but still he clung to me, trembling. "Ts it school?" I inquired. He nodded. "But you have a friend at school now. Doesn't Jimmy help you play with toys, and paint and build?" "Jimmy isn't my friend at school. When he comes here he acts like a friend," he continued, "but at school he doesn't even like me. He's on Bill's gang, and they don't want me on their gang, and if Bill says to Jimmy to beat me up then Jimmy does it." Then wistfully, "But Jimmy likes me some when Bill isn't there." He waited for help, watching my face. As I struggled to find the comforting advice, the soothing words, he stared intently at me, trying to read them in my eyes. Failing, he restated his problem: "Only sometimes he's my friend, and sometimes he hits me." The words echoed and re-echoed. What can a mother say when she has not for herself the answer? And so I prayed, silently, holding Frankie's hand, but encompassed by silence, "Oh, give me wisdom. Please, Father, let me know what to say." I waited then, feeling comforted, watching the dusk deepen in the room, feeling fully a mother's love, a mother's responsibility. But it was the child who said it, almost shouted it, in surprised discovery. "It's like the music!" Even then I was lost, groping. "What music, son?" ""Trip to the moon' music! Loud and then soft. Sometimes friends like you and sometimes they hit you. It can't be all the same." His face brightened. "It's that way with everything, isn't it, Mommy?" Thus wisdom had come... And understanding and comfort. Frank- 40 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1954 MOON MUSIC ie's own thoughts had been guided, 41 "And if ''m unhappy again," he directed. T hey had found a clear said sleepily, "I'll know it will get channel. Different. Tike the music. That Nestling down in his bed again 'trip... To the. -- moon'... Muand smiling now, he said, "It's bet. Se iD," ter that way, | guess." "Yes, it's better. Soon you'll haye remembering words of Inspiration all the more because you'll remember how unhappy you were tonight," a My Calendar Elsie Sim Hansen The eagerness in her young voice startled me for a moment as I said in surPtise, "Of course you may, dear, but why get so excited about it?" She stood poised on the top of the stool like a young bird ready for flight, watching me place the last tray of a batch of cookies in' the oven before she replied, and then she said, "It's lots of fun, Mother. See, if ] shut my eyes tight while I turn over the page, when | Open them again the old Was the Picture before me all I had hoped it would be? Was it full of faith, hope, and enthusiasm for a happy opened her eyes? A, each one regarded as a Precious piece of clay to be moulded by my hands, thoughts, The Deeper Melody CHAPTER 4 Alice Morrey Bailey Synopsis: Steven Thorpe, a widower with three small children, is grateful to Margaret Crain, a registered nurse, for taking care of his baby during an attack of pneumonia. Margaret's mother is acting temporarily as Steven's housekeeper, while making plans for her daughter's approaching marnage to Dr. Rex Harmon. In the meantime, Steven wins back the Kettle Creek contract and is reinstated in his job. 66 ONSENSE!" said Steve. N "You're just hysterical, J. T., on getting this contract. You don't have to leave me the business to get me back into the company. I'd come under any condition." "T'm not hysterical, and this is no snap decision. I've been watching you for years, as well as a dozen other young men. Kettle Creek has been a sort of testing ground with me ever since I failed to sell them ten years ago. I knew then that the man who could would be a better man than I. Nobody has succeeded, but I was most disappointed when you failed." "Don't give me too much credit for getting back up there and selling the contract. I was thinking about it, I'll admit, but it seemed too crazy until Phyllis' nurse got the same idea. She's a pretty level sort of person, and...." "Phyllis' nurse? You think she's wonderful don't you? Is_ she young? Is she pretty? Is she single?" "All three," laughed Steve. Page 42 "You'd better marry that girl. Don't let her get away from you." "She's engaged. She's wearing a diamond as big as your fist." "Buy her a bigger one. Go to, and cut him out." "You surely must want me martied, J. T. You've never seen the girl You don't know anything about her." "I know what you've told me about her—she got your baby well. She gave you the right kind of advice and support. I told you I've been watching you for years." He broke off to go to his files and get a brochure. To Steve's astonishment, it contained nothing but information about him, his sales record, his marriage, the birth of his babies, Ellen's death, the letters he had written the company when he was sales manager of a district near Craig—all of it was there. "I was pretty sure about you a long time ago, Steve. I took a liking to you the first time I saw you, when you were the greenest salesman I had, just fresh out of college with a degree in business. It intrigued me that a fellow with your marks didn't hit for at least a managership in some department store. Why did you do it, boy? I've always been curious." "It's a long story, and it wasn't snap judgment. I'm crazy about machinery. I worked in a mill when I went to college, and I was appalled at the waste of inefficient THE DEEPER MELODY machinery—the world's treasures spread out in sand dumps all over the world. That's where Pikes Peak came in. Your machinery has the most perfect recovery of any. You have always been a hero to me, J. T., a sort of Horatio Alger of the machine world. Take a machine job that was impossible to anyone else and you could do it. Selling your machinery was more than a job with me. It was a crusade." "Then you wonder why I want you in this with me, Steve. It was inevitable that we should get together. But I want you to get married—to the right girl. Your wife was the right kind. I had the right kind of wife, or there would be no PPMM today, however, I never found the right one to take her place, so now I have no sons to carry on the business. And it is still a baby business. I want our own foundries, our own supply sources. I won't live to see it, Steve, but it is something for you to shoot at." HE partnership papers were being drawn up when Steve went home. He was alternately giddy with the thought of his new position and sobered by his sense of inadequacy for the responsibilities it would bring. It was a wonderful homecoming—the first in a long time not accompanied by fear and dread of what he would find. Davey and Ilene squealed their delight, both chattering all their day's doings at once, and trotted after him to Phyllis' room. Even Mrs. Crain left her biscuit making and brought up the rear. One glance at Phyllis crowned his day. She looked perfectly well. 43 When it came to Margaret he found it difficult to meet her eyes, in the light of his recent thoughts and J. T's forthright conversation. When, at length, he did, she was searching his face with question. "Was it a good trip?" she asked. "I feel like a conquering hero," he confirmed. She nodded. "You look like one. Kettle Creek came through all right, I take it." "Yes, and you are now gazing on a brand new PPMMC 6 ice-president!" His own flesh and blood could not have been more delighted. Mrs. Crain bustled to the kitchen to put party trimmings on an already superb dinner. Later he found opportunity to talk to Margaret. "I haven't the foggiest notion how to thank you," he told her. "You are certainly my good angel. Except for you none of these miracles would have happened—Phyllis well, your mother making my home a delight, and now this—for you must know that one sentence of yours marked the turning point of my life." "What sentence was that?" "The one about me getting back that Kettle Creek contract." "Nonsense! You were already thinking about it." "Yes," admitted Steve, "but you motivated me to action." "It took more than that really to do it. I can see by your face how hard you've worked." Ah! That was what it took to put the crown on a victory! A few words of praise from the woman a man.... But this was absurd! Steve had almost said—in his mind, to be sure—the word loves. GTEVE took a firm grip on himself and looked the possibility squarely in the face. Grant that he could and did fall in love again, as everyone seemed to wish. Grant that he might fall in love with Miss Crain, what then? Certainly any man could love such a superb woman, but she wasn't for just any man. She wasn't for Steve; being, as she was, practically married to another man—a man from her own professional world, one who could understand and properly appreciate her, one who was entering marriage for the first time, to whom she would be first, to whom her children would be first. No! Whatever he felt it was certainly to be killed in the root. Steve knew that. Killing it was another matter, with her in the house every minute he was home, across the table for breakfast and dinner, her translucent white cap winged above her fine blue eyes, her immaculate uniformed slimness moving about the room, trailed by the adoring Davey and Ilene, her arms lifting and cradling his little Phyllis. She was just through the wall when he slept, and wherever she was, night or day, he was increasingly aware of her presence. It was a miracle to watch her with the other children, for she assumed the responsibility of them, as well as Phyllis. Small as they were, she regarded each as a person in his own right. She quickly established a health routine with them, showing them how to brush their teeth, and making a game of everything from naps to vitamins. She settled their baby arguments with a clear logic which satisfied them. It was interesting to watch her technique for keeping Phyllis in bed, for she was almost recovered. "She's not out of danger yet," Steve would insist, and he really meant it. "Weak as she is, she could catch cold and start the whole thing over." At last, however, the inevitable could not be longer postponed. Phyllis was completely well, and there was no possible excuse for a registered nurse to stay on. The dreaded day arrived when the nurse and her mother were to take their leave. They tried in every way to prepare the little ones for the event, and every preparation was a failure. "Davey's going, too," Davey announced, going to get his little suitcase, with Ilene following. Suit. Phyllis watched her nurse with mingled fear and apprehension dawning in her baby eyes, and clutched Margaret whenever she moved so much as a foot. "You'll have to pack for us both, Mother,' the nurse said. "Mr. Thorpe, this is going to be the hardest thing I ever tried to do." "I know," said Steve over the lump in his throat, unable to say more. A woman was coming in the morning to take over—a woman Steve had employed because she seemed the best of those few he had to choose from. She was middle-aged and looked strong and had been coming to help for a day or so. THE Crains stood with their coats on, their luggage all ready. Steve was going to take the children along to drive them home. Just as they were going out the front door, the telephone rang. 44 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1954 THE DEEPER MELOpy 45 It was for Mj Miss Crain, the nurse's Indeed be a cold Tegistry calling, he fish. Steve found CONVersation he dislikeg him already, without listening, answering With a MOnoike atgaret! What Was the man Syllable oy t C€ she said Made of? Marga t was calm about "Well, you kn am getting mar it, and seemed t ued in June". > ater, "Dy Harmon suggested ) YOu call me? Oh, then, of Course ]']] certainly do as J. T. Suggested: come," "Try to Cut the man out." be Object of Steve's burning and ¢ CV Wouldn't se her again. J€alous Curiosity! « > » "They want me to be temporary F Paddy! Pets gor Davy shout night Superintendent Of the hos pital," she Said, " Other, What do Steve jumped, you think of that?" he bad feature js that you will t would Bive you shopping time be alone al] the time, Mother," in the q ele are some ad argaret was saying, "They expect "Tt isn't "xactly night work. It vision for you." Is three to ¢] ven. T told them Td "That's ake jt €, Il come Mm to do the Tee to elevens The Only time €avy work and. She fan concen eve had free Was in the €venings. Trate on the children. Ho about re would no ven be a Possiit Mrs. Crain?" lity he could see Margaret again. Kok x ook urt as it Might to have her go. "So 7 ": - Crain T. Harmon js back?" he So It was 'ranged. Mrs I asked "onversationally, Promptly became "Mama" to 4 2 the children, and Margaret Was Back? Queried Margaret. Dr. "Other Mama," As suck she was "Oh," said Steve, and stopped in contusion, « versation. "Other rom = Tlene, or "Other Mama "Tt isn't Proper to see me on a bought my shoes," from Davey, "ase. Anyhow, he is a very bus "Margaret Says those cowbo sees me twice 4 week boots you bought fo Octor has a very tight sch ruin his feet In ten da S and must have his Test,": M these special children's Shoes, Steve was silent, temembering his OWN courtship days. This R Was quite long, ang She was Stave, *_:74tmon, Margaret's fiance, vantages, Margaret." "Tarmon hasn't been awa having Seen the Paragon. And a girl €s, it was better al] Tound that me to live in, but there is no prostill the final authority, for she "Tell her ''m grateful. I'll reimburse her." ] "That: will be fine. She doesn't expect you to, but she does need all her money just now. Dr. Harmon offered her money to help buy the trousseau, but of course she refused!" "Nobody ever needs to be ashamed of Margaret," Steve said hotly. "That's what I think," agreed Mrs. Crain. Yes, it was good she was gone. Yet her absence sharpened, rather than lessened, the aching longing Steve had for her. Why couldn't his emotions fasten onto someone more within reason of his reaching? Miss Tate, for instance? Steve felt sure she was inclined toward him, if only by the small, nervous gestures she made whenever he was near, the flustered patting of her hair that annoyed him so much. Was there anything wrong with her? She was probably a very nice girl, Steve thought, and she irritated him only because he was so sure that if he should say to her: "Miss Tate, will you marry me?" she would comply instantly. All this, thought Steve, was just one more demonstration of his sudden aberration, brought on, no doubt, by the unaccustomed ease the Crains had brought to his household, the release from so much responsibility of the little ones, and influenced by the desire of so many people that he get married—first his mother—then J. T.— and even Margaret herself. Steve pulled himself up short. No doubt even Miss Tate would be derisive at his thoughts. He put his mind to more productive work, but the next day Miss Tate herself confirmed his opinion, at least in part. She had brought some letters in for him to sign, and waited unnecessarily long. When he looked up, she seemed to be frightened. He was about to ask if she were ill, when she stammered that she had two tickets to the symphony, but no partner, and wondered if he would care to go with her. He didn't care to, most definitely, but he could see his refusal would be embarrassingly painful to her. Besides, his curiosity had been roused by his musings. "Why, that is very thoughtful of you, Miss Tate. Thank you." (To be continued) J Would Not Have You Weep Christie Lund Coles I would not have you weep when I am gone, Nor say, ""We should have done it thus or so," I shall have risen to a fairer dawn, Than you have ever seen, and J shall know Too much of peace to countenance regret, Too much of joy to want your sorrow's breath. I only ask that you will not forget, Will love me in the interim called death. 46 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1954 - Sie i Kado 9 musts - Oxr % " Se, a Mites " (%) ov ie Rees " * 53 xs gas hae te be Oe ESS, Pepe eins ot my i 2723 Fo rae 65 SREB he ESE eS Le oe 3 EE % <2. %, RE. Ot ee pit: create 3 3 $ ome, F 8 5x0 FE - +, Peeing & € ikem 4 A aa Fi 4 Ly - ¥¢ yas ' ee, 2% aN " Di be Ces ne ne >. Ned at ek a aa CNX Am Le P97? Sh sc aan ct., Fy « ) 44) fry f Fw) 7 F ry & yt; Js 33 Saas ee pee Rts Melvina Bennett Clark Makes Braided Rugs Melvina Bennett Clark, seventy-two, of Orem, Utah, still enjoys her life-long hobby—making braided rugs. She has made hundreds of rugs in round and oval shapes, and has even tried to make braided rugs in the form of a square. Her favorite rug is one which she worked out in color tones of blue and gold. At present she is working on a rug which will cover the floor of a ten by twelve-foot room. The only real ability required for making braided rugs, Mrs. Clark says, is to be sure to braid them and sew them together in such a way that there will be no pulling or bulging, and the rug will lie flat. The homes of Mrs. Clark's four children and those of many other relatives and friends have been made beautiful and comfortable by the lovely braided rugs, the "Happiness Hobby" of this industrious woman. Mrs. Clark loves Relief Society and the Magazine and was for many years a devoted visiting teacher. > Love s Destiny Ada Marie Patten I used to think that love, however true, With all things mortal, had its temporal day, As sunset colors blazon evening skies Eventually to turn to cheerless gray. But now I know love passes as a seed — Dies only to awaken in rebirth, With new and brighter growth that reaches far And leaves a richer legacy to earth. Page 47 as; ey | ' x FROM THE FIELD Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1950, page 278, and the Handbook of Instructions, page 123. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES é Photograph submitted by Lenore G. Merrill LONG BEACH STAKE (CALIFORNIA), SAN PEDRO WARD BAZAAR October 10, 1953 Left to right: Esther Holder, work meeting leader; Oma Beaver, Work Director Counselor; Donna Powers, Education Counselor; Winnie M. Harmon, President. Special features of this unusually successful bazaar were the beautiful quilt, pillow cases, cobbler aprons, and children's wear. A fashion show, with Relief Society women and their children acting as models, was a high point of interest in the evening's entertainment. Lenore G. Merrill is president of Long Beach Stake Relief Society. Page 48 left to righ, Utah; Sister Tuff, President, Sister 3 Sister Page, 50 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1954 Photograph submitted by Mabel M. Nalder CENTRAL ATLANTIC STATES MISSION, VIRGINIA CENTRAL DISTRICT SINGING MOTHERS FURNISH MUSIC FOR DISTRICT CONFERENCE August 30, 1953 Front row, left to right: Irene Rowland; Edith Rowland; Lena Woods; Gladys Robinson; Nora Manspile; Julia Rowland; Ivy Christley; Marie Mullins; Dora Ramsey. Second row, left to right: Mamie Johnson, District Relief Society President; Beulah Riley; Vernie Clark; Flora Friend, chorister; Dessie Robertson; Edith Henson; Tillie Smith; Ethel Coleman; Ava Trent; Maie Henderson; Ruth Blunck. Back row, left to right: Hattie Clark; Jane Coleman; Sadie Parr; Camilla Rowland; Christine DeBusk, pianist; Eula Angel; Fannie Lilly; 'Thora Christley; Virginia Summers; Janie Crosby. Mabel M. Nalder is president of the Central Atlantic States Mission Relief Society. BSIVI TTT es wR RS: Fo RESEES KRESe Photograph submitted by Lanola C. Driggs LIBERTY STAKE (UTAH), HARVARD WARD VISITING TEACHERS MAKE ONE HUNDRED PER CENT RECORD The Harvard Ward Relief Society has made a record of which they can well be proud. Since March 1952, they have made a one hundred per cent record of visiting teaching. Every district has been covered every month. 'The teachers are very conscientious and willing, and have many times expressed their love for this work. The Relief Society presidency: Marelda Gottfredson, President, and her Counselors Verna Hunter and Adele Ernstsen, feel that a great deal of missionary work and the spreading of the gospel have been done by this valiant group of workers. LaNola C. Driggs is former president of Liberty Stake Relief Society. The new president is Verna A. Hunter. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 51 Photograph submitted by Mavil A. MeMurrin NORTHWESTERN STATES MISSION, FAIRBANKS (ALASKA) RELIEF SOCIETY WOMEN ASSIST IN BUILDING "THE FARTHEST NORTH CHAPEL" Front row, seated, left to right: Minnie Carroll, Bernice Black; Second Counselor Mardella Coil, President Blanche Abbott; Secretary Helen Bates; First Counselor Opal Stoneman. Second row, standing, left to right: Loa Maxwell; Lena Clark; Arvilla Clayton; Charlotte Virgin; LaPriel Clayton. Third row, standing, left to right: Alma Irwin; Donna Carroll; Leah Edgel; Charlotte Taylor. Not present when picture was taken: Alene Anderson, Merlene Anderson, Alice Hollist, Dores Osguthorpe, and Arlene Reese. President Blanche Abbott, in reporting the activities of this enthusiastic group, outlines some of their major projects ovet the last few years: "We gave dinners and had basket socials... - Our first major undertaking was presenting a concert given by Fstaleah H. Baker, wife of the then Commanding General of Ladd Ait Force Base. She is a concert singer and donated all the proceeds. -. To the building fund. We had the concert at the Empress Theater. - - - We decided each sister would sew one article a month for the bazaar. We had twelve sisters.- + - We held all out meetings, even when it got to be fifty-six degrees below zero. 'The sisters from College, five miles from Fairbanks, came in on the bus. We had an average of nine present _,.. President and Sister McMurrin visited us to bring words of wisdom and love __.. In the fall of 1951 We had our bazaar. We invited the people of the city to come and we had a wonderful bazaar. Everyone was interested in what the 'Mormons' could do.--: In March 1952, WE gave a pranch dinner and had 105 present, and Sister McMurrin returned North, bringing with them Brother and Sister Joseph Fielding Smith. We had our building completed and ready for dedication and it was indeed a wonderful service when Brother Smith gave the dedicatoy prayer and presented our building to our Heavenly Father for his acceptance. God had indeed blessed the saints in this branch.- - - No task is too large ot too small for any sister in this branch We send our love and pray God's richest blessings on all the sisters and their families in this great organization, the Relief Society." Mavil A. McMurnn is president of the Northwestern States Mission Relief Society. 52 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1954 (SL:. F Sausnoee 4 Photograph submitted by Virginia R. Vaterlaus MONTPELIER STAKE (IDAHO) SINGING MOTHERS FURNISH MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE AND PRESENT EASTER CANTATA, 1953 Cathrine Mumford, stake music director, who invited this group to sing for stake quarterly conference, is seated at the left on the first row of the left section. Seated in the third row, in the left section, are stake Relief Society officers: Drucilla Winters, Second Counselor; Virginia R. Vaterlaus, President; Martha Sorenson, First Counselor. Delilah Loveday, chorister, is seated in the center of the first row in the right-hand section; Hazel Jacobsen, organist, is seated at the right in the same section. Photograph submitted by Lena W. Glaus EAST GERMAN MISSION, RELIEF SOCIETY BAZAAR AT HANNOVER September 1953 All of the beautiful aprons, dresses, accessories, and miscellaneous items were made from old clothing and materials by the faithful and enthusiastic sisters of Hannover. Lena W. Glaus is former president of the East German Mission Relief Society. The new president is Ethel E. Gregory. NOTES FROM THE FIELD NETHERLANDS MISSION RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERS SING AT CONVENTION IN HAARLEM, September 24, 1953 derlinden and Sister Maria Schippers. |. Laid the foundation for a highly successful appropriate Song and prayer and a word of welcome by Sister VanDam, an introduc ——— Wire, light Beatrice K. Ekman Unsullied ice-blades rim the kitchen eaves And lend prismatic flame to candlelight. Through taveling clouds, a Tound moon weaves A path of gold across the silver night, 1953-54 season of activity, education and work tion as to the Purpose of the meetin ter opening the meeting with * «Was given by Sister Vanderlinden This a LESSON DEPARTMENT Sheology—Characters and Teachings of The Book of Mormon Lesson 23—Righteousness and Good Government (Text: The Book of Mormon: Mosiah 27-29) For Tuesday, April 6, 1954 Objective: To explain how spirituality undergirds good government. The Just Rule of King Mosiah ING Mosiah, like his father Benjamin, worked diligently to have his people attain eternal life. They esteemed Mosiah more than any other man, for they felt the influence of his great and good personality. He had taught them the commandments of God, had _labored assiduously to establish peace in the land, and had tried to eradicate contentions, stealing, plundering, murder, and all other types of iniquity. He punished according to the law whosoever committed iniquity. Under divine guidance, King Mosiah had endeavored to govern the people in such a manner that his acts would be conducive to their eternal welfare. Recognizing Alma as a great spiritual leader, he had given him charge of the ecclesiastical affairs in the kingdom. Page 54 Leadership of Alma Alma, you will recall, was early in his life one of the wicked priests of King Noah in the land of Nephi. Sincerely repenting, he had grown to the full stature of a great religious leader. Having had to plead with God for a forgiveness of his own sins, he had learned the need of forgiving other repentant sinners. He could throw the mantle of charity about the sins of others and usher them back into the fold of God. He knew the joy that is attached to repentance and forgiveness. He spent his life trying to induce all men to experience those joys. These two great men, workers in a common cause to elevate the ideals, aspirations, and actions of the people in and around Zarahemla, found many difficulties to overcome. LESSON DEPARTMENT Unbelief of Leaders' Sons Chief among the obstacles to righteous living was the fact that Alma's son, named Alma, and four of Mosiah's sons, Ammon, Aaron, Omner, and Himni were numbered among the disbelievers. As a matter of fact, they were leaders in a movement to crush the work their fathers so zealously labored to accomplish. Young "Alma was a very wicked and an idolatrous man.' He was gifted with a smooth tongue and could use the language with a high degree of facility. He flattered the people and led them into all kinds of iniquities. He stole away the hearts of the people from his father and King Mosiah. The sons of Mosiah were "the very vilest of sinners." 'They also worked, to the maximum of their ability, to destroy the righteous undertakings of their father and Alma the elder. These five recalcitrant sons were busily engaged in their work of destruction. Miraculous Conversion One day as the five young men were "going about rebelling against God," an angel of the Lord appeared unto them. The angel spoke to them in a voice of thunder which made the earth shake. He com- -manded Alma to rise, for he had fallen to the earth, and then asked them: Why persecutest thou the church of God? For the Lord hath said: This is my church, and I will establish it; and nothing shall overthrow it, save it is the transgression of my people.... The Lord hath heard the prayers of his people, and also the prayers of his servant, Alma, who ls thy father; for he has prayed with much 55 faith concerning thee that thou mightest be brought to the knowledge of the truth; therefore, for this purpose have I come to convince thee of the power and authority of God, that the prayers of his servants might be answered according to their faith.... And now I say unto thee, Alma, go thy way, and seek to destroy the church no more, that their prayers may be answered, and this even if thou wilt of thyself be cast off (Mosiah 27:13 ff.). Shocked by the appearance of the angel and by the words he had spoken, Alma the younger and the sons of Mosiah fell to the ground. They knew of a surety that it was the power of God which had made the earth tremble. The astonishment of Alma was so great he became dumb and could not open his mouth. He also became weak so he could not move his hands. He was carried in a helpless condition to his father. His father, Alma, rejoiced, for he knew that the power of God had wrought upon his son. Alma called the priests and the people to assemble to witness what had happened. The priests fasted and prayed to the Lord, petitioning him to open the mouth of Alma the son and to bring strength to his limbs "that the eyes of the people might be opened to see and know of the goodness and glory of God" (Mosiah 27:22). After two days and nights of fasting and prayer, strength came into the limbs of Alma, and he began to speak saying, "I have repented of my sins, and have been redeemed of the Lord; behold I am born of the Spirit.... My soul hath been redeemed from the gall of bitterness and bonds of iniquity. I was in the darkest abyss; but now I behold the marvelous light of God" (Mosiah 27:24, 29). The Five Sons Become Preachers of Righteousness From this time forth Alma and the four sons of Mosiah traveled throughout all the land confessing their sins and telling the people how God in his mercy had sent an angel from heaven to call them to repentance. 'They were greatly persecuted by unbelievers, being smitten by many of them; but amidst persecution they brought much consolation to the Church, confirming the people in their faith and exhorting them to diligence in keeping the commandments. Zealously, they worked to repair the damage which they had done to the Church. They became powerful instruments in the hands of God in bringing many people to a knowledge of their Redeemer. The Sons of Mosiah Take a Mission to the Lamanites So impressed with the power of the gospel were the sons of Mosiah, that they asked their father, the King, for the privilege of taking the gospel to the Lamanites in the land of Nephi. They told him that they wanted to convince the Lamanites of the iniquity of their fathers and thus cure them of their hatred towards the Nephites and establish an era of peace between these two peoples, and also that they wanted the Lamanites to receive the gospel. It hurt them to think that any human soul should perish. They had feared, at times, that they would be cast off forever, and they desired to make amends for their wrongdoings. Mosiah submitted to the Lord the problem of sending his sons to the Lamanites and received in answer the following revelation Let them go up, for many shall believe on their words, and they shall have eternal life; and I will deliver thy sons out of the hands of the Lamanites (Mosiah 28:7). And these sons went on the mission to the land of Nephi. Mosiah Proposes to Establish a Democratic Government Mosiah had no one to confer the kingdom upon for there was not any of his sons who would accept the kingdom. They had renounced the kingdom to become humble missionaries to the Lamanites. Mosiah determined, therefore, to give the plates of brass, the plates of Nephi, and all the things which he had kept and preserved according to the commandments of God, with the twenty-four gold plates, to Alma, the son of Alma. Mosiah had translated these plates of gold [Book of Ether, see Ether 1:2] delivered to him by Limhi by means of the two stones fastened into the two rims of the bow, called interpreters. The people of Mosiah rejoiced in the knowledge that they thus gained of those people who formerly had dwelt upon the land and who had been destroyed because of their wickedness. Mosiah wrote to his people rec~ ommending that they should not have a king but should establish a form of government where "the burden should come upon all the people, that every man might bear his part" (Mosiah 29:34). 56 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1954 LESSON DEPARTMENT Elder James E. 'Talmage, in his Vitality of Mormonism, copyright 1919, page 200, gives us an interesting summary of the political achievements of Mosiah: In a stirring proclamation he set forth the potential dangers of kingly mle and admonished the nation to guard its liberty as a sacred possession, and to delegate the governing powers to officers of its own choosing, whom he called judges, who should be elected by popular vote, and who could be impeached if charged with iniquitous exercises of power and be removed if found unworthy. King Mosiah summarized in a masterful way the fundamentals of true democracy. His reasons for discouraging the selection of a king were, in substance, as follows: (1) Aaron, his son, whose right it was to be king had refused the call. If the kingdom was conferred upon another, Aaron might regret his decision and seek through war to gain his rightful crown; (2) It is better to be judged by God than by man; (3) Sometimes people suffer under the tule of a wicked king, like King Noah in the land of Nephi, and are taken into bondage; (4) The wickedness of a king leads the people astray, and finally, it should be a land of liberty where justice and equality exist. For these reasons Mosiah suggested to them that they establish another form of government, a democratic form where the people would elect judges and have the power to recall them in case they did not judge righteous judgments. The higher judges could be tried by a select group of lower judges, and the lower judges could be tried by the higher judges. 57 Alma the Son Becomes the First Chief Judge The people, acclaiming the wisdom and foresight of Mosiah, accepted his recommendations. Alma the son was appointed to be the first Chief Judge. Alma now had a dual mission, to serve as Chief Judge to the people, and to act as their religious leader, as High Priest, an office that had been conferred on him by his father. The reign of the judges throughout all the land of Zarahemla, among all the people who were called the Nephites, commenced in 91 B. C., with Alma the son as first Chief Judge. Mosiah died in the thirty-third year of his reign at the age of sixty-three. Alma the father, the founder of the Church, died about the same time, having lived eighty-two years. Mosiah had lived to shape conditions in such a manner that he established a sound pattern of representative government in America at a very early period. He taught the people that America was to be a land of equality, a land of liberty, and that equality and liberty were products of a deep and abiding spirituality among both leaders and people. Questions for Discussion 1. What effect did the conversion of the four sons of Mosiah have upon Nephite government? 2. Why did Mosiah condemn the kingly form of government? 3. What values did he see in a representative democracy? 4. How much did Mosiah value liberty among the people? 5. What lesson can we learn concerning our representative democracy? Visiting Seacher ITlessages Book of Mormon Gems of Truth Lesson 23—'But There Is a Resurrection, Therefore the Grave Hath No Victory, and the Sting of Death Is Swallowed Up in Christ' (Mosiah 16:8). Leone O. Jacobs For Tuesday, April 6, 1954 Objective: To give assurance of life after death. WE shall live again! 'This is the glorious promise of the resurrection! Down through the ages, many great and noble souls have echoed the words of Job, "I know that my Redeemer liveth" (Job 19:25). History also affirms the truth of the resurrection. To Latter-day Saints the resurrection is not a fantastic story, not a dim hope, but a reality. It is a logical sequence to mortality. We accept it as an important part of the plan of salvation. Latter-day Saints have evidence of the resurrection which is not known to the world generally. In answer to the sincere prayer of Joseph Smith, the Father, and the risen Redeemer appeared to him in person. Later, Joseph Smith and Sidney Rigdon beheld the Savior and heard his voice. This is their solemn declaration: And now, after the many testimonies which have been given of him, this is the testimony, last of all, which we give of him: That he lives! For we saw him, even on the right hand of God; and we heard the voice bearing record that he is the Only Begotten of the Father—That by him, and through him, and of him, the worlds are and were created, and the inhabitants thereof are begotten sons and daughters unto God (D. & C. 76:22-24). Latter-day Saints accept birth and death as necessary steps to the advancement of mankind. We came Page 58 to this earth to prove ourselves in mortality. From here we will go on to another stage of development to continue eternally. It has been said, "To live is to go on a journey. To die is but to come back home." A perfect faith in the resurrection tempers the parting with loved ones. It brings comfort and tranquility to the hearts of the bereaved, for they are assured that the separation is for a relatively short period, and is but preliminary to a happier state. We might say that death itself gives credence to the resurrection for were there no resurrection, an immense waste of time and struggle and achievement would result. Such waste is not consistent with the works of God. Surely the plan of the Creator which brings planets into being, and which creates the human body, would not permit countless millions of people to spend a few years in this troubled life, if it were not to be followed by something of great consequence. "IT know that my Redeemer liveth." He who can thus testify of the living Redeemer," said President David O. McKay, "has his soul anchored in eternal truth" (Deseret News, "Church Section," April 16, 1952). carpet yarn, and blendeq Wi €en so many new By] 5 th wool, e ends now ma © up about sevent Such a short time as Per cent of TUS Production In 1952, a SE fio Coverings fave rayon Was used in forty-one Per cent Tames, such as Wilton 4 d Axmin. Of al] Carpets ma ¢; thirty Per cent ster, are beco mg more an ore of the entire oy UNIMportant Today, Ng choice f one was any difference In the etter Wearing Tug - Wearing Jualities of ¢p Wo Weaves actors othe than kin Of fiber Rea he Label. IE it says "Wool must pf Considered. Generally and 'ayon," at least ifty per cent of Speaking, 4 ense pile wil] €an the Ng must be ade of Wool Onger wear Th type of ConstrucThere could be as m ch as ninet 10 is not 4 'MPortant as the thick. Five per cent. If the label reads Ness of th pile, according t tests "'Tayon (or acetate) and Wool," the made by the ational Bureau of US Wall Contain least fifty per Standards. P pile Construction cent 'ayon and could go as high as Tepels soil ang crushing more than minety-fiv Per cent Pes cut pile. The umber of rows So | of rayon Carpet Onger the fiber Over Wool are. Ing guide to quality, Of s. 1. Carp Tayon has 4 uch greater With the Same __ tensile Strength than w 1 I less ¢ number of row, of tufts per inch, > It costs much Jew h One might 5 aN good woo], Coverage than » because of low: Moisture absorption of fiber. G, resistance to: Isady I, ease of Cleaning, and good wear. Some disad = tages are > = 1. Rayon fiber lS weak when wet. Carpet-type Wool, however, RS it. (Manufacturers are working to elim Made fibers are being woven tO inate this. ) mag qualities, Due fo a shortage of 2. Acetate Tayon is Static, attracting Soi] 60; RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1954 3. It has low resistance to crushing, and as it crushes, the color appears to change. 4. It fades more readily than all wool. With the increasing use of cotton fibers in rugmaking, one cannot afford to desregard cotton-face carpeting, when considering the purchase of a soft floor covering. Some advantages of cotton carpeting are: 1. Prices are lower than for most other fibers. 2. It is mothproof. 3. Some types are reversible. 4. Cleaning is simple, if the rug can be taken up and sent to a commercial laundry. 5. It wears well. Some disadvantages are: 1. Stains are not easily removed. 2. It sheds lint. 3- Cut pile mats down when stepped upon. 4. All colors are not yet fast to sunlight. 5. Cotton has an affinity for soil. 6. Loose carpeting kicks up easily, if not treated. 7. Cotton carpet stretches. It is particularly noticeable in wall-to-fall cotton carpeting. Manufacturers are trying to find a method of preventing stretching. Saron, Fiber E, and nylon are other man-made fibers that are being tested for carpet use, but it is not expected that any of them will be available in abundance for some time, due either to shortage of supply or high cost of production. Qualities essential to all soft floor coverings that receive any great amount of use are: Easy to care for; easy to stand and walk on; beautiful, yet simple, so they will provide a quiet background for other room furnishings; and practical. In order to get the best buy, consider what your room will be used for, the price you can afford to pay, the type of rug—weave, fiber, and color—needed to stand the wear it will get, and the length of service you will want from it. Do read the labels. Deal with a reliable merchant. Keep informed on developments in the field, including comparative prices. Be ready to take advantage of "best buys" when you need to buy. Thought for Discussion Price of carpet is determined by the kind and amount of materials used, plus cost of man-hours in setting up loom and weaving. Some carpets cost less because fewer man-hours are required in the manufacturing process, not because materials are inferior. > Old Year Grace Sayre The last day of the year has wound the clock, The last faint ember on the hearth burns low, December, pausing, opens up the door; He turns to go. But as he turns, a joyous peal of bells Rings gaily out, beginning a New Year. But old December, weary, goes his way, He doesn't even hear! Objective: To Study Browning's lite ang Works, that we might come to see more fully the unifying Values they Contribute to each other Browning's Love for Manking Creation. Then, too, Browning beOur last lesson the boy David lieved that, since this life jg largely led Ing Saul to inner Peace by 4 testing ground, jt Would not fyj. Tevealing anew to him the love and fill its Purpose were evil non-existsympathy Christ has for men, Inent. Finally, the Presence of ey;] concept of Gog IS centered about than human, Despite Our weakman and woman, js based upon the ing and Sympathy, same key word Love for Mankind, then, enableg Like Shakespeare, Browning Saw Browning to depict al] types of the world as 4 Stage, whose players characters. Browning's More typical are brought to life through the use of love, however, Was to elevate craftsmanship of a Master Artist. The beauty, the Worth of Married Like Shakespeare, Browning "reated — love: here the truth of human love all types of humanity, Motivated by becomes the very keystone of his faith, spirituality. He seeks neither Ing testimony that love between to judge humanity "or to analyze © Sexes is the highest 800d on Ines of po concludes mmediately he question Pp = What jf We still rid On, we two sents itself W can Browning, With life forever old yet new, WhO never qualifies his tinging belief » eed Not in kind But in degree f bot € Instant made eterni Sie ol ay oe And heaven just prove that I ang she Ride, Tide together, forever ride? Browning Was fascinated by the Others of his love poems are, "In Workings of evil in man, because Gondola" (text, Page 660); I a complexity of Motives which chal. "Love Among the Ruins," ang "My lenge his Powers of P€rception and Star" ( text, page 681), all acknowj. Page §] edging the power of mortal love, yet all tending to spiritualize this relationship into something divine. As long as English is spoken, Elizabeth Barrett Browning's Sonnets From the Portuguese will never be forgotten by a world which loves a lover. Particularly memorable is "How do I love thee? Let me count the ways..." (text, page 714) which might well be read in presenting this lesson. Robert answered his lover in kind, notably in "My Star" (text, page 681) and the poem to The Ring and the Book which was dedicated to his wife: O lyric Love, half angel and half bird, And all a wonder and a wild desire— Boldest of hearts that ever braved the sun, Took sanctuary within the holier blue, And sang a kindred soul out to his face— Yet human at the red-ripe of the heart— (text, page 707, lines 1-5) Here indeed is a great love uniting two great hearts. However, Robert Browning's greatest writings are not his love poems. To serious students of Browning, probably some of his best-loved poems are "My Last Duchess" (text, page 659); "The Bishop Orders His Tomb at St. Praxed's Church" (text, page 670); and "Rabbi Ben Ezra" (text, page 698). The Dramatic Monologue Browning is one of the most modern of Victorian poets. So much did he expect of readers that, for the most part, they were bewildered and could make nothing of him. Two sources of his difficulty should be mentioned. First, Browning had saturated himself so completely with his historical and imaginary materials that, to an extent, he freed himself from details in his intense concern for creating the whole. This goal of condensing into a few concentrated lines a living, unified character was so strong that Browning sometimes neglected relationship between the parts, and_ his readers became confused. A second cause, producing similar difficulties, was that Browning chose the spoken monologue as his medium, and with his goal of bringing the reader immediately and _intimately into a dramatic, crucial moment in the life of the speaker, the monologue wanders loosely from one idea to another, and supplies little connection between widely scattered subjects. My Last Duchess Note to Class Leaders: In presenting "The Last Duchess'' it would be advantageous for copies of the poem to be in the hands of class members. Surely, for many readers, if they have loved one poem in English literature it has been "My Last Duchess" (text, page 659). And justly so, for where else in fifty-six lines is condensed an entire way of life as exemplified by two characters whom we come to know as well as these? The great delight in the poem comes when it ends abruptly and we begin to realize how far we have come in so short a distance. Then a few casual comments on a portrait are recognized for the masterpiece they are, in which every brush stroke reveals to us far more than the Duke of Fertara intended, 62 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1954 LESSON DEPARTMENT he Duke has slipped away from he main Company of Buests to dis CUSS With 4 t's i ee quest for the Count's da ghter as a Tide Previoy Opening of the Poem, the ty, have Probably been strolling about, discussin Practical detaj]s for the Proach Duke draws back the Someone he has lo Playing both his Critica] POWers and Ownership, 'Voy that the Picture was Painted in his pride of Sign? Like all others Who had not own the Duches 63 the artist Seeing the astonished look on the €nvoy's ace, indeed from Past expe lence expecting it the Duke "Db €sign" points out hat the art; t was a celibate monk uke's « esign," is to justify all the ¢ dent Precautions he Was rced to tak to prevent Is lady Tom Starting g flirtation love alfair, He ight wel] label as "preCautions" } Cdsing a celibate monk as list, and allowing th artist to ar his Duchess, but One fleet > but when he points Out that he lone uncurtains the Painting— at even no » When she IS either d or 'MDrisoned, she 18 his and nly, then the ra Ing Jealousy of ¢p Duke becomes more evident, Her great fault then Stands re vealed: she Could not save her love iness and "Spot of JOy" for him alone. Ile 4PProved of Courtesy j her, a ark of good | Ted unbear- é Ody, even to "noext the Dy € says, "She smiled, no doubt, A Perry Picture ELIZABETH BARRETT BROWNING (1809-1861) his concept of aristocracy, the Duke mentions her demise in the proper, vague, genteel language which such unpleasant subjects merit, as if to say, "Of course you, an underling, dare not ask for more details concerning her end, and, really, I have already said more than is necessary. But don't forget how violently an ill-bred woman upsets any true gentleman, and don't forget, when you return, to whisper a few proper words of wisdom into proper ears." Then, as if to conceal his true intent of mentioning so delicate a matter to a representative of his fiancee, he ends the discussion of his last Duchess by again discussing her portrait as an artistic achievement (lines 46-47). The interview is ended. As they rise to rejoin the company, the discussion of dowry is resumed. Nor does the Duke want to be misunderstood: he is marrying the Count's daughter for her own charms, not for the sizable fortune he now insists she brings when he accepts her as worthy of his name. As is fitting, the menial falls behind the royal Duke as they approach the stairs, but the Duke insists she brings when he accepts her heard such intimate outpourings can well be treated for a moment as an equal. 'The poem ends on a note exactly corresponding to its opening: the objective discussion of works of art as such, interpreted by their lord and master. This poem can be appreciated from three different points of view. How would you evaluate it were you a fellow nobleman of the Italian Renaissance? How if you were Browning himself? How, if you were an Englishman either Victorian or modern? While it becomes almost inevitable for us to cast the Duchess as heroine, the Duke as villain, it should be pointed out that Browning himself blames or condemns neither. Possibly, then, in deference to Browning's discussed attitude toward his fellows, we should — at least present the possibility that the Duke, living in the time and place he did, was not all bad, and the Duchess possibly was not all good. Rabbi Ben Ezra It is fitting that we conclude our study of Browning, "the poet of personality," by discussing "Rabbi Ben Ezra" (text, page 698), since it gives us Browning's own beliefs 64 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1954 LESSON DEPARTMENT in poetic form. In a reading of this poem it is impossible to conjure in one's inner eye any portrait of the Rabbi which does not have the face, the voice, and the ringing affirmations of Browning himself. Indeed, so completely has the poet revealed himself in his poem that it has come to be Browning; therefore, for Rabbi substitute Robert; for Ben substitute Browning, and let the E in Ezra stand for Esquire. Thus the poem is truly titled. In approaching "Rabbi Ben Ezra" we should remind ourselves that Browning was never a systematic philosopher; therefore let us be grateful for whatever random morsels of his truth and beauty we find herein. We should also remember that, while Browning was never intentionally obscure, sometimes his lines are nonetheless twisted, cryptic, and difficult. Published in 1864, three years after the death of Browning's wife, this poem states the religious and moral credo of the mature Browning. Since unity with his beloved Elizabeth was now possible in memory only, Browning here seems to inventory whatever powers and beliefs remain to sustain him. Primarily the poem is a statement of unities: youth and age form a completeness; so do doubt and faith, flesh and soul, joy and pain, man and God, mortality and immortality, life and death. The tone of the poem is one of vigorous reassurance, of gratitude for the rich, full life which God grants to mortals, with its crowning glory of old age and, finally, immortality. Perhaps the first stanza is the 65 most famous one, and is widely quoted: Grow old along with me! The best is yet to be, The last of life, for which the first was made. Our times are in his hand Who saith, "A whole I planned, Youth shows but half. Trust God; see all, nor be afraid!" ( text, page 698, lines 1-6) Browning's main intent is to affirm his trust in a God who, having created man and placed him on earth, proves his love for man and the perfection of his plan, by giving man life and joy (lines 55-60). But before man can know his joy, says Browning, he should come to know the doubt which lower forms of life cannot possess, but a doubt which is the necessary preliminary to a sustaining faith (lines 16-21). These noble doubts are vanquished when we realize that God has first ordained pain for man, that finally he might come to know pleasure and | Then, welcome each rebuff That turns earth's smoothness rough, Eacn sting that bids nor sit nor stand but go! Be our joys three-parts pain! Strive, and hold cheap the strain; Learn, nor account the pang; dare, nevet grudge the throe! (text, page 698, lines 31-37) After listing misunderstandings and conflicts which have pained him, Browning uses the imagery of Isaiah and Jeremiah in comparing man to a cup made on the potter's wheel of God. God's work is good; all his materials and achievements in forming man are eternal (lines 157-162), and, knowing this, man should "look up" and shape himself into the perfect vessel God intended him to be: My times be in Thy hand! Perfect the cup as planned! Let age approve of youth, and death complete the same! (text, page 700, lines 190-192) Questions for Discussion 1. What was Browning's attitude toward love? 2. Why is the dramatic monologue the tool ideally shaped to fulfill Browning's intent as a poet? 3. Justify the description of Browning as the "poet of personality." Social Saeco — lie Constitution of the United States Lesson 6—The Philadelphia Convention Elder Albert R. Bowen For Tuesday, April 27, 1954 Objective: To study the environment in which the Constitution was written; to observe the methods employed by the convention in considering its provisions; and to determine the reasons why the Constitutional Convention was a success. Importance of Convention of 1787 ARRAND, the historian, says that the Federal Constitutional Convention of 1787 was the most important convention that ever sat in the United States. Considering its great importance and the tremendous consequences which were to flow from it, it is not an an overstatement to assert that the Constitutional Convention of 1787 was one of the fateful assemblies of history. So far as political history is concerned, no assembly ever held was of greater significance to mankind. Out of it was to emerge, in a remarkably brief period of time, the greatest political document of ~ all time. Some of the members of the Convention sensed the significance of the task before them. James Madison (Virginia) said the Convention was "now to decide forever the fate of Republican government." Gouverneur Morris (Pennsylvania) declared: "The whole human race will be affected by the proceedings of this Convention." James Wilson (Pennsylvania), with equal seriousness, stated: "After the lapse of six thousand years since the creation of the world, America now presents the first instance of a people assembled to weigh deliberately and calmly and to decide leisurely and peaceably upon the form of government by which they will bind themselves and their posterity." James Wilson was absolutely correct in this statement. Never before in all history had there been a comparable gathering called together by the will of a sovereign people to determine their form of government. Attendance of Delegates The Convention was called to meet at Philadelphia on the second Monday of May in 1787. The first meeting could not be held, however, 66 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1954 LESSON DEPARTMENT until May 25th. It was not until then that a majority of the states were represented by delegates. 'This was due, in part, to difficulties attendant upon travel in those early days, and to a reluctance upon the part of some of the delegates even to attend. Indeed, some of them never attended. As we view the tremendous significance of the events which were about to be enacted upon the stage of history, it is difficult for us to comprehend the lack of foresight and sense of history-in-themaking, which kept twenty-one of the delegates named from ever attending. In all, seventy-four delegates were named by twelve of the states. Rhode Island refused to name delegates and was never represented at the Convention. Of the seventyfour delegates named, only fifty-five ever attended. Some only attended part of the time, and average attendance was from thirty to thirtyfive. The Constitution, therefore, was the product of a relatively small group of men. It is eloquent testimony of the sagacity and political wisdom of those who did the actual work. George Washington, the Presiding Officer The Convention met in the old State House in Philadelphia. Washington was the unanimous choice to preside. While his occupancy of the chair prevented him from taking active part in the debates, his influence was great. He was always available for advice and encouragement of the work of the Convention. It is certain that no delegate exerted a greater influence than he 67 in bringing the Convention to a successful conclusion. It was soon to become apparent that great powers of persuasion and conciliation would be required to hold the Convention together and to bring about the great compromises (to be studied in lesson 7), which were reflected in the final draft which was signed some three months later. Washington was to provide the diplomacy, tact, and persuasiveness necessary to the accomplishment of the work. He was, by all odds, the greatest American of his day. He was universally respected and trusted. Any cause which enjoyed his sponsorship was already half assured of success. Much of the progress made was accomplished in informal sessions between regular meetings of the Convention. It was in these informal discussions that Washington was to prove the tremendous power of his influence. The debates upon the proposals and counter-proposals were often heated and, at times, were bitter. The weather was very hot during most of the time the Convention was in session. The long and arduous work necessary to adjust and compromise very fundamental disagreements, threatened to disrupt the Convention entirely and to make its efforts a failure. It was during this period that Franklin made the proposal that "prayers imploring the assistance of Heaven... Be held in this Assembly every morning." This proposal was never put to a vote. Had it been, perhaps many of the difficulties encountered might have been much more easily surmounted. To both Franklin and Washington belongs the credit for reconciling the great differences and disputes among the delegates and in bringing about acceptable compromise solutions. Procedure of the Convention The Convention had full power to make its own rules, and very early in its discussions it was decided that voting should be by states, each state having one vote, and that meetings would be held in executive session in order that the delegates would be in a position to speak freely. Nothing was to be made public until the work of the Convention was finished. The delegates, to a remarkable degree, respected the decision to keep the work of the Convention confidential. Sentries were even posted at the doors of the Convention hall to keep anyone from finding out what was going on. To illustrate how little news of the business of the Convention leaked out to the public, after the sessions had ended, a woman acquaintance of Franklin asked him, "Well, Doctor, what have we got, a republic or a monarchy?" He replied, "'A republic, if you can keep it." This incident occurred in Philadelphia in the city where the Convention held all of its meetings. A secretary was appointed and a daily journal was kept. The Convention Journal was, in reality, only a record of the motions put and votes taken thereon. It shed little light upon the actual proceedings and debates. It is to James Madison that we are indebted for by far the most illuminating and comprehensive record of what went on in the debates. Preparedness of Virginia Delegation The Virginia delegation was expected to play a prominent role in the Convention. It fully lived up to all prior expectations. Besides Washington, it was made up of James Madison, Governor Edmund Randolph, nominal head of the delegation, George White, and George Mason, who were prominent lawyers, and others. James Madison was to prove to be the political expert of the Convention and was destined to play a dominating role in the framing of the Constitution. In importance he stood next to Washington. This delegation, furthermore, represented what might be termed the large state faction of the Convention, which was determined to create a strong national government to cure the weakness and impotence of the Confederation. The members of the Virginia delegation were prepared. After the Convention was organized they came forward with fifteen proposals in the form of resolutions to be considered by the Convention. Work by Committees The actual work of the Convention (to be studied in lesson 7) was done by committees. The Virginia proposals were placed before the Convention and were immediately referred to the Committee of the Whole where they were taken up one by one. The Committee of the Whole studied and debated these resolutions for two weeks, and then reported back to the Convention in the form of nineteen resolutions. The nineteen resolutions were likewise taken up and debated one by 68 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1954 LESSON DEPARTMENT one. Other proposals, some from the outside, were also considered. The work of the Convention proceeded in this way until July 26, 1787. As yet not one line of the Constitution had been written, but, with agreement reached upon each proposal considered, the Convention referred to the Committee of Detail the actual draftsmanship of the accepted proposals. It was the duty of this committee to reduce the abstract proposals which had been approved into concrete form. Making the Draft of the Constitution The Committee of Detail worked with tireless energy and industry, and, on August 6, 1787, reported to the Convention and furnished every member with a proposed draft. Then the work of consideration began over again. Section by section and line by line the delegates considered this draft from beginning to end. Matters of disagreement were again referred to special committees. Changes were made and incorporated until, finally, on September 8, 1787, the work of construction was complete. With this accomplished, the work still went on, and the Constitution was placed in the hands of the Committee of Style to revise the style and arrange the articles which had been agreed to. The Committee of Style was composed of Gouverneur Morris and James Wilson, delegates of Pennsylvania. Morris wrote out the Constitution in his own hand and in a style which has ever since made it famous as an example of lucid English expression. For its language, alone, the 69 Constitution stands among the great documents of history. The Constitution as a document is relatively simple in form. Its language is noted for its clarity, directness of expression, and conciseness. It contains about six thousand words and is, therefore, brief, as such documents go. It contains no surplus verbiage of any kind. The Committee of Style reported its work to the Convention on September 12, 1787. There were still further revisions until, finally, the completed work was finished on September 17, 1787. On that day the Constitution of the United States was signed by thirty-nine delegates of the twelve states represented in the Convention. Franklin's Statements In his final words to the Convention, Benjamin Franklin said, "It astonishes me, sir, to find the system approaching so near to perfection as it does." Franklin was past his eightieth year when named as a member of the Pennsylvania delegation. He was feeble (FarRanp, Fathers of the Constitution, page 113) and made his greatest contribution by wise suggestions and conciliation. During the signing of the Constitution he made the remark that during the Convention "often and often" he had looked at the sun which was painted on the president's chair, not knowing whether it represented a rising or a setting sun. He then said: "Now, at length, I have the happiness to know that it is a rising and not a setting sun." Completion of the Constitution The writing of the Constitution Sacred Mursir for RELIEF SOCIETY CHORUSES —_ | Walked Today Where Jesus Walked—O'Hara...........2-.----------------+- 22 _ King of Glory—Parks.........................20 — Let the Mountains Shout for Joy—Stephens...........--2.---------0+- 15 - Lord Bless You and Keep You— Luthim oo eee eee eccececeecceneeceeseeeeeeceeeereeeeee.20 - Oh, May I Know the Lord As Friend—Madsen.............-.0.00--------------- 20 _ Teach Me to Pray—Jewitt.................15 = That Sweet Story of Old—West.........20 - Thanks Be to God—Dickson...............16 _ Twenty-Third Psalm—Schubert.........18 il Voice in the Wilderness—Scott.........22 WE PAY POSTAGE ON ORDERS $5.00 OR MORE Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 45-47 South Main Salt Lake City 1, Utah i! Please send the music indicated above. 0 On Approval 0 Charge } OO Money Enclosed } Name De ee |!! Lowees FIRST OF ALL — RELIABILITY valj Ven Ze SALT LAKE CITY 7, UTAH was indeed a memorable accomplishment. The work and proceedings of the Convention provide a guide and a pattern that all bodies who seek to enact laws or create systems of government to govern men ought to follow. The approach to this great and important task was influenced in no small degree by the admonition of Washington, who said: "Let us raise a standard to which the wise and the honest can repair; the event is in the hands of God." Who would cavil at the statement of Washington? Certainly not a Latter-day Saint. The event was indeed in the hands of God, and through wise men raised up for that very purpose the Constitution had become an accomplished reality. References Farrand, Max: The Fathers of the Constitution, Yale University Press, 1921 (if available). Smith, Joseph Fielding: The Progress of 'Man, pp. 293-294. Questions for Discussion 1. What was the number of delegates appointed and how many actually attended the convention? What was the average attendance? 2. What was the method by which the convention did its work in writing the Constitution? Was this a good method? 3. How long was the convention in session? 4. Who actually wrote the document? 5. Did the members of the convention have any conception of the importance of their work? 6. Name some of the most important men of the convention. Did Thomas Jefferson take part? Why not? 7. Discuss the difference between the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution. 70 City & State............... RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1954 | Winter Js for Mothers Lucille Waters Mattson Spring may be for romance, summer for children, autumn for thanksgiving, but winter is for mothers. The first snowfall should touch the spring of anticipation in a mother's heart as it does in a child's. Romps in the snow with the children, snowball fights, or making snowmen are delightful experiences. A young mother once said to me, "All I do all winter is put on little overshoes and snowsuits and take them off again." I thought, what a lovely opportunity to kiss a rosy face, as it looks up for help with strings and buttons. What better time to teach orderliness and care of clothes? Days too wet or cold for outside play are jewels of love set in memory by such simple things as making cookies together, or painting a page in a color book, or letting imaginations run wild in make-believe. Summer widens the world for children, trails beckon, friends call, and many influences and interests exclude mother a little, but winter is mother's own time. Time to correct a word of slang picked up outside the home, time to teach righteousness, | and honesty and generosity. A time when mother is the center of the small child's interests, winter is a golden opportunity for weaving memories. Stories by the fire, stories from scripture, fine music, and poetry will long be remembered. Long evenings are for confidences from little lips, while popping corn or pulling candy. A warm, bright home in a world of cold, gray skies is the loom upon which mothers may weave the perfect pattern of the gospel. Not by preaching, but by living. The Pride of VIDA FOX CLAWSON j Cas Your Library! Nnounces Three 1954 Conducted Tauely DOWIE TO Gerinent Searls voltae Tours acquire new value as excellent reference books. Just — HAWAII $350 (Leather Binding) ALASKA If necessary to ail we you, the following postage rates will apply. Distance from HISTORIC TRAIN and many large eastern cities will be visited. For complete details write or phone: VIDA FOX CLAWSON 966 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah Telephone 4-2017 Salt Lake City, Utah Rate.. 3 Up to 150 miles.... 25 The Historic Train includes: 150 to 300 miles... A ° 300 to 600 miles...... Saves 34 shrines of the Church, the 600 to 1000 miles 42 Pageant at the Hill Cumorah, | | 1209 fo 1800 miles 60 Over 1800 miles 69 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press 31 Richards St. Salt Lake City, Utah - Phone 4-2581 > Page 7] So many have asked for it... We're offering a SPECIAL CLASS FOR RELIEF SOCIETY WOMEN You can enroll right now... Class starts Monday evening, January 4. It won't be long before you'll be typing your genealogy and Church work, as well as your own personal work. Get together a group of Relief Society friends and all enroll in the same class. You'll enjoy learning together. Classes can be arranged on Monday and Thursday evenings or Saturdays before noon... Whichever you prefer. You are cordially invited to visit any class.. Write or call L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE Branch of Brigham Young University Page '2 Ask about our special rate.. Today. Swift Sketch Thelma ]. Lund There in the alpine meadow The purple winter glow Reaches tall pine shadows Along the crusted snow. Shale ice ledges the stream banks, Deep water glitters clear, Where a coyote bends with caution To drink at the fringes of fear. - Wind whines down from the gullies, Its blade edged sharp with avowal; As darkness weaves, shadows together And the coyote haunches to howl. Coloe Via aoa Elsie McKinnon Strachan Dawn is in the orchestra pit Rendering the prelude of day In color notes across the sky; While mists, night-curtain gray, Slowly rise; and the mind detects Music beyond word— Still, no sound is heard. The popularity of an Electric Clothes Dryer is skyrocketing! Be Thrifty-Use Electricity UTAH POWER & LIGHT COMPANY 70 North Main Salt Lake City, Utah ga W. Cleon and Max 1 Skousen THE FIRST 2,000 YEARS W. Cleon Skousen Brother Skousen's latest book discusses many of the perplexing problems and factual material found in the Old Testament. With unusual clarity, this book offers the widest and § fullest interpretations of Hebrew scripture, which, surprisingly enough, parallel many of the controversial problems confronting us today. $3.25 PROPHECY AND MODERN TIMES Zz. W. Cleon Skousen Of special interest in this book are prophecies concerning the final war 3. HOW TO PRAY AND STAY AWAKE Max Skousen In solving his own problems of prayer, Elder Skousen has given answers 4. THE CHALLENGE OF OUR TIMES W. Cleon Skousen Are we meeting the challenge of spiritual commandments? This and other thought-provoking questions are discussed with understanding. $2.00 Deseret il Book (0.. 44 Fast South Femett -- - Salt 'take "City, 44 Fast South Temple -- Salt Lake City. Utah pars DESERET BOOK CO. 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah Please send books circled: 1 2 3 4 ( ) check ( ) money order for $...0200.0020222 ooo ccecccceeeeceeeececeeeeeeceeecececeee el ae Street or R. F. D. O. Oo. Cece eee eee eee eee cece ee eee eoenneeeenneeeceneeveneeeee (OT) co RE Zone......... State... Ee Residents of Utah add 2 percent sales tax. Before the millennium and the second coming of Christ. That will benefit all who read this exciting book. $1.75 $1.75 U. S. POSTAGE 2¢ Paid PERMIT No. 690 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH i went 2 Ww JOR=% 1-20%3-17462 NOV 24 Yj, 4 j We (/, YO ge LO:, Yop, ye, Yen, ya) "ws MMMM, Sx, Cy Ys en all a Z - BENEFICIAL LIFE i MO Ly Insurance Company Aff 7 7 ygWy vir lttiibitie a SL OH. Vypyppaptitype-e David O. McKay, Pres. Salt Lake City - Uteh ALT LAKE © Glacier a Hazel Loomis Ye peaks that wait in chaste white robes! Ye patriarchs of stone and star! Ye guardians of the stark white heights! Who knows the depth of shadows in your walls? Out of thy silence, Glacier, Speak! From out thy miles of lofty silence, No song of bird, no whisper note, No sound of earth-weight groaning, No shifting of cald-washed stone. And yet with earth's most ancient words A glacier Speaks Thy voice, oh, mountain, like mist rises; And soft, it falls, as snow upon the fawn. No sound of torrents, no waves dashing, No rocks breaking on thy shores. Only peace. And I, a prodigal, come home... To hear in tones of silence A glacier Song. The Cover: Rushmore National Memorial, Black Hills, South Dakota Photograph by Josef Muench Frontispiece: Yosemite Valley, California Photograph by David Gardner Cover Design by Evan Jensen 1 consider it an honot to appear in such a fine Magazine. J the material in its pagesMyatt Provo, Utah I feel 1 should write saying how thrilled The Relief Society Magazine. J love to read the stories in it and the way it } publication worthy of 4 Relief Society organized the true Prophet © —-MavuDE H. Becay Kaibeto Store Tonalea, Arizona Magazine algives me great deal of pleasure. 1 usually read "Woman's Sphere" and 4 few of the poems before I settle myself to 1 would like to take this opportunity to 'ation for The Relief Far" department. It is a ing to walk into a group of strange people, miles from home, and know that you are one with i I received from the good sisters in the Liverpool Branch. Activities in the Magazine, now they are link with home. Certainly don't want to miss 4 COPY: _Mrs. Virginia Gott Burtonwood, Lancashire, England Page 74 Tlear atk Sar As a past Relief Socicty president and literature jeader, 1 have the deepest love and respect for the organization's Maga- 'ne. We have recently moved from Salt Lake City to Baldwin Park, California. It has been an inspiration and a testimony to us to be welcomed and accepte among, the Latter-day Saints here in such q short time. It ma the work we are engaged in is truly all encompassing- _Marcaret B. CooMBs MARGARET Sr Baldwin Park, California, also the "Charity nevet faileth"' Has ever been your creed. You comfort the sad and lonely And provide for those in need. Seek knowledge, honot womanhood, Love beauty, truth, and light— These and other virtu Now, as We view yout accomplishments Of all the years gone by, We know you were inspired By him who dwells on high. So may God guard, protect, and guide you And all yout daughters fine; May the glorious work continue J just received the July issue of The Re lief Society Magazine, and, 4! Enjoyed it thoroughly. Soul inspiring, 4" J am each issue. Rachel Greenland Sucursal, Salvador THE REV jer SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication Of the Relies Society of The Chureh of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETy GENERAL BOARD Belle S Spatiorg ~ - - - - - President Mariann Shar - - - - - First Coy Selor Velma Monsen - - - Secon Counselor TJaret C Pic ering - - - - e 8try-Treasune: Mary g Judd von eterson Christine Robins harlotte 4 Larsen Anna B. Hart eon Jacobs Albert Christensen Edith P. Kman dith §. Elliott Mar J Wilson Nellie W_N inniefred § Florence f Madsen OUuise W. Madsen Mildre Eyring A waring Leone G Layton Aleine 4 Young Helen w. Anderson Eling Pp. Haymong Blanche B. Stoddarg Josie B. Bay Gladys S. Boyer Edito RELIEF SOCIETy MAGAZINE r - = cs = - - - SSOciqte Editor = = c Generg] Manager = = =. 7: 4 - 5 7 "Erin Genie Vol. 4] FEBRUARY 1954 NO. 2 ml _ ——— he Feast Upon the Words of Christ' elp to oun edar Chest to Dr, SSing Tab e The Finest Career of All Lost Mittens? Tete eteeceeeecs PUB itoria] and 2 ain a, » Utah, Phone 4-2511; Subseni orial 246; ia ept. - Subserj ion Tice; $1.50 4 year; foreign, $2.00 a year; Payable jn advan; €& Sing co Cc The aZazine is not SENt after Subscription €xpires, No back numbers eg be Supplied, Renew Promptly SO that no Copies wil] be Missed, Repor; change of addregg at Once, giving old and new address, Entereg 4S second-¢ 48S matter February 18, 14,4 the Pogt €, Salt 1, City, Ut undey e Mare 3, 18 Cceptance or maj ng Pecial rat, of Provided for in Section 1 Act » 1917, authorj 918 anuscrints will © Teturned ne 29, d t unless return Postage i, enclosed, Rejecteq manuscripts Will be Tetained for six Months Only, le Magazine is not responsible for UNSOliciteg Manuscripts, 'Feast Upon the Words of Christ' Louise W. Madsen Member, General Board of Relief Society [Address Delivered at the Annual General Relief Society Conference, October 1, 1953] Wherefore, I said unto you, feast upon the words of Christ; for behold, the words of Christ will tell you all things what ye should do (2 Nephi 32:3). How wonderful are those few words, and how great is the promise contained therein. How satisfying is the security of knowing exactly where to find guidance for all that we do. "Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid," for "the words of Christ will tell you all things what ye should do." Now, the words of Christ are many, and are found in several volumes of scripture, but if we search diligently, always, we will find the answer to that which we seek. It is there in plainness, but, if perchance, we do not fully comprehend, the Lord "giveth light unto the understanding" of those who ask him for it. Nephi places squarely on our shoulders the responsibility of knowing what the "words of Christ" mean. Hive plain, how simple, yet Wherefore, now after I have spoken these words, if ye cannot understand them it will be because ye ask not, neither do ye knock; wherefore, ye are not brought into the light, but must perish in the dark (2 Nephi 32:4). And James says it this way: "If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, that giveth to all men liberally, and upbraideth not; and it shall be given him" (James 1:5). We, of all people, know that this procedure brings results, assuming, of course, that we prayerfully and worthily ask of God. Nephi, havPage 76 ing had the same experience as the Prophet Joseph Smith, in asking for and receiving information, says: "Yea, I know that God will give liberally to him that asketh. Yea, my God will give me, if I ask not amiss." -Concerning the word of God, one of the most beautiful and meaningful visions ever vouchsafed to man was given to Lehi. He stood by a tree, the fruit of which he found "desirable to make one happy," for, as he ate of it, his soul was filled with peace and joy unspeakable. Near the tree, a great river, muddy and filthy, rolled turbulently along. The head of the river could be seen in the distance, and from it to the tree was a straight, narrow path, bordered by a rod of iron to which one could hold and thus avoid falling into the river. Across the river was a great concourse of people "many of whom were pressing forward, that they might obtain the path which led unto the tree." And as they gained the path, great mists of darkness arose, insomuch that many who had found the path were lost and wandered away in the darkness. But those who came forth and caught hold of the rod of iron, and clung to it through the mists, and followed it tenaciously, were able to reach and partake of the fruit of the tree. The explanation of the vision was given through inspiration. 'The FEAST UPON THE WORDS OF CHRIST tree shown to the tree of life, and salvation of the soul. Of iron it is written: That it was the word of God; and whoso would hearken unto the word of God, and would hold fast unto it, they would never perish; neither could the temptations and the fiery darts of the adVversaty overpower them unto blindness, to lead them away to destruction (I Nephi 15:24). The river of foul waters typified the great gulf separating "the wicked from the tree of life, and also from the saints of God." The mists of darkness were the temptations of Satan. | prophet was its fruit the Of the rod HE present is an age characterized by great mists of darkness and evil, and we need to be concerned with clinging to the rod of iron, and the word of God. We must hold fast to the tod, for the mists of darkness are dense and confusing; and it is easy to let go, and slip and slide and fall. Not only must we feast upon the words of Christ and keep a firm hand on the rod of iron, but we, as mothers and members of Relief Society, must be "doers of the word" (James 1.22). The purpose of the Lord in placing us on this earth is to see if we will do all things he has commanded us to do. It is not enough to read and study about the gospel of Jesus Christ, but we must actually live and do his word and his work. Obedience to Christ's words must often be in the form of action. There are many things that we must do for him, for our fellow men, and for ourselves; as there are sins of omission fully as wrong as sins of 77 commission... "to him that knoweth to do good, and doeth it not, to him it is sin" (James 4:17). Our Father in heaven helps us extensively when we try to do right. And if it so be that the children of men keep the commandments of God he doth nourish them, and strengthen them, and provide means whereby they can accomplish the thing which he has commanded them (I Nephi 17:3). Obedience, then, may be said to be the first law of heaven. It is that obedience that the Lord tequires of us, upon which all our blessings are predicated. Obedience is a source of power, enabling us to do the will of God, much as js prayer a source of power. In obedience lies happiness. We remember that at one period the Nephites were living in great righteousness and obeying the commandments, and the historian stated that the people "lived after the manner of happiness" (2 Nephi 5:27). The world needs to be taught tighteousness, and is best taught by the word and example of those who know the words of Christ and do the will of the Father. Surely the more than 140,000 women, members of Relief Society, living with this in mind, can influence the lives and actions of many! When we have done these things, then we may truly pray with Nephi, "O Lord, wilt thou encircle me around in the robe of thy righteousness!" (2 Nephi 4:33). That we may all be so encircled in the robe of righteouness because we have feasted upon the words of Christ and thereby know all things what we should do, is my prayer. Dn i piteae Matthew Cowley, or The Man of Many Friends (August 2, 1897—December 13, 1953) Elder Spencer W. Kimball Of the Council of the Twelve ELDER MATTHEW COWLEY F A DESCENDANT of Lehi were coining a descriptive name for Elder Matthew Cowley as is the custom, he might likely call him The Man of Many Friends. The 'Tabernacle full of loving folks at his funeral spoke silent but eloquent testimony to the love Page 78 which this great apostle drew from his many friends who came long distances to pay tribute. Brother Cowley had a pattern all his own. No other was like him. With a meeting finished he often picked up his hat and coat and wandered down the block. He stopped at the small cleaning shop, the candy counter, at the elevator, or paused on the sidewalk to talk to people who were not often touched by others, and when he left them they who had been discouraged were smiling, and they who had been groping in darkness at midday had taken a firmer hand-hold. The Lord exhorted his people to extend invitations to dinner, not to friends, kinsmen, and rich neighbors who could return the favor, but to invite the "poor, the maimed, the lame, and the blind," and those who were less able to recompense. 'This admonition, our brother Matthew took seriously to heart. 'The humor of his stories, the twinkle in his eye, the sincere interest and concern he manifested, all warmed the heart and stirred the resolve. The man who had lost his way now had firmer grip; the estranged one forgave and deserved forgiveness; the lonesome IN MEMORIAM one now had a friend; and the foreign born now felt he had a countryman. The Savior's parable of the ninety and nine was a part of Elder Cowley's philosophy. He found that the ratio was not one but many to a hundred, and every day his footsteps led him to the stumbling one whose walk became stable by the lift given. He gave vision; he stiffened backbones and _ strengthened determinations. Elder Cowley was eloquent. Someone had urged him years ago to perfect his speech, and with determined effort, he had mastered a vocabulary of rich and expressive yet unostentatious words. His voice was strong and penetrating, his diction impressive, and people listened and absorbed his messages. He commended righteousness and _attacked abuses. The missionaries who came under his leadership in New Zealand returned home inspired and set. Almost without exception they have remained true to the faith and continued active in the Church. If a member of this close-knit society met sorrow, misfortune, or tragedy the entire group was at his side with their former president in the center. 'here were groceries as well as prayers. ROTHER COWLEY loved and was loved by the Lehites in both the Americas and on all the islands. He was their champion. They felt in a very real sense that he accepted them as friend and brother. He spoke their language, ate their food, sang their songs, and dreamed their dreams. He walked lei-covered in flower gardens 79 with the Hawaiians, sat shoe-less on the floor with the Japanese, climbed the ladder to the top of the stone house of the Hopi, fraternized with the Navajo in his hogan, and sat cross-legged in the thatched roof home of the Maori. In the islands the people near worship him. They met the plane or boat with smiling faces, and they sang their farewell songs with tearful hearts as he left their shores. Peace had _ settled down upon them and they would live closer to their Maker now that their loved leader had stirred their thoughts and warmed their souls again. Tumauki Cowley, the Maoris called him. This meant, great leader, big chief, or president. This was his title favored by him, and he glowed when they referred to him thusly, and as they saw the blind seeing, the lame walking, and the sick recovered through the power of the Lord under his hand of faith, they regarded their 'Tumauki as the Polynesian prophet. To them he spoke "as one having authority." The apostle had real prestige in New Zealand not only among the Church members but among the natives generally and the Europeans, the politicians, and even the clerics of other faiths. With sectarian ministers and priests and others, he was invited to participate in a national meeting to consider the welfare of the native people. Elder Cowley was called upon to speak first in the initial meeting, and he was requested to speak in the Maori language as the leaders wished to show how perfectly a non-native could master the language when he was sufficiently in- 80: RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1954 terested in them. He spoke fluently and eloquently in Maon, then in English. Then, on the last day of the conference, he was the only speaker. His clear and_ sensible plan of welfare and individual initiative for his adopted people brought hearty approval, and he was asked * by Parliament officials to use their facilities and draft a program in line with his suggestions. In a couple of days he had drawn up a document which Parliament adopted and made law. He urged the people to retain their language and all that was good of their traditions, arts, crafts, customs, and to perpetuate their wood carving and weaving for future generations. The death of their friend and advocate President Rufus K. Hardy brought sorrow to the islanders who said in their loneliness that they were without "a friend in court," when Rahin Harris, a prominent Maori, stopped them short and predicted: "Tumauki Cowley will be the next apostle." At the next general conference, October 1945, Matthew Cowley was called to the apostleship. When I think of Matt (as we affectionately called him) I thing of the Good Samaritan at rescue work on the road to Jericho; I remember the woman caught in sin subject to stoning, concerning whom the Redeemer said, "Let him who is without sin cast the first stone"; I envision the little Nephite children being blessed in the arms of the Master; and I think of the vision to Peter extending the gospel to all peoples of the earth. Though I had never met Brother Cowley when he was made a member of our council, I needed only one trip to Hawai with him to develop a deep admiration for his great but simple faith and a sincere affection which [ am sure will last through eternities. Jn Sune Anna H. Michie Awake, oh, my soul, awake! Cast off the lowly sod; Knowest thou not that thou art come From a wise and gracious God? Attune, oh, my soul, attune! Receive of eternal light. Walk thou with wisdom, faith, and truth Through the darkness of earthly night. Arise, oh, my soul, arise! Cast off the shackles of earth. «<« Dwell thou in the infinite love Of thy God who gave thy spirit birth. Second Prize Story Annual Reliof Society Short Story Contest "Beside the Still Waters'' Marv Ek Knowles MARY EK KNOWLES ened slowly that morning, and for a short, wonderful time he thought he was home in the big bed in the east bedroom. Any moment now, Sultan would crow that the day had begun, and the sun would spread a coat of pale gold on the window sill. He lay there, eyes closed, and he smelled the lusty spring of newly plowed fields, the smells of horses and hay and the barnyard. He thought, got to get up now. Have to plow today. He opened his eyes then. He saw the five white IN net stow Wellman wakiron beds in the ward, the thin old men who occupied them, and disappointment hit him like a blow. His farm was gone. Ruby Paul, Amy's husband, had stolen it from him. He was in a six-bed ward in a charity home for aged men. He, Nathanial Wellman, who had owned the finest farm in the state, who had always paid his debts and been a respected figure in the community. If only he could use his hands he'd be out of here and making his own way! Eighty wasn't old for a Wellman! Nathanial held his hands up and looked at them. They were large hands, but the fingers were twisted out of shape with rheumatism. He tried to rub them together, hoping to get the blood circulating, but after a few desperate attempts he let them drop onto the coverlet. He lay there thinking of Ruby Paul and hating him. He thought angrily, Couldn't you see what Ruby was like inside, Amy? And then anger towards his daughter drained out of him. Poor little Amy! So trusting that she couldn't believe anyone she loved could be dishonest, and she had been blindly in love with Ruby. Nathanial took a letter from the drawer of his bedside table. He sat there holding it in his big, twisted Page 8] hands, but he didn't read it. He knew what it said. "Forgive me, Father... I didn't realize...." Yes, he had forgiven long ago, but not soon enough, he thought with regret. For a time he had returned all her letters unopened. This letter with an Illinois address had come six years later. By then he was no longer angry, he only wanted to see her, to learn how Ruby was treating her, and he had eagerly opened the letter. It was a short, pitiful little letter, and he could tell she was not well, not happy. He had answered immediately, but the letter had been returned unopened with deceased written across the envelope. If only he hadn't put the deed to the farm in her name that time when he thought he was dying of pneumonia! If only he hadn't taken that trip east and left Amy home attending college. When he came back Amy had eloped with Ruby, and the farm was sold! No doubt Ruby had told her, "We'll sell the farm and put the money in an equity for your father, so when he's old he won't have to work!" There had been nothing he could do. Her signature was legal and binding! E replaced the letter in a drawer. He believed there had been a child. Ruby's child! He thought. No kin of mine! Yes, he forgave, but oh, if he could have only one more spring on the farm, even one more day to spend in the sunshine! His spirits drooped. Why wish for the impossible. "Count your blessings, Nathanial. Every day tell your gratitude to God." That was what John Lincoln who was past ninety and had the room downstairs was always telling him. "Be grateful for a roof over your head | and food and clean clothes and shoes on your feet. Be grateful for a bed at the end of the ward with a window you can open or close as you please." Nathanial bowed his head. He prayed silently, "Oh, God, I am grateful this day for my many blessings...." He looked out the window. He saw the brick wall of the laundry and the steam coming out the vent. There was nothing of spring here. It had come to him through the open window from twenty miles away. He stood up. He was a tall man, still straight and erect as one of the stately poplar trees that had lined his driveway. By force of will he tried to lift his spirits. He would dress and go out in the sun before breakfast. 'There was a patch of lawn in front of the home. He would water that. With his two hands he could manage the hose if someone would turn on the tap. He pulled on his trousers. He heard a Jaugh. He waited tense, knowing what would follow. It came. "The same kettle of soup!" Nathanial turned his head. Eddie Stringer was watching from the bed across the room. His black eyes were alive with malice and mischief, his curly hair still blue black, but there was evil in_ his lined face and nothing in the thin, emaciated body to suggest the handsome, dashing man whose boast had been that he could dance and drink all night and never show it. 82 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1954 BESIDE THE STILL WATERS "Saint and sinner both in the same pot of stew!" Eddie laughed. Nathanial thought wryly that here was the supreme irony of life. That of all the people he had known in his life, Eddie Stringet should be the one with whom he had to spend his last days! He hurried into his shirt, his gnarled hands more clumsy than evet in his haste, anxious to be away from Eddie and the things he would say. "Remember when we were kids, Nat!" Eddie laughed. "You'd better straighten out, Fddie, you said. 'Or youll end up in jail!' You, working like a horse in the fields!" Eddie sat up. "Listen, all of you.-- ii "Ah, shut up!" Cries came from the other occupants of the ward. But Eddie paid no attention. "Nathanial lived the way the Good Book said he should, and we're both in the same kettle of soup now!" Nathanial walked out of the ward, his shoelaces dangling. But he did not get out in time. The bitterness was In his heart. He stepped into the linen closet in the hall, He leaned his head against a shelf of towels that smelled of the lives of all he touched. 1 was not perfect, put oh, I did try to live right and yet now. - + ° It isn't fair!" It was all he could do not to cry: But he held pack the tears. I shall try to go to the end with dignity, he thought. Who was he to question the 83 Lord? He would go out and he would forget Eddie. But first there were his shoelaces to be tied. Not go back into the ward. He saw the new nurse, Miss Bandy, coming down the hallway carrying a washbasin. She was tall and thin and she looked unhappy: He stood there waiting patiently. She said, "You are Up and around early!" "T thought I would water the lawn. But my shoes - - - ' GHE looked down. "Here, let me lace and tie them for you." She laced his shoes, and he looked at the back of her neck. A few tendrils of hair had escaped from the hard, tight knot, giving her neck a young look. Miss Bandy was new here, and Nathaniat had not had a chance to get acquainted with her, put he had met her type before. Lonesome women who had given up hope of love and romance. Miss Bandy straightened. "There!" Her cheeks were flushed, and she was smiling. He said, "Thank you. You have a very pretty mouth, Miss Bandy. And when you smile like that your whole face lights up." "Why, thank you, Mr. Well man." She fushed with pleasure. Nathanial knew, you make a wom an feel beautiful and she becomes beautiful. She picked up the washpasin and. Walked away, and there was a spring in her step now. Nathanial went into the washroom. His daily toilet took a long time. Sometimes he was tempte to forget it, and then he would te- member that his wife, Lucy, had always praised him for his neatness. Once he had done everything quickly, and it had not been easy 'to learn patience. But now he slowly and painfully washed his face and combed his thick white hair. The part was very crooked, but it was the best he could manage. He brushed his teeth. He still had all his own teeth without decay in them and he could enjoy his food. "Oh, God, for my blessings I am grateful. He looked at his face then. What did it matter that people told him he had a good, kind face. Eddie Stringer had an evil face, and yet both of them had come to the same end. Nathanial walked slowly down the stairs to the first floor, holding onto the banister. A moment he hesitated in the archway of the parlor. He had never had a visitor. He told himself he didn't care, but deep, deep down inside he kept hoping. Someday the matron, Mrs. Handmacher, would say, "Mr. Wellman, there is a visitor in the parlor for you." He turned and walked den the long hall to the front door. Who would ever visit him? Amy had been the last of his family. He went outside and walked towards the hose and the patch of lawn, and knew at once it was a mistake, coming outdoors. Because again spring came to him, a lusty spring from miles away, and his heart yearned after the country, and it was not enough—a small patch of lawn. Maybe someone could drive him out in the country. For only an hour! He had to go! He was filled with excitement, and he hurried back into the home and down the hall to Mrs. Handmacher's office. But she was very busy, going through papers, answering the telephone, telephoning the doctor. He knew then he had been selfish. 'There were those in the home who were ill, and needed more than a drive in the country. HE turned and walked slowly down the lower hall. "Nathanial!' He heard his name spoken in a deep, gentle voice. "Good morning, Nathanial." He realized then he was opposite the door to John Lincoln's room, but he did not answer the greeting. He stood there and looked at John. The old man was sitting in a chair, facing the window, his profile against the light like the head of an old coin Nathanial had once owned. It was a noble head, a noble face, the sightless eyes seeming to see into eternity. Every day Nathanial read to John from the Bible. John said, "When you read to me, Nathanial, I can feel the still waters and sce the Good Shepherd." But today Nathanial didn't feel like reading about still waters and good shepherds. He turned. And walked quietly away. It was breakfast time then, but he could not choke down the food. He got up and went into the hall and slowly walked up the stairs. He knew, then, he could not stand another day in the home. He would go to bed, turn his face to the wall and die. He reached the second floor, and the door to his ward and stopped. He could not face Eddie again. He thought of the storage closet at the ead' of 84 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1954 BESIDE THE STILL WATERS the hall. It was quiet and dark, and there was in it an old rocking chair with a broken arm. He closed the door and sat in the chair. He closed his eyes and gave a great sigh, and after awhile he sank into oblivion. When he awakened he heard the rattle of dishes on trays and knew it was lunch time. He had not died then, he thought with wry amusement. And who are you, Nathanial Wellman, to say when you shall die? He stood up. And so God willed that he should live awhile longer, then he would try and go to the end with dignity and purpose. He would try to make the home his place "beside the still waters." He would read to John every day. He would tell Miss Bandy how pretty she was. He would tell her every day, and finally she would believe him, and she would be beautiful and some man would see it and marry her. He washed his face, and the cold water made his skin tingle. He ate his lunch with appetite and then he went to John's room. "Hello, John," he said. "Are you all right, Nathanial?" John sounded anxious. "Tm all right now, John." Nathanial could not say why, but he felt happy, as if he had a great deal to look forward to. He picked up the big Bible with its worn leather cover and its large type. "And what shall it be today, John?" John smiled, "The Sermon on the Mount, please, Nathanial. Begin with, 'And seeing the multitude, he went up into a mountain....'" John folded his hands and waited, 85 So Nathanial read, and he had reached, "Rejoice, and be exceeding glad for great is your reward in heaven," when Miss Bandy appeared in the doorway. "A visitor for you, Mr. Wellman." "For me?" Nathanial asked. And after a pause. "Who?" She shook her head and smiled, and he saw that she was wearing lipstick and had loosened her hair a bit and already she looked happier. "I don't know. Mrs. Handmacher just said to find you and tell you there is a visitor in the parlor." Nathanial closed the Bible and put it down. John held out his hand, and Nathanial took it, felt the warm pressure of friendship. Then, wondering, he went to the parlor. UST inside the archway he stopped. His young brother, Charles, was standing there, smiling at him. Charles as he had been at twenty. But Charles had been thrown from a horse and killed when he was a young man! He said a bit shortly because he felt shaken, "I am Nathanial Wellman. You wanted to see me? Who are you?" "T am Michael Paul, Sir." Amy's son! With nothing of Ruby Paul about him. But all Wellman! He sank down weakly on a chair. The boy pulled up a chair and sat opposite him, and Nathanial saw that the boy sat as he sat, on the edge of the chair, with feet braced wide apart as if to get up quickly and go about his business. He saw the hands resting on the knees, as his hands were resting, and they were broad, strong, power- ful hands. Nathanial asked, "Where did you come from, lad?" "Chicago, Grandfather. You don't mind if I call you that?" he asked anxiously. Grandfather... The first shock had passed now and realization was deepening. He thought, this boy is my own flesh and blood. And all at once the room seemed filled with light and hope and the fresh clean smell of youth. He wanted to reach out and touch the firm, tanned flesh, feel the hardness and reality of him. "I'd like you to call me Grandfather," he said sincerely. "T had a hard time finding you, Grandfather. I was afraid you might be dead." Nathanial had meant it to be that way. He had worked as long as he could, and then when his hands became crippled he had lived on his savings. When that was gone he had applied for help, but with the plea that none of his old friends know about it. "This was my last hope,' Mike was saying, "and I had to find you, Grandfather." But not for this brief visit, Nathanial wanted to cry. It would have been better if you had never come. He asked almost fearfully, "And so now you have found me?" "There are only you and me left of all the family, Grandfather." Hope flickered. That didn't sound as if he meant to go striding out of Nathanial's life. He wanted to say, "It is good not to be alone anymore, Michael.'' But he held back the words. Youth didn't want to feel obligated and trapped. If only the boy would just come and see him once in awhile! INST TUTE OF pe 4602 SOUTH REDWOON TON D SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Pe He asked, "Where is your father, Michael?" "He died in January. I... Mike hesitated and then went on, bitterness in his young voice. "I'm trying not to hate him. After all he's dead, but... He deserted me a month after mother died. He left me with neighbors and never came back." Very characteristic of him, Nathanial thought angrily. "What did you do then?" "T was put in a home, and | lived there until I was eighteen. Then I joined the Navy. I've only just gotten out of service, and you know something, Grandfather?" he asked. "No, lad," Nathanial said gently, "What?" "Mother used to talk about you a lot. She told me how Dad had cheated you. I was only six when she died, but I never forgot. And all the time I was in the home and then in the service I thought, I have a grandfather somewhere and someday T''ll find him and [ll buy a farm. But I couldn't remember the name of the town where you lived, only the state." He grinned happily. "But now I have found you! Will you help me pick out a farm and >> live with me? I need you. Say you'll come!"' 66 I need you... Say you'll come."... Nathanial was afraid he was going to cry like a weak old man before his grandson. It was a moment before he had control - of himself enough to speak, and then he held up his crippled hands. "My hands, see! I'd be no good to you on a farm." 86 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1954 BESIDE THE STILL WATERS "Tt isn't your hands I want, Grandfather. I'm strong enough for the both of us. It's your experience and advice I want." Nathanial could not believe it yet. He had learned not to get his hopes too high. "A good farm takes money. 'There's no such thing as cheap land." "Oh, I've saved my money, and when Dad died his estate went to me. [ll use the money from that." All at once Nathanial wanted to stand and shout, "Hear that, Eddie Stringer! Ruby took my farm, and now he gives it back to me!" He wanted to take this beautiful boy through the wards and show him off, saying, "Look at the size of him, the width of those shoulders, the bigness of his hands. See how tall and fine he is! My grandson, Eddie Stringer, come all the way from Chicago to find his old grandfather! And I'm going to live with him, I'll spend my last days on the land!" Then he was ashamed of himself. He thought, my cup runneth over! I could not be so mean and small as to flaunt my sudden good fortune in the faces of those 87 who have nothing. Not even to Eddie could he do that. "There's enough money for a big down payment," Mike was saying. "Of course we'd have a struggle at first. Maybe you wouldn't...." "A man can only eat one meal at a time, Mike," Nathanial said eagerly, "and wear one suit of clothes." "Then you will come, Grandfather? I've spoken to the matron. Pll sign the necessary papers." Nathanial stood up, holding his shoulders back. He must not tremble now. He said evenly, "I will be happy to go with you. We will find the finest farm in the State. Pll pack my things now." He knew he was going to cry then. That he could no longer hold back the tears. He had to turn and go quickly out of the parlor. He held the tears back until he reached the foot of the stairs. He let them come then, let them roll unchecked down his cheeks. That was permitted, surely, without loss of dignity, tears of happiness. Then he brushed them away and hurried up the stairs, his heart singing, "Oh, kind God, I am grateful this day." ~~ > Mary Ek Knowles, Ogden, Utah, has written many excellent stories for The Relief Society Magazine. Her story "The Gold Watch," was awarded third prize in the Relief Society Short Story Contest in 1943, and her story "Spring Festival" received the first prize in 1946. Mary was born in Ely, Nevada, lived for many years in Salt Lake City, and for a short time in Reno, Nevada. Her family and her writing are her chief interests. "I have three children," she tells us, "a wonderful husband, and a very interesting mechanical engineer father, Alma Ek, who lives in Merced, California. I am literature teacher for the Ogden Twenty-Third Ward Relief Society. Writing is my hobby, my husband and children my profession. I am a member of the Blue Quill, Ogden Writers Club, and the League of Utah Writers, and I would suggest to any ambitious young writer that she have a family, the larger the better, because a family, especially the teen-agers, are a constant source of story material." In addition to the Church magazines, the work of Mrs, Knowles has appeared in Woman's Day, Today's Woman, The American Magazine, Extension, and many other publications. Social Activities in Relief Society Blanche B. Stoddard Member, General Board of Relief Society [Address Delivered at the Annual General Relief Society Conference, September 30, 1953] to visit in the mission field and attend Relief Society meetings and socials there. I asked one sister who had recently been baptized what had caused her to come into the Church. She said she had moved into the community a total stranger. One day her neighbor invited her to go to a Relief Society work meeting. She met so many splendid women, learned so much, and had such a good time, she asked to go again to some of the other meetings. She became a Relief So- [: was my privilege this summer ciety member, then a member of © the Church. Her mother-in-law, who is not a member, said to her, "I don't see why you didn't join the group to which I belong." The daughter answered, "They did not invite me." I hope you and I are not passing up some good opportunities with our neighbors because we do not give that little invitation. The past months, as we have held conventions in your stakes, we have emphasized compassionate service, visiting teaching, and the educational part of the Relief Society program. For a few moments now, I should like to speak of another very important part, an integral part of the program—the social activities. You and I can sit together in regular Relief Society meetings week after week and not know each other. But let us sit side by side making a quilt, enjoying a social afPage 88 ternoon, or serving together on the luncheon committee at work meeting, and it isn't long until we know first names, how many children each of us has, what business our husbands are in, and all the things that make us know each other better. And isn't it true, as a rule, that the better we know each other the better we love each other? I heard a Relief Society president, as she bore her testimony, say, "There are only two kinds of people in my ward, those I love and those I do not know." Relief Society activities provide such an opportunity to make lasting friendships. Recently, after a visiting teachers convention which I attended, two sisters came up holding hands. One said, "We have been visiting teaching companions for a year and we just love each other." I asked, "If it had not been for Relief Society, would you ever have met?" They would not, in all probability. We have a unique social opportunity. We play, sing, work, and pray together, welding ties of lasting friendships based on deep understanding of each other. I am sure you can say with me, that some of your most precious friendships began in Relief Society. Recognizing that friendly social relationships are important to an abundant life, Relief Society has included delightful social occasions SOCIAL ACTIVITIES IN RELIEF SOCIETY as a part of its program. 'Through its social activities, members have been brought into closer relationship and sisterly love has been fostered. The social spirit has particularly characterized the work meeting. It is recommended that this day be made a happy social day in which it is almost impossible for formality and stiffness to prevail. It is a wonderful time to invite strangers and newcomers in the ward to Relief Society. Make them welcome and give them a definite part in the day's program. S my companion and I went visiting teaching this last week, we were in a district of lovely new homes where many of the wives were young women. Many of them were entirely indifferent, and had not been to any of the ward functions. One young mother said she would not be able to go to Relief Society because she was so busy decorating her home, making lamps and drapes, planting her flowers, and making her budget stretch. Her home came first. What a splendid opportunity for us! We explained in detail our wonderful course in homemaking and home-management and the social activities of the work meeting. Immediately, she was eager to come on the day that would give her these opportunities. Now, meet her and make her welcome, introduce her to other young mothers, and even ask her to: exhibit some of the lovely things-she has made for her own home and. Let her partake of the social spirit: of the day, I'am sure we will have' another enthusiastic member of Relief Society. If we 89 Many young women have been career gitls and now find a lot of time on their hands. 'They are going to seek social outlets by joining-clubs and other organizations which, in our estimation, cannot begin to give them the fine association and companionship that Relief Society has to offer. I remember one such sister. We tried for years to get her to come to Relief Society. Finally, someone remembered that she loved parties, loved to entertain and prepare unusual meals and set beautiful tables. So we asked her to be chairman of the work meeting luncheon committee for the year. She was delighted. She found an outlet for her talents, Relief Society was benefited, and she became a loyal member. As I said, work meeting is probably the best time for enjoyable social activity. On vacation this summer I visited a work meeting in one of the Idaho wards. 'There were fifty-eight women present. I knew only three of them at first, but before the day was over I felt I knew each one, a little of her background and her home life. As we quilted and chatted I learned many interesting short cuts to homemaking and came home with some choice recipes. It was a delightful day. Not long ago I visited another work meeting. I knew they had a quilt to do and I love to quilt. We had a pleasant and profitable morning, but when we went in to lunch I was amazed to find they were charging seventy-five cents for it. Not only amazed, but embarrassed, because I had not brought my purse with me, not anticipating any need for it. I was also a little annoyed. I was put- ting in a good five hours on their bazaar quilt, having fun I'll admit, but I sort of felt I was entitled to my lunch. Don't you think I was? Of course they let me charge it on promise to pay later, but it rather spoiled the day for me. I hope no sister in that ward stayed away from work meeting that day because she could not spare seventy-five cents for lunch. We feel that sisters who come to render service should not be expected also to pay for their lunch. Permission is given to use Relief Society funds for the purpose of meeting the expense of simple luncheons. We feel that the luncheons are a delightful part of the day and provide the sisters with opportunity to display talents in table decorations and low-cost, but nutritious menus. We hope that Relief Society sisters will never have to pay to go to the regular meetings other than the initial dues of fifty cents. I heard of an opening social for which each sister was charged one dollar at the door, fifty cents to go as her dues, and fifty cents to swell the funds of Relief Society. The entire purpose of the day was defeated, in my estimation. The opening social is one of great importance. There are wonderful opportunities for this occasion. Every woman in_ the ward, whether she belongs to Relief Society or not, should receive a special invitation. She should meet the officers and the other members and should learn on that day what Relief Society has to offer her and the part she has to play in its success. It should be a day of dignity and beauty, an outlet for talented women to project the program of Relief Society. The seventeenth of March, our birthday, is another splendid opportunity to show our gratitude and appreciation for this great organization. Many sisters may _patticipate in the program on that day, which should be such as to promote sociability and a feeling of sisterhood. NOTHER wonderful source of social activity is through our Singing Mothers organizations. What if all the mothers in the world were singing mothers! Wouldn't this be a different old world? I am sure nowhere else could we go to see and hear what we will tomorrow, as we listen to Sister Madsen's Singing Mothers chorus. There will be daughters, mothers, grandmothers, and greatgrandmothers singing __ together, bearing testimony together in music. There will be no age nor social barriers in this group. We hope every ward will have a Singing Mothers chorus compnsed of every sister who desires to sing. Sister Madsen says that if you have two women who can sing a duet together, it is a nucleus for a Singing Mothers chorus. As we go about the Church we are thrilled with your singing groups. What good times they have, how they learn to love each other! We feel, sisters, that you stake officers have a great responsibility in directing and maintaining the high standards of the social activities in Relief Society. See that they are proper and dignified and in keeping with the policies and aims of the organization. Inspiration has 90 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1954 SOCIAL ACTIVITIES IN RELIEF SOCIETY guided the destiny of Relief Society, and intrinsic worth has characterized its activities. It was organized by a Prophet of God after the pattern of the Priesthood. When an organization has such a birth, such a history as ours, we must be careful to maintain its activities on a high plane. I once heard Sister Layton say that when a woman reaches a certain age, probably the greatest possession left to her is her dignity. After all, Relief Society is over a hundred years old, let us help her to stay dignified. OMETIMES, because of lack of experience in Relief Society, a lack of understanding and appreciation, or because of a desire to catch interest by introducing something new and different, activities are conducted which are not in harmony with Relief Society. Extreme and offensive costumes are not becoming to women, When programs require men, it is more appropriate to use men than to have women impersonate them. It is unbecoming in Relief Society gatherings to burlesque things for which we should have respect and reverence. Let us remember we are the mothers of Israel and representatives of the greatest woman's organization in the world. Relief Society programs and entertainment need not be somber 91 and formal. Under certain circumstances, they may be light and highly entertaining. However, they should be more than time-wasters, which contribute nothing to the advancement of Relief Society women. All activities should be worthy of the time of Latter-day Saint women and reflect the ideals and standards of our organization. Of course we want to have fun, we want to laugh and have a good time. In this time of stress and sorrow and foreboding, we welcome fun. But we want to go home from every Relief Society function with something so good that we will be lifted up, and with something so fine it will carry over into our homes. Our sisters, especially many of our older sisters, have a great need for social life under the supervision of Relief Society. We have such good Relief Societies all over the Church, and much good is being done with the sisters who attend. But let us lend every effort this coming year in reaching out after the inactive ones, the indifferent, those with heavy hearts and slipping testimonies. The Prophet's mother said we must cherish one another. We are indeed our sister's keeper. Probably there is no better way first to reach her than through our social activities in Relief Society. O_o Heart So nes Ida Isaacson There is a time when speech is cleft; When breath is silent, sound bereft— When only heart tones climb into the mind And tell all that can be told, or left behind. Such moments as these bare themselves to love And no one hears but two—and God above. Valentine for Susan Dorothy Oakley Rea 66 RANDMA, do you think G I'm pretty?" Susan Gray didn't turn to look at her grandmother as she asked the question. She continued to stare into the mirror at the wide mouth, the smooth, high forehead, and the deep-set, blue eyes that stared back at her. "Of course I think you're pretty." Grandma Cordelia Gray squinted to thread her needle. "All grandmothers think their granddaughters are pretty. Susan, do you think you are pretty?" "No," Susan said flatly, wa plopped into the big chair in front of the old fireplace. She looked into the fire, remembering that in her seventeen years she had lighted many pine wood fires and loved each one a little more than the last. "It's not that I mind not being as pretty as Marie Woods. She is put together perfect as a Dresden doll. It's the Valentine I really care about, Grandma." "The Valentine? I thought you put Valentine notions away with your last doll a few years ago." "I don't mean those silly Valentines we liked in grade school. I mean like those heart-shaped corsages of roses and violets at the corner florists. I saw Fred Miller go in there, and while I was sort of standing by the door, I heard him order one for Marie." "I guess that means he will be taking | Marie to the Valentine prom," Grandma Cordelia: obPage 92 served through thin lips, as she bit the thread from the dress she was hemming. She tried to sound unconcerned, but she had hurried with the new velvet in case Fred should ask Susan for the prom. A heart-shaped corsage of violets and roses would have been so pretty at the shoulder. Cordelia Gray had wanted the. Best of everything for her granddaughter. It wasn't exactly selfish to want it that way, she felt. It was more like wanting to make up for the ways in which Susan had been forced to take short measure. As when Susan's mother had died after Steve, Susan's father, had spent all he could earn or borrow trying to fight the ravages of her leukemia. Steve had procured a good engineering job in South America after his wife had died. He couldn't take the baby daughter with him, so he had left her with his mother, who had felt so inadequate when she had looked at the tiny fluff of a girl, delicate as a pink shell. Cordelia hadn't had a daughter. She was widowed when Steve, her only son, was ten years old. She had sold the farm, keeping only the family garden and the house that her husband had built on the lower acre. They had planned for a big family. The house had three bedrooms huddled under the sloping roof upstairs, and there was the big bedroom next to the parlor. Cordelia had taught in the vil- VALENTINE FOR SUSAN lage schoolhouse in those years when she had saved enough to send Steve to engineering school. She had baked bread, cakes, and pies for ten families in Newfield, and with Dan's insurance, she and Steve had been able to take a proper place in their community. 'They had always been offering the big house for fireside meetings or parties. GTEVE'S boyhood had been happy here, and when he went away to college, he had had as much money as most young men, and just as many of the belongings that college youths considered important in those depression years of the 1930'S. It was quite different now that Susan was growing up. There weren't any savings, and Grandma was past the time of teaching in the school, which by now was a sprawling structure on the avenue, complete with modern teachers, perfect lighting, and adjustable seats. Students at the high school drove their own cars—some even had convertibles, Susan said. There were television sets in most homes, as well as the deep-freeze, which surely would have been a boon in the days when Cordelia had done cooking for other families. Cordelia and Susan didn't own a car, a television set, or a deepfreeze. Steve was able to send plenty to live on, but not enough for extras. Even so, the Gray house had been a joyous place. Susan collected friends like a flower collects bees. They had invaded the house from bread-and-jelly kindergarten 93 days, right up to now, when they gathered around the old dining room table with their lessons or popped pop corn and listened to name bands on the radio. Susan had her share of boy friends, but she could see only Fred Miller. Cordelia wasn't sure just what Susan saw in the boy. She thought he talked in a strange manner. Often when he and Susan were listening to the radio, he would say, "Dig that crazy tune." What was that supposed to mean? Cordelia wondered. His hair was another thing that was puzzling. A year ago he had worn it long behind with a wave at each temple. Now, when he came over in the evening, Cordelia noticed it was barely an inch long and stood up on his head like a brush. "That's a butch haircut, Grandma. All the boys have them," Susan explained. "It's a fad like when I wore my hair in a pony tail." Cordelia put the last stitch in the facing at the neckline of the new velvet dress. "You needn't have hurried with the dress, Grandma. I won't be going to the Valentine prom. It's tomorrow night, you know, and I haven't been asked." 'There was the slightest quiver in the young voice that tried to sound nonchalant. "Harry Daniels would take you if you would even look his way," Grandma ventured. "Tt isn't honest to be nice to a boy just to get a date when you don't especially enjoy his company. You said that, Grandma." Cordelia smiled. She had tried to teach this lovely granddaughter some of the social graces. Now she found herself forgetting them in her anxiety for Susan's happiness. HE next day was Saturday and Valentine's. If Susan was grieving about the prom, she gave no sign. She arose early, put on a plain blouse and flowered skirt, and gave the house a real cleaning. She put a fresh bowl of apples on the dining-room table and pine nuts in the brass bowl on the mantle. In the early afternoon she lighted a fire and sagged into the big chair with a magazine, while Cordelia got ready and went marketing. There was a high blue sky on the afternoon of St. Valentine's Day. Melting snows clung to the shady places, but the sidewalks were dry. Cordelia brushed away some leaves as she passed the garden fence. 'The violets were coming up, she noticed. Seeing the violets push up their green leaves made her think again of the corsage Susan had mentioned. "It seems to me that I love Susan as much as anyone loves her. Why shouldn't I send her a Valentine?" Cordelia was thinking. She walked a little faster with a little more color in her cheeks. There was the corsage in the florist's window—heart-shaped, with violets and roses. "Will you deliver one of those to Susan at my house?" she asked the florist. "Sure will, Mrs. Gray. We've delivered lots of them to the high school girls today." Cordelia paid for the flowers and hurried out onto the street. She shouldn't have bought the flowers, she thought. Now the florist will be wondering why some young man didn't order flowers for Susan. The girl was gone when Cordelia returned home. A note in her young scrawl was on the kitchen table. "Grandma, I've gone bike riding with Fred." "The nerve of him,' Cordelia muttered. "Susan is all right to take bicycle riding in the afternoon, but he takes another girl to the prom." Cordelia was glad the florist came with the flowers before Susan came home. It would be a shame to have Susan answer the door thinking the flowers might be from someone else. T was almost dusk. Cordelia laid out the pretty new velvet across the big chair. At the shoulder she fastened the fragrant heart of flowers. On the small white card she wrote, "Happy Valentine to Susan. Susan didn't go into the parlor when she came home. She ran straight upstairs, but not before Cordelia saw that her cheeks were as red as the sweater she wore. Notes of a popular tune drifted down the stairway and into the kitchen where Cordelia was trimming some Valentine cookies for supper. "Seems like that's the song Fred thinks is real crazy," Cordelia was remembering. When Susan came down in her old bathrobe and shaggy slippers, Cordelia knew for sure there was 94 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1954 P he Corsage. She Ung both arms votion, T Ordelia from Dan." around he standmother "What a Back in the Parlor, Susan sat on Wonderful V7 ntine Surprise! J] the arm f her g Ndmother's chair tell you What let' » Grandma "You iy d in such NIce time You get Il dresseg and so wil] hen you were young," she Said IT, then We'll sit } © fireplace and simply, ave a Valentine Party for two" "Any time IS_ nice When you're A little later Cordelia and Susan young," Cordelig BEC Ter aon az was bein Played on the Tadio "But Gran, ma, boys don't sq and the soft aroma of the Corsage things to girls now like Grandpa filled the TO said about his undying Joye and deusan, do yo think ['m Pretty?" a crum led piece of Paper from hey € turned ling, pocket, "Oh, yes, Grandma. I've alwa "This, in Case you're wondering, thought 'so, You are beautiful jp IS my Valentine from Freq. Tt that dress, 7 ve T seen yoy Says: neve Wear it before, yet I'm sure It's not Dear Susan T iia you have a nice — * ++ because Of the style." time even jf We are not 80Ing to the Tt js very old and T am very prom together. J] think you are Teal sha old," Cordelia sighed. "When We and Would like you to 8° with me to all " ' | t i to t; Our grandfather Said I was Pretty, Prom is - = in hea? Fo take <a We were Married before the next could I very Well say no? Alentine's Day," Grandma to €xpect me for Sunday din. Or the next few urs, grand- "er. Yours truly, Fred, mother an tanddaughter traveled I see what you mean," Ordelia. Y looked at Pictures of Cordelia jl told me that night that he would other days, Pictures of Grandpa like to come over to Our house for and Steve and 'Susan's mother, Sunday dinner," —Margaret A. Caine SOUVENIRS OF LILAC TIME: I have the Coutage to declare myself a devoted admirer, not only of the beautiful and fantastic, byt the weird in Nature. Jt js part of my composition: - + Lilacs are one of my special weaknesses for they are as sociated with the earliest rec llections of my child-life and school-gir] history." I never see a lilac but it calls up tender memories connected with the past And, if I may tell it, the lilac bush oft hol S many a precious secret —Aunt Em A FRAGMENT Thou call'st from out the deep recesses of my soul And thy bright presence Vivifies the spell; And I am treading on enchanted ground m.; B. W. MUSIC IN UTAH: In the growth of civilization and the unfoldment of social development, music and her twin sister poctry take precedence of all the arts, and Present an unmistakable index to national] character. The pioneer Settlers who crossed the Rocky Mountains to make homes in the valley of the Great Salt Lake were certain in the early stage of their Peculiar civilization to manifest the genius of music, and the hosts of Israel beguiled many an hour of their weary march across the continent by singing the songs of Zion. " The first musical Organization formed in Utah was a brass band,. Under the leadership of Captain William Pitt ' In 18 ominico Ballo, an Italian highly endowed with the musical 6enius of his race came with Baie a the Principal theatre Orchestras in London, came to Salt Lake City, and at once took charge of the orchestra at the new Salt Lake Theater |. | —Selected of travel, and the labor of making new homes, were enlivened by joyous Music, familiar songs, with the merry dance and social bal].. - The projects of organizing a ' THE Women of the Year 1953," GenParticular mention were: Captain Iris Craig, Lieutenant Dorothy Devers, Lieutenant Lorna Wilson, and nurse Nancy Jones. UEEN Elizabeth II, during her tour of the Commonwealth nations in December 1953, Was royally entertained by fifty-three-year-old Queen Salote Tupou of Tonga, Who, last June, attended the coro. Nation of Queen Elizabeth in London. As the visiting Queen stepped ashore at Nukualofa, it began to tain once more, as it had rained at their previous meeting. Both queens smiled broadly as Salote Opened a large green umbrella and raised it above both their heads. Salote's 48,000 subjects had been busy for many weeks painting the royal palace, rehearsing the entertainment program, making arches and ban. Nets, picking pineapples, preparing Pigs to be roasted, and drilling the Royal Tongan Military Band. T the thirty-second National 4-H Congress, held in Chicago in November, Margaret Ann AshWoman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon provements, she ture, made plywood walls, refinished a piano, made bookcases, tables, a tadio case, and a da Lee Peacock United States Savings Bond from the Kellogg Company, Battle Creek, ichigan, as a health-improvement award. MBS. Helen Werner Slocum began a business with $2.50, which now tosses $250,000 a year. With her only resources a secondhand trailer, she began hauling boats in it from one state to another, near and far. Now she has many employees and handles a fair share of the nearly 5,000,000 smal] boats in this country, when they require dry-land transportation. E extend birthday congratulations to Mrs. Clara Fisher Samuels, ninety, formerly of Vernal, Uintah County, Utah, now a Tesident of San Leandro, California; and Mrs. Isabella R. Crafts of Salt Lake City, Utah, ninety-three years old. Page 97 o> EDIT ORIAL c~ VOL. 41 FEBRUARY 1954 NO. 2 'Se orgetting Self j High on the rocky battlements of the despair of many failures — ena ridge in the Black Hills of South during that which he believed was Dakota, fout faces have been carved temporary in the hope of establishin lasting stone as a memorial ing that which would be of jasting to four great Americans whose worth. "Let us yaise a standard to strength, discipline, and foresight which the wise and honest can Te directed the puilding and the ex pair," Washington said. "The event tension of American constitutional is in the hand 0 o overnment. They laid the strucAnd what of Thomas Jefferson, tural steel of freedom and puilt the who had written the Declaration of shining towers of liberty. Of them Independence, and who wielded the their country loved.-: and mercy structures which preceded the frammore than life." ing, of the Constitution? Jefferson The faces carved in stone On that was acting as minister to France high wall are the faces of Washing during the drafting and the signing ton, Jefferson, incoln, and Theoof that document. However, the dore Roosevelt. The lines and the Jasting wisdom and breadth of his lineaments of the faces reveal im views, and the uncompromising tegrity and vision, courage and con: honesty of his personality made a templation — qualities which have deep imprint upon the design of made the thoughts and the actions government. Although he wished America, and in the thoughts and they might be capable of exercising out the world. Mined to safeguard the written law Let it be said of Washington, a and to uphold the legally estabwe think of him in this month of lished codes. "Tn questions of powFebruary, that he evidenced in hie "SS Jefferson wrote, let no more own life that high integrity of pur be said of confidence in man, but pose which places the self as the pind him down from mischief - - - servant of others, as a builder fora by the Constitution." more lasting monument than per Well known and well loved, the sonal pleasure Of satisfaction. 14¢ introspective face of Lincoln ls dearly loved his home — the broad sober and prooding, yet kindly and acres of Mount Vernon, the great even magnificent in its expression river, and the columns of his house, of love and tenderness. Through an the association of his family. But era of crisis and tragedy, Lincoln he endured the long struggle, the moved as one dedicated to 4 great pitter cold of embattled winters, cause. Forgetting the disappoint: extended throughout the land. Foruse for the Waterways, Téclamation setting self by the Very splendor Of of arid lands, the building Of railhis leadership, he shaped the forces Toads, and the Wider use of the sea whieh) <q thoroughfare for freedom lanes for the Commerce of the life of Lincoln have been Suides to territories, stil] Theodore Roosevelt them in times of fateful decisions, never lost sight of the TOof of Jib. And that the tenacity of his faith erty—the Constitution, and he was e tions of his needs and €sires helped to ke Possible ag countr € sees th fundam concepts "beautify] OF amber wayes of Which ar 8eless and forever jm. Grain T purple Mountain ma. P€rative, « every man emem- — jestieg above the fruited lain," po 5 ot f t ate their thoughts and deeds Which stat esmen at ae stage ae a aided so steatly in the establishment can life, Theo ore Roosevelt (1858. An Protection of Fut edifice of 1919) has eco symbol of the Constitutional Sovernment "ISOrous growth f the Country and —-V. P. C Sisters Temembered with gratitude the Inspirational Service which Sister Lyman has SO willingly ang iY) Staciously 8iven. Her activities have ex. Minor White WINTER PATTERNS NEAR ANTHONY LAKES, OREGON Page 100 ¥ As ¥ ¥ Sor Such As Shis Pansye H. Powell One life is not enough, for I could spend Ten thousand years beside a mountain brook To hear its quiet murmuring and look Upon its pearl-fringed ripples. I could bend In daily reverence where aspens send Their whispered prayers to heaven, where the book Of nature lies wide open, though it took A thousand lifetimes, read it to the end; For who can see the winter sunlight cast Its purple shadows on the mountain snow Nor want this scene again? Or feel the kiss Of tender rain nor wish to hold it fast? Life is too urgent in the time we know Eternity must be for such as this! The Right Touch Cecil Pugmire bodice, Mother, and it will be perfect!" cried Sue. The right touch! Rebelliously thought Sarah. The very words her sister-in-law Alice had so glibly used yesterday, when she had knocked Sarah's plans for the trip right into oblivion. Standing with arms akimbo on 'two plump hips, Sarah's usually snapping brown eyes, now redrimmed from long hours of sewing tiny stitches, carried a stubborn, hurt expression as they surveyed her pretty daughter. Golden-haired Sue, a vision of loveliness, whirled before her mother in the creamy wedding gown, as unmindful of her mother's rebellious thought as she was of the cluttered dining room strewn with scraps of sewing on the table and every available chair. "Right touch, right touch!" singsonged through Sarah's mind. "We're bringing Dad to your house directly from the hospital," Alice had unceremoniously announced yesterday over the telephone. The words had stunned Sarah into silence. There had been a long pause, and then, "You're the only one with a spare bedroom, and besides, you have the right touch." Just like that—the right touch and a spare bedroom, and Sarah's long-planned trip dissolved like cubes of warmed ice. Any other time Sarah would gladly have accepted the responsibility of caring for Father Wood 6 * Y 0c the right touch on the and his broken leg. But now of all times! It meant giving up the trip to Canada to see Margo. Little sister Margo! Ten years ago Sarah had kissed the young bride goodbye, and now Margo's husband had been coming through town to take Sarah to Canada. This had seemed a chance of a lifetime. Now. Everything had been changed with a few words over the telephone. Last evening when Jim had arrived home and found his father ensconced in the spare bedroom, the room resembling a small hospital, he hadn't said a word about Sarah's trip. He had seemed sort of lost and puzzled. "Right touch! Spare bedroom!" Why Alice could have given up her own bedroom for her father. Sarah's mind was a beehive of stinging thoughts. Just because I'm a Relief Society president, they think I'm a Rock of Gibraltar. Just a strong old robot, with no plans or feelings of my own. Well, I've got feelings enough that I don't want to hear right touch again. Her thoughts clashed on and on, as she critically eyed each fold and tuck of the shimmering satin gown. There was something definitely lacking in the dress, but, so far, that sought-for touch had been elusive. A breath of summer breeze blew the white ruffled kitchen curtains inward, wafting its coolness through the warm bungalow, carrying along Page 101 the aroma of boiling beans, reminding Sarah that Jim and the boys would soon be home for supper. "We'll have to clear up this mess, Sue. It's suppertime." Reluctant to take off the shining gown, Sue surveyed herself thoughtfully in the improvised muirror propped upon two dining-room chairs. She turned and_ twisted, this way and that. A definite fling of her head indicated that she had made a valuable discovery. "Mother, I know! I know just what it needs! I saw it in Mailon's window today. I guess you would call it a stole—a short stole. It was draped over the bodice of a wedding gown. It was as dainty as cobwebs and was caught together in front by a cluster of tiny pearls." Momentarily caught by Sue's enthusiasm, Sarah brushed aside some patterns and sank into the nearest chair. As she listened to Sue's description, from long ago came the memory of another scarf and the hurting remembrance of a disappointed little girl. HE had been only six! Such a tomboyish, sunburned and freckled - spattered - across-the-nose little * girl, whom Uncle Felix had sought out as she sat dangling her dirty foot in the old headgate, trying to wash away the prickly-pear thistle sticking in the sole of her left foot. He had brought her a present! Dear, fascinating, globe-trotting, story-telling Uncle Felix. And such a present! A gossamer, lacy scarf, a fascinator, even prettier than the one she had watched Miss Lang drape over her shoulders before telling all the school children goodbye. She had felt hurt and disappointed when mother had taken the dainty scarf, wrapped it in tissuc paper, and placed it in the old trunk, with the words, "Until you grow up to be a lady." I guess I never became a lady, Sarah mused to herself. I never did get to wear the scarf. After mama died, I sort of forgot it. A NEAT morning, Sarah had Sister Dixon come in and sit with Father Wood. Ten o'clock found her in front of Mailon's: admiring the dainty stole draped across the shoulders of the wedding gown. The single model posed against an elaborate background of tinselled silver trees aburst with pink apple blossoms. Sue was right! It was wonderful! Her mind's eye saw it draped above the bodice of Sue's gown. It was the perfect answer to complete the wedding gown. After finding the right department, a saleslady brought the scarf from the window and carefully spread it before Sarah on the glass counter. Close up, it was more beautiful than in the window. Shadowy roses on the trellis of clinging leaves were woven into a mesh of dainty filigree. It was scalloped with tiny rosebuds. Sarah felt a great relief. Making the wedding gown had been more of a strain than she had realized, and this would complete the dress. Mindful that her roughened fingers must not pull a single thread in the delicate fabric, Sarah stood spellbound in a dream all her own, visualizing golden-haired Sue in the complete ensemble. Suddenly, she was jarred from her muse by the 102 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1954 THE RIGHT TOUCH words, "Such a bargain, too! Only $69.50." Sarah's mind clicked back to the clarity of a calculating machine. "Whew," she gulped. "Why, that's more than my daughter's whole outfit cost!" She thanked the saleslady as gracefully as possible, trying not to show her amazement at the price of the scarf. Feeling as disappointed as a child who has had a_ beautiful toy snatched away, Sarah stood upon the sun-beaten pavement to collect her thoughts. Opening her purse, she fingered some bills for Jim's insurance premium, then pursing her lips she shoved the bills down deep into the corner of her bag. Then all of a sudden she chuckled. Of course, she could have made the scarf herself. Her feet acquired new spring as she squared her shoulders and made for the nearest department store. She remembered the many times she had seen bolts of beautiful lace displayed in the yardage departments. "Laces? Yes, Ma'am, we have that very piece. I saw the scarf myself in Mailon's. It is identical," assured the clear-skinned girl behind the counter. Reaching beneath the counter, she felt for the bolt of lace, and then called, "Mrs. Ames, where is the roll of lace No. 259?" "Sorry, Miss Hale. I sold the last bit ten minutes ago." The morning wore on, noon came, and late afternoon found Sarah still hunting the lace. Her quest had acquired the pattern of a tiresome game. "Sorry, just out." 103 ARAH went the rounds of the stores before giving up. Finally, with tired and aching feet, and feeling defeated and discouraged, she returned home. She was surprised to find Sister Dixon in the kitchen. Sarah had not expected to find her dinner all cooked, waiting to be served. Grateful for this unexpected respite, Sarah went to Father Wood. In spite of Sister Dixon's efforts to catch each little breeze by opening both windows, the room was warm and uncomfortable. Father | Wood looked tired and weary, but Sarah had never heard him complain of anything or anybody. He managed a cheerful greeting. For the first time Sarah began to realize that maybe it was painful for him to be confined and dependent upon her. She felt so tired and defeated, herself, after tramping hot pavements all day that her feelings aligned themselves with the man lying helpless and dependent in the hot bedroom. Life has a strange way of taking hold of us and managing us, she thought. Certainly, Father Wood would not be lying here dependent upon her if he could manage otherwise. He certainly did not ask for a broken leg. She remembered the time he had stood up for her against Jim in trivial things, making her feel she was something rather special and not just an accepted daughter-in-law. She remembered the times he had turned to her instead of Alice, his own daughter. It had long been sort of a family joke that Alice was the family butterfly, gay, pretty, and carefree, but irresponsible and not one to turn to in time of trouble. Jim's brothers and father usually turned toward Sarah in moments of need, since Jim's mother had died three years ago. Sarah fluffed his pillow and threw wide the door so that he could see what was going on in the kitchen. She brought a bookstand and placed a favorite magazine within easy reach and then went to prepare a tray for him. Sarah felt a deep satisfaction in seeing Father Wood eat with relish. Sister Dixon seemed in no hurry to go home, and it was rather nice having her bustle about the kitchen. For the first time, during the hurried day, Sarah felt a sense of relaxation. She pulled a chair up by the bedside and began to laugh with Father Wood about chasing an elusive bit of lace all over town. "Sarah, I didn't know about the trip, or I would have stayed on at the hospital," apologized Father Wood. Supper over, Jim went to sit with his father. Sue had not. Returned from school, and the problem of the unfinished wedding dress began to rankle in Sarah's mind. She knew Sue would be disappointed about the scarf. Strange! Disappointment in two lives over a small thing like a whiff of lace, such a tiny thing, yet so important at the moment, mused Sarah. She climbed the stairs to the attic. While she was remembering she would take a look at the scarf which had waited so long for her to become a lady. I guess I sort of disappointed it, thought Sarah. HE old trunk stood as sturdy in its four-square-cornered way as it had when her mother used it as a chest for her most cherished possessions. Sarah blew the dust from its top as she pulled down the fasteners. She raised the heavy lid, lifted the top till from its place, and put it on the floor. Searching in the bottom recess, she found the small package wrapped in yellowed tissue paper. As she untied its encircling string, a silken web slipped from the wrapper and cascaded over her brown arm. Sarah gasped. She had forgotten how lovely it was. Creamy white lace! Real lace! No imitation, this. It was the most beautiful piece of lace she had ever seen. A tiny label stitched in one corner said, "Made in Venice." Dainty orange blossoms were intricately woven on a gossamer network as sheer as butterfly wings. It seemed fashioned for a queen. Sarah draped the web of transparent beauty over her brown arm, but quickly removed it. It seemed out of place, just as much today as it would have been out of place years ago on the freckled-faced little girl. Mindful lest one cobwebby thread be pulled by her needlepricked fingers, Sarah held the scarf away and in front of her, bewitched by its sheer loveliness. A squeak of the rusty hinge on the attic door jarred her back to reality. "Mother! Oh, Mother! Where did you get it? Why, it's far lovelier than the one at Mailon's. It will just make the dress perfect. It's just the right touch." "Right touch!" Sarah smiled as she turned to the blue-eyed girl, 104 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1954 THE RIGHT TOUCH sparkling with admiration and happiness. Carefully gathering together the silken ends of the scarf, she placed the bit of beauty into the young girl's outstretched hand. "Take it, child. It's a bridal gift, reserved by your grandmother, from Uncle Felix." Sarah tiptoed into Father Wood's room to see that he was comfortable for the night. He appeared to be sleeping. Quietly, she pulled the shade and tiptoed back again past the bed. A strong hand reached out and she felt something pressed into her hand. 105 "I've wanted to do this for a long time, Sarah. Just haven't gotten around to it at the right moment," said Father Wood. "I want it worn by a great little lady." Even in the dark, Sarah knew that the hard, irregular object was Mother Wood's emerald engagement ring. Jim emerged from a chair in the shadows of the room and Sarah felt his arms go around her. "Taking this from any other man in the world and I'd have grounds for civorce," laughed Jim. "Imagine, a woman wearing an engagement ring on each hand. Sure must have the right touch." ~<>- Valentine for fRosemary Ethel Jacobson Rosemary, Rosemary, Who's so delectable? If you've one failing It's quite undetectable. Listing your charms Is a job insurmountable. You have so many They're simply uncountable! & ¥ Rosemary, named for The fairest of roses, How well you know that It's man who proposes! With suitable suitors Pursuing you frantically, Make me the one that You smile on romantically! Foe BS SK orever the Dream Mary Gustafson Have you ever sat by a fireplace And dreamed as the dancing flame Held visions of faces forgotten Till you almost called a name? If you have you can answer clearly That you have seen, as I, And have known that the flame that quickens Will swiftly ash and die. But the dream drifts on forever, Eddying on through space Until it can find a welcome In the smile of an upturned face. MRS. LILLIE WALKER, WELLSVILLE, UTAH, DISPLAYS SOME OF HER QUILTS AND HOOKED RUGS Hobbies Help to Keep Her Young Lillie Walker, Wellsville, Utah, Has Made Two Hundred Sixty Quilts and Many Beautiful Hooked Rugs Lillie Walker, seventy-five years old, has been a widow for twenty-two years, but she has made her own living by doing home nursing and making and selling her beautiful hooked rugs and other items of handwork. Without assistance, she has made and quilted two hundred sixty quilts, and has designed and completed many hooked rugs which have given her a reputation for her original patterns and beautiful blending of colors, as well as expert workmanship. Mrs. Walker loves to work in the temples and has performed ordinance work in the Logan, Salt Lake, Manti, St. George, Idaho Falls, and Cardston temples. She has been a Relief Society visiting teacher for thirty-five years. She seldom misses attendance at Relief Society and Sunday School and often walks a mile to attend these meetings. Of her twelve children, nine are still living, and she has forty grandchildren and thirty-seven great-grandchildren. Her life is busy, useful, and happy. -—>- Frost Lucy Woolley Brown Only the shadows made by trees Are patches of frost this dawn. The sun kissed other white dust away; And left diamonds on the lawn. Page 106 S had come u Were fightin u t - Though none t, the Passion for freedom Which burned e Courage, the de. > Was fanned to fj S inspired leader, We, as Latter-day ai tributes of € genius of leadership S1ven by the World, an > IN addition We acclaim aS Inspired of d, fulfilling his ho] 80spel ee Bread Christie Lund Coles How much the m Odern child has lost, Not coming hom € to the 800d, warm crust Of homemade bread: With butter, Sweet, Spread thickly for 4 Special treat a Windows Were steame d, the house hen, Pink-cheeked, Oven-warm, We entered fr, om the storm, And found the fragrance, unequaled still, TOWn-baked loaves, Word Page 107 i Was firmly imbedded, and the | avored land for Portunity, and autocratic Tule, Phraim &teatness, al] the persona] at Tophet t brin From Cedar Chest to Dressing Sable Clara Laster IN small houses and apartments, space economy is the vital keynote today. Many families have growing pains, and the problem of where to put winter clothes in summer and summer clothes in winter, and still have a well-balanced bedroom, has been something we have all faced at some time or other. Suppose you have an older cedar chest that you cannot do without, and, at the same time, do not have space for that much-desired dressing table. If this happens to be the problem in your home, here is a simple solution. Make the chest into an attractive dressing table! It can be done at very little expense and without any experience at all. MAKING A DRESSING TABLE FROM A CEDAR CHEST MATERIALS NEEDED The material you choose for your dressing table skirt will depend, of course, upon the material of your drapes and spread and the other furniture and colors in the room. But let us suppose that the fabric is rayon taffeta. This makes a lovely dressing table skirt. You will need about 2% yards, 54 inches wide. Also, you will need one roll of cotton batting, the width of the chest top. Be sure to buy two boxes of upholstering tacks, one box of carpet tacks, and have handy a hammer and scissors. Have a piece of clear glass cut to fit the top of dressing table, which is the top of the cedar chest. Now, for the cedar chest base, buy these materials and have them cut in this manner: plywood, %" thick, cut the same size as the bottom of your cedar chest. Have legs cut to height desired, using 4" by 4". For leg supports, have two pieces of 1" by 4" boards cut the same length as the baseboard. Have two pieces 1" by 4" cut the same width as the baseboard. See illustrations A-B-C-D. Page 108 FROM CEDAR CHEST To DRESSING TABLE 109 ~+-O-~» The cedar Chest sits upon this box-like base, in Order to be high €nough for a dress. Ing table, so your first Step is tg Make the base, Take you; a" Plywood baseboard fo) d your two > 4" end boards ( al together a shown in ustration Xt, nail 9 the two y» BY way' lengthwise board M illustra ion > the legs are Placed jn €ach corner and nailed Securely, wr €n this js When this is completed, Place clear Blass over Padded top. It is NOW completed and you can Place mirror and lamps or Whatever YOu desire on top. But the main idea is your Storage Space underneath the dressing table top. Day End Gertrude T. Kovan I look toward the Setting sun Nn Solemn quiet and the She Sinest Career of All Pauline M. Henderson 66 H, I'm just a housewife." I was listening to a radio program the other day, and heard a woman make this reply to a question concerning her occupation. 'The words were accompanied by an apologetic little laugh, as though the speaker were a bit ashamed of her calling. I thought, suddenly, how often I had heard those same words! Why! I had said the same thing myself, many times—and in that same self-deprecatory tone! Perhaps I was in an unusually introspective mood that morning, but the incident started me thinking. Why, I wondered, should we—the homemakers of the world—be ashamed of this most rewarding of all positions in life? I have heard complaints from many women, that simply being a housewife does not provide a woman with sufficient opportunity for self-expression, or a large enough scope in which to develop her talents to the fullest extent. Indeed, I have, on occasion, added my voice to this lament. We are prone to look upon our work as drudgery, and to dwell enviously upon the lives of our sisters who have made careers for themselves in the business and professional world. But, after giving the matter some serious thought, I, for one, have revised my opinion. The dictionary defines "career" as "a profession or other calling demanding special preparation and undertaken as a life's work." It Page 110 seems to me that homemaking lives up to this definition very well. A successful wife and mother combines many skills and talents in the fulfillment of her role in life, any one of which, if followed exclusively, would command a good salary and a fair amount of respect in the world of business. She is a nutritionist, having a working knowledge of all the various food elements necessary to the health of her family, and she knows how to skillfully combine them to make appetizing meals, three times a day, every day in the year. Starting with four walls, some furniture, and other inanimate objects, she becomes an interior decorator, as she creates a home that is a haven of peace and rest for those she loves. Should one of her family become ill, she is a nurse—so far as possible making up in loving care what she may lack in professional skill. As she manipulates the family finances, she becomes an economist of no mean ability, stretching the budget to cover all her family's present needs, as well as providing a reserve for the future. The mother of a family is also a teacher, as she helps her children through their school years, adding much to their education that they cannot learn from formal instruction. And, in addition to all of this, the homemaker performs what is her most important function—that of spiritual counselor. To her, God HW] they May °Mpare in jm. Child d Portance and lasting Satisfaction to rlarge this try, Cis her dut and a] e Shaping of human lives? T Privilege., let €ar hat fiumphs in the busine Sor ly a ban Professiong] World—howe Synopsis Steven Thorpe, 4 Widower ly of his o D making, € had math nee fangoree ee pres inter had no business Considering he; on nurse, who 4S taken Care of his baby familiar t 5, even = lS own uring an attack of Pneumonia. Mar. Min Oughts w Te uncanny, Earet's m ther, g Widow, who has been they had a Way of becoming realiacting as Stey housekeeper temporarj. Tes. In this aSe, they had certain we Mag: aa i to postin ly been the edge of balance be € T. Rex armon, he mean €, Margaret has 'Ween sayin ha ss Tate and accepted the POsition of ht superin accept § her Mvitaty ndent in th Spital, and § €ven finds The IC Was superb; jt quick * IMPossible to h has been ened a deadness; Mm, its flowin ade vice President of ikes Peak 1 i achine om actual ging, b € sadness ) Wuiggle out 6 It, and Steve did not € pathos, Tavelling out tired mys 00k upon himself a5 a cad. Miss erles and ans ering old questions ate looked art and was taste Voiced triumph and spoke fully dressed, he picked her his Tesolve Was as if argaret "P: She talked quite Intelligent] sat beside him hat all he ad t She askeg about hi > 4 Sesame, 9 ve been the fy. It was In this hour that his one to tyne J. Ts notes, Steve love for became fyl] and rea] thought. © She "neouraged him to and unden ble talk aboy himself and the children, "Do you know I'm, here?" Miss Saying she adored h bies, and that te w sking, and her voice Sometime she Ould like to bring jarred him violent] some gifts for lS children. € came reluctantly back to re. € felt on ¢ £€ with her, stiff ality_the Téality of her, Instead of and cool, t tried not to show it, Margaret, here beside him, the ter all, thi aS a Situation large nowledge th Page 112 agaret would THE DEEPER MELODY never share such an experience with him. There Was a bitter taste in his Mouth as they moved down the lobby. Miss Tate was chattering along— the maestro's timing had been a little Tagged. Didn't he think the Steve looked sharply at Miss Tate and caught her frantically signalling the girl to silence, her In violence, He told Mrs, Crain about it. "Sounds like a trap to me," was her summation, "So long as it caught the tight victim," Steve laughed. "It won't be the last trap," predicted Mrs. Crain. "A handsome young man like you is a natural Prey for lonesome girls. If you don't choose one yourself, one will choose you." 'Tl choose my own wife, thank you," said Steve shortly. A few nights later, when 'Steve had kissed the children good night, put on his slippers, and was settled with his paper, the doorbell Tang, and there stood Miss Tate, her eyes 113 Sparkling, her arms laden with bundles, "T just brought some little things for the children—the gifts I mentioned—you didn't say ] couldn't— it is such fun—and I do hope they aren't asleep!" she managed all in one breath. The solemnly, clutching the train. "Other Mama doesn't want me to wear those," he Pronounced, but fell to his knees and became a toot. Ing, chugging train immediately, Was charming, rven pretty, with her hair Shaken loose and the flush on her face, He was always misjudging the girl. "Pretty dress," said Tlene, her blue eyes shining, and Phyllis echoed, "Oh, pitty." Steve's heart smote him, seeing their pleasure in the pretty dresses. He had seen to it that they had the necessary clothes for comfort, but it had been a long time, in fact never, that he had bought things for beauty for the little ones. "Tm afraid you've opened my eyes to a new duty, Miss Tate. I had no idea they were old enough to know a pretty dress from a merely useful one." "How could you know, Steve, being a man? Only a woman knows how a little girl feels, I'm afraid." GTEVE felt a little shock at her use of his name, but quickly covered it. After all, Steve was his name, and there was no use being a stuffed shirt about it, especially after the girl had so unselfishly brought gifts to his children. Her words made him feel suddenly inadequate to bring up his little girls by himself. Goodness knows what mysterious benefits he would rob them of in the ignorance of his male point of view. "I must go now," she said at last. "Would you call a cab, Steve?" Of course Steve couldn't let her go home in a cab after such an errand, and, somehow, he had made a promise to accompany her to the theatre when he returned home that night. Mrs. Crain mentioned Miss 'Tate at breakfast next morning. "Yes, it was very thoughtful of her to bring gifts," said Steve, spooning cereal into Phyllis' mouth. "Very nice," agreed Mrs. Crain without conviction. Steve wiped Phyllis' chin with a napkin. "You don't sound sincere," he observed. "Men!" Mrs. Crain exploded cryptically. "They don't — see through a thing!"" She would say no more, except that she ought not to have said as much, it was none of her business, and that the gifts had surely delighted the children. "How's Margaret?" Steve asked, partly to change the subject, but mostly because he hadn't seen any evidence of her having been here for days, and longing for word from her. He tried to sound casual. "Fine!" said Mrs. Crain heartily. "You still don't," said Steve. "Don't what?" Mrs. Crain countered. "Sound _ sincere. Wrong?" "T've had six children marry," Mrs. Crain said. "I never made the choice for one of them, but sometimes it is hard to sit back and watch them make mistakes." "Look here! Is Margaret making a mistake? Doesn't she love this fellow?" demanded Steve eagerly, too eagerly, he perceived. "She loves him, all right, or she would see him differently. Nurses are trained to worship doctors—to jump up when one comes near, wait till one goes through a door first.... It's 'Yes, Doctor, No, Doctor.' " "Oh, they have to, at work, you know. Lives depend upon it— upon absolute and quick obedience of nurses to doctors, but...." "But what?" "IT have wondered how much of it affects Margaret in her feeling for Dr. Harmon, and how much is real between them. I guess you could really put all this down as Is something 114 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1954 THE DEEPER MELODY a mother's case of Jitters. It is just that tomorrow site' ig buying her wedding dress and it seems so..." She Stopped, for Steve had dropped his fork with a great clat. It@r. "+++. $0 final!" "kt oes, indeed!" agrecd Steve ervently applying himself feverishly to stuffing food into the mouths of the children. For him oe x wy course, there was nothing wron Steve, deep in disappointment, wondered what he had expected—what he had wanted. Discovery that Dr. Harmon had impossible vices? Was a liar? A philanderer? Jealousy, Steve thought, could quickly undermine a man's finer nature. Jealousy had nothing to do with Steve's love for Margaret, however, with the sinking sense of loss he had when he thought of her wed. Ding, with the knife-edge of despair turning in his heart, thinking of her beyond his reach for ver, once she other things, to close the unhappy subject from his mind, but ail across town, on his way to work, little snatches of conversation came vividly to his mind, little visions of her slim white figure moving through his house, of her cradling the little, sick Phyllis, of Davey and Tlene trotting faithfully after her, arguing "My mama!" "No, my mama!" He thought of his own 15 conversation with her, his strong desire for more to come—of the emotion that had shaken him at her had. He would at least that to remember. Steve groaned. There was noth. Ing whatever to be such thinking, and nothing to do In giving him stock and making him had by-passed ful employees. Nothing anyone could do about it, Steve knew that to many he was a newcomer who had to justify J. T.'s faith in him. There was J. T. Himself. Steve had occasion to think many times that everything had its Price; nothing was free of payment. It only remained to choose the coin of payment. Grateful as he was for J. T.'s had come to his new duties totally unprepared in lacking in Capacity in many ways for the job. He was trying hard to most of it gladly as a means of new growth, but the older TRAN was not above reminding him that he was the beneficiary of J. T.'s bounty, and that was harder to take— sometimes seemed impossible. "You've done a lot for me, and I appreciate it," he told J. T. Once, "but you haven't bought me!" "Now, now! Steve, calm down," J. T. Had shouted. "Can't you let an old man have his joke?" GTEVE wasn't so easily appeased. "You still have your wits, J. T., and you don't need to hide behind Father Time." To Steve's dismay the intercom had been open, and report of the little intercharge went all through the plant, or so Miss 'Tate reported, with mirth. Steve was upset about it, for he loved J. T. And all he stood for, but the men looked at him with deep respect after that. Very few of them dared to brave the old man's roaring voice and belligerent attitude, although all of them knew his bigness of heart. The affair of the cable was a case in point. It was a lifting cable of one of the cranes—the only crane, in fact. Steve noticed it weakening when he made his rounds. He mentioned it to J. T., saying they had better stop loading the orders of machinery onto the flat cars and re place it. "You're just like all new vicepresidents, Steve—think money comes easy. Hang it all, we've only got one crane, and that order is a rush job." "Each of our men has only one life," retorted Steve. "That cable is still good as new," argued J. T. "It has to be changed," Steve shot back. "Look who's giving orders," shouted J. T. "Who do you think you are, the president?" "T'm next thing to it," Steve gave back. "Sure that cable has to be changed," said J. T. In a voice which was suddenly soft. "It's going to be changed just as soon as this order is filled." Steve, feeling grateful for the compromise, not wanting to push J. T. Too far, let it go for the present, although he kicked himself for spinelessness afterward. If a thing was dangerous, it was dangerous. Well, tomorrow was Saturday; the order would be finished and shipped. The first thing Steve would do Monday morning would be to have that cable changed. To his relief, Saturday passed without mishap. Perhaps he had misjudged the danger. Saturday was also the night to take Miss Tate to the theatre. It was another fine experience. Steve had to admit Miss Tate had excellent taste, but again he wished for Margaret. In one moment of suspense Miss Tate's hand sought his. She seemed almost unconscious of the act, but he had the impulse of withdrawal, however, he returned the pressure slightly. It was a mistake, for when they went to the lobby for intermission she clung to him possessively, linking her arm in his, and Steve felt uncomfortable, that she was displaying him as her own. Not that it mattered. He was a stranger in a strange land, but as they turned to leave the lobby for their seats, they came face to face with Margaret and Dr. Harmon. (To be continued ) 116 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1954 NOTES |\_FROM THE FIELD rm Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April the Handbook of Instructions, page 123 ° ee Piaee? >) Haagen RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Mae P. Matis FINNISH MISSION RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE WORK EXHIBIT PORI, FINLAND, AUTUMN 1953 Front row, seated, left to right: Senja Aalto, Lahti; Sofia Ranta, Helsinki; Mae P. Matis, President, Finnish Mission Relief Society; Anna Liisa Laakso, Tampere. Back row, standing, left to right: Ida Johannson, Pori; Toini Halonen, Turku; Maila ValKama, Helsinki; Korttu Myynti, Vasa; Kerttu Rautavaara, Jakobstad. Mae P. Matis, President, Finnish Mission Relief Society, in reporting on the activities of the enthusiastic Relief Society sisters of Finland, writes: "Everything is fine here in the Finnish Mission. Our sisters are all working hard on bazaars and enjoying the lessons.... I am enclosing a picture of our mission-wide conference in Pori last spring. These conferences are always a spiritual feast, and they give a feeling of unity and strength to the sisters who are so new in this work. The group includes a work director from each branch participating in the conference. Each of them had brought an article or two of handwork to exhibit at our conference.... I am so proud of each of our groups and the things they accomplish. They are mindful of the sick and poor and always willing to give of their substance to help those less fortunate.. All the Finnish sisters join with me in sending to all members of the general board our love and best wishes...."" Page 117 118 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1954 EAST RIGBY STAKE (IDAHO) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC AT STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, March 1953 Standing in front of the piano, left to right: Ruth Sessions, chorister; Virginia K. Campbell, President; Charlotte Brown, organist; Thelma Welker, assistant organist. Photograph submitted by Elizabeth W. Hatch IDAHO STAKE, KELLY-TOPONCE WARD RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS AND MEMBERS WHO HAVE WORKED TOGETHER FOR ELEVEN YEARS Front row, seated, left to right: Elsie Millward, First Counselor; Elva A. Call, President; Elnora Shipley, Second Counselor. Second row, standing, left to right: Faye Cooper; Martha Stoddard; Martha Shipley; Klea C. Perkins, Secretary; Wanda Whitworth; Lenna Bowler; A'vanda Shipley; Bertha Simons; Marcelle Hatch; Ida Miles; DeLila Simons. Third row, standing, left to right: Ann Whitworth, organist; Grace Whitworth, literature class leader; Elsa Marie Wilson; Thelma Redford, theology class leader; Idris Hebdon; Elizabeth Hatch, social science class leader; Agatha Hatch; Grace Byington. Elizabeth W. Hatch is president of Idaho Stake Relief Society. 119 MISSION RELIEF SOCIE ER, RADO lh CONFERENCp HELD IN COLO > August 24h and 28th, 1953 Tont row, left to right: Grace Gardne President, Pueblo District Emma Mae Allen, Pres; Cut, West Nebraska Dist Ict; Mima Tuttle, resident st Colorado District, Clarind3 Ro y, President, est W Mexico District R Ullman, Tesident, Western Sta ission; Mildr M. D Iman, Presj ent, Western States Mis. 310n Relief Soci '; Belle Spafford, Genera] President of Relief Society, Kate Whet. En, Counselo; Western ates Missio elie Society, Louine Cro ar; Hazel Loy; olleen Kirgan. Reva Johnson, Presid nt, Delta, Colorado, Relief Society, Second Tam left to Tight: Cloravel], Brooks, Del Orte 1 Schofield, President, San uls Dj trict; Ann nt elief Society: Haze] 8 Albu Olotado Dist,; ding » Fern Gunderson, reader; standing directly behind the Organ on the front Tow, Alta Hansen, chorister, Second from the left on the second Tow, Elva J. Beal, President, Lost River Stake Relief Society: Standi of the Piano, Bernice Wennergren Tibbits, Firs ing directly in front » Planist; ninth from the left, back Tow. Ary B. 120 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1954 Photograph submitted by Stella HAWAIIAN MISSION, MAUI DISTRICT CONVENTION, September 1953 Stella C. Nelson, President, Hawaiian Mission Relief Society, reports that the sisters in the Hawaiian Mission are enthusiastic workers, and the Mau District Convention was unusually successful: "We had eighty-three in attendance at the morning session, and eighty-two in the afternoon, The theme was 'Better Planning Makes the Relief Society More Interesting All Year.' Maui District has thirteen active Relief Societies, with an enrollment of 175. We were pleased with the large attendance, as many of the sisters had to come quite a distance to attend. These conventions that we have held throughout our mission this past year, I am sure, will be a great help in our work. Already I can see how much improvement has been made and how much more interest the sisters are taking." Photograph submitted by Nona W. Slade RIVERDALE STAKE (OGDEN, UTAH), TWENTY-SECOND WARD VISITING TEACHERS WHO ACHIEVED A 100 PER CENT RECORD FOR THREE YEARS ARE HONORED AT BANQUET May 26, 1953 Seated at left side of left-hand table, left to right: Cora Stoddard; Louisa Ensign; Thelma Ketcham; Berneice Brown. At end of left-hand table, left to nght: Ethel Mar- NOTES FROM THE FIELD 121 riott; Zella Jones; Luella Dustin. At right side of left-hand table, from back to front: Grace Adderley; Olive Wilson; Erma Vanden Akker, chorister; Carrole Vanden Akker. Seated at the right-hand table, beginning at the front, left: Ida C. Cook; Ardella Johnson; Mary Drake; Esther Mitchell; Madolin Jensen; Alice McFerrin; Elsie Godfrey; Alice Baker; Martha Van Braak; Virginia Jensen; Haleen Christiansen; Mary Workman. Standing at the back, left to right: Norrine Fowers; Lucy Beckstead; Reka Vlaanderen; Anna Cole; Mary Burgess; Second Counselor Catherine Souter; President Margaret Reyns; First Counselor Emily Wilson; Secretary Laura P. Gamble; work meeting leader Mary Edith Empey. Photograph submitted by Betty Buckley SOUTHERN STATES MISSION, SOUTH MISSISSIPPI DISTRICT, RED STAR BRANCH WORK MEETING, October 8, 1953 Front row, seated, left to mght: Arcola Brady, Secretary; Sallie Britt, Second Counselor; Betty Buckley, President; Grace Reed, First Counselor. Second row, standing, left to right: Margaret Britt; Menerva Corley; Katie Smith. Third row, standing, left to right: Leola Reed; Louise Kimble; Nellie Ward; Beatrice Dunn; Edith Norton; Hazel Smith. Fourth row, standing, left to right: Susie Newell; Leanee Britt; Francis Britt; Nellie Calcote: Rachel Britt; Mildred Smith; Eunice Smith; Blanche Reed, Emily E. Ricks is president of the Southern States Mission Relief Society. 122 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1954, Photograph submitted by Lavena L. Rohner INGLEWOOD STAKE (CALIFORNIA) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCES, RELIEF SOCIETY CONVENTIONS, AND FOR SOCIALS Standing in front of the piano, left to right: President Lavena L. Rohner; chorister Margaret W. Chapman. Seated at the piano, Lucille Peel, organist. President Lavena L. Rohner reports that this group, organized in 1948, has furnished music for stake conferences, for Relief Society conventions, and for many socials. They have presented several outstanding Easter cantatas, including the lovely dramatic presentation of "The Seven Last Words of Christ." Their beautifully rendered numbers are an important part of all stake Relief Society gatherings. Photograph submitted by Elnora Ts Loveland BOISE STAKE VISITING TEACHERS CONVENTION, September 17, 1953 Front row, seated, left to right: President Elnora T. Loveland; First Counselor Edna Millar; Second Counselor Wave Hinckley; Secretary Lillian Call; visiting teacher message leader Irene Hayes. More than three hundred women from the nine wards of Boise Stake attended the convention. President Elnora Loveland presented, as a pattern for the visiting teachers, the following qualities: dependability, tolerance, charity, love, humility, and prayer. Sister Mary Emma Russell was honored as having served for the longest period of time—fifty-two years, and Mary Porritt was honored for having served fifty years. Twenty-four of the visiting teachers have served for twenty-five years. Eighty-three of the teachers achieved a record of one hundred per cent for the past year. All were given beautiful corsages and each was presented with a copy of A Centenary of Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Emma L. Stephens LORIN FARR STAKE (OGDEN, UTAH) VISITING TEACHERS WHO HAVE SERVED FOR MORE THAN FIFTY YEARS Left to right: Annis Badger, ninety-two years old, a visiting teacher for fifty years; Bertha Simmons, sixty-seven years old, who has served as a visiting teacher for fiftyone years; Charlotte Swenson, seventy-five, who has served as a visiting teacher for fifty-two years. Sister Simmons and Sister Swenson still visit their districts each month Emma L. Stephens is president of Lorin Farr Stake Relief Society. Because of Me Bertha A. Kleinman Before I lose the beauty of today, And night shall pencil out the horizon, Let me respond with something brave to say, Something for you before the day is gone. Before I lose the glint of this sweet hour, And day's routine shall portion all my time, Let me some message with its good empower, To tell you how I love you, friend of mine! Before I lose the courage you have taught, The treasure of conviction you possess, Let me respond in some reflected thought To carry on and on its loveliness. Let me strive on some oracle to be That you shall yet be glad because of me. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 123 LESS N DEPARTMENT Sheology—Characters and Teachings of The Book of Mormon Lesson 24—Alma, Son of Alma Elder Leland H. Monson (Text: The Book of Mormon: Alma 1-8) For Tuesday, May 4, 1954 Objective: To point out the influence which righteous men can exert in a democracy. AFTER the death of Alma the father and King Mosiah, Alma the son had full responsibility for the ecclesiastical and secular affairs of the Nephites throughout the land of Zarahemla, he being chief judge and high priest. (See Mosiah 29:42.) The task of administering the government was based upon laws Mosiah had formulated, and these laws had been accepted by the people. Moreover, the people had elected their lesser judges and were aware of the responsibility which they had to protect and preserve their newly given liberties under their representative form of government. Nehor Always, however, there are people who will not work according to a pattern established by the majority.. Nehor was one of these men. In the first year of the reign of the judges, he struggled to introPage 124 duce priestcraft among the people. He taught that every priest and every teacher ought to become popular, and ought not to labor for his own support, but should be supported by the people. He contended against members of the Church because they preached the gospel one to another without money and without price. In lieu of the true gospel, Nehor taught that the Lord had created all men and had redeemed all men, and, in the end, all men should have eternal life. Nehor found many people who believed his words, and he even began to establish a church. But Nehor was not willing to rely upon his persuasive power alone, but sought to enforce his views by means of the sword. One day Nehor met Gideon, who had been an instrument in the hands of God in delivering Limhi and his people out of bondage, a LESSON DEPARTMENT teacher and a valiant defender of the faith. Altercations arose _beunsheathed Gideon, who was old and not able to withstand Nehor's blows. Been established among the people by Mosiah. By and honor. These men contrived to preach false doctrines, feigning 1 them, because equally precious in the sight of God, that the preacher was no better than the hearer, nor the teacher than the learner, A spirit of greater co-operation entered among the members of the Church, and they increased in al] kinds of wealth: They had an abundance of flocks, herds, grain, gold, silver, silk, linen, and other 125 They regarded their wealth, not as an end, but as hearts upon riches but were liberal to all. They clothed the naked, fed the hungry, and administered relief to the sick, This condition among those who did not belong to the Church, produces economic deterioration among a people. Amlici In the beginning of the fifth year of the reign of the judges, another complex problem arose. A minority group of the people sought to make Amlici their king. They realized, of consent of the People. All the people gathered together "to cast in their voices concerning the matter encouraged his fo]. Lowers to disregard the Majority, and he was soon made king over the mi. Nority group. In the terrible battle which fol. Lowed, the A Amlicites had joined with a numer. Ous host of Lamanites and were attacking the Nephites living in that territory. Strengthened by the righteousness of their cause and by the hand of the Lord, the Nephites defeated the combined forces of the Lamanites and Amlicites "as numerous almost, as it were, as the sands of the sea" (Alma 2:27). Alma fought face to face with Amlici in the battle with swords, and Alma being strengthened by the Lord, slew Amici. By the sixth year of the reign of the judges peace was restored throughout the land. However, every soul had cause to mourn— mourning over the loss of their loved ones, and the destruction of their grain, flocks, and herds. The people believed "it was the judgments of God sent upon them because of their wickedness and.... They were awakened to a remembrance of their duty" (Alma 4:3) and turned to their God for help. Many converts were baptized in the waters of the river Sidon, and they began to establish the Church more fully. However, in the eighth year, pride entered the hearts of the people and wickedness sapped their vitality. They "set their hearts upon riches and upon the vain things of the world" (Alma 4:8) and did not put first things first, to seek after the real satisfactions of life. Wickedness in the Church _ became a "great stumbling-block to those who did not belong to the church" (Alma 4:10). Alma Delivers Up the Judgment-Seat Recognizing this decline in spirituality and feeling the dire need for curbing it, Alma delivered the judgment-seat to Nephihah according to the voice of the people, "and confined himself wholly to the high priesthood of the holy order of God, to the testimony of the word, according to the spirit of revelation and prophecy. This he did that he himself might go forth among his people... That he might preach the word of God unto them, to stir them up in remembrance of their duty, and that he might pull down, by the word of God, all the pride and craftiness and all the contentions which were among his people, seeing no way that he might reclaim them save it were in bearing down in pure testimony against them" (Alma 4:20, 19). He preached to them in their cities and villages, denouncing their iniquities and calling upon them to repent. He frequently used the thetorical question as a means of enforcing his ideas. Have you sufficiently retained in remembrance the captivity of your fathers?. Were they destroyed?.... What grounds had they to hope for salvation?. Have ye spiritually been born of God?.... Have ye experienced this mighty change in your hearts? Do ye exercise faith in the redemption of lim who created you?.... Have ye walked,.. Are ye stripped of pride?.... Is there one among you who is not stripped of envy? (Alma 5:6 ff.). He answered all of these questions at once by saying: Wo unto all ye workers of iniquity; repent, repent, for the Lord God hath spoken it!.... Yea, he saith:... Come unto me and bring forth works of righteousness, and ye shall not be hewn down and cast into the fire—For behold, the time is at hand that whosoever... Doeth not the works of righteousness, the same have cause to wail and mourn (Alma 5:32 ff.). 126 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1954 LESSON DEPARTMENT Alma did more than call people to repentance. He gave them his pertsonal testimony that Jesus Christ, the Only Begotten of the Father, should come to earth and atone for the sins of every man who would repent and believe in him. Infusing this testimony into the hearts of his people, was the most powerful means he had at his command to get them to repent and do works of righteousness, following the Good Shepherd, Jesus Christ. Alma Preaches to People in Gideon After this beginning to establish the order of the Church in Zarahemla (Alma 7:4), and after having ordained priests and teachers to preside and watch over the Church, he went to the valley of Gideon to continue his reform movement. He complimented them on being "in the paths of righteousness." He told them that the time was not far distant when the Redeemer would come and live among his people in a tabernacle of flesh. He said: And behold, he shall be born of Marty, at Jerusalem which is the land of our forefathers, she being a virgin, a precious and chosen vessel, who shall be overshadowed and conceive by the power of the Holy Chost, and bring forth a son, yea even the Son of God (Alma 7:10). Alma called upon non-members of the Church to cast aside their sins. He also warned them that God cannot dwell in unholy temples and urged them after baptism to walk blameless before him. He warned: And now I would that ye should be humble, and be submissive and gentle; easy to be entreated; full of patience and long-suffering; being temperate in all things; being diligent in keeping the com: 127 mandments of God at all times; asking for whatsoever things ye stand in need, both spiritual and temporal; always Te turning thanks unto God for whatsoever things ye do receive. And see that ye have faith, hope, and charity, and then ye will always abound in good works (Alma 7:23-24). Having established the order of the Church in Gideon, as he had in Zarahemla, Alma returned to his own home to rest. Alma Preaches to People of Melek In the tenth year of the reign of the judges, Alma went to the land of Melek, west of the river Sidon. These people were responsive to his message and came to him throughout all the land of Melek for baptism. Alma Journeys to Ammonihah When he had finished his work at Melek, Alma entered Ammonihah. These people were wicked, and they would not hearken to his message. They "reviled him, and spit upon him, and caused that he should be cast out of their city," saying: We know that because we are not of thy church we know that thou hast no power over US; and thou hast delivered up the judgment-seat unto Nephihah; therefore thou art not the chief judge over us (Alma 8:12). Weighed down with sorrow and anguish of soul, Alma started for the city of Aaron. But he did not reach that city, for an angel of the Lord appeared to him and said: Blessed art thou, Alma; therefore, lift up thy head and rejoice, for thou hast reat cause to rejoice; for thou hast been faithful in keeping the commandments of Cod from the time which thou receivedst thy first message from him. Behold, I am he that delivered it unto you (Alma 8:15). This angel instructed him to return to Ammonihah and _ foretell the destruction of the people except they repented. Built up in his faith and knowing that God was pleased with his work, Alma _returned speedily to the land of Ammonihah. As he entered the city, hungry and tired,, he met a man whom he asked for something to eat. This man said to Alma: I am a Nephite, and I know that thou art a holy prophet of God, for thou art the man whom an angel said in a vision: Thou shalt receive (Alma 8:20). This man, Amulek, became Alma's missionary companion. Together they were to preach repentance to the people of Ammonihah. God strengthened them and they had power given to them so they could not be confined in dungeons or slain. And it came to pass that they went forth and began to preach and to prophesy unto the people, according to the spirit and power which the Lord had given them (Alma 8:32). Questions for Discussion 1. Why did Alma consider priestcraft dangerous? Discuss priestcraft as set forth in Alma 1:3; and 2 Nephi 26:29. 2. Why was Alma concerned about the efforts of Amlici to become king? 3. How does iniquity in our Church serve as a stumbling block to those outside the Church? 4. How industrious was Alma in the service of God? 5. What can we learn from this lesson concerning the solution of our national problems? Visiting Seacher Ilessages Book of Mormon Gems of Truth Lesson 24—"... Seek Not to Counsel the Lord, But to Take Counsel From His Hand. For Behold, Ye Yourselves Know That He Counseleth in Wisdom, and in Justice, and in Great Mercy, Over All His Works" (Jacob 4:10). Leone O. Jacobs For Tuesday, May 4, 1954 Objective: To stress the wisdom of adherence to the counsel of God. FTEN we attempt to counsel the Lord, though perhaps we do not realize we are doing so. We tell the Lord what to give us, we beseech, plead, almost demand certain blessings, or special help from difficulties we are in, without remembering that he knows, far better than we, what is best for us. In Mosiah (chapter 4, verse 9), King Benjamin says: "... Man doth not comprehend all the things which the Lord can comprehend." If we are always aware of this fact, then, when we petition the Lord for blessings and aid, we will say to him in substance, "Heavenly Father, we desire this blessing very much, but thou knowest what is best for us. We will accept thy decision and thy will." A young woman was critically injured in an automobile accident. When friends called to express the 128 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1954 LESSON DEPARTMENT hope that she would recover, her father said, "We are asking our Heavenly Father that she recover, but we are bowing to his greater wisdom to do what is best." Our role in seeking divine aid is to ask in sincerity and faith for the things which we desire and which we truly feel would be for our good, and then to leave the decision to our Father in Heaven. Elder Matthew Cowley has said, "Let us live worthy of the things we pray for, and pray for the things we are worthy of" (General Conference, April 1952). 'The matter of worthiness is also to be considered. In viewing the marvelous works of the Lord, surely we acknowledge his supreme power. We recognize the order and precision with which he governs the forces of the universe. How, then, can we doubt that he knows the needs of his sons and daughters? To argue against the Lord's counsel or to look for excuses for not following it, is very unwise. Some may say, "I believe I can keep the 129 Sabbath day by driving up the canyons amid the beauties of nature just as well as by attending meetings." But the Lord has counseled, even commanded, "Thou shalt go to the house of prayer and offer up thy sacraments upon my holy day" (D. & C. 59:9). There should be wholehearted acquiescence by his children and a great feeling of gratitude for being so instructed. To accept counsel from the hand of the Lord means also to accept the counsel of his authorized representatives. The Lord does not come to each one of us personally with counsel; but he gives instruction through his authorized servants. In the Doctrine and Covenants he tells us: "... Whether by mine own voice or by the voice of my servants, it is the same" (D. & C. 1:38). Willingness to accept counsel from recognized authority is not a sign of weakness; on the contrary, it is a sign of great understanding and wisdom. "... To obey is better than sacrifice, and to hearken than the fat of rams" (I Samuel 15:22). Work ITleeting—Family Money Management (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting ) Lesson 8—Spending Your Health Dollar Rhea H. Gardner (For Tuesday, May 11, 1954) 66(400D health is something people appreciate most when they don't have it." Buying good health is not the same as spending money for food, clothing, and shelter. 'These needs can be budgeted because their costs are constant. However, health and medical costs are uncertain and unpredictable. For this reason, the cost of ill health is, for most families, the hardest of all expenditures to meet. The average family spends about five per cent of its income for medical and dental care. It may claim as much as one hundred per cent, thus completely upsetting the economic stability of the family, unless a reserve fund has been built up for this purpose. Money spent wisely for the pres ervation of health pays bigger dividends than does any other kind of 'nvestment. In setting up 4 budget for family health, it is well to plan for costs relative to the preservation of it. Prevention is as a rule cheaper than cure. Medical care is only one factor in keeping the individual and the family in a good state of health. 'The best medical service cannot be successful unless the patient has suitable food, good housing, adequate recreation, practices simple rules of hygiene, and is reasonably free from emotional anxieties. Our attitudes and practices with respect to these things are all important to healthful living. Té all would observe the adage "don't let fatigue catch up with you," millions of health dollars could be saved each year. Often those persons who do not have time for short rest periods, end up spending long periods in complete "rest," either at home or in a hospital. Fven the best medicine is an ex pensive substitute for good food. The most economical places to spend your health dollars are at the butcher shops, grocery stores, fruit and vegetable gardens, rather than drugstores. There is no justification whatever for the widespread use of vitamin pills. They supply materials that are readily and generously available in a well-rounded diet. Infants, small children, and persons unable to eat all foods required by the body, are exceptions. Their diets may need to be supplemented with certain vitamins. Act on the advice of your family doctor in this regard. This is the advice of Dr. Maxwell M. Wintrobe, Head of the College of Medicine, University of Utah. Being prepared for emergencies by having a good first-aid book and a complete first-aid kit handy has saved many families thousands of dollars. Regard them as necessities in your home and provide a first-aid kit suitable to your family's need. Life-long illness or even death is too often the price paid for neglect of one kind or another. For example, a large percentage of cancer is curable if detected in time, and nearly one hundred per cent of tuberculosis ls curable if treated early. Practices that contribute to one's general good health, aid dental health, also. It has been estimated that at least one-third of all dental troubles could be prevented if we would brush the teeth correctly at least twice each day, preferably after each meal, eat the right foods, and have a dental checkup every SIX months. Make special effort each day to 'nclude in the diet some Taw or crisp food, such as lettuce, celery, carrots, cabbage, fruits, hard toast, or bread crusts. They cost less than do dental bills that are likely to result, if these foods are not eaten. "All persons would benefit from the standpoint of general health and especially dental health by keeping the consumption of confections and sweetened beverages to a minimum," advises the Council on Den- 130 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1954 LESSON DEPARTMENT SSOciation Eardless of What one 0€s to Sateguard h Ith, Medica] ASSIstance IS needed Ooner or | by most of us Membership 4 teliable health Insurance Plan w help meet XPenses tha might oth TWIS€ place 4 severe hardship € fami] Purse Prepayme E as Sually Jess Costly and. Casier to be than post Payment. Nsiderin Such a you understand al] the Provisions jn the polic More than was n advertised brands choice, The same Product May cost five times ised name than one * 80 long as USP or 4PPCars on the label] you are assured of a Safe Product, It has been estimated that more than fouy hundred Mullion IS spent annually Patent Medicines, § SUM is spent on drug Products that are dangeroys to health, or Virtually 13] heart. Fr tther Ore, since Pain js Consider ting, and jf only Pain js Telieved, disease May go undetected until g Cure is e Temely Costly, if y IMDpossible. Best, Patients get harmless Pill that does asic and Assistance, If Specialized treatmes Necessary, on the adSaved, or more Money earned beCause of the absence of Ulness, Is the fact th by Protecting oy, lealth we og OY more years of ife, liberty, nd the Pursuit of hap Piness, Thoughts for Discussion 1. Is jt €asier to Set people. To fight disease than to Work for health? 2. Our Present foo Supply is the Safest nutritious in history, yet never S SO much been Spent for diet d there be want or pain, God's blessings may pour down a8 rain, Ld tere Literature of England Lesson 40—Charlotte Bronte (1816-1855) Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Text: Jane Eyre, Modem Library Edition) For Tuesday, May 18, 1954 Objective: To enter more fully into the imaginative reality of Jane Eyre, that the significance of this work in the history of the English novel might be better understood. HE three Bronte sisters created their art out of a most barren, uneventful actuality. Anne's novels are at least competent; Jane Eyre, (pronounced "air") written by Charlotte, the oldest of the three, remains after 106 years a great and powerful novel; Emily's Wuthering Heights, though slower to gain popularity, today is considered one of the great books in the language. And the greatness of their accomplishment lies not at all in their restating apparent fact. Just as in all enduring art, the Bronte sisters' writing pierces far beneath the surface of facts and creates the universal imaginative reality. Shakespeare's Hamlet has a greater reality in the imaginations of men than any factual Hamlet could ever enjoy. Similarly, the fictional Jane Eyre is immortal; she exists, a great imaginative creation, and one which might better help us know ourselves and our fellows. Life Sketch Her creator, Charlotte Bronte, was born in 1816, the third of six children. She was reared in the Haworth parsonage far out on the lonely, bleak moors of Yorkshire, the graveyard immediately on one side of the house, the moor on the other. Her parents, Patrick and Page 132 Maria Bronte, were Irish. Both had a zest for writing. When Mrs. Bronte died in 1821, Charlotte was five. At once Reverend Bronte invited Elizabeth Branwell, his wife's sister, to come to Haworth parsonage and rear his children. She came, and cared for the children in a mechanical way, but she took her meals alone, and gave the children little love or attention. Patrick, the father, was himself something of an eccentric. He spent most of his time alone in his study writing poetry and reading widely. Thus the Bronte children had most of their time to themselves to wander about the lonely moor, to read and play. Though their home was isolated, it was not an unhappy home. The children fulfilled their own intense emotional and imaginative needs as best they could. When Charlotte was eight, the four oldest girls were sent to a school for clergymen's daughters where they were most unhappy. Before the year ended all came home. The two sisters older than Charlotte died of tuberculosis shortly after returning home. It was not long afterward that Charlotte, now the leader of the children, began writing imaginary sketches about a set of soldiers given her brother Bran- LESSON DEPARTMENT well. These stories, written by near-sighted Charlotte in a script so small that it can be read with ease only with a magnifying glass, were as exciting as they were voluminous. In the fifteen months before she was fifteen, Charlotte wrote twentythree "novels" or episodes portraying a mythical kingdom which she called Angria. Most of the main characters and many plots and events of her mature writings first appeared in these childhood creations. After attending Miss Wooler's school, the Bronte sisters acted as governesses, of which they quickly tired. Aspiring to open their own school, they attended Mr. Heger's school in Brussels to improve their skill in language. When they were called home at the death of their aunt, only Charlotte returned to Brussels for another year. When she came back to Haworth, she advertised for pupils, but none came. In 1845 the three sisters discovered that each had been writing poetry in secret, so at their own expense they published their poetry, signing it Currer (Charlotte), Ellis (Emily), and Acton (Anne) Bell. Only two copies were sold, but they had experienced the thrill of seeing their work in print. At once each sister began writing a novel, Charlotte writing The Professor, unpublished until after her death. When it was sympathetically declined by a publisher, she was so encouraged that she began Jane Eyre. In August 1847, almost a year later, it was completed, and the publisher's reader was so enthralled by her manuscript that he sat up all night reading it. Published in 133 October, Jane Eyre was a best seller by Christmas, and Charlotte was immediately famous. She went to London, met the great literary figures, then returned home to care for her nearly blind father. Soon her debauched brother Branwell died, followed within a few months by both Emily and Anne, victims of tuberculosis. She wrote two other novels, Shirley and Villette. In 1854 she accepted her fourth proposal of marriage, but within the year she died in childbirth, age thirty-nine. Plot of Jane Eyre Naturally Charlotte is the heroine of Jane Eyre, and many incidents parallel those of her own life. The novel begins with Jane, a ten-year-old orphan, hated and mistreated in the home of her aunt, Mrs. Reed, who finally becomes desperate and sends Jane to a semicharitable school for girls where living conditions are frighteningly inhumane. After eight years at the school, Jane leaves to act as governness at Thornfield Hall, owned by fierce, disillusioned Mr. Rochester, much older than Jane. Through a series of spirited conversations they fall in love and plan to marry, but at the church it is revealed that Rochester is already married, having concealed his maniac wife for more than a decade in the attic of Thornfield Hall. Despite her intense love for Rochester, Jane leaves him immediately and, destitute, she is taken in by young Reverend St. John Rivers and his two sisters. They are friends at once, and St. John, having dedicated his future to a mission in India, persuades Jane so 134 convincingly to enter into a loveless marriage with him that she is almost ready to yield, when, mysteriously, she hears Rochester calling her name. She rushes back to Thornfield to find it in ruins, burned by Rochester's mad wife. Nearby she finds Rochester blind and maimed. Jane marries him. In time his sight returns and he acknowledges that God has tempered judgment with mercy when he is enabled to see his first-born. Significance of Jane Eyre In tone, point of view, intensity, and purpose, Charlotte Bronte soared beyond and above earlier practices in English fiction. While earlier English novels recorded what the heroine said and did, Charlotte Bronte tells vividly what and how the heroine felt deep within. Previously, fiction had been presented from the point of view of society, or the group; it is significant that Jane Eyre's world of reality can be communicated to the reader only by telling what happens within one individual. Without reserve, Jane shares her secret impulses, her hopes, and fears with the reader. This Miss Bronte does so well that the reader cannot help but live again the intensities of Jane's own life as they are poured onto the page. Thus the subject matter of Jane Eyre remains as universal as its appeal is enduring. Style and Mood 'From the first sentence, "There was no possibility of taking a walk that day. We had been wandering, indeed, in the leafless shrubbery an hour..." to the concluding chapter beginning, "Reader, I RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1954 A Wey Picture CHARLOTTE BRONTE 1816-1855 married him," we are, save for certain imperfect minor passages, completely within Charlotte Bronte's realm of intense, imaginative reality. Everything reveals Jane to us. For example, Miss Bronte utilizes descriptions of environment to create a corresponding mood within Jane. At the very beginning of the novel, when, depressed and unloved as a child, Jane reads in books of "the haunts of sea-fowl; of the solitary rocks and promontories by them only inhabited" (page 4, Modern Library Edition); at her left were "clear panes of glass, protecting, but not separating me from the drear November day." After the evil winter of typhoid, cold, and starvation at Lowood School, Jane embodies her own sense of release in her description of the grounds: And now vegetation matured with vigour; Lowood shook loose its tresses; it LESSON DEPARTMENT became all green, all flowery; its great elm, ash, and oak skeletons were restored to majestic life... (page 79). The restoration of nature's skeletons to life symbolizes the restoration of the almost dead human skeletons within the school who now bloomed with nature. Just as Jane's hopes rose at the rospect of a new life at Thornfield Hall, so the rising moon which first revealed Rochester to her was.. Pale yet as a cloud, but brightening momently: [from the nearby town] in the absolute hush I could hear plainly its thin murmurs of life. My ear too felt the flow of currents; in what dales and depths I could not tell.... That evening calm betrayed alike the tinkle of the nearest streams, the sough of the most remote (page 119). Even so, Jane herself was pale but brightening; within herself were deep currents, as well as the tinkle of streams near and distant. How better could she create a mood than by letting nature mirror her own? Miss Bronte uses the same device to characterize Rochester when, months later, he meets Jane in the garden for one of their brilliant conversations. Intoxicated by Jane's courage, sharp mind, and quick wit, he contemplates the view of Thornfield Hall: I like this day: I like that sky of steel; I like the sternness and stillness of the world under this frost. I like Thornfield; its antiquity... Its grey facade, and lines of dark windows reflecting that metal welkin: and yet how long have I abhorred the very thought of it; shunned it like a great plague-house.. - (page 152). To the scene he imparts his own mood and qualities; even as his character is one of steel hardness, so does he admire the still, stern quallties of steelness about him; the dark 135 windows of Thornfield, themselves symbolizing the remorse and despair he had known within its walls. Miss Bronte employs this device constantly. For example, Jane's description of her welcome back to Thornfield after she had attended her aunt's funeral services tells the great need within Jane for human love and affection. When Jane is welcomed with smiles and enthusiasm by her fellow employees, she comments that "There is no happiness like that of being loved by your fellow creatures, and feeling that your presence is an addition of their comfort" (page 266). She then tells how, sitting together with her friends in the warm kitchen, "a sense of mutual affection seemed to surround us with a ring of golden peace" (page 266). In this same blissful mood she begins the next chapter: "... It was as if a band of Italian days had come from the South, like a flock of glorious passenger birds" (page 267). The most important symbol in the novel is the magnificent chestnut tree at Thornfield, split in two by a violent storm the night after Jane agrees to marry Rochester. This tearing asunder of the most stalwart, ageless object at 'Thornfield predicts not only the cleavage between the present Rochester and the one soon to be revealed, but it also represents two temptations within Jane, both of which she overcomes. The first temptation, is to give herself headlong to Rochester and run away in defiance of all selfrespect and moral law, and the second, is to deny completely her need for a shared, creative love, and marry St. John Rivers, the cold, ambi- tious missionary who is so intent on other worldly values that he disregards, even kills the spirit of Jane and others near him. The power of Miss Bronte's style is best revealed in the conversations between Jane and Rochester, but these are too long to quote here. Impassioned, fiery, terse, subtle, these interchanges not only reveal to each participant the formidable powers and character of the other; these communions of intellect and spirit also make possible the mutual respect which rapidly grows into a consuming, mature love. Theme Charlotte Bronte (and therefore Jane Eyre) rebelled against living the anonymous life of the average Victorian woman—sedentary, passive, inconsequential — surrounded by the dominance and creative vigor of a masculine world. Quite justly Jane Eyre has been defined as one of the first modern women. Rather than bow to the conventional view that women are somehow a lesser species of humanity, Jane demands the right to be a free, mature person, to own her soul and to be allowed to express her entire personality and integrity in her life-quest for self-realization. For Jane the kernel of life is human love, but true love and understanding can endure only when the individuality and integrity of both partners is not only recognized, but encouraged to fullest growth within the marriage relationship. The novel tells how the maturing Jane Eyre succeeds in freeing herself from "a conventionality which is not morality" and a "self-righteousness which is not religion." Her indomitable spirit rises above the hatred and jealousy of Mrs. Reed, the bigoted hypocrisy of Reverend Brocklehurst, the mediocre dullness of Mrs. Fairfax, the affected snobbery of the Ingrams, the withering religious zeal of Eliza, the shallow selfishness of Georgiana, and the ascetic denial of self and human affection in the Reverend St. John Rivers. Jane's supreme test comes when, finally, she learns that her love for Rochester is returned, but that she must leave him at once. Earlier, disguised as a gypsy, Rochester had shrewdly and accurately defined her character as one who says: I can live alone, if self-respect and circumstances require me so to do. I need not sell my soul to buy bliss. I have an inward treasure, born with me, which can keep me alive if all extraneous delights should be withheld.... Reason sits firm and holds the reins, and she will not let the feelings burst away and hurry her to wild chasms.... (pp. 216-217). In this hour of trial, when almost maddened by the thought of losing her, Rochester begs Jane to run away with him to France, he asks her, "Who in the world cares for you? Or who will be injured by what you do?" Jane replies: I care for myself. 'The more solitary, the more friendless, the more unsustained I am, the more I will respect myself. I will keep the law given by God; sanctioned by man.... Laws and principles are not for the times when there is no temptation: they are for such moments as this, when body and soul rise in mutiny against their rigour; stringent are they; inviolate they shall be.... Preconceived opinions, foregone determinations, are all I have at this hour to stand by: there I plant my foot (page 344). 136 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1954 LESSON DEPARTMENT Realizing the firmness of her resolve, Rochester confesses defeat before this "resolute, wild, free thing defying me, with more than courage—with a stern triumph" (page 345)- And thus Jane, at the period of most tense emotional strain, maintains her spiritual and moral integrity. When finally she does come to the invalid Rochester to offer herself as his future wife and companion, she can offer a complete, whole woman, not a physical entity only, or one soul-scarred by remorse —remorse which had so nearly destroyed the soul of her beloved Rochester before she restored him. Throughout, Jane Eyre is pitched in a higher key than many novels. 137 Its intensity seldom lessens; its power comes from the moral and emotional struggles within, rather than between, characters. The imaginary reality created within its pages is enduring, since the values upon which it is built are those of courage, individual freedom, integrity, and love. Indeed Jane Eyre is a great experience. Questions for Discussion 1. Which characteristic of Jane Eyre is most appealing to you? Discuss. 2. Why is a knowledge of Charlotte Bronte's personal life so vital a preliminary to reading Jane Eyre? 3. What is Miss Bronte's great contribution to English fiction?. Discuss the justice of calling Jane Evre "the first modern woman." Socal Science—The Constitution of the United States Lesson 7—The Great Compromises of the Constitution and the Fight for Ratification Elder Albert R. Bowen For Tuesday, May 25, 1954 Objective: To become familiar with the great issues of the Constitutional Convention and how those issues were compromised, and to observe the devices used to cteate '"'checks and balances" as a means of protecting the fundamental freedom of the individual, Also to point out that the Constitution was one of the most thoroughly studied and debated documents ever presented to a nation for adoption. New Framework of Government EFERENCE has already been made to the fact that the Constitutional Convention, held at Philadelphia, was called for the ostensible purpose of revising and strengthening the Articles of Confederation. This was the recom mendation of the Annapolis Convention (see lesson 5) in addressing Congress with a petition to call such a convention. In the minds of many of the delegates, ideas had been germinating for a long time regarding concrete steps which would have to be taken to remake the National Government. James Madison was the leader in this regard. He was twenty years younger than Washington, but enjoyed the support and friendship of that great man. Madison was a student of government and had had many years of experience in government in his native State of Virginia. He it was who was to prove to be chief architect of the Constitution. Madison and his friends came to the Convention determined to do anything necessary to draft a framework of government which would be workable. Furthermore, they came prepared to offer a plan to the delegates. The debates upon the so-called Virginia resolutions very soon made it apparent that much more than a revision of the existing government was required, and the delegates began the consideration of forming a new government. Gone forever was any idea of revision of the Articles of Confederation. Three Basic Differences All of the delegates subscribed to the view that a stronger national union should be set up. The question was the manner and the form in which this should be accomplished. 'There were three basic difficulties which had to be overcome and finally compromised. The first was the fear of the smaller states of being swallowed up and submerged by the larger, more powerful states. The second involved the matter of slavery, and the third, fear of national taxing power. Question of Representation The questions of national representation and taxing power were, by far, the most troublesome of the three. The larger and more powerful states, such as Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, and Virginia, were staunch advocates in favor of a strong national government which would have veto power over the laws of the individual states where state laws should be in conflict with laws passed by Congress. They also wanted representation in Congress determined on the basis of population. On the other hand, the small states wanted to be protected from the power of the large states, whose representatives in Congress would be able to out-vote them on any basis of proportional representation. It should be remembered that under the Confederation the states had equal voting power in Congress. The problem was how to reconcile the principle of representation in that body. 'The small states were fearful that the large states would always dominate the national government and thus exclude them for all practical purposes, from any voice therein. This conflict of interest between the states was the greatest obstacle of all. Each side stated its unalterable determination never to yield. The Connecticut Compromise Nevertheless, this great difficulty was solved by the device known as the Connecticut Compromise. Under the Connecticut plan, which was finally adopted, the legislative branch was divided into two houses. The lower house composed of popular representatives elected upon the basis of population was to originate all revenue bills. On the other hand, the small states were to have equal representation in the upper house, or Senate, which was to be chosen by the legislatures of each state. 138 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1954 LESSON DEPARTMENT It was agreed that the Senate should have the power to propose amendments to the revenue bills, even though it could not originate them. The smaller states were mollified because the principal of equal representation had been preserved in the Senate, in which place they would be able to make their voices heard on all national issues. By conceding equal representation to the small states in the Senate, the "larger states were given a considerable degree of control and voice in the matter of raising revenues, which would naturally fall more heavily upon them, because taxes, like representation in the House of Representatives, would be based upon population. The solution of this great problem required, by far, the most time consumed in drafting the Constitution. Once it was solved and agreed upon, a solid foundation for agreement on all other questions in dispute was laid, and upon this great compromise the success of the Convention became solidly assured. Problems Presented by Slavery On the issue of Slavery, of course, the dispute was between the slaveholding and non - slave - holding states. 'This dispute did not concern the abolition of slavery, as some have erroneously supposed. As a matter of fact, slavery had become a well-accepted social institution in America. There was, of course, some sentiment against it, but not to the point of becoming a movement which threatened its existence. In general, the non-slaveholding states were, in principle, against any further importation of slaves. Maryland and Virginia were 139 not greatly concerned about having the slave population increased _because they were well supplied. In the Carolinas and Georgia, however, the need for slaves had not been satisfied, and these states were anxious to have the trade continue. The next serious issue related to slavery was on the question of whether the slaves should be counted as part of the population in determining the matter of representation in Congress. The decision having already been made that population should determine representation in the House of Representatives, how then should these slaves be regarded? Should they be counted as property or as persons? The slave-holding states, in addition to not wanting the importation of slaves interfered with, wanted the slaves to be enumerated as part of the population for determining representation in the lower house of Congress. This issue was finally compromised by including threefifths of the slaves ("The ratio recommended by Congress in their resolutions of April 18, 1783," Farrand, The Fathers of the Constitution, page 122) for determining the basis for congressional representation, and by specifically providing that the importation of slaves into the United States would not be interfered with for twenty years. The non-slave-holding states were the ones in which most of the com- | mercial and manufacturing interests were concentrated. 'They wanted the National Government to exercise broad powers over commerce between the states and foreign countries and to control navigation. Massachusetts and New York had already developed substantial shipping interests and American ships, mainly from these states, were already to be found on every ocean. If the maritime states could have their way, the National Government would be given powers which would foster and develop this growing and flourishing trade. In exchange for the concession to the slave-holding states on slavery, they, in turn, agreed to the granting of broad power to the National Government over commerce and navigation. Question of National Taxing Power The third great matter for constitutional debate was the national taxing power. This debate also ended in a compromise. 'The delegates divided generally according to their sectional interests and also according to the character of their particular economies. States with a diversified economy wanted the national government to raise revenues by taxing the export and import of goods. The states in which the economy was based upon the raising of a single crop, or perhaps two. Or three crops of agricultural products, were fearful of any power in the hands of the National Government which would permit the taxation of exports. The Southern States were largely agricultural, one-crop states, naturally fearful of any taxes which might be levied upon the export in foreign trade of the principal source of their wealth. An economy based upon such a narrow base as cotton or tobacco could be easily bankrupted and ruined by an excessive export tax. It was finally agreed that Congress should have power to tax imports, but taxes on exports were expressly forbidden. Executive Department There were many other questions debated in the Convention upon which time could be spent to emphasize the monumental task which the Constitutional Convention assumed in framing the Constitution. One of the most interesting questions was that of the executive. When the Convention opened, the delegates had no clear idea of the kind of executive they would set up. They hit upon the unique device of the presidency. 'his was certainly an innovation in government. The office was unknown in the world. 'There had never been a chief of state with such a title. At first a multiple executive was debated, but this idea was finally discarded in favor of the single head of the state. The executive was given no power to make laws, only to execute or carry them out. He was given power to veto legislation passed by Congress, but his veto could be overridden by a two-thirds majority in both houses of Congress. It was also provided that a president could be removed by impeachment. He was given power in foreign affairs to negotiate treaties which would be ratified with the advice and consent of two-thirds _ of the senators present voting to ratify. He could also appoint judges and ambassadors. 'The appointment of judges was to be for life during good behavior, so while the president could name the judges, he was powerless to remove them. 140 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1954 LESSON DEPARTMENT Judicial Department The Constitution made provision for a judiciary consisting of a Supreme Court and such inferior courts as Congress should create. The legislative branch, therefore, could provide for courts and judges and fix their salaries. The appointments of judges would, however, be made by the executive with the concurrence of the Senate. Once named, salaries of judges at the time of their appointment could not be cut off or decreased in their amount, and finally, they could only be removed by the process of impeachment. 'The judicial system set up under the Constitution was to have far-reaching effects upon the Ameri- | can Government. It was not generally realized at the time that the courts would exercise any veto power over the President or Congress. However, that is exactly the way in which the judicial system has worked, because the courts may declare the acts of Congress unconstitutional and void, and may testrain the executive from arbitrary or unlawful exercise of power over the people. Government of "Checks and Balances" There were naturally many other problems which had to be resolved, for instance, the terms of office of the members of Congress, the term of office of the President, the admission of new states into the Union, and the machinery of amendment and many other necessary parts of the governmental machinery which had to be devised. The result was to make the United States a government of the people, 141 Sacred Music for CHURCH PIANISTS — Chapel Echoes—Peery 0... 75 ae Chapel Musing—Peery.... 185 ae, Concert Transcriptions of Favorite Hymns—Kohlmann oo 85. Famous Sacred Songs—Peery.. 1.25.. Lorenz's Church Piano Classics 1.10 _— Lorenz's Church Pianist Volumes pe 2SEach 1.10 — Peery's Piano Voluntaries...........1.25 a Piano Hymn Voluntaries—Lorenz _.....1.10 a. Sacred Piano Album—Gahm __..........1.25.. Sunday Piano Music—Presser _.......1.00 WE PAY POSTAGE Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank | DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY | 45-47 South Main Please send the music indicated above. [1 Gn Approval (1 Charge CL! Money Enclosed a EE < 90 wn 2 r} =i ® FIRST OF ALL — RELIABILITY 45-47 SOUTH f ' MAIN STREET Wtuare SALT LAKE CITY 1, UTAH with "checks and balances" to insure that no one branch of the gov- €rmment would dominate the other two. The states could not be coerced by the Federal Government, but the people of the states were made subject to its laws. Thus, the people of the United States live under a dual system—the state government and the Federal—and are subject to the laws of both. Signing of Constitution Because some of the delegates refused to sign the Constitution, Gouverneur Morris devised a form which would give the Constitution the appearance of being unanimously adopted. 'This was accomplished by writing at the very end. "Done in convention by the unanimous consent of the states present." In order to overcome any appearance of departure from authority given to the convention, which had been instructed to revise the Articles of Confederation, the convention recommended to Congress that the Constitution be submitted to conventions of delegates chosen in each state by the people thereof. This was for accomplishing the indirect ratification of the Constitution by the people. It was not known if a sufficient number of the state legislatures could be prevailed upon to accept the Constitution, and therefore the opening phrase of the Constitution, was made to read: "We, the people of the United States." Ratification by States The Second Continental Congress accepted the original draft submitted by the Constitutional Convention without much enthus. Iasm, and submitted it to the states for ratification without one word of approval or disapproval. The Constitution was to go into effect when ratified by nine states. The contest over adoption was to prove long and difficult. Delaware acted first and ratified December 7, 1787. Pennsylvania ratified next on December 12, 1787; New Jersey, December 18, 1787; Georgia, January 2, 1788; Connecticut, January 9, 1788; Massachusetts, F ebruary 6, 1788; Maryland, April 26, 1788; South Carolina, May 28, 1788; New Hampshire, June 21, 1788. In Delaware, Georgia, and New Jersey, ratification was unanimous. In' Connecticut, Pennsylvania, Maryland, and South Carolina, ratification was by a good majority of the convention delegates, and in Massachusetts and New Hampshire, by slim majorities. Nine states had now ratified, but Virginia and New York had not acted. Without these two very important states, the Union could not hope to be a success. Finally, after a long and hotly contested fight, Virginia ratified on June 25, 1788. This left New York, North Carolina, and Rhode Island still stubbornly outside the Union. In New York, under the brilliant leadership of Alexander Hamilton, ratification was achieved on July 26, 1788. The Constitution did' not provide the kind of government which Hamilton would have preferred. He was by nature an aristocrat. But he set aside his own personal views and worked tirelessly for ratification. It was under his superb leadership that those essays on the Constitution, which have come to be known as The Federal- 142 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1954 LESSON DEPARTMENT 143 d. = CS€ essays are | ary on the Const n The Stradivari of Pianos What js looked up Merica's N as Steatest books After C 8, Ww SO Precious jn the eyes loving Americans, the Ptinciples €volution, Clay over Tatificatio the first ten a ndm Onstitution? Election of Washington aS First President The Were written by Hami adison, d about 4Y as the most im en, and hey lik THE WORLD's FINEST PIANOS Mason & Hamlin | > HERE'S HOW To Play the Music You Love... Once, WITHOUT LESSONS, Yet With Professional Effect. THE HAMMOND CHORD ORGAN Offers This Possibility. Sounds Impossible, Doesn't It? Write For Details, or Better, Come In and Prove It For Yourself. GLEN BROS. MUSIC CO. — 3 BIG STORES" — Salt Lake... 2200.00. 0.0 0....74 So. Main Ogaden......2546 Washington Provo....57 No. University The Pride of Your Library! Your Relief Society Magazines when handsomely bound into permanent yearly volumes acquire new value as excellent reference books. Just $2.50 (Cloth Binding) $3.50 (Leather Binding) Per Volume If necessary to mail them to you, the following postage rates will apply. Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles..... Ee... A. Aa 25 150 to 300 miles weccsseeee 2S 300 to 600 miles - soostesee OA 600 to 1000 miles - we 42 1000 to 1400 miles _.. _ oe. 25) 1400 to 1800 miles... 60 Leave them at our conveniently a uptown office. Deseret News Press Sait Lake City, Utah Foie) 31 Richards St. Phone 4-2581 1788 the Congress of the Confederation made preparations to go out of existence by voting for presidential electors to be chosen by election in January 1789, and by making New York the seat of the new government until other arrangements could be made. The elections were held. Washington was elected and installed in office. He it was who was the obvious choice of all. Even during the debates in the Convention, and in conversation, indications to this effect were apparent. When he became president, Washington is said to have expressed preference for this title: "His High Mightiness, the President of the United States and Protector of their Liberties." The inauguration of Washington marked the opening of a new era in America. References Farrand, Max: The Fathers of the Constitution, Yale University Press, 1921. Smith, Joseph Fielding: The Progress of Man, pp. 295-299. Questions for Discussion 1. What were the great compromises of the Constitution? 2. What three branches of government are provided for under the Constitution? 3. Describe briefly how the "checks and balances" of the American Constitution operate to prevent one branch of the government from dominating the other branches of government. 4. Describe the manner in which the Constitution was presented by the Convention to Congress and the people, and by whom it was ratified. 144 Over 1800 miles..... RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1954 cecceteneeresneeee 109 For lasting enjoyment RELAX with a good book 1. Book of Mormon Evidences in Ancient America DEWEY FARNSWORTH Here is an outstanding book. Rich in both illustrations and printed facts. Readers will find the comparison of Book of Mormon scriptures with recent archaeological discoveries startlingly similar. For those who wish to relive in their faith the Book of Mormon, this recent publication by Dewey Farnsworth is of utmost significance $6.00 Deluxe—$7.50 2. Pocket Book of Mormon Cloth—$1.50 3. Life Eternal LYNN McKINLAY Here is a book that offers helpful guidance to anyone planning to do Temple work. Temple Ordinances are explained and presented with thoroughness. $2.00 4. Gospel Ideals Selections from the discourses of DAVID O. McKAY This book contains specific information on all important Church subjects — and, even more than that, it is a volume that will influence and inspire the building of strong, wholesome character $4.00 Gentlemen: Please send the following cireled books: ' 1 2 3 4 Enclosed you will find ( ) check ( ) money order or ( ) | charge to my account in the amount of -... AAdreSS....-cceccccceecescseecececeececsscesesnessceceescesscececseceaeeneessceserereveceeseneesanasnenseenae® City... — ne.) | (- ne U. S. POSTAGE | 2¢ Paid PERMIT No. 690 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH PK-10 10V-15225 JAN SS Soh, Wary Lee Taylor's Husband "Jeated Recipe Evaporated Milk into a bowl and dip each piece of chicken into it. Save the milk that's left for gravy. There should be 1 cup; if not, add more milk. Roll each piece of chicken in a mixture of 14 cup flour, 114 teaspoons salt, and lg teaspoon pepper. Drumstick is tender when pierced with a fork. Remove chicken (keep hot). Drain fat from skillet, then put 2 tablespoons fat back into skillet. Mix in 2 tablespoons flour, 34 teaspoon salt, few grains pepper. Stir in 1 cup water. Boil and stir for two minutes. The hot gravy with the fried chicken, mashed potatoes, and whole kernel corn for a real American chicken dinner. Meal That Makes Lips Smack! Crisp, golden-brown chicken that's tender clear through... When you dip it in Sego Milk before frying. The gravy's always rich and EVapoRATE? Creamy smooth because Sego Milk is twice as K rich as ordinary bottled milk. WILE, INSTITUTE OF RELIGION KSSH 4602 SOUTH REDWOOD'RCAD SALT LAKE CITY, UA &4107 HOMOCENIZED 7: 3: SYou'll need a 214 Ib. Chicken, cut into pieces, to serve four. Pour 114 cups Sego Brown chicken slowly in a skillet in 14 inch hot fat about 30 minutes, or until Stir in the 1 cup of saved milk and heat till steaming hot, but do not boil. Serve Yes ma'am — an easy way to any hungry husband's heart. Here's your one dish meal that tastes better and costs less.) And why shouldn't it, when it's made with Sego Milk, the milk for cooking? That naturally makes it extra rich, creamy, and flavorful. And best of all, double-rich Sego Milk costs less than ordinary milk — a real bargain in goodness. Wary Lee Jaylor's SALMON MACARONI DINNER Directions Ingredients for 4 Turn on oven and set at 350 (moderate). Grease well a baking dish holding about 6 cups. Boil until tender, {1 cup elbow MACARONI then drain in 6 cups boiling WATER (do not rinse)....| and 2 teasp. SALT 1 can canned Cream of CELERY SOUP Mix in a | or 24 cup SEGO Evaporated 2-quart bowl...) Milk l% cup finely cut PIMIENTO mre of) E 1 cup grated American BOOS até Add half of............ CHEESE Stir in macaroni |2 ©UPS (1-Ib. Can) d drained SALMON, ANG... Broken into pieces Pour into greased baking dish. Sprinkle rest of cheese around edge of baking dish. Bake on center rack of oven until bubbly hot or about 25 minutes. Serve hot from the dish. THE MOST FAMOUS RELIGIOUS TRILOGY OF ALL TIME! "Meta Given's Encyclopedia of ALL THREE contains 2,000 recipes, 1,700 pages. (3) "The Lady of Arlington," by Harnett T. Kane—o stirring biography of Mrs. Robert E. Lee. Ot FULTON OURSLER'S "GREATEST" BOOKS Yours 89 for only WITH MEMBERSHIP IN THE Futton OursLer was the most widelyread and beloved inspirational writer of our times. Millions of families everywhere in the land cherish his books; and millions more were devoted to his daily newspaper column. Now in this unique Family Reading Club offer, you are invited to accept all three of his ''Greatest' Books for only $1.89 if you join the Club now. Read, below, how the Family Reading Club brings you the finest new books at Gargain prices. Then mail the coupon to join, and get your three books without delay! The Greatest Faith Ever Known The story of the founding of Christianity and how the Disciples brought the Gospel to a waiting world. Final volume of Mr. Oursler's trilogy. The Greatest Story Ever Told A reverent, faithful retelling of the sublime story of Jesus, bringing Him and those whose lives were entwined with His excitingly close to you. The Greatest Book Ever Written The Old Testament story — of Adam, Eve, Moses — of all the Biblical immortals; written with all the author's passion and divine belief. WHY THE FAMILY READING CLUB MAKES THIS UNUSUAL OFFER! The Family Reading Club makes this unusual offer to demonstrate how membership in the Club brings you the best and most enjoyable new novels, biographies and inspirational books at much less than the publishers' regular editions! Each month publishers submit books they believe will meet the Family Reading Club standards. Our Editors then select the book they can recommend most enthusiastically. These are books which every member of your family can read—books by such outstanding authors as Thomas Costain, Fulton Oursler, Marjorie Kinnan Rawlings, Darwin Teilhet and Bellamy Partridge. 'They are books you can safely leave where older children can read them if they wish. What Membership Means To You There is no charge for membership in the Club to your home each month. Postman nothing; your bill will be all three. Also enroll me as a member of the Family TOLD; 4. A eading Club and send me, each month, a review of due later. It is mot necessary to pur the Club's forthcoming selection. I have the privilege THE GREATEST chase a book every month — you of notifying you in advance ri do not wish to accept BOOK EVER retain your membership. I] selections handling). There are no membership dues or fees, and THE GREATEST b d And ibexels i! B during the coming twelve months. As a member, I will FAITH EVER well-boun o our books Wi e receive a free Bonus Book with each four Club selecKNOWN x, SPECIAL Wye GUARANTEE: Save Up to 60% 7 days and this membership will be canceled. (ALTERNATES) The purchase of books from the Club for only $1.89 each—instead of $3.00 "a Mrs. CHECK THE 3 BOOKS YOU WANT with MEMBERSHIP FAMILY READING CLUB, Dept. 3RSM, MINEOLA, NEW YORK Please send me at once the three books I have checked at the right as my two Membership Gift Books and first Club selection, and bill me only $1.89 (plus delivery) for "'Bonus'' Book for each four Club selections you take. When the value of the Bonus Books is figured in, you can save as much as 60% of your book dollars. Join Now — Send No Money If you believe in a book club which will, appeal to the finest instincts of every member of your family, let us introduce you to the Family Reading Club NOW, while you can get all three of Fulton Oursler's ''Greatest'' Books—two as your FREE Membership Gift, and one as your first Club selection—for only $1.89! Or if you prefer, you may substitute any of the alternate books listed above. Send no money, just mail the coupon today before this unusual offer is withdrawn! FAMILY READING CLUB — MINEOLA, NEW YORK THE GREATEST STORY EVER CI Hammond's Atlos to $4.00 in the publishers' original! Miss Street and No. (Please print) CO The Lady of ree ww ew ew ww wr wee ee on each book you accept. In addition, | City. Zone.......... State [) Meto Given's Ency ly Readin Club distributes Same offer in Canada. Address Family Reading pp Bee the rem! Y ding ieee cof iemtice Club (Canada), 105 Bond St., Toronto 2, Ont. Clopedia of Cooking an outstanding — lography, Offer good only in A, and Canada. Hook or inspirational work as a free eee ee see ee eee) s may accept as 7" as aT = to | members' price of only $1.89 each (plus postage and are new, complete, well-printed and delivered to your door—ready to read! 0, editions~saves you from 35% to 50% any selection, or alternate book offered—at the special WRITTEN I may accept as few as four selections or alternates tions or alternates I accept. Not delighted, I will return a?1 books in Arlington She Reliof Soctety—A WorldWide Sisterhood Phyllis Hodgson Holbrook In every far-flung border land Where women work and pray And strive to solve the problems of A troubled world today, A new and everlasting hope Is borne to each who heeds; A wondrous plar. Transcends all time And solves our human needs; And then the hand of sisterhood Extends through time and Space To carry love and help and faith Within its wide embrace. A universal sisterhood, Divinely shaped and planned, Installed on earth to function, by A mighty Prophet's hand; To glorify the dignity By labor and by worth Of womanhood and motherhood, And woman's place on earth. For, though she only shares the grace The Priesthood's gifts afford, A woman was the first to see The resurrected Lord! As brooklets spread the river's breadth, As rivers join the sea, So every land contributes to The great Society. The Cover: "The Singing Sands of Alamosa, Colorado, at the base of the Sangre de Cristo Mountains ' Photograph by Josef Muench Frontispiece: Pussywillows and Plum Blossoms Photograph by Don Knight Cover Design by Evan Jensen From lear and Sar I wish I could convey to each of you how much the Magazine means to our small group here. We are all growing from the messages and inspiration we teceive when reading of our sisters in the Church and their activities. —Mayona Grinder Kindley Air Force Base Bermuda It is wonderful that you are making it possible for us to have the privilege of finding the names of our loved ones in The Relief Society Magazine. In looking through the birthday section of the Woman's Sphere department, I became so thrilled to see the name of a woman who was my nearest neighbor when we were children together. Now, I am wondering if she would get the same thrill as I did when she sees my name there. How lovely the contents of the December Magazine. —Mus. Clara T. Samuels 449 West Broadmoor San Leandro, California What wonderful things I found in the October 1953 issue of The Relief Society Magazine. 'Portraits of the Signers of the Constitution of the United States" is one of the most interesting and educational articles I have read in a long time. I also enjoyed "The Boyhood of President McKay." All of the poems and stories were interesting, but I especially liked "Grandpa As a Magician" by Mable Law Atkinson. Sister Atkinson is a gifted, versatile writer. I always enjoy everything she writes. —Sylvia Probst Young Midvale, Utah Please extend my congratulations to Lizabeth Wall Madsen for having written the beautiful lines ("Wings Over the West") which won the first prize in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest. There is not a line of Mrs. Madsen's poem that lacks poetic essence in my estimation. —Grace I. Frost Provo, Utah Page 148 May I say a few words concerning the joy and inspiration The Relief Society Magazine brings to all Latter-day Saint women who live in the mission fields— particularly those, who, like myself, find themselves living in places where organized Relief Societies do not exist. A note of thanks for the small, newly organized Sunday School we have here. —DMildred Garrett Enos Chillicothe, Ohio The Magazine continues to be excellent in every way. I have most thoroughly enjoyed Mrs. Morrell's articles on the life of President McKay (September, October, November, and December 1953). —Mabel Jones Gabbott Bountiful, Utah We think The Relief Society Magaziuc is the best magazine anywhere, and it ls getting better all the time. —Mrs. Margaret A. Anderson —and Mrs. Ione J. Anderson Richmond, Utah On the eve of our lesson tomorrow on David Copperfield, I am brimming with anticipation to hear Sister Mabel Preston give it, and I trust no member misses it, for Briant S. Jacobs has portrayed it as Dickens would smile his approval. When I had read the usual amount of the lessons, and turned the page and saw two full pages more, I said, ""What a feast!" And I have really laughed and _ heartily approved every word. I trust no Relief Society woman fails to read it herself. | had forgotten much I had read years ago. I wish we could love the good qualities in people, all people, and not rebuke them for failures. Thanks, thanks, Brother Jacobs for making every line pregnant with needful truths. Certainly this lesson "talked itself alive." I wish it were in pamphlet form as I would like to pass it on to many as a gift to egg them on to a great writer. —Laura R. Merrill Logan, Utah THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SO Belle S. Spafford - Marianne C. Sharp y= N. — argaret C. Pickerin Mary G. Judd Evon W. Pesca Anna B. Hart Leone O. Jacobs Florence J. Madsen Louise W. Madsen Leone G. Layton Aleine M. Young Blanche B. Stoddard Josie B. Bay dys S. Boyer R RAL BOARD CIETY GENE yrteeée Nellie W. Neal Mildred B. Eyring Gla itor z = c = Associate Editor General Manager Vol. 41 MARCH 1954 Con tents SPECIAL FEATURES Relief Society Responsibilities Helen W. Anderson President First Counselor Second Counselor - ~- Secretary-Treasurer Christine H. Robinson Alberta H. Christensen harlotte A. Larsen Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Elna P. Haymond Marianne C. Sharp Vesta P. Crawford Belle S. Spafford NO. 3 The American Red Cross and Its Program Joseph Fielding Smith Wilderness Road Willard Luce My Paradise — Cowslip Hollow Today I Reveal Them Emily Wilkerson "One Sweetly Solemn Th ht' — Thi i; Their Peticos es ° _— eee Se Heritage: Rose A. Openshaw Ruth MacKay y C. Martineau The Deeper Melody — Chapter 6... Alice Morrey Bailey GENERAL FEATURES From Near and Far Sixty Years Ago Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon Editorial: The Lifeblood of Relief Society Marianne C. Sharp Announcing the Special April Short Story Issue Notes to the Field: Organizations and Reorganizations of Stake and Mission Relief Societies for 1953 172 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities Margaret C. Pickering 201 FEATURES FOR THE HOME Shrubs for Your Garden.......... Dorthea Newbold 159 Oleg @ vial ts eee eit eereere eee 179 Chloe Call Later Makes Her Own Quilt Designs. Velma Mackay Paul Me A Sunken Window Garden Celia Luce 193 Way Down Inside Margaret Lundstrom 205 Bathroom Tricks: Potted Plants in the Bathroom Elizabeth Williamson 206 POETRY The Relief Society — A World-Wide Sisterhood — Frontispiece -..... Phyllis Hodgson Holbrook 147 Nocturna ee Grace Barker Wilson 173 Spring Fantasy Verda Mackay 207 Orchard in Bloom a Eva Willes Wangsgaard 208 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: seriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Payable in advance. Single copy, 15c. Back numbers can be sup of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-clas the Act of March 3, 18 Subscription Price: $1.60 a 40 North Main, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 4-2511; The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Plied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change s matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Subyear; foreign, $2.00 a year; No Salt Lake City, Utah, under 79. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be r The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Etained for six months only. Edith S. Elliott Edi e Brighten the Corner Where You Are Against the Dark @ueen oflOucens) aaa ea RelictiiSoc\c bya eae eee Sunrise on Cliff Mountain "For Which the First Was Made"...... "GeekvAlter Hesomiinnics: | cere... Men. Errr rere Loneliness) ean ee ee Communication Morning Is Her Delight -.....-..--ssc-: scsssscsscseseeessessesrnsnerereneessonenesaaceceaneass Hurry Home Our Town...... Mary J. Wilson ELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZIN FICTION Caroline Eyring Miner 207 Ouida Johns Pedersen 158 Gene Romolo 167 Elsie Scott 171 Gertrude T. Kovan 174 Christie Lund Coles 178 Rhea M. Carrick 189 Vesta N. Lukei 191 Dora Toone Brough 192 Lael W. Hill 200 Elsie McKinnon Strachan 206 Evelyn Fijeldsted 207 Relief Society Responsibilities President Joseph Fielding Smith Of the Council of the Twelve [Address Delivered at the Annual General Relief Society Conference, September 30, 1953] feel honored in being invited to come here this afternoon to give to you a brief address in relation to the Relief Society of the Church. And I know you are just as well acquainted with the organization of the Relief Society as I am; nevertheless, I jotted down from the history a few items in relation to the organization and the instruction that was given at that time by the Prophet Joseph Smith. As you know, the society was organized March 17, 1842, in Nauvoo. And on that occasion the Prophet, John Taylor, and others were present and assisted. "The Female Relief Society," I am quoting, "was organized in Nauvoo by the Prophet Joseph Smith" who stated "that the purpose of the society is to furnish the sisters of the Church an organization through which they may actively foster the welfare of the members." 'The duty of the society was stated to be "to aid the poor, nurse the sick and afflicted, and in a general way, under the direction and guidance of the bishop, to engage in the charitable work in behalf of all those requiring assistance." This was the first organization of women in the world, so far as history records, and I think that is quite an honor to think that the women of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints took the Page 150 first step in the interest of the women. "This is in keeping with the genius of the gospel," the Prophet said, "for the Lord provides duties and labors for all the members of the Church, both men and women, wherein service may be rendered for the temporal as well as the spiritual salvation of man." The Church was so organized that all the members may find in it some activity. As you know, most of the so-called Christian churches depend upon their minister. He does all the work, looks after the spiritual interest of his members, but they do not have the work divided among the members. But the Lord has so arranged things in The Church of Jesus Christ, that every man and woman in it may find some responsibility or something to do. So it was as natural as it could be for a Relief Society to come into existence, so that the women could have a society of their own, not only to engage in the duties which I have read, but that they might, in all particulars, labor in the interest of the women of the Church and, for that matter, in charitable matters in the interest of all the members, male as well as female. And so, by revelation, this organization was _ established. Just as necessary in the Church as any other department. RELIEF SOCIETY RESPONSIBILITIES N his instructions, the Prophet said: "Do not injure the character of anyone. If members of the society shall conduct themselves improperly, deal with them, keep all of thy doings within your own bosom and hold all characters sacred." I think that is very wise advice, not only in the Relief Society but in the quorums of the Priesthood and everywhere else within the Church. We should guard the character of every member. We should see that there are no injustices done. Again, on March 30, 1842, he said: None should be received into the society but those who are worthy. All difficulties which might and would cross our way must be surmounted. Though the soul be tried, the heart faint and hands hang down, yet we must not retrace our steps. That sympathy alone must not decide our judgment. All must act in concert or nothing can be done. Sisters should move as did the ancient Priesthood, in unity. It should be a select society, separate from all the ills of the world, choice, virtuous, and holy. The society was to assist by directing the morals and strengthening the virtues of the community and save the Elders the trouble of rebuking and that they might have their time for other duties, Now, that is from the history. There are a great many duties, responsibilities, that are given to our sisters, not all of them are included in these items that I have read. It is the duty of the Relief Society, not only to look after those who are members of the Relief Society, but their labor should extend beyond those borders. Wherever anybody is in trouble, needs help, in difficulties, sick or afflicted, we call upon the Relief Society. According to the words of the Proph- 15) et here, "It is their duty also to assist in seeing that there is no iniquity in the Church." I take it that those labors would rest more particularly upon them in relation to the sisters of the Church, and they can perform a great and wonderful work by encouraging the wayward, helping them, bringing them back into activity, helping them to overcome their weaknesses or sins and imperfections, and bringing them to an understanding of the truth. I say there is no limit to the good that our sisters can do. You are called upon constantly by the authorities in the stakes and in the wards. And I don't know what in the world our stake presidents and bishops in the wards would do if they didn't have these good sisters of Relief Society upon whom to depend; whom they can call to their service, many times, to handle situations that would be very delicate, that is for our brethren, but which our sisters may perform to the very greatest advantage. It would be a wonderful thing if all the members of the Church were perfect. If that were the case we would all have less responsibility, both the men and the women, but that time has not come. We have members among our sisters who need encouragement, a little help spiritually as well as temporally, and nobody can do it better than our sisters who belong to this great and wonderful organization. N this work the sisters may lend their aid in encouraging and helping the wayward, indifferent, the careless, just as the brethren of the Priesthood are called upon to do in behalf of the wayward, careless, and indifferent among the 152 brethren. We should all work to bring to pass righteousness and endeavor to bring back into activity those who have drifted and neglected the duties of the Church. We keep a record that's fairly accurate of all the male members of the Church who are inactive, men holding the Priesthood who are not magnifying their callings; and the men in the Church, members of the Church, who hold no Priesthood. We have our brethren laboring among them to try to get them into activity. We have a great many sisters, likewise, who are delinquent and careless, and who are not living according to all the Lord has revealed and required of them. I know of no record, however, that gives us the number, or an approximate number, of the sisters who belong to that class. But here is a work the Relief Society can labor in as well as clothing the naked, feeding the hungry, caring for the dead, and attending to such other duties which fall upon them which they perform so faithfully and acceptably in the Church. It would be a glorious thing if we could all live as did the Nephites for two hundred years when the Lord said, or at least the Prophet writes, that there was no iniquity among them, no envying, no strife, no wickedness of any kind. What a glorious thing that must have been! And the prophet says, there could not be a happier people anywhere than were these people at that particular time. Our duty is to labor, to strive, to cry repentance, to be diligent in all the duties and responsibilities which are given RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1954 to us, and the sisters can do far more, in my opinion, laboring with the sisters, than the brethren would be able to do. Now, may the Lord bless you in it, in all these things. I am very grateful that you are studying the doctrines of the Church. Now, I am not going to say much about that nor go into details in relation to it, because you have topics coming up in the latter part of this meeting. But the Lord expects the sisters to be qualified with a testimony of the truth to understand the doctrines of the Church just as he does those who hold the Priesthood. If we gain exaltation, which we hope to obtain, it is necessary that we prepare ourselves by knowledge, by faith, by prayer. And when the Lord said, "Seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness," he was not talking just to a body of men, it was a mixed congregation. And righteousness is required of all those who have entered the waters of baptism and have obtained the remission of their sins. May the Lord bless these good sisters who preside over you in this organization. They are wonderful, as you have learned. I have something to do with them once in awhile; occasionally they come to me and to Brother Petersen with a problem; we try to help them. But they are capable and can solve most of their problems without any help. The Lord bless them, bless all the other sisters who are presiding in the various stakes and in the wards, and all those who are active in the organizations. And so I pray in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. Shird Prize tory Fined Reliof Society Short Story Contest "One Sweetly Solemn Thought" Ruth MacKay RUTH MACKAY Prue's brain as soon as she had read them. Addressing a Relief Society conference, President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., had said, "And this is your work and ours, to save not only Zion, but the world." Thoughts chased through Prue's mind of the need for saving the world, its people sadly disillusioned, putting their faith in one material thing after another, and gaining no peace of mind or soul. She suddenly realized the bus had stopped, and, with a cheery word Te: words had burned into to the driver, she alighted. As she crossed the road to climb the hill to her home, she breathed deeply of the pure mountain air. She looked with affection at the row of tall stately gums growing on the roadside, the crisp brown bark hanging in strips from the trunks, showing the clean yellow boles beneath. A soft wind lazily stirred the crimson tinted leaves, and through them she could see into the field beyond, where the wattles with their crop of fluffy, golden balls glowed in the setting sun. Prue sniffed appreciatively at the scent which wafted to her on the breeze, and turned to go down the old track which led to her home, stopping by the gate to pick some buttercups and forget-me-nots which grew there in profusion. Somehow, today, the familiar scene seemed even more beautiful. As far as she could see were mountains, rising and falling into the distance, always shaded with the must that made them look dark blue. The fleecy white clouds billowing up above them into a clear blue sky completed a picture that Prue could always visualize. 'The peaceful serenity of the scene brought balm to her heart. But the silence was shattered as, with a whirring of wings and raucous laughter, a kookaburra flew Page 153 154 from the trees onto Prue's shoulder. Jacky was the pet of the neighborhood; he had fallen from the nest when young, and Prue had nursed him till he could stand and fly. He was very tame, and would hop into the kitchens nearby for the titbits that were given him, flying harmlessly out of the way of unfriendly cats, and laughing uproariously at their frustration from roof or chimney tops. Prue took him into her arms, stroking the soft brown and fawn feathers. He flew ahead of her as she let him go, knowing he would be rewarded with a piece of meat when she got home. Prue fell in love with this beautiful world, her heart filled with gratitude that her life could be spent amidst such pleasant surroundings. But the thought came back to her, "This is your work and ours, to save not only Zion, but the world." That night she lay tossing, unable to sleep. What could she do, in her humble way, to save the world? She did her work as a member of the Relief Society, and tried very hard to do all that was tequired of her as Relief Society president. Yet, she felt that that wasn't what President Clark had meant. There was something more required of her. But what? What must she do? Towards morning, her thoughts went back to the previous day's testimony meeting. How she envied those members whose fluency of words enabled them adequately to express their love and steadfast faith in the gospel. No matter how much she tried to overcome her RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1954 nervousness, when she got on her feet, she stammered and stuttered so much that it affected her breathing, and she could only gasp out a few words. Locked up inside her, were beautiful thoughts of love, of belief in the gospel, together with boundless gratitude to the missionaries who came out to Australia to seek out those who were looking for the truth. She felt very humble that the Lord had led them to her door. If only she could reveal what her conversion had meant to her, the feeling of at last coming home the moment she had entered the chapel; the deep, abiding testimony she had gained, with the sincere desire to live all the principles of the gospel to the best of her ability. Her life had been completely changed by the visit of those two elders. If only she had the ability to tell others all these things, maybe it would help them, too, to accept the gospel. GUDDENLY, as as though a ray of light had entered the room, Prue knew. Here was a way in which she, very humbly and sincerely, could carry out the work President Clark had designated to them. She would overcome that failing of hers, so that she could explain to others who were investigating the truthfulness of this wonderful gospel, just why she believed in it with all her heart and soul. She knew it wouldn't be easy, for she was well past forty, and it would be hard to overcome a lifetime of diffidence, but overcome it, she would. | The next day saw her timidly climbing the steps of a city college where night classes in public speak- "ONE SWEETLY SOLEMN THOUGHT" ing were held. She approached the enquiry desk, fully conscious of her mature years as she passed groups of young students chattering gaily. "Yes, Madam?" asked the supercilious young clerk. "I would like to join the public speaking class," she said, in a quiet little voice. Taking a long pink form from a drawer, the young man enquired, very crisply, "Name; Address; Experience?" "No experience'—he looked at her as though she had committed a crime, explaining that the teacher, Mr. Bell, was a very busy man, being as well a radio news commentator, therefore he had no time to waste on beginners. Seeing her obvious embarrassment, he stopped, and Prue, nervously twisting her fingers, said, "Oh, I'm sorry, I really shouldn't have come." Perhaps touched by her sweet smile of apology, he unbent to tell her, "You go over to Room 5 Block E, and have a talk with Mr. Bell; he may be able to help you." Then, as if ashamed of being found out in a kind action, he resumed his writing. Prue wandered past the radio school and the art school and found Block E, Room 5 on the first floor, and Mr. Bell was there interviewing his prospective students. And what an array they were. Prue's heart sank even further. Three business executives, two top engineers of the electric company; an architect, a research fellow in science at the university; a young German scientist, and others of equally high scholastic qualifications, 155 Standing there in her pale blue frock and large navy picture hat, Prue did not realize the appealing picture she made as she waited for Mr. Bell to speak to her. What made him take her she never knew, but she was grateful for being accepted, and determined to do her best. When the class began, she had to take her turn with the others in getting up to say just why she wanted to learn public speaking. She managed to explain that she wanted to help others. Mr. Bell looked queerly at her, shrugging his shoulders and giving a sly wink to one of the men. A peculiar reason this; usually it was to help the men in their business, or with political aspirations, but to help others! Well, of course, she was a woman, and women had funny ideas. HE next six months for Prue were a nightmare. Each Thursday night they each had to speak for from four to ten minutes on subjects chosen by Mr. Bell. And such subjects: political questions; international affairs; economic problems; and so on. Public library patrons and attendants came to know the little figure as she pored over books, taking copious notes in the lunch hour period from her work. Several times, in talks given by the men, religion had been mentioned, but always in a facetious, disparaging way. It hurt Prue to hear them speak this way, but she realized they knew no better, for they did not have the blessing of the restored gospel. Then one week she was asked to speak on "The Message of Easter." 156 Here was a subject on which she did not have to go to libraries to gain the necessary knowledge. Lovingly she thought out the opening, the body of her talk, and the closing, using the knowledge the missionary elders had taught her through the years. When her turn to speak came, the thoughts of her beautiful subject brought a light to her face, and a sweet, patient smile to her lips, and the words came without effort. Returning to her seat, she was startled when passing Graham North, the architect, as he hissed at her, "Oh, you're too good, I always feel like singing hymns and taking up a collection when you've finished speaking." Mr. Bell, as usual, allowed one of the class to criticize the speech. IIc nodded to Mr. North. Oh, no, thought Prue, not he, he has no time for religion, and he just doesn't understand. And he was the one who had so distracted her attention in one of her talks that she had broken down completely and couldn't continue. Her worst fears were realized. Graham completely and sarcastically tore her talk to shreds. Still smiling, but inwardly sick at heart, she wondered if it were worthwhile to continue with the lessons. She had been foolish to come at all; she was out of her depth and would never make a public speaker. Oh, why hadn't they taught such things when she went to school? But even if they had, she wouldn't have benefited, for she had to leave school when she was thirteen, her father having died, she had to help with the family finances. Feeling utterly crestfallen, she RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1954 made her way out of the building, followed by some of the younger men of the class. 'Turning to say goodbye to them at the street corner, one of them halted her, saying, "What religion do you belong to? Some of the ideas you gave in your talk tonight are new to me." "T'm a Mormon," she said simply. Then followed, right there on the street corner, an hour of discussion. Questions and answers flew back and forth. Sometimes they agreed with her, mostly they did not, and she invited them to the chapel so that they could Jearn more. 'Two of them did come to the next sacrament meeting, being deeply impressed with the obvious sincerity of all who took part, and with the warm friendliness of the saints. Prue's heart sang with joy, and she determined she would carry on with the lessons, and eventually achieve a measure of success with her speaking. HE following 'Vhursday, as she sat in her seat awaiting Mr. Bell's criticism of her talk on "The Racial Problem of South Africa," she squared her shoulders; she mustn't be afraid of criticism, she must learn to take it, and use it to better her efforts. Mr. Bell addressed the class, "I think you will agree with me that the talks given by our lady member here have all had one definite characteristic—a kindly love of people, a desire for their betterment, and a high personal moral standard. Here is someone who devotedly believes in something, something she wants to share with others. I would like to say we are happy and privi- ing home, and there Was a farewell € mission 4 convert could ever do could ever Tepay them for the great blessing of the £0spel that durrying along the next week, Tue realized she was and saw all were seated and the les. Son about to begin. Mr. Bel] smiled 4 welcome at her, saying, "Here's Mrs. Martin now Graham North. She got out her books. Lay. Then he appreciated the Was this ho had always spoken SO lightly of moral standards? Got the only answer for the troubles of this world. P t find your weak » and do you know ve started Teading the 158 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1954 Bible again, something I haven't humble little worm had nothing to done for years, and I can read It give, so he Picked up a fallen petal, now with a new understanding." and crawled painstakingly to the Leaving the college building, manger where the Christ child lay, " us eyes an full Ng and In turning, the babe touched the Sp enone Te With gratitude worm and to this day it glows so that she was Privileged to be a mem. I ber of the Church that had the te. That it is called the glowworm. The touch of Christ can make us mind a little legend she had once all glow, thought Prue, and maybe heard of the nativity of Christ. This is what President Clark meant, The whole world was full of wonwhen he told us to Save the world. Der the night Christ was born—the To keep that spirit of love and un. Animals gave of their breath to derstanding So bright within our. Warm the air, the flowers gave of selves, by adhering to the Principles their fragrance to give it Sweetness, that we are taught—then would our the birds gave their song, and the lights so shine before men, that they butterflies their color. But the poor, would be drawn by their brilliance. Rath MacKay, Lethbridge, Alberta, Canada, appears for the first time as a winner in the Relief Society Short Story Contest, with her offering "One Sweetly Solemn Thought." A Convert to the Church, Mrs. MacKay, has traveled in many parts of the World. "I am an Australian," she tells us, "and this Story is the first one submitted, ciety. T am an accountant by Profession, being formerly head of the administration Wh ga inst the Da rh Ouida Johns Pedersen Hyacinths, fragrant tapers of the spring, Kindle the ground to new remembering; Refutes once more the grave's finality. Seeing once again the earth's Teprieve From darkness, we are strengthened—and believe. Shrubs for Your Garden | Dorthea Newbold Deseret News Garden Editor shrub is anybody's plant. You just can't go wrong with them unless you plant them too close together and fail to give them a yearly pruning. You can have a whole garden of shrubs, colorful the year around. You can use them to give your garden complete privacy, to separate one section from the other, and, best of all, the shrub garden is easy to maintain and inexpensive. Shrubs are woody plants of bushy habits, developing several stems instead of a trunk as does a tree. 'They are a permanent part of the garden, yet, surprisingly, little thought or imagination is given to the selection and arrangement of shrubs. Too many shrubbery plantings are dull part of the year. One reason for this is the monotonous over-planting of a few well-known kinds. The overplanting of Spirea Van Houtti is an example. Every garden has its own peculiarities and some varieties of shrubs will not thrive in it, but there is such a wealth of material to choose from that there is no excuse for the overplanting of one variety. Before making a selection of shrubs consider the location, and the exposure, whether the shrubs will be in sun or shade; whether you have heavy soil which retains the moisture or soil that is light and dry. Consider, too, the amount of space to be filled, for this will determine whether you will select a dwarf, medium, or large-growing type of shrub. A good nursery catalogue will give you the size the shrub will attain at maturity. With wise selection of shrubs, you can screen out unsightly views, make mass plantings, have a flowering hedge, or divide your garden area into rooms for greater beauty. At the same time you will shut off, to a degree, the noises from a busy street, creating a beautiful retreat for family and friends. Foundation plantings using deciduous shrubs offer the gardener an opportunity to create a planting that is original and suitable to his own home. With thought and careful placing of shrubs, he will have a planting that will not be seen around every other house along the street. Flowering shrubs planted close together for a hedge should be left unclipped, but should not be allowed to. Grow without a yearly pruning so they become an unsightly tangle. IN areas where winters are severe, no flowers are more welcome than those which appear early in the year. Pussywillows—one clump of them—will prove to be a delight to young and old, for who can resist the charm of those gray catkins as they emerge from their brown winter coats. Fortunate are those who can succeed with witch hazel — its lovely blooms come so early in the year to signal that spring is on its way. Daphne cneorum is a choice plant for edgings for the shrubbery border or for rock gardens. Viburnum burkPage 159 , wee eA SHRUBS FOR YOUR GARDEN woodi can't wait for the leaves to show up, but puts out a dazzling beautiful waxy flower that wafts its fragrance over the newly awakened garden. Then the forsythias — several varieties, come along, bowing their wands of yellow bloom to all. Cydonia japonica, with its brilliant orange to red blooms, seems to be the signal for all the spring flowering shrubs to put on their show, for then the real display in shrubdom begins. Spireas, Viburnum carlesi, Viburnum tomentosum, and other viburnums, flowering almonds, Prunus triloba, honeysuckle, weigelas, burst into an extravagant display. Then come the lilacs. What miracles of beauty, of color, of fragrance are these! The old common lavender and white, the elegant new French varieties, or those Persian beauties with their soft plumes of lavender flowers—all are an asset in the shrub border. Then a lull comes, and the exquisite beauty of the mock orange enhances the scene—it seems to have waited purposely till now to show its perfect beauty. As a lower-growing companion, its white flowers covering every stem, we see Deutzia gracilis—perfect for the front of the border. Hypericum — St.-John's-wort, a low-growing shrub, is an excellent ground cover, is welcome in every garden, for it blooms from early summer until hard frost. With the summer, Spirea Anthony Waterer, Potentilla fruiticosa, the altheas, Vitex agnuscastus, CaryOpposite Page: Courtesy the Deseret News FORSYTHIA (SPRING GLORY) Gives an excellent display every spring (yellow flowers). Opteris incana, the hydrangeas, the faithful smoke tree, and tamarix, will bring another riot of color. ALL and its accompanying frosts make us conscious of those shrubs which hold their leaves a bit longer than does the average shrub, and conscious, too, of colorful leaves. The privets can be depended on to hold their leaves well into the bitter cold weather. Cotoneaster, most of the varieties of euonymus, beauty bush, viburnums, snowberry, and pyracantha will hold their leaves well, some of them until December. Now come colorful berries and foliage—these are extra beauty dividends and gardeners accept them with gratitude. Euonymus altaus compactus has foliage of an unbeDeciduous shrubs, evergreens, and other trees used to bring privacy into a small garden or to divide the garden into rooms. 'Trees may be used to frame the home or to frame a lovely view. Photograph, courtesy the Deseret News 162 Courtesy the Deseret News HARMONIOUS ARRANGEMENT OF SHRUBS RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1954 Juniper at the entrance; trimmed snowberry bushes; pyracantha bushes at the corner, giving height where it is needed. Lievable brilliance. It is of a compact growth and will grow in semishade. Berried shrubs — they are an open invitation to the birds to stay with us a bit longer — promise luscious feasts for a long time. Snowberry, pyracanthas, honeysuckles, cotoneasters, Berberis euonymus, mahonias, and some of the viburnums will produce a crop of berries. Now it is winter, and we have almost completed our cycle, and we wonder what to use for winter color. We can depend on dogwood, the red-twigged and the yellow twigged varieties, to bring life and color to the sleeping garden. There are some willows that have a yellow bark and will add color to the winter Jandscape. Kerria japonica shows stems of bright green — the forsythias show stems of a deep brownish purle. R For ease of upkeep, for sheer beauty, and little cost, nothing can surpass a garden of shrubs. up 4 ginst the resent to inspect it at a right," and going to the cupboard top shelf, Their Pictures Mary C. Martineau 'nia didn't have "Nonsense," said Virginia. S with a mourn "y a \ik n them, neither ow co you like Madam? Hait parted deasked the cat the frame, vasset humbdle and kinked ly. "Great carte was U th sides, a8 me choosing of it, for lt 1 as he leaned it Virginia smiled about the real en door and 1 gold, put replied, "The frame ls all e had caught het youth and reaching Up OP the t dress—oh, it was a old pieceShe hande + was just perfect: to the canvasset, who bac ashmere_ with from the picture and ft d back, revea ing a ima most polite mannet exquisitely matchhe got into his bugsy nt, which was 84 ered tained enough enlats d picture o a satin &choker" the whole countryside, and away e color. Drove up the Jane as fa Jooked and Jooked at horse could be persuaded t was inwardly He had a picture for om the door - Hurriedly, id, "Why didn't whose jittle boy had been dt m gir almost sn the rivet; 4 pictur why aren t my bert's mother sitting not so docile? Chair. 'The pictured et them all delivered, Te are brownet than you lucky he was to have the 164 FTER he was gone, Virginia turned to her boys, who had said nothing, and asked, "What do you think of it?" The youngest one said, "It's awful pretty, Ma, and almost like you," but the oldest one said, "I think your photograph is the prettiest, Ma. Did you get your photograph back?" Virginia thought he was right in some ways, but the photograph was only black and white, and her picture on it was only one of a family group, and she thought it quite marvelous that it had been singled out as promised and made into a large, colored picture all framed and ready to hang on the wall. She said, "Yes, Son, here is the photograph. He gave it back just as he promised, and, while the picture isn't all it should be, yet I promised to take it, so we'll hang it up and make the best of it." Virginia liked to look at her picture. The hair was so smooth, just the way she always combed hers in the morning, but never had a chance to look at again all day, except as she happened to glance in the mirror above the wash-bench as she washed and combed the children's hair for dinner. As she looked at the picture again, she liked, too, the looks of the soulful brown eyes and wished she knew the secret that lay behind them, for her own eyes laughed when she was happy, and they snapped when she was angry. Why couldn't her eyes be always sweet and appealing like the ones in the picture, though of course not so dull looking. When John came in to supper, the picture was the first thing that caught his eye. He stopped short RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1954 in the doorway. "Well, by the continental," he said, taking his old white felt hat off and rubbing his hand through his hair, "where in thunder did that come from?" "Don't you like it, John?" asked Virginia. "It doesn't look a confounded thing like you, Virginia. I think you got bit that time." Then, noticing the snap in her eyes, for she never could stand to have anyone think that she was green enough to get bit, he said, with his own eyes twinkling, "Now, you know your eyes have some life and sparkle in them, but the eyes in that picture look like a dying calf's." Now Virginia was smiling and so were her eyes. John came forward, hung his hat on a nail behind the door, poured some water from the bucket on the washstand into the tin washbasin and proceeded to wash his face and hands before taking his place at the table with his family. Supper began in the usual manner by his asking the blessing, and, afterwards, Virginia glanced up for just an instant at the sad brown eyes in the picture, smiling to herself and wondering. LL the wives along the countryside were pleased with their pictures, and the canvasser went away with more orders, to his own surprise and to the disgust of the husbands from whose flat pockets the ten dollars had been wrung. John said he'd throw the next canvasser off the place, if he ever caught him coming there: again. One evening she caught John looking at her picture as she sat knitting by the fading light of the THEIR PICTURES window. He was lying on the old lounge resting and telling her about the happenings of the day, but looking at her picture with kindly eyes and with a sort of longing, she thought, in his own. On the very next day, when John had gone to take a grist to the mill, the canvasser came again. He drove down the lane and tied his horse to a tree. Upon getting out of his buggy, he took off his duster and put it back on the buggy seat, adjusted his derby hat, picked up his samples, and came to the door. Virginia met him with a curt "How do you do," and drove the flies back with a paper as he hurried through the screen door that closed after him with a bang. He stood in meekness until invited by little Bill to sit down, and then he sat down and said with a smile, "I see you have your lovely picture hanging up. I hope your husband liked it. I'm sure he couldn't help liking it. I came today to see if you would consider sending one of him to be enlarged. I think it would please him mightily. Sometimes husbands feel neglected in such matters." Virginia almost caught her breath as she remembered how John had looked at her picture when he didn't know she saw him. Yes, she thought to herself, that was it, he was feeling neglected. I will send his picture—but how can I manage it? As the canvasser talked on and on, persuading the persuaded, she turned the idea over in her mind and let him talk. The little boys gathered close about her also urging her here and there whenever the canvasser paused at a comma. 165 Bye and bye he ran down and sat still waiting her verdict, and Virginia had a verdict. Going to the family album, she slid a youthful photograph of John out of it, and, handing it to the canvasser, said, "See that you take good care of this, I wouldn't lose it for the world." He promised faithfully. After being told to make John's hair a light brown and soft and curly, not dark, as the photograph showed it, and to be sure to make his eyes blue, a heavenly blue, and not to forget the dimple in his chin, the canvasser left the house. Now the ordering was to be kept a secret so Pa would be surprised and awfully happy when his picture came. It was a glorious secret, but Virginia spent a sleepless night trying to figure out where she could possibly get another extra ten dollars, for she knew very well that John didn't have a cent to spare. Why school would be starting soon —what could she have been thinking of anyway—the children would need shoes and slates—and everything? Why, oh, why did she always give herself something to worry about? John would probably only be vexed anyway. Bye and bye she fell into a troubled sleep, in spite of her worry and John's deep snores, and slept till daylight. TIME went by and the secret held. John went about his farm work with great energy, and the canvasser was forgotten by everyone except Virginia. She had a_ skeleton in her closet now, and she could hear it rattle quite often. It must not escape, so she put the little blue teapot on the top shelf, 166 and every time her fears grew high she took a little of her egg money or a little of the milk check and dropped it in, thus silencing the rattle. One day John brought a traveler to the house. The traveler was inquiring about the best place to ford old Bear River, and he also wanted some dinner for himself and some hay for his own team. In true Yankee style, John invited him to stay to dinner and then took the horses to the corral and gave them huge forkfuls of hay. Virginia hardly knew what she could feed the man, or the family either, for that matter, but so as not to disappoint John, she had a chicken killed and fried it, baked hot biscuits, mashed the potatoes, brought butter and milk from the cool cellar, and, with a little honey for dessert and John to tell bear stories, the dinner was a great success. When the man was ready to leave with John, to show him where the ford was, he turned to Virginia, and, after thanking her for the nice dinner, he handed her a ten-dollar gold piece! 'l'o John's utter surprise and great disgust, she accepted it. Never had such a thing been heard of before in the valley anywhere. Imagine, taking pay for a meal of victuals. But Virginia was desperate—she could hear the skeleton rattle. Pa couldn't. John remarked, upon his return to the house, that he had his opinion of anyone who was small enough to take pay for doing a good turn. Then Virginia's eyes really looked something like the eyes in her enlarged picture, as she said sadly, "I'm sorry, John." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1954 So he said no more. Then the great day came. John was in the field mowing when the canvasser drove down the lane; but John spied him and, quickly as he could, he drove his horses to the near end of the field, unhitched them, and hurried to the house. But he arrived just as the canvasser had delivered the picture, pocketed the money, and was getting into his buggy. Virginia had accepted the picture hastily, handed over the money, and got rid of him almost before he realized it, for she had seen John coming and remembered the threat. She hated scenes. John said, "How do you do," and the canvasser answered, "How do you do," and drove away. John came on quietly into the house, as Virginia drew a long breath. Simultaneously they turned, and there was the picture of John propped carefully against the kitchen door. "What the...?" began John, but Virginia cried, "Oh, that man—the picture doesn't look a bit like you, John. See the dark hair and the mustache! Oh, John, I'm so sorry." John only stared at the picture. The handsome face so unlike him in color, and yet there were the merry blue eyes and the dimple, which John noted, silent, but inwardly pleased. Virginia broke in, "It's just horrid, John, and I accepted the money to pay for it to surprise you." "And I love you dearly," John said, putting his arms around her. "It's not so good, darling, but we'll hang it up along with yours." And he did. She Poneionn Red Cross and Ls Program «<TR TIL Red Cross personifies, as nearly as any organization of which I can think, those great and noble virtues of man that are the richest heritage from the Almighty." Thus spoke President Dwight D. Eisenhower at the dedication ceremonies at the new District of Columbia Red Cross Chapter House on October 1, 1953. "We have many examples nowadays of man's selfishness, man's brutality and inhumanity to man, man's readiness to forget the golden rule and to live by some standard that he thinks will immediately advantage him at the expense of his fellows," the President said. "We have this in the international field. We have it far too often and discouragingly among groups or classes at home. The Red Cross, the nature of its slogan, of its purposes, the work that has been done through it, and the people that belong to it, bring to us, as we tend to gather discouragement about such things, realization that man is also made of nobler qualities than those of selfishness and greed and personal advantage. He is made up also of sacrifice, of nobleness, and love for fellow humans." The Red Cross has been distributing gamma globulin since 1944, largely as a measles prophylaxis, but recently, the organization was called upon to undertake an immediate and dramatic expansion of its operations to make available all the gamma globulin possible for the inoculation of children in the polio fight. In accordance with standard Red Cross practice, this gamma globulin was provided to the American people without charge for the derivative. As a result of this plan, the Red Cross will turn over to the Office of Defense Mobilization more than 11,118,000 centimeters of gamma globulin by the end of 1954. The organization will continue to make available approximately one million centimeters annually after that date through fractionation of plasma derived from blood that becomes out. Dated or otherwise not suitable for use as whole blood in its civilian proram. ° Everyone's help is needed to support the Red Cross in its campaign to accomplish its tasks which "are almost overwhelming in their magnitude today." <> Queen of Qcorr Gene Romolo You, who rule the realm of home By patience, love, and piety, Wear the crown of womanhood With loyal grace most regally; Of all who reign upon the earth, You are queen of qucens in verity. Page 167 Sixty Years Ago iixcerpts From the W oman's Exponent, March 31, and March 15> 1804 "For THE RicHTs OF tHE WoMEN or ZION AND THE RicHtTs OF THE WoMEN OF ALL Nations" 2 esteemed friend, Ja Richards At 7:3° hheit spact s room e crowde with smiling gacs, omen One being anxious to extend ongratulations heartfelt wishes for many happy returns of the day The amiable lady was taken by storm; shaken and embraced without consent. No mercy was shown, everyone seeming to think they had a perfect right to @ pirthday kiss and a shake of the deat hand '_¥. B. W. A PLEA FOR MO E Kl DNESS AM WOME To evety an whose eyes these words may reach, uld say: Be kind to yout own \d that my voice could rea® e farthest encs the earth when I "women why S° unkin to eac ther?" We sec 1 ry day ™ every position an we of lite—e2 the street, 10 the stores, e cars nd even in the Chure { tell you ™ Sistet *Voman it ls NO the opposite S&* jose words slash us, } ut pe feelings and glib tongt d shall we not try t be more loving: charitable? We are mad £ one cla children of one Father, with common opes and aspirations Alta Witbec which speaks of the people coming to a wildernes>, of the many blessings here leceived. President Zina p. H. Young said, cPgithfulness to the gospel will make men f is a i i and women f Ss of the t mple, said every stone freewill offering of the saints. «Think of 1 sisters, 4 te™P here GO d heavenly beings © Think of our young ladies, heat them speak d test full of the Gospel, f 11 of intel S (Caroline JoIne Ballantyne) FARR, 0, died; of Home tebuked Working Mothers for the; MCcreased nile delinguenc bs of Center. Y the Wom. Lle, ninety, ureau of the Department of T, those of Y years and older M ISS JEANETTE T absences because of illWw | Ness than any other group. PROVObor, lieutenan t governor of California, Goodwin Knight, Ovarren CQ-— > EDITORIAL 9 _ MARCH 1954 She Lifeblood of Reliof Society THE gospel opens to man the portals of eternal life; and in the gospel plan each individual has opportunities offered to him, the accomplishment of which will help him gain eternal life for himself. When the gospel was not on the earth, woman, in the eyes of law became a mere chattel. With the restoration of the gospel in 1830, she was recognized again in her rightful position, and less than twelve years later, the Prophet Joseph Smith turned the key in her behalf in the name of the Lord, and promised that knowledge and _ intelligence should flow down from that time henceforth. In March 1842, in commenting on the establishment of Relief Society, the Prophet wrote in his history: "Our women have always been signalized for their acts of benevolence and kindness; but the cruel usage that they received from the barbarians of Missouri, has hitherto prevented their extending the hand of charity in a conspicuous manner; yet in the midst of their persecution, when the bread has been torn from their helpless offspring by their cruel oppressors, they have always been ready to open their 'doors to the weary traveler, to divide their scant pittance with the hungry, and from their robbed and impoverished wardrobes, to divide with the more needy and destitute; and now that they are living upon a more genial soil, and among a less barbarous people, and possess facilities that they have not Page 170 heretofore enjoyed, we feel convinced that with their concentrated efforts, the condition of the suffering poor, of the stranger and the fatherless will be ameliorated" (D. H. C. IV, pp. 567-568). The great majority of Relief Society members today live "upon a more genial soil," and the conditions have resulted in greatly ameliorating the suffering of the unfortunate. Countless are the acts of unselfish devotion of these Relief Society women. - But as the one hundred twelfth anniversary of the Relief Society is observed on March 17, 1954, let a prayer be voiced, silent or vocal, for the plight of Relief Society sisters who today are living under conditions reminiscent of the description of the suffering of the saints in Missouri. In these days bread has been torn from helpless offspring; wardrobes have been robbed and impoverished so that no coverings remain to enfold the dead or the newborn; the old are left to die; the young are taken from their mothers for hours daily so mothers can leave home to do the work of men side by side with men. Yet, in spite of persecution, reports reach the general board telling of the unnumbered acts of heroism—"the concentrated efforts"' performed by the sisters of Relief Society under such cruel usage. At the peril of imprisonment and death, Relief Society sisters perform EDITORIAL the tasks for which Relief Society was divinely established. And they will be rewarded according to the words of the Savior: "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me." The heartblood of Relief Society is not its cultural and homemaking activities, vital as they are to better 171 home life and richer living. The lifeblood of Relief Society is the solicitous, loving action which flows from the individual member to a person in distress, either material or spiritual distress; and these individual streams of mercy, concentrated, bring life to the whole body of Relief Society encircling the globe. —M. C. S. Relief Soctety Elsie Scott In every woman's heart there lies enshrined The need to love and help mankind. And surely we the women of this latter day Are doubly blessed, for God has shown the way And through his chosen servants here on earth His voice is heard. He guides, directs in everything we do— The teachers, visiting homes, taking a message truc The charity that faileth not, To help the sick, the sad, and all who need. And while we do this work The Lord is waiting, quick to bless That we may gain a greater happiness. ¢ Announcing the Special April Short Story (am HE April 1954 issue of The Relief Society Magazine will be the special short story number, with four outstanding stories being presented. Look for these stories in April: "The Best Years of Her Life," by Pansye H. Powell "What It Takes," by Kay Islaub "Second Best," by Blanche Sutherland "The Part-Time Heart," by Hannah Smith Notes TO THE FIELD Organizations and 'Reorganizations of Stake and IMlisston Relief Socteties for 1953 ORGANIZATIONS Stakes Butte Calgary Cannon Dallas Houston Klamath Layton North Pocatello North Tooele Salmon River Missions Brazilian Chinese East Central States East German French Great Lakes Japanese Mexican Spanish-American Tahiti Texas-Louisiana West Central States West German Page 172 Formerly Part of Appointed President Date Appointed West Central States Mission Lethbridge and East Lethbridge Stakes Pioneer Stake 'Texas-Louisiana Mission Texas-Louisiana Mission Northern California Mission North Davis Stake Pocatello Stake Tooele Stake Lost River Stake Gretta L. Karren Freda Kenney Mabel H. Miller Allene Bremer Sadie Ollorton Clark Mae Belle Nielson Oma E. Wilcox Bertha M. Pieper Leona P. Boyce Elizabeth G. Hoggan REORGANIZATIONS Released President Appointed President June 28, 1953 November 15, 1953 March 1, 1953 October 18, 1953 October 11, 1953 March 22, 1953 January 25, 1953 June 21, 1953 March 29, 1953 October 18, 1953 Date Appointed Mary P. Howells Hazel M. Robertson Edna H. Matheson Lena W. Glaus Beth C. Woolf Ella C. Burton Ethel L. Mauss Kate B. Mecham Ivie Huish Jones Vilate B. Pearce Leone R. Bowring Reta F. Broadbent Luclla W. Cannon Lorene M. Sorensen Mission Closed, Transferred to San Francisco Stake Adriana M. Zappey Mary Ethel E. Gregory Rachael L. Lee Florence H. Richards Hazel M. Robertson Jennie S. R. Bowman Effie Nina N. Bowman Frankie G. Orton Phyllis D. Smith Marteal W. Hendricks Bernice O. Dyer October 6, 1953 December 31, 1952 October 8, 1953 October 20, 1953 June 27, 1953 June 11, 1953 September 10, 1953 June 18, 1953 December 4, 1953 February 6, 1953 November 20, 1953 November 19, 1953 October 29, 1953 NOTES TO THE FIELD anwaring urn Singleton innie E, Anderson Annie Parker Oma E. Wilcox Vera H. Sorensen Monument Park North Carbon North Davis North Weber South Idaho Falls South Sanpete Tooele Appointed President 173 Date Appointed Bernice Thompson Mary R, Young Rowena J. Warr Claire B. Jones Elizabeth Evans Kaiser (Disorganized) Lucile G, Williams Matilda B. Gilbert JennaVee Hall Aliene N. Bloxham Rhoda Thorpe Nannah C. Stokes Elsie J. Brinkerhoff Faun L, Reynolds Fern R. Laycock Verna A. Hunter Lenore G, Merrill Mary M. Wright Reba O. Carling LaPreal] Richards Lavora S. Wood Amanda B. Hancock Bertrude S. Mitchel] Julia N. Barg Veda F. Moss Jessie §. Baldwin Tone J. Simpson Zella C. Christensen Rose L. Moscon Mal B. Oveson Martha H. Bleak Ruth Mae Witt Loleta W. Dixon Ida M. Swensen Helen M. Stock Margie D. Barber Nocturne Grace Barker Wilson A sudden silence always falls with dark Upon the desert where Blows noisily through sagebrush and m the daytime wind In a strange dissonance of music, stark And urgent. Night comes down And makes a muted harmony complete. April 19, 1953 July 6, 1953 September 6, 1953 ay 10, 195 September 6, 1953 November 15, 1953 May 3, 1953 August 16, 1953 September 20, 1953 July 19, 1953 August 9, 1953 August 16, 195 February 22, 1953 August 9, 1953 November 1 5, 1953 aY 10, 1953 May 3, 1953 April 12, 1953 February 22° 1953 May 31, 1953 July 12, 1953 January 13, 1953 esquite, soft-moccasined, Stakes Beaver Bonneville assia Cedar Chicago East Lethbridge migration Franklin Gooding Humboldt Hyrum Idaho Falls Kanab Layton Lethbridge Liberty Long Beach Mill Creek Parowan Pioneer Reno Snowflake Union Uvada Wasatch West Utah Yellowstone oung Zion Park Released President Phylis S. Warr Elna P, Haymond Ruth P. Holt Afton P, Parry Edith Y. Harris Fern R. Laycock Winniefred' §. Ined N. Fryer Geraldine Terry ose Burner Mildred 0, Norman Mabel J, Hansen Vera Deane BlackOma E. Wilcox Amelia P. Johansen LaNola C, Driggs Nina L, Riley Florence N. Edna S. Hatch Vera Y. Allen Lena Oxborrow Ida S, Hendrickson Nan A. Lindsay Mary A. Hansen Violet D. Olpin ose Goates Elva O. Swensen Ida L. Allen Hilda Bringhurst Don Knight Page 174 MAROON LAKE, NEAR ASPEN, COLORADO > Sunrise on Cliff Mlountain Gertrude T. Kovan Between two mighty mountains An ancient cliff towers high. Its dim peaks and sharp edges, Reach far into the sky. When night comes, first ascending Long valleys far below, Sometimes the light still lingers, A faint, rose-colored glow. But oh! To watch Cliff Mountain In the bleak and early dawn As the first, faint tints of sunrise Break through mists of darkness gone! I watch this magic stirring Across each crevassed peak, And I know that higher than Cliff Mountain Are the answers that I seek. Heritage Mildred Garrett Enos 66 AIL, Mommie." Kathie's blond braids gleamed as she laid the packet of a beat. At Twin trembled as she ripped it open, het throat was dry. At first disbelief, then relief and joy filled "Kathie!" she swept her daughter into her arms and kissed her sound: ly. "Margaret Marie 18 coming} She's coming here to visit us! G Kathie ground in 4 little dance, knocking the putter paddle to the floor. And then, because were joyful to her tongue, here the ocean 10 t wonderful house just filled with oil paintings and piles of silver that have been teaching t help She liked 1 so she still teach P Kathie prighten¢ School was warm subject t "Can I play my school record again, Mommie?" "The one where the teacher has school?" "Again? Then she reconsidered. Love, all the way times!" Kathie scampered away: and Beth picked up the words to Kathie still lingering het mind. Oil paintings and piles of silver. She looked at the worn wooden paddle that had been in faucet and attacked the powl of yer low butter vigorously, 4 Beth sighed. Tt was certainly Wor to tatters now, 4 baby clothes. There wa t pook of poems q cracked, white crockery tureen ruly, the wes - n 176 "And there I was with my mother's china that I had managed to bring all the way across the ocean with me. And Fred said it was either the china, or the box of seeds and cuttings couldn't go West, so I gave the china to a neighbor that had been right kind to us. She gave me a side of bacon and a bag of white pea seed for it." Side bacon and white pea seed! Beth felt like crying as she dumped the stuff back into the trunk. HE had devised a plan of sorts by the time Kirby came home for lunch, and so intent was she on it that she missed her usual pleasure in his comforting masculine presence. "Margaret Marie is coming for a visit, Kirby," she told him as he kissed her. His eyes lighted with pleasure. "No! When?" "Day after tomorrow." "How did she manage?" he asked with interest. "Exchange teacher," Beth replied. "She's simply thrilled. Says she can visit five days before she'll have to assume her duties." "That's fine," Kirby said. "Give you girls time to catch up on the six years since you were an exchange student in England." He grinned. "After all, since then you've acquired a husband, a fiveyear-old daughter, a son with a definite will of his own, and a rundown, poorly stocked ranch, with a view!" They both glanced toward the west wall of the dining room. Through the wide expanse of the newly installed window, the two peaks of Twin Knolls Mountain rose in silent majesty in the distance. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1954 But somehow it didn't look quite as wonderful to Beth as it had just yesterday. Instead, she noted with dissatisfaction the old - fashioned round dining table set for lunch with the plain white plates and the dime-store silver. Only it wasn't silver. Not even the plated kind. Just plain, stainless steel. A picture of the dining room in Margaret Marie's house rose in her mind. Wide-beamed ceiling, polished sideboard, gleaming silver. She took a deep breath for courage and asked urgently, "Kirby, remember the sterling pattern we selected the week of our honeymoon?" "Sure do," he replied. He lifted a lid on the pot. "What's for lunch?" Beth swallowed with difficulty. She had a wild urge to dump the pot, bottom up, over his head. "Do you suppose," she asked in an even voice, "we could afford to start us a set now?" At the look on his face she added rapidly, "Just the most basic pieces, Kirby, knives and forks and spoons!" He sensed the urgency in her voice and looked at her sharply. "Beth," he said gently as he slipped an arm around her waist. She felt his regret even before he finished. "The big window and the drapes just about did it for us till we harvest again next year." Something in her heart refused defeat. "Are we always that broke?" she asked in bitter rebellion, and hated herself for the hurt in his eyes. "Yes," he answered briefly. BETH swallowed again. "There are other ways," she said desperately, "monthly payments are available on items of that sort!" a ily, like a chi] an. € children to provide OF, stock to f Ments on th eed, Pay- ¥ € truck." urned O Own," "NCOuraged «. AWay in defeat, But urt and th | hesitateg a © next day. Hy ban Moved g Out her sejg; tasks, sh, | u n Make jt up to She thought Sadly, by he just doesn't Understand) In front Of youn > thought, with th €d to the Window as SNE passed. A di & love, she © Dack of her mind aS she took Margaret Matie's w gly beautiful, me It wo, Ommie!" "T want Mar K Cried, 8aret Marie to listen to MY schoo] Tecord!"' er,. Tie Clerk Ja; it before her. Knives and fork 1 tks C SPOons, the Salad fork A dazzling display of Silver, ll bri 178 Vaguely she heard the record player start playing Kathie's school record. She picked up the finished tray and started for the dining room. At the door she stopped. Margaret Marie was standing in front of the new window looking outward. The valley stretched away westward in a panorama of contrast. Harvested helds, a grazing flock of sheep, rolling orchard slopes, and the tall spire of the ward church reaching upward toward the infinite. And the whole overshadowed by the towering mountain peaks.... In the background Kathie's record reached the second half: "And now, children," said the recorded Voice, "we will all stand and sing." And the childish voices began the song that is the special property of every country-loving American. "... Oh, beautiful for spacious RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1954 skies, for amber waves of grain, for purple mountain majesties above the fruited plain..." And there it was before Beth's stinging eyes, the heritage her people had left her! She bowed her head. "Forgive me," she whispered, "forgive me! I forgot that a heritage isn't always inside the house!" The door opened and Kirby came in. Across the room his eyes met Beth's. She looked back until the look became one of their very special ones. And her heart relaxed. There would never have to be further words, or explanations. She moved forward again as the song ended, and Margaret Marie turned from the window, her own eyes filled with tears. "My dear, my dear!" she said. And reachin out she took the heavily laden tray from Beth's proud hands. 'Sor (Which the Sirst Was Mlade™ Christie Lund Coles The fruit-fair flesh nature had clothed her in, Delicate as glass, supple to the touch, Has wrinkled with the years, grown parchment thin, And withered as an apple dried too much. Her step so laughter-quick, her hand so firm, Are slowed and weakened by the tushing tide Of years that moved and passed, serving their term, Leaving her with the age her heart denied, And her eyes, too, that kept light from flame Of what she was once, beautiful and young. Though now, more than before, they speak a part Of her too long, too thoughtlessly unsung. Now, when vanity and youth's mask are gone, We see her spirit's proud, clear echelon. Ima Mackay Pau] OMEONE has that th Oden p 88. They built huge American quilt doc CUutdoor oven, for ba Ing and jin ment of Am tcan lif A lis SOr "fitepineg, Of stone and mud of their Interestin ames kindle ey built their own agons and: oe ation reveals th leds ang de their ha Nesses from at GE the times, cially, re te leather of anima] They not '810usly, and Politi lly Only made Crything th Y used _ Before Ustic desig mae found ley used °verything they Made, its "plac a quilt > quilting Where ho establisheg itself y necessity necessit the men Cleared th ™m lands of dways ha N the y ther of in stumps = ventio nturies, the cople las.: quilted articles heir N looms used jn every home and Spinning heels, 4nd shod and establishment today, them with hides of anj als, Jt enturies ago, the Crusaders Te because they dure steat hard "ned from the T East wit elabships 4 ade Id Sacrifices, Crate specimens of n edlework, our rourageous forefathers ere Plique, em dety, and quilting, able to establish °0n it began to [ 8. A foothold In g PPear in oute, Jew world ang lay t Nery, royal furnishings, 4nd church — for Our pr: Tt of bed. When a fa quilt-making Teally bega hey literally cary Out of the forest, Fr 180 The families brought with them enormous baskets of food, and the women spread long tables and cooked hot food over the fires. These were bright days in the somewhat drab lives of the women, and they made the most of the occasion. They imparted news and _ friendly gossip and received it in return. Conversation ran from _ personal items to new dyes for wool and new style rag rugs. They exchanged recipes and home remedies for the sick. Herbs and brews played an important part in their lives, and they often exchanged herbs from their gardens as well as flower seeds. HE young girls exchanged patches of calico and lovely paisley, or chintzes of figured brown and pink and minutely flowered prints. Few materials of this kind had found their way to America, and every inch was treasured. They also exchanged finished squares for quilts, either pieced or appliqued, and many cross-stitched their names and the date on their patches. When enough were exchanged (usually twenty-five) a hopeful young lady could sew her patches together. At the next quilting bee, she could have her "top" quilted, and when it was completed, she proudly laid it in her dower chest. It would be a treasured keepsake, for each patch had been designed and stitched by the hands of a loving friend. All quilts were not so beautifully conceived. It was before the day of woven blankets, and bedding was a dire necessity. All old pieces, as well as new, had to be saved for their use. Faded material was dyed, and the woo] had to be washed and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1954 carded by hand, and laid in straight, neat piles. Never was a scrap of anything wasted. When a quilt was worn out, it was re-covered, and new warmness and color were added. 'The popularity of the old "crazy patch" was due to the fact that anything of any size, shape, or material, could be used. The irregularity of patches and color grew artistic and soft, as the maker outlined the gay patches with fancy featherstitching and. Embroidered birds and flowers on the plainer ones. Thus, by spinning the flax, carding the wool, weaving materials, and making quilts, pioneer women created with their ownhands the beautiful things they longed for in their hearts. Quilts are of two principal types, pieced or appliqued. The commonest are the pieced or patched, because one can utilize scraps—and the designing of only one patch is necessary. The rest are repetitious. An appliqued quilt is more elaborate, and requires more careful planning for color and design. Each block may be a different design, but must remain in balance. Best of all, an appliqued quilt allows an expression of ideas impossible in a pieced one. F all the quilts I have had the privilege of photographing for magazines, the most beautiful, unusual, and elaborate is one made in 1829 for the late Reverend Vinton of Maryland. It is now in the possession of his great-great-grandson's family. It is in its fifth generation and is in perfect condition. 'This quilt deserves special comment. ~ €d brown Material was used for the TSE, the Ladies Aid or Ove which holds the ) Omen's t € church | e Munister's lS Prayer book t too, bears his name. The patch 'S Magnificent above the Church has 4 pleasin he center block jg his church Wreath and a dove of Peace, while ven the shades and brickwork are below the Church jg bowl of fry t appliqued The tree behind the The pears are yellow an cream, the Church has birds in its branches Pple red, Slapes blue nd a sec. © the left of church, is 4 ond bunch 5 Something js ted. The Oral arangement With Casily eight object th Tesembles 4 football js Shades of ¢ Oring. A nely print 4 watermelon with, 182 black seeds are appliqued on the pink surface. To the right of that patch is another made up of symbols, possibly of his lodge. A "seeing eye" is between two arrows. At the bottom of the wreath is an hourglass, above it an arrow, three rings, and something else. In the center of the wreath is a shield, with a heart on which is an open hand, or palm. An eagle stands on a pedestal facing an owl perched on seven stars and a crescent. The right half of this wreath is of brown RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1954 acorns and small green oak leaves, the left side is of red berries and green leaves: Elaborate plants, wreaths, etc., make up the rest of the quilt, and a beautiful border encompasses the entire quilt. It was undoubtedly used on a large poster bed, for it measures three yards each way [N the Art Institute of Chicago, is a magnificent quilt called the Circuit Rider's Quilt, made somewhere in the Midwest. Entirely in PLATE 2 it his Widely Scattered Patishoners Four Winds, and Sometimes the In six communities. Forty women Princess Feather. The Plumes alter. Of the hited Brethren Church Nate in Color, dark Steen and dark Made the forty-two blocks, only fiye Ted, the center being Orange, As of which are alike. They are flora] often happens, One swirl was laid 184 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1954 PLATE 4 early pieced quilt. It is called the Irish Chain. Only two colors were used with white, a deep figured red for the center block throughout, and a figured green for the outer blocks. The quilting is in very fine squares of no more than one inch. Plate 4 is an example of beauty, skill, and fine workmanship. A figured red and yellow was used for the center of each tulip, and solid red for their sides. Solid green was used for the leaves, and border. It is entirely appliqued, and the quilting is in squares of one half inch. Skill was required in ar ranging the pattern, since each motif is not on separate squares that could be sewn together. In this case, the maker appliqued her pattern on nine squares of white muslin, each eighteen inches square. Sewn together, it made a piece one and one half yards each way. She then appliqued the four inner motifs around the center one on the muslin already sewn together, and "dovetailed" her patterns. Twelve single tulips, facing in, were ap 185 PLATE 6 'S another four-patch Plate quit, with a Ted strj, the Second from Sttip around the left is Order to match th | ' uble Wedding Ring, —. Soldiers Return,; PLATE « Wilderness Road Willard Luce in Utah. They twist among the aspens and the pine and the fir. They crawl along the face of the mountains, looking down into the valleys and deserts. They wind through the sand, among the yucca and prickly pear. They drop into the deep, magnificent gorge of the Colorado River and creep between the twisting river and the red sandstone ledges a thousand feet high. One of the most interesting of these is the Hite road. It climbs the plateaus from Richfield on Tom are many little roads Willard Luce Highway 89 and winds down into the flame-colored gorges. Part of this road is so new that it is not shown on many maps. Part of it is very old and traverses ancient Indian trails. Part of it climbs up over 8,000 feet, where the heavy snows keep it buried until late spring. Part of it drops down to 3,400 feet, and crosses the Colorado by ferry at Hite in the upper reaches of Glen Canyon near the mouth of 'Trachyte Creek, a northern tributary. Figs and pomegranates and other semi-tropical fruits are raised here in a remote and sequestered paradise. MRS. ARTITUR CHAFFIN RUNS 'THE FERRY AT OTETE ON THE COLORADO Page 186 WILDERNESS ROAD Hite is the best known ford, and the only practical crossing for automobiles, along that lonely and perilous stretch of river between Navajo Bridge over Marble Canyon in northern Arizona, and Moab in eastern Utah. And, although far from a straight line, it is the shortest distance between Capitol Reef, near Fruita, and the Natural Bridges National Monument, some _fortyseven miles from Blanding in the southeastern corner of Utah. According to Western definition, a reef is an upthrust area with a cliff face; and that's a pretty good description of Capitol Reef National Monument. The roadway follows along the base of the craggy reef, switching back and forth down a dry stream bed. It climbs up past the Chimney Rock, and on up to the edge of Mummy Cliff; then it drops back down again. At the bottom is Fruita, a small farming community in the heart of the Monument. The green of its fields and orchards makes a sharp contrast to the red sandstone ledges. In spring the peach and cherry and apricot blossoms offer an unforgettable sight against the green fields and red ledges. Six miles farther on, the road enters Capitol Gorge. Here huge sandstone cliffs rise 1200 feet on either side of the chasm, which twists and turns, and finally squeezes down to The Narrows. In this shadowed place the gorge is only eighteen feet wide, but the ledges still rise a thousand feet in the air. The road and the dry stream bed are one and the same, an excellent place not to be during a flash flood! 187 T Hanksville, the last town in this wilderness, the road turns south for several miles before swinging back towards the east and dropping down into North Wash. Down the wash, the road is rough. It crosses and recrosses the alkali-filled and cottonwood-lined watercourse. It bounces over the top of waterrounded stones, and wiggles through sand-filled stretches. And always it drops lower and lower, until it finally comes out onto the banks of the Colorado River, where the elevation is only 3,400 feet. The seven-mile drive downriver between the cliffs and the stream is a breath-taking experience, with the canyon walls swinging in to crowd against the river, then retreating. The willows and the tamarisk hug the water's edge, while the desert primrose and prickly pear blossoin on the rocky hillsides. It's an intensely colored country, a rugged, contrasting country. The Hite ferry is a toll ferry, a wooden barge propelled by a gasoline engine. The great river at flood tide is 640 feet across, and its southeast brink is surmounted on the southeast side by an ancient stone fortress, standing aloof and lonely above the river. The ferry, in use all the year around, has been operated at times by a woman—Mrs. Arthur Chaffin—an expert at guiding the heavy barge which carries dozens of trucks and cars across the river every day. After leaving the ferry the road climbs upwards again and crosses the rugged and mysterious White Canyon country forty-two miles to the Natural Bridges National Monument. In the Monument there are three large and picturesque nat- larger ang ing the Patien Water over 4 ument, Utah tic in loneliness —reac f tac Scape Hig Way 4 have not been com It's a 800d dirt roag Ness road, by one no chomo natura) bridge is in bad Weather Is best in an he long centuries, 7} Stark beauty, and Many Surprises. And on Over Elk Mountain PPOsite page: * h Narrows, Capito] Gorge, Capitol Reef The hotograph by Willard Luce, SS Seok After hese Shings: (Verses for The Relief Society Magazine ) Rhea M. Carrick Oh, little book, Within your cover lies he truths of heaven bared before our eyes, There are beauties of earth and of the skies. The love of friends and happy family ties Upon each Page, some 8tacious, helpful thought— In Poetry or Prose, it matters nop Your mission to the world has just begun, You cannot falter til] the race js Tun And all God's children have become 4S one; Content, at last to say, "Thy wil] be done." the house came the great chorus © hey bat tled the natural pests © ws on a warm summer day, kept rhythm with the clicking of their heels and the steady ting, ting, of the bell on the lead cow: The heat was peginning to shimmer up from the earth, pringing Page 190 from the eating of trails by many hard hoofs. | hugged ™Y little the weather-worn the beasts 4 tochold, then, on down the hillside went, roughly agains and again curving about such sharp of the ground, e slithering east _ There the and hide again in the soft sand that made up the valley belo There were the me ons we bh planted between tHe roots of gnarl cedar trees aD 19] the stream Near the mouth It. Nodded and pointed to the hills ls hol] Was Y paradise, ], t above 3 d behind me and said, Ived al] anyone' sation could "You make 'em al] talk, make ¢ Ik create Te was litt] Yosemite more," alls, wh; hh Used often for a fo) rectly behing you and half 4 mile the Organ p ACTOss the valley, were the great red great Choir burst; h mes to echo and amplify the m my make-believe cathedral, 4 d learne t 'Per, and the behind m for in my triumph T had soprano ould whis Cr back, | forgotten the gentle Indian. Fy. Could, if ] Careful, pitch €Very was Sone. I could see him slow] Part, and Choir would sing, and tiding south on the dusty road ten the req ledges Would answer The Shadows of evening were ack € hills wo Id come IVE, gathering. Already HY cathedral was and al] OSE seats woul fill, and chil] t his day, after MY choir had Ten-- ridge and came through the Cluster ered an anthem, and before the of cedars. The Master Painter Was An island shore 0 edge with foam, the sea Lies bar en as q meadow with O tree. Chloe Call Later Makes Her Own Quilt Designs Chloe Call Later, Rigby, Idaho, who recently celebrated her sixty-fourth birthday, has designed many silk quilts and other articles of exquisite handwork. She is an artist in free-hand design, and no two of her quilts are alike. Her patterns range from lovable bunnies to a "proposal under a weeping willow tree." This love of artistic expression began when Mrs. Later was a girl in Primary, when she pieced blocks to make a quilt top and presented the finished article to a needy family in the ward, Her first baby quilt, or carriage robe, was made in 1928 for her first grandchild. Since that date she has designed and made over two hundred silk quilts. She has also assisted in making hundreds of quilts in Relief Society and has directed the making of many other quilts. A soft, golden silk quilt is now being completed by Mrs. Later in anticipation of the graduation of one of her granddaughters. Each of her children, and every married grandchild has, to this date, received one of her lovely silk quilts. Mrs. Later's talents and industry also extend to many other types of handwork, including crocheting, embroidery, and the making of exquisite bags and greeting cards. Mrs. Later has served in all of the Church auxiliary organizations, except the Sunday School. Her Relief Society activities have been extensive, including eight years as work director for Rigby Stake Relief Society, five years as president in Bremerton, Washington, ten years as a member of the sewing committee in Rigby Second Ward, and thirty-six years as a visiting teacher, Mrs. Later is mother to nine children, grandmother to eighteen, and great-grandmother to two. She also does genealogy work and sings in the ward and stake choirs. <> Communiouin: Dora Toone Brough Prayer is a key God gave to us Whereby we might commune with him, To seek for wisdom, peace, and truth, And keep faith's light from growing dim. Page 192 asement Windows With the natural lighting having all the SS dungeon If the Ouse is built to provide for large basement Windows, jt looks like @ house on Stilts, A sunken garden adjacent to It allows f, | a part of the room. Behind the f ckground, and The light from the large yj OOMS upstairs Page 193 Today I Reveal Them Rose A. Openshaw O one can steal the treasures of my childhood, which I have kept locked in a jewelled box in a remote corner of my heart. The jewels are composed of hope and joy and tears, and today, for the first time, I shall take them out one by one and reveal them. Some of them, perhaps, may strike an echo in your own soul, for no doubt you have treasures that are quite similar. These treasures are priceless; and while once they were concrete acts or objects or words, through memory they have resolved themselves into cherished scenes or pictures, and of these was the fulness of my childhood composed. It was composed of being carried on my father's shoulders to church, until the gash in my foot, cut on broken glass in a stream, mended; or of mother holding the injured part over a plate of live coals, from which smoke from burning sugar twirled and swirled upward, to cure it. Of finding a beautiful doll with brown hair and eyes on the only Christmas tree we ever had, long stockings hung from mantels over the fireplace being the usual order. Of hugging in rapture the wooden cradle my father in his tenderness made for my doll. Or being unable to play, or scarcely to eat when mother's head ached; and of worrying and praying for her all the day long, when she made the horse and buggy trips to Phoenix, for sometimes the horse was balky and she might get hurt! Page 194 Of corn-roasts in which neighbors of all ages took part, and of the glorious game of "Run-Sheep-Run," played by all of us afterwards. Of my chum and I being commended by our teachers for "always being prepared," and so privileged for out-of-door study. Of the fig tree between our homes where we nailed a box and daily placed notes when we couldn't visit each other. Of being surprised, when I was ill, by the gift, from my sister Delta, of a gorgeous jade velvet hood, lacedecorated in ecru, for my doll, which has endeared my sister to me through all the long years that have followed. Of helping my brother Frank locate and repair weak places in fences, working with redoubled energy after his words of praise that I was better help than the boys he had had. Of getting up entertainments, aided by my chum, to which the entire village paid a nickel admission charge. Much of the program, of dialogues, tableaux, readings, and welcoming speeches was composed by ourselves. Of being present for a campfire meal just as the desert's shadows were growing purple-faced from stretching their long limbs before retiring, and of smelling the aroma of potatoes, onions, and bacon stewing together, and the fragrance of hot bread fresh from a_bakeoven. Of standing around with my lit- TODAY | REVEAL THEM for tender hand ) Ponsoring Sewing clubs so We could make pin Cushions and Other item for gifts Y Most dreadeq task of all—taking milk five mj along the Way. Of gathering Plums with the first tint of TOse on their Cheeks and burying them in Of helping MY married Sister, Etta, Whose health was Poor, with the strange animals and + € unbelieyable Performance, and be; at the noon. And of Seeing the uge, 'VOry-colored, Massive-shelleq "888 firsthand, The Deeper Melody CHAPTER 6 Alice Morrey Bailey Synopsis: Steven 'Thorpe, a widower with three small children, is in love with Margaret Crain, a registered nurse who has taken care of his baby during an attack of pneumonia. Margaret's mother, a widow, is temporarily acting as Steven's housekeeper, and Margaret has accepted the position of night superintendent at the hospital until her marriage to Dr. Rex Harmon. In the meantime Steven has been made vice-president of the Pikes Peak Machinery Company and finds himself unwillingly accepting invitations from Miss 'Tate, his secretary. One night as Steven and Miss 'Tate are leaving the theatre they meet Margaret and Dr. Harmon. TEVE, had never seen Margaret S out of uniform before, and he noticed how stunning she was, a second before he recognized her. From looking coldly elegant beside her partner, she suddenly turned radiant when she saw Steve. "Steve!" she said, "Steve Thorpe." Her greeting was so warm and friendly that her partner eyed him with suspicion, and he felt Miss Tate stiffen at his side. He introduced her to Margaret. "Rex, this is Steve Thorpe, little Phyllis' father." The two men shook hands civilly. Steve commented, "I thought you were on duty at this time of night," and she answered: "My night off!" That was all. Certainly it wasn't enough to set free a strange hope in Steve's heart—a hope that flew on stunted wings and floundered to impotence. All night long he argued with himself that her look of glad recognition was nothing more than Page 196 the cordial greeting of a friend, and all night he was haunted by it. He admitted ruefully, to himself, that Dr. Harmon was a distinguished looking man, in a distinguished profession, and was a perfect compliment of her chic beauty. "When is this wedding?" he asked Mrs. Crain next morning at breakfast. '"Margaret's?" "Yes, Margaret's. Day?" "Tt will be on a Monday—two weeks from tomorrow," informed Mrs. Crain. '"Hadn't you better be doing something about replacing me?" "T can't replace you, Mother Crain," said Steve. He should have been thinking of that, the effect on his children, when Mrs. Crain would be gone and he had to plunge into the nightmare of a new regime. Instead, he had been thinking of himself—with Margaret lost to him forever, and his heart lunged in panic at the few days left. "The children haven't taken to Mrs. Hall a bit, and I have only one more week with them, you know. Steve, you ought to get married." "So I've heard," said Steve cryptically. "Any suggestions as to the victim?" "That Miss Tate would marry you at the drop of a hat!" "T don't love Miss Tate, nor does she love me for that matter." "T wouldn't be surprised if you married her, or she married you, Exactly what THE DEEPER MELODY just the same," said Mrs. Crain equably. It stirred fury in Steve. "Mrs. Crain," he said, "I have been advised a number of times to remarry. Each time my advisor has said the same as you say, you should remarry. Each has neglected to suggest that I fall in love again. I have always had an idea that two people should love each other, in order to marry. Perhaps I am old-fashioned or juvenile in my thinking. Perhaps | should be set straight on this." RS. Crain sat up and looked at Steve in surprise. "My land! You're just as right as you can be, Steve. I know I would feel the same, even at my age, if I were considering getting married, but here I go advising you to just get married, without any feeling at all, just as a matter of convenience." She put her chin im her hand, considering. "Still, I know literally hundreds of couples who are married who don't really love each other," she went on. "Some of them respect each other, though, and it seems to work out pretty well. Maybe you ought to think of that, Steve. You do need a wife—and your little ones need a mother. Maybe you will never love again, and...." "T do love again, Mrs. Crain, and anything less is not good enough for me. I love your daughter. I love Margaret." "So you love Margaret," Mrs. Crain said after a long moment. "T might have known." "You see how hopeless it is?" "Does Margaret know this?" "Certainly not. She has enough to think about, without me being a nuisance to her." 197 "Tt is never a nuisance for a woman to know a man loves her." "You can't be serious! At this late date? It was already too late when I met her. You know that." "T don't know any such thing— but it will be in two more weeks." "What are you saying?" A pulse was thudding heavily in Steve. "What would Margaret say to all this?" "T haven't the slightest idea," said Mrs. Crain coolly. "But I think any girl has the right to choose between the men who love her." "Of course!" agreed Steve, directlv hit by her logic. He went swiftly to the telephone and called Margaret. Her sleepy voice ran through his veins like an electric shock. "T have to see you, Margaret." "Is anything wrong? Phyllis? Mother?" "Everyone is fine. Could I come and see you right away?" "Steve!" There was a long silence, then her voice came small and miserable. "I'm sorry. Dr. Harmon is free today. He'll be here for me in half an hour." "This afternoon, then? You go on duty?" "We're going for a drive. We'll not be back until barely time for me to get into my uniform." "How about tonight, when you come off duty?" Steve persisted. "He's picking me up then." 'Ts there any time when I can see you?" "Saturday. It's my day off...." "This won't wait until Saturday," said Steve desperately. "Can't you tell me now, over the phone?" Margaret suggested. "Give me some idea what you have in mind." Before 198 "It concerns you and me, Margaret, and I don't want to discuss it over the telephone." "T think I'd better not see you— at all," said Margaret, her voice suddenly weak. "As you wish," said Steve through stiff lips, and hung up, his hope deflated. Wer had her voice changed? Why had she not made some way for him to see her? Steve was sure she could have. Had she guessed his message? Of course she had, and certainly she wouldn't want to see him. He was a fool to hope, anyway. What woman in her right mind would want a man with a family of children, the position of being a second wife? Still, Steve himself had rather rosy prospects. Being vice-president of PPMC was no small thing, and J. T. Had assured him that he would not only become its president, but its eventual owner. Nevertheless, Steve felt anything but secure. It depended solely upon him—if he could increase his capacity to cover all the responsibilities, and he was not sure he could. Some inward adversity seemed to dog him since he acquired his new status, some loss of self-assurance, and he wondered if the seeds of eventual failure were deep within him. He studied, he worked, he went over old ledgers and old methods, crammed on facts about their clientele. He knew selling and business management all right, and had a pretty good knowledge of machinery, but he soon learned that the head of a company must know every man's job almost better than he did himself. The company was RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1954 staffed with experts, so Steve spent hours in each department, not sparing himself. Each morning he went forth determined to be fully adequate for the day's requirements, but each night's appraisal left much to be desired in his own opinion. Some of it, he knew, stemmed from his domestic problem, fear and concern for his children, their rearing with hired help, and some of it, most surely, was a result of his frustrated love for Margaret, and of his shock in finding in himself the ability to love again, with the alternate fire and ice of hope and despair. Now, after this morning's conversation with her, she seemed again completely beyond his reach. The work into which he had resolved to plunge was there waiting for him when he arrived; the men had already started to load the heavy machinery of a new order onto the flatcars. Steve charged into J. T.'s office. "T thought you said we'd change that cable before we started loading another order," he said furiously. "Steve, but do you realize this is the Kettle Creek machinery we're loading—and it's several weeks overdue now.". "T don't care whose machinery it is," said Steve. "If you don't give the order to stop it, I will." "You give it then," said J. T. Softly. "I wondered just how long before you would. I have been watching you, boy. You've been addled a lot of times when your mind should have been clear, and your stand firm. You're still thinking in terms of a salesman. A word to the foreman the minute you saw that cable needed fixing, would have done it. In fact, he should THE DEEPER MELODY have seen it and told you. I was beginning to be a mite disappointed in the future head of the company." "You mean you were baiting me all along?" Steve demanded hotly. "And if so, why do it when men's lives are in danger?" "You don't test a man in extremity without an extremity," said J. T. "You old walrus!" Steve took time to say before he went down the ramp to stop the crane. [T was too late, for even as he lifted his arm to signal, the cable broke, plunging a roll-crusher sickeningly between the flatcar and the dolley. Fortunately for Sam Dillon, who was directly underneath, the edge of the car broke the fall, or he would have been killed instantly. As it was his upper thigh was struck. The men were organized in safety, and it was only a few amazing seconds until an ambulance was there and Sam was on the way to the hospital. Steve ran for his car and followed. The day was a nightmare of waiting outside Sam's door, breaking the news to Sam's wife, comforting her, waiting outside the operating room while Sam was in surgery, but Sam finally woke up from the anaesthesia to give him a wavery grin. "The doctor says you're going to be all right, guy," he said. "We'll take care of the family, so don't worry." Then Steve decided he wouldn't leave because an accident had brought him to Margaret's hospital, and at three o'clock she would be on duty somewhere within it. He was going to see her whether she 199 wished him to or not. He curbed himself to wait until three-twenty so that any business might be cleared away, then he sought the main floor and the door marked "Superintendent of Nurses." She was at her desk, and, miraculously alone. She looked up from her work and joy flooded her face. "Steve!" she said, rising and putting an impulsive hand out to him, a hand which Steve tried not to crush. "Steve, how nice to see you." He saw her remember that morning's conversation, and then flush. "It is good," said Steve, searching her face. It was as he remembered it, the clean line of her jaw, the wide, clear brown brows beneath the white wing of her cap, the smooth skin and the sweet upturn of her mouth. Light from a nearby window made her eyes seem a translucent blue, her teeth translucent pearl, when she smiled, and touched a satin patch on one cheek where Steve longed to kiss. "It was very good—so good that I had to see you again. Have you forgotten us?" "Oh, no, not forgotten. I think of you a great deal—and the babies, but I thought it best for me and for the children—and for you, Steve, for me not to come again." Oh! So she had guessed, just as he thought, and was trying to discourage his romantic intentions. Well, it was too late for that. "I can't forget you, Margaret. My house is haunted by you. I have to talk to you. Right now." "L'm on duty, Steve," she hedged. "The hospital rules... A "T have to break down a barrier 200 somewhere. It might as well be hospital rules!" OR answer she picked up the telephone. "Don't disturb me except for an emergency," she told the operator. She went over and closed her door, drew up a chair for Steve, and resumed her seat behind her desk. "Now," she said, "go ahead." Steve was suddenly disconcerted. Now that he had his way, he was overwhelmed with doubts. 'This was not the time nor the place to tell Margaret his love. It was certainly not the circumstances he wanted. He had imagined hours of conversation preceding his declaration. If he must blurt it out in these sterile surroundings, _ this clinical atmosphere, what little chance it had would come to nothing. On the other hand, if all her free time was devoted to Dr. Harmon, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1954 and she was avoiding him, and would not see him voluntarily, this moment loomed up as his. Single opportunity. This most important moment of his life was threatened every moment with interruption, threatened by this fear which paralyzed his tongue. J. T.'s words came starkly to him "... You have been addled a lot of times when yout mind should have been clear." There came to him a deep truth, the race is already lost to the timid, the doubtful, the ones lacking in faith. Margaret was watching him, and he realized he had been gazing at her while he thought. He took a deep breath and straightened in his chair, acting a courage which he did not feel. "I came to tell you that I love you," he said. "I want you to be my wife." (To be continued) —— i> — Mlorning Gs Her Delight Lael W. Hill Morning is her delight—she wakens smiling, Barefoot, she dances over the dawn-cool floor; She runs from one room to another, eager, calling In formless words, finding new day everywhere. Still in her small white gown, she slips out softly; Sky is no brighter than her sky-bright eyes. Only the breeze can touch a leaf more deftly; Sparrows turn toward her laugh, lawn tickles her toes. Captured at last into shoes and a dress for playing, Given the usual toys (soon s She watches for sun through cattered and spilled) windows with curtains blowing.. -. Morning is her delight, she is morning's child. 6 al pieces of linens, - Reli Society Presidents; » and Hattie Jensen mmerman lS president of the Westem States Page 20) 202 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1954 Photograph submitted by JennaVee Hall GOODING STAKE (IDAHO), HAGERMAN WARD VISITIN ACHIEVE 100 PER CENT G TEACHERS RECORD FOR ALMOST TWO YEARS Photograph taken at the opening social, September 29, Anna H. Toone, President, C ce was unusually successful: anadian Mission Relief Society, reports that this conferen "We had 185 Relief Socie ty sisters in attendance. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 203 From the two branches Timmins and Sault St. Marie twelve sisters traveled one thou. These had never been in a Latter-day work and welfare from the various branches Was exhibited. It was a glonous occasion; the Spirit of the Lord was Present in rich abundance. Those who were Present were Photograph submitted by Muriel s. Wallis UINTAH STAKE (UTAH), DAVIS WARD RELIEF SOCIETY BAZAAR October 1953 Left to tight: Vera Olsen, President; Viola Goodrich, First Counselor; Cora Cook, work meeting leader; Stella Sadleir, Second Counselor. As a summer sewing project the members of Davis Ward Relief Society made 121 different types of articles from colorful feed bags. These articles were displayed at the county and State fairs. They were then sold at the Relief Society bazaar. This unusually successful project was Outstanding in the great variety of useful articles made 204 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1954 Photograph submitted by Elsie J. Brinkerhoff KANAB STAKE (UTAH), ORDERVILLE WARD, TWELVE RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS Front row, seated, left to right: Lillian B. Carroll (1924-27); Martha Porter (1927- 33); Lucy H. Esplin (1933-36); Chastie Esplin (1936-40); Mercy Chamberlain (1940- i Back row, standing, left to right: Bessie E. Brooksby (1944-46); Velma B. Carroll (1947-49); Mahalia 'T. Sorensen (1947-1949); Arvilla J. Heaton (1949-1950) and 1952 - ); Helen A. Neilson (1950-52). Inserts: left, Helen Jane Palmer (1917-21), now a resident of St. George; right, Emma Seegmiller Higbee (1904-17), now a resident of Cedar City. All of these women, except the two last mentioned, who have moved away, are still loyal and active members of the Orderville Relief Society. Elsie J. Brinkerhoff is president of Kanab Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Helen B. Walker POCATELLO STAKE (IDAHO) RELIEF SOCIETY HONORS VISITING TEACHERS OVER SEVENTY-FIVE YEARS OLD Front row, seated at the left: Kezia McDonald and Marie Ames; at right: Margaretta Coffin and Ruth Morgan. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 205 Second row, standing, left to right: Martha Richards; Elizabeth Rupp; Mary Breedlove; Bertha Meyers; Alice Hayball; Sarah Gray; Anna Belnap; Harriett Peterson; Lillie Reddish; Margaret Norman; Gertrude Watson; Necha Barron; Eliza Jackson; Agnes Whitmore; Lucy Richards. Third tow, standing, left to ught: Bertha Pieper, First Counselor; Helen Walker, President, Pocatello Stake Relief Society; Hermoine Horton, Second Counselor. At a party given to honor the visiting teachers of the stake, special recognition was accorded to these sisters, all of them over seventy-five years of age. A short history of the Relief Society service of each woman was given and each was presented with a corsage. Way Down Ynside Margaret Lundstrom > a homely little fellow!" 'I'he woman in front of me nudged her companion as she spoke. "T should say so!" came the reply. "Like a mud fence, he is." Jimmy walked on across the stage, his straight little body intent as he carried the Cub Scout banner proudly. Is Jimmy homely? I wondered. I'd never thought so. And if Tom had, he'd never told me. Wouldn't we know, when we'd looked at him every day for eight years? Think of the way he got up in the morning, his eyes bright from sleep as he chirped, "Good morming, Mother, I love you!"'; or the smile he gave the doctor when he was told he had the mumps, and it was the day before the school picnic. "It hurts so much to smile," he said, his voice a whisper, since it had to squeeze past the lump in his throat, "that I guess I couldn't probably stand it to cry, so that's why I'm not." And the day Annie left the gate open, and the puppy got out, and the busy street with its inevitable car. I dreaded telling him, piling his heartache and tears on top of my own. But he put his arm about my shoulders and rubbed his snubby, freckled nose against my cheek and whispered, "That's all right, Mommy. Don't cry." I looked again at Jimmy as he stood there on the stage, over at one side, now. And when I looked at the backs of the women in front of me, and I thought: you don't really see Jimmy. If you did..... And all the way home, walking along the shaded streets with his plump, sticky little fingers entwined through mine, I kept trying to think of something. Something like "Beauty is only skin deep," only, of course, that wasn't it. The irony of it made me chuckle. Jimmy's fingers squeezed mine and his round face turned up to me. "You're laughing at yourself, aren't you, Mom?" "Yes. But how'd you know?" Ile skipped twice on one foot, and scuffed a stray leaf from the toe of one shoe. "Weell..." he drawled thoughtfully, "it came from way down inside you." IIc skipped again. "And it was quiet, like nobody else had to hear if they didn't want to." It was atter that, maybe a dozen steps nearer home, that I felt the pity. It was i heavy thing in my chest, and it was for those two women who had sat in front of me who hadn't been able to see a little boy's beautiful heart because it lay behind a plain, little face. ASE CANTATAS for LADIES THREE-PART CHORUSES a Eastertide—Protheroe _.......75 i Eastertide—Avery.................75 ee From Darkness to Light— Tschaikowsky...............-..-.--.80 _.... Glory to Easter (Two Part) —Norman _ ooo.80 = Life Eternal—Holton...........80 — Memories of Easter Morn —Lorenz 2.02....80 WE PAY POSTAGE — Music Sent on Approval — Use this advertisement as your order blank DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 45-47 South Main Salt Lake City 1, Utah | Please send the music indicated above. ] On Approval CO Charge _) Money Enclosed | 1 Address i | CG FIRST OF ALL — RELIABILITY 45-47 SOUTH i YWlus ' MAIN STREET SALT LAKE CITY 1, UTAH Page 206 Ba throom Sricks Pottep Piants IN THE BATHROOM Elizabeth Williamson Bathrooms become enriched and more attractive by adding small pots of flowers or leafy plants. A metal container on the tile dressing table is especially effective. 'The most charming effect is a philodendron which grows up and across the top of the room, or around the dressing table. -_ Hurry Home Elsie McKinnon Strachan Someone fashioned for loving Is waiting your return, Cheering the place With diminutive grace And sweet, blue-eyed concern. Someone heart-warmed and fragrant, Petal-soft and new, Has come to stay And spends all day Reminding me of you. City & State.... Oepreancsroccsameameamcccoccnccces f Brighten the Cieher Where (8 Ou Ase Caroline Eyring Miner Lc was one good man's Philosophy that one was never fully dressed until he had "put on a smile." Since I was a child and learned to sing lustily, "Little Purple Pansies," with the lines: "We are very tiny, but must try, try, try, just one spot to gladden, you and I," I have believed with all my heart that it was our very great responsibility to be cheerful and thus to lighten the burdens of those about us. It is not nearly so important in life what happens to us as the way we take what happens to us. Some people have the happy faculty of making steppingstones out of obstacles, and some have the great misfortune of making mountains of trouble out of molehills. My mother had sheer genius for living a gloriously complete and happy life in the midst of poverty and adversity. As a little gitl, she tried to work her "Happy Game" on her younger brothers and sisters. Living in Mexico in the early days of Latter-day Saint colonization was very difficult, and sometimes the families were hungry. I have heard my uncle tell how mother would say to him, "Now, Thomas, you know you've had all the pancakes you could eat. Assent, although he hardly knew why. Mark ly cheerful and has cheered othe You've really had plenty," and he had nodded Mother has seen good in everything that has come to her, and so has been rethe most wonderful home a person could ever have, her children the kindest and most considerate, her town the most friendly. And so they were to her. She saw the silver lining while it was still dark to others. "It's the songs ye sing and the smiles where." In the midst of sorrow and ¢ ye wear that are making the sunshine everyonfusion, it would be well for each person to feel a personal responsibility to "put on a smile" and "make a little sunshine wherever he goes." Spring Santasy Verda Mackay If you're searching for adventure You needn't go away; You'll find it in your own back yard On any fine spring day. Start looking at the butterflies Awhirl like colored snow, Walk softly through the slender grass The gentle breezes blow. So linger in the sun-warmed light, You'll know true peace of mind. It's the best form of adventure That anyone can find. 4 Our Can Evelyn Fjeldsted The past records that once our town Could be circled by a morning ride, Yucca lily plots and cactus beds Thrived in dust storms far and wide. With guided streams, wild sagebrush tracts Became a land where sunlight fell On homes and fields that were enclosed By hills that formed a citadel. The hawk still hangs aloof in skies That bend above tranquility; The prairie wolf is heard no more— Our town has walked with destiny. Page 207 ab ts. Her humble home has always been to her Orcha | tn Bloom Eva Willes Wangsgaard A thousand constellations Have made this plum tree white A Milky Way of fragrance Has paused on earth tonight The apricot is festooned With living Pleiades, And never stars of heaven More radiant than these. And light was never whiter Than this syringa hedge, And never was there cherry To swear a whiter pledge. More white than hills of winter This fragrant living snow, More luminous than stardust, More warm than moonlight glow. The popularity of an Electric Clothes Dryer is skyrocketing! WY gee: gd fs Buy From Your Dealer Be Thrifty ~ Use Electricity UTAH POWER & LIGHT COMPANY VIDA FOX CLAWSON Announces Three 1954 Conducted Tours HAWAII Sails from San Francisco April 19 From Los Angeles May 24 ALASKA Leaves Salt Lake City July 21 HISTORIC TRAIN Leaves Salt Lake City August 6 The HISTORIC TRAIN includes: Shrines of the Church, the Pageant at the Hill Cumorah, and many large eastern cities. For complete details write or phone: VIDA FOX CLAWSON 966 E. So. Temple—Telephone 4-2017 Salt Lake City, Utah Page 208 The Pride of Your Library! Your Relief Society Magazines when handsomely bound into permanent yearly volumes acquire new value as excellent reference books. Just $2.50 (Cloth Binding) $3.50 (Leather Binding) Per Volume If necessary to mail them to you, the following postage rates will apply. Distance from Up to 150 miles 22... 5 300 to 600 miles —....-. 0.... 34 600 to 1000 miles 2000... 242 1000 to 1400 miles 200. OT 1400 to 1800 miles..;.. Nr ||) Over 1800 miles.. Sesccdacecsdéeee. GO Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press 31 Richards St. Salt Lake City, Utah Phone 4-258] [o<a) Salt Lake City, Utah 150 to 300 miles —..2.0 en... Rate.28 HOW MANY OF THESE BOOKS BY JOSEPH FLELDING SMITH DO YOU HAVE IN YOUR LIBRARY? 1. ESSENTIALS IN CHURCH HISTORY Joseph Fielding Smith A careful analysis has been made of all colorful historical happenings in the founding and establishing of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Here is a worthy and concise history that highlights the most significant data obtainable. $4.00 2. WAY TO PERFECTION Joseph Fielding Smith The purpose of daily living is to live in such a way that ~The way To Perfect! For one who is an authority, the way is evident. $2.00 aantasloccen Ore s aa Yen" amici ea 3. RESTORATION OF ALL THINGS — Joseph Fielding Smith Here is an accurate inventory of all truths that have been restored to us through our Prophet and Revelator, Joseph Smith, and the promise to those who are re ful 2.75 4. TEACHINGS OF THE PROPHET JOSEPH SMITH Joseph Fielding Smith This offers a complete compilation and explanation of the teachings of the Prophet, Joseph Smith. Teachers will find this book especially helpful in lesson prepara tions. $3.50 i. Irri ony ted de eee. OR et ae) oe Oe a vo - re a. =: 4g pes... 44 East South Temple -- Salt Lake City, Utah, _— son 4985 So a 8 CrP PAV EY, SA DESERET BOOK CO.; 44 E. South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah Please send the following circled books: 1 2 3 4 for which | enclose check ( ) or money order ( ) for Residents of Utah please add 2% sales tax. En we become worthy of the greatest glory of Eternal Life. U. S. POSTAGE 2¢ Paid PERMIT No. 690 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH RI-E §-174-29327 DEC 54 ieee iu.) SECURITY aS FOR YOUR Today you can give your family the same security that a fortune in the bank would provide. The Beneficial Life Insurance Company offers modern family Income Insurance plans that will guarantee your family a regular income to live on in comfort, in case anything happens to you! There is a plan to suit your present income. For the sake of your own peace of mind... And your family's future... Let your Beneficia) Life underwriter help you plan your insurance needs. BENEFICIAL LIFE Insurance Company David O. McKay, Pres. Salt Lake City - Utah MAG@GAZiIN ® VOL. 41 | NO. 4 ny ial Short Story Issue APRIL 1954 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - - - - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - First Counselor Velma N. Simonsen - - _Second Counselor Margaret C. Pickering - - Secretary-Treasurer Mary G. Judd Evon W. Peterson Christine H. Robinson Charlotte A. Larsen Anna B. Hart Leone O. Jacobs Alberta H. Christensen Edith P. Backman Edith S. Elliott Mary J. Wilson Mildred B. Eyring Winniefred S Florence J. Madsen Louise W. Madsen Helen W. Anderson Manwaring Leone G. Layton Aleine M. Young Gladys S. Boyer Elna P. Haymond Blanche B. Stoddard Josie B. Bay RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - = - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - = - = - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Vol. 41 APRIL 1954 NO. 4 Con tents SPECIAL FEATURES The Resurrection of Jesus Marion G. Romney 212 Join the Crusade Against Cancer.. A Sandra Munsell 228 Nevada's Valley of Fire o.... C.. Ceccceetecccceeeee - Willard Luce 236 Double 13X56 eer cre roe PEPPR PRE cereLena Woodbury 237 Participation in Reliet Society "Can Help "Achieve True. Happiness Do sacoceensenels SEEdith Kaneko 259 "Within Our Reach" Donna Day 262 FICTION — SPECIAL APRIL SHORT STORIES The Best Years of Her Life Pansye H. Powell 216 What It Takes ooeccccccccccccccecccscncesesesesecceceneesesesesensnenenenenesseseseeensneees Kay Islaub 223 Second Best.... _- Blanche Sutherland 229 The Part-Time Heart _ Hannah Smith 248 SERIAL The Deeper Melody — Chapter 7..... A Alice Morrey Bailey 266. GENERAL FEATURES Woman ''s Sphere — _ seeteteteeetetteeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee Ramona W. Cannon 239 Editorial: Arbor Doty.20.0..-.2.0-..-.--cnccccccecssseceesnsonseseenenescnssencenteeoessseansncseusneornsssseseseseeeeeonseseVelma N. Simonsen 240 Nellie W. Jae Resigns from the General Board....... _ 241 Notes to the Field: ''A Centenary of Relief Society'' Out Of Prirnt cocccsssesescessssosstovsssvvsnesssessecsssnsnansesne 242 Book of Mormon Reading Project 2.0..-2....1.-:: ccsccsceeessceeecsnneenseesssseeeeetenneccenescaeneeseasesss 242 Prelude MuSic.00......-.2:.-cccecsscscceecesoconeseacsceessnesesseasecsacesesececceaseverensesenneneseusee seus: Florence 'Jepperson Madsen 243 Books for Organists and Pianists 2.0.0.2... Cece cceeeeceneeeeneeeeeeeeeeeeeceeees 244 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities... From Near and Far — Margaret C. Pickering Be 4 FEATURES FOR THE HOME Summer Fireplace Elizabeth Williamson 245 Let Your Table Tell a Story coceeenerereeseeenneveneeeee Helen §. Williams 246 Gardening for the Home Freezer cevececaneee C. W. McCullough 253 New Designs for Easter Eggs 256 Handwork Hobbies Bring Happiness (Rose Paskett Cooke Thompson). 258 TV Viewers — Down in Front Eloise Strinz 265 POETRY "Even the Moonligh — Tg by Eva Willes Wangsgaard, 211; "Stanzas_on Light,"' by Maryhale Woo 'Forever Mine,'' by Della Adams Leitner, 999, ° 'The First Sprin if Crocus, by Thelma nae 235; "It Happens Ever Spring,"' by Verda Mackay, 24 "Directions for Gardening,"' by Maude Rubin, 257; ''First B oom,"' by Sudie Stuart Hager, 257; 'Desert Flowers,'' by Vesta N, Lukei, 257; "Tulips in the Wind," by Evelyn Fjeldsted, 261; "It Must Be — ag by Hilda V. Cameron, 261; 'Sunshine and Rain,' ' by Ruth K. Kent, 261; 'After Long Years y Beatrice Knowlton Ekman, 264; 'Apprehension, "' i Alice Whitson Norton, 265: "Dogwood Time,' by Mary Gustafson, 279; "Silent Return," by Blanch Kendall McKey, 279. PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 40 North Main, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 8, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Sixty Years Ago oooe. Cccc. Ccccccccceccccceeeccessceeceecessecceeseeeceecescecsessesesesesesseeeeeseeceteneceessesssesseraneesees 238 Fruit of the Loom nylons [29 PERFECT BALANCE 60-15's Ultra sheer 60 gauge, 15 denier nylons, knit closer and to give you more Stret wear, Stronger ch, more more snag resistance and the dull finish you love! Slimming, accented seams, 835-1], Proportioned: Short, Average, Tall, ZCMI HOSIERY Downstairs Store Mail Orders To: | Pa MARGOT MANNERS, ZCMI if Salt Lake City 10, Utah f Include 3¢ postage for first eo pair of hosiery and T¢ for & each additional pair. Utah ~. Residents add 2% State tax, Will burn their beauty on the heart ang bring A prescience born of j °Y, when winter comes, The goldenrod's long bry On autumn's Scene outlin For every petal lost a se Shes Painting sun € the form of grief ed begun, ——— The Cover: Night Blooming Cereus, Photograph by Josef Muench Frontispiece: Jefferson Memorial, Washington, D. C. Hotograph by. Ewing Galloway Cover Design by Evan Jensen The Resurrection of Jesus Elder Marion G. Romney Of the Council of the Twelve HIS response to an invitation, TT graciously extended by the able Editor of The Relief Society Magazine, is made in humility and with sincere appreciation. It affords opportunity to bear witness to the resurrection of Jesus to a very select group—the women of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and other readers of this great Magazine—and to set forth, in part at least, the basis upon which that witness stands. When we speak of Jesus being resurrected, we mean that his preexistent spirit, which animated his mortal body—from his birth in the manger until he died on the cross— re-entered that body; and they two, his spirit body and his physical body, inseparably welded together, arose from the tomb an immortal soul. Our belief is, and we so testify, that Jesus not only conquered death for himself and brought forth his own glorious resurrected body, but that in so doing he also brought about a universal resurrection. 'This was the end and purpose of the mission to which he was set apart and ordained in the great council in heaven when he was chosen to be our Savior and Redeemer. Concerning his earthly ministry, his role as Redeemer required of him four things: First, that his pre-mortal spirit be clothed with a mortal body, the accomplishment of which was heaven announced when to the lowly Page 212 shepherds the angel said, "Fear not.... For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Saviour, which is Christ the Lord" (Luke 2:10-11). Second, that he suffer the pains of all men, which he did, principally, in Gethsemane, the scene of his great agony. He himself described that suffering as being of such intensity that it caused "myself, even God, the greatest of all, to tremble because of pain, and to bleed at every pore, and to suffer both body and spirit—and would that I might not drink the bitter cup, and shrink —Nevertheless, glory be to the Father, and I partook and finished my preparations unto the children of men" (D. & C. 19:18-19). Third, that he give his life. His death on the cross, after having been rejected and betrayed and after having suffered appalling indignities, seems not to be in dispute, even among non-believers. 'That he gave his life voluntarily, with the express purpose of taking it up again in the resurrection, is not so universally accepted. Such, however, is the fact. He was, it is true, maliciously slain by wicked men, but all the while he held the power to stay them. "I lay down my life," he said, "that I might take it again. No man taketh it from me, but I lay it down of myself. I have power to lay it down, and I have power to take it again" (John 10:17-18). This power was inherently his by virtue of his being born of the Vir- THE RESURRECTION OF JESUS gin Mary (a mortal), the Son of God (an immortal celestialized Being). Having thus taken upon himself mortality, having suffered for the sins of all men in Gethsemane, and having given his life on the cross, there remained for him but to break the bonds of death—the fourth and last requirement—to complete his earthly mission as Redeemer. That the whole of his mortal life moved toward this consummation he had repeatedly taught. It was foreshadowed in his statement about laying down his life and taking it up again. To the sorrowing Martha he had said, "I am the resurrection, and the life" (John 11:25); and to the Jews, "Destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up" (John 2:19). ESURRECTION was so foreign to human experience that even his believing followers had difficulty comprehending it. The doctrine, however, had been heard even by the crucifiers. Being disturbed by it, they came to Pilate "Saying, Sir, we remember that that deceiver said, while he was yet alive, After three days I will rise again." So with Pilate's consent they set a watch "lest his disciples come by night, and steal him away, and say unto the people, He is msen from the dead" (Mt. 27:63-64). Thus it came about that these hireling guards unwittingly became witnesses to the opening of the tomb by the angel (Mt. 28:2-4), the final preliminary to the appearing of the "tisen Lord." The evidence that Jesus was resurrected is conclusive. Five times on the Sunday following his crucifixion 213 on Friday afternoon, he revealed himself. First to behold him was Mary Magdalene. Early in the morning Peter and John, having verified the fact that the body of Jesus was not in the tomb, went away. But Mary lingered in the garden weeping. Turning back from the empty tomb, she "saw Jesus standing, and knew not that it was Jesus. Jesus saith unto her, Woman, why weepest thou? Whom seekest thou? She, supposing him to be the gardener, saith... Sit, if thou have borne him hence, tell me where thou hast laid him, and I will take him away. Jesus saith unto her, Mary." Recognizing his voice, "She turned herself" as if to touch him, saying, "Rabboni; which is to say, Master" (John 20:14-16). Tenderly restraining her, he continued, "Touch me not; for I am not yet ascended to my Father: but go to my brethren, and say unto them, I ascend unto my Father, and your Father; and to my God, and your God" (John 20:17). Later, about sunrise, "Mary the mother of James, and Salome," and other women went to the tomb with spices to prepare the body for final burial. They found the tomb open and the body gone. To their consternation, they were met by two men in shining garments, who said, "Why seek ye the living among the dead? He is not here, but is risen" (Luke 24:5-6). As they went to tell his disciples, Jesus himself met them, "saying, All hail. And they came and held him by the feet, and worshipped him" (Mt. 28:9). Later the same day, as Cleopas and another journeyed to Emmaus, Jesus, unrecognized, drew near and went with them. Inquiring into "214 the nature of their conversation, they repeated to him the reports of the women. At their seeming doubt he said, "O fools, and slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken." Then opened he their understanding of the scriptures concerning him. Tarrying at Emmaus, "he took bread, and blessed it, and brake, and gave to them. And their eyes were opened, and they knew him; and he vanished out of their sight." (See Luke 24:13-31.) In the evening as the disciples heard the reports that Jesus had appeared to Simon and to Cleopas, "Jesus himself stood in the midst of them." 'To quiet their fears and give assurance that he was not a spirit, he showed them his hands, his feet, and his side, saying, "It is I myself: handle me, and see; for a spirit hath not flesh and bones, as ye see me have.... And while they yet believed not for joy, and wondered, he said unto them, Have ye here any meat? And they gave him a piece of a broiled fish, and of an honeycomb. And he took it, and did eat before them." (See Luke 24:36-43; John 20:19-23.) HUS, on this eventful day, did his former associates behold his glorious resurrected body. Not only did they see him, but they heard his voice and felt the wounds in his hands, feet, and side. In their presence he handled food and ate of it. They knew of a surety that he had taken up the body which they themselves had placed in the tomb. Their sorrow was turned to joy by the knowledge that he lived, an immortal soul. For forty days he ministered "RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1954 among his disciples in the Holy Land. He appeared unto his discip. Es again at Jerusalem, when Thomas was present, and on the shore of the Sea of 'Tiberias, where he directed them in casting for fish, invited them to dine, gave them food to eat which he himself had prepared on a fire of coals, and instructed them in the ministry. On a mountain in Galilee he commissioned the eleven to teach the gospel to all nations. And finally, after he had blessed them at Bethany, they saw him "carried up into heaven." (See Luke 24:50-53.) His mission being ended in Palestine, he paid a visit to the Nephites in America, that they, too, might know of his resurrection. His Father introduced him to them as "my Beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased." When they saw him descend from heaven, they described him as "a Man... Clothed in a white robe." He announced himself as "Jesus Christ, whom the prophets testified shall come into the world." They saw him, they heard him, and at his invitation they all "went forth, and thrust their hands into his side, and did feel the prints of the nails in his hands and in his feet," and knew of a surety and did testify that he was the resurrected Redeemer. (See 3 Nephi 11:7-15.) As he revealed himself, after his resurrection, to his followers in the Holy Land and to the Nephites in America, so he has revealed himself in our day. Indeed, this dispensation opened with a glorious vision in which the Prophet Joseph was visited by the Father and the Son. He heard their voices, for they both spoke to him. He was given THE RESURRECTION OF JESUS a personal introduction to the resurrected Jesus by the Father himself. He beheld their glorious bodies and afterwards thus described them: "The Father has a body of flesh and bones as tangible as man's; the Son also" (D. & C. 130:22). Some twelve years later the Sayior revealed himself to Joseph Smith, Jr., Sidney Rigdon being with him. They two bore testimony "That he lives! For," said they, "we saw him, even on the tight hand of God; and we heard the voice bearing record that he is the Only Begotten of the Father" (D. & C. 76:22-23). In the Kirtland Temple the Prophet saw him again, this time in company with Oliver Cowdery: "The veil was taken from our minds," they wrote, "and the eyes of our understanding were opened. We saw the Lord standing upon the breastwork of the pulpit, before us; and under his feet was a paved work of pure gold, in color like amber. His eyes were as a flame of fire; the hair of his head was white like the pure snow; his countenance shone above the brightness of the sun; and his voice was as the sound of the rushing of great waters, even the voice of Jehovah, saying: I am the first and the last; I 215 am he who liveth, I am he who was slain; I am your advocate with the Father." (D. & C. 110:1-4). From the foregoing accounts come our mental pictures of the resurrected Jesus. But the convictions we have, our testimonies that in the spirit world he was chosen and ordained to be our Redeemer; that he was born of Mary, the Only Begotten Son of God in the flesh; that he suffered for our transgressions; that on the cross he voluntarily gave his life for us; that in the resurrection he broke the bonds of death for himself and for all men; that he arose an immortal soul, the first fruits of the resurtection, appearing first to Mary Magdalene and then to the others as recorded; that he visited the Nephites; and that he has revealed himself in this dispensation to Joseph Smith and others—do not come alone from these accounts. Our own convictions and_ testimonies come by the witness of the Holy Spirit, the Holy Ghost, by whose power we know these accounts are true, and by whose power we become witnesses to the truth of the recorded events along with those who experienced them. To obtain and bear this witness is our mission. Stanzas on Light Maryhale Woolsey 1. INSEPARABLE How wrong to think of shadows Existing where deep night is! There cannot be a shadow Except where light is. II. ""Atso THE Morninc... " Never was there a night, but it made way For rosy dawning and the gold of day. Light never fails returning; have no fear, Death's darkness will be brief, with morning near. The Best Years of Her Life Pansye H. Powell UNT Tabitha's rocking chair A had sat in the same spot in the Higgins living room for over seventy years; except, that is, for those brief intervals of housecleaning when it had gone to the front porch along with the horsehair sofa, the whatnots, and the heavy rag carpets. Aunt Tabitha's mother had brought the chair with her from Kentucky when she moved to Missouri as a bride in 1885. It was not a particularly handsome chair, but it was comfortable and fitted to Aunt Tabitha's bony form. She regularly made new covers for the plump cushion that always lay on its seat and for the back-rest that eased the straightness of its back; at intervals she added a coat of paint to freshen the wood. At various times it had been painted red, blue, and green, as her fancy dictated. Its redeeming quality as a piece of furniture was that it was comfortable for her, and that it was unobtrusively a part of the general decor of the room. It was old—but so was Aunt Tabitha. She was as old-fashioned in appearance as her chair. She wore her still brownish hair in a bun on the top of her head, severely plain; she dressed as she had for the past fifty years—in dark print house dresses at home, and in simple black away from home. Everyone in Mooresville knew Aunt Tabitha. She had always lived there, except for a brief year when she had attended a young Page 216 ladies' seminary in Grantsborough, twenty miles away. Her stay at the seminary had ended abruptly when her older sister Mandy married. There was no one else to stay with her mother and father but Tabitha. She had gone home willingly enough and had eased the last years of her aging parents without much thought of herself. No suitors had vied for her hand. As the years went by, she had found much affection in Mandy's growing family, becoming friend and confidante to her nieces and nephews and later to Mandy's grandchildren. She had lived quietly, and most people thought happily following the unbroken tenor of Mooresville ways. Then Aunt Tabitha fell one winter day and broke her hip. Fortunately for her, she fell on her front steps and was seen by a neighbor passing by. When Dr. Starks arrived, he looked very serious and ordered Aunt Tabitha taken to the Gainsborough hospital at once. Two hours later, she was in a hospital bed, her little house left lonely and locked against a possible prowler. Mandy and her family did all they could to make the hospital stay pleasant. At the end of two weeks, Dr. Starks held a private conference with Mandy, the gist of which was that Aunt Tabitha's hip would be a long time healing, and she must not live alone, now or ever again. Next time she fell, she might not be so lucky. THE BEST YEARS OF HER LIFE ANDY called a meeting of her family, unknown to Aunt Tabitha. Who could move out to Mooresville to live with Aunt Tabitha? Or should they talk to her and convince her she should come to live in the city with one of them? All the time the family had sat around debating these questions, the youngest grandchild, 'Ted Browning, had sat without speaking. Everyone knew he was Aunt Tabitha's favorite of Mandy's grandchildren; he had spent weeks of his adolescent vacations out with Aunt Tabitha, and she had contributed liberally to his college training in business administration. Now, he was successfully established in a growing brokerage business and about to be married to a young schoolteacher. With all this before him, no one expected that he would even think of setting up housekeeping in Mooresville, so everyone was much surprised when he said, "Maybe Ellen and I could go out there when we are married." "Better speak to Ellen about that," his sister Irene protested. "Tl bet she'd have a different idea." "How could you manage the trip to town every day?" Mandy questioned. "Tt's no farther than people in New York and Chicago drive to work every day. And if the roads are impassable, there's that little train that makes the trip in every morning—and there are buses." "But the house..." began his older sister Marion. "Oh, Ellen and I could fix that up. I'll bet she'd get a kick out of all those antiquated belongings. 217 Anyway, I'll ask her tonight and we ll see what then." So the family conference broke up, with the other nieces and nephews secretly relieved that there might just be a way out of the dilemma that would require no sacrifice on their parts. When Aunt Tabitha was approached on the idea of moving into town with Mandy, she registered a decided negative. "Absolutely not," she declared. "I'm not going to move out of the only home I have ever had. I belong in Mooresville and there's where I'm going to stay." In spite of pain and discomfort, she was still the old Aunt Tabitha, with plenty of fire yet. That night Ted went to see her during the evening visiting hours. Ellen went with him. Ted ushered her proudly into Aunt Tabitha's room, where the elderly woman lay patiently suffering the discomforts of her inactivity. She smiled as they entered and put out her hand to Ted. "Well, Ted," she said, "it's good of you to come to see your old auntie again. And this time you've brought Ellen. How are you, my dear?" "Tm just fine," Ellen spoke cheerily. "And you're looking ever so well." "T'm doing all right, I guess; but it's a long time to be lying here and nobody in my house to keep the cobwebs down." "That's just what we've come to see you about," Ted hastened to put in. "How would you like for me and Ellen to move into the house and help you with everything?" 218 Aunt Tabitha's face broke into smiles. "I'd rather have you and Ellen than anyone else I know," she said, "but are you sure you want to do that? It's not a very fine house, you know. It's warm in winter and cool in summer; but it's not very fancy for a young couple to go into." "Oh, we've talked it all out," Ellen answered. "If you're willing, Ted will drive me down tonight and we'll look it over. We'll need your key to get in, of course. Would you mind if we did some redecorating?" "J guess a bride would want things to be fresh and clean," Aunt Tabitha agreed. "You go ahead. The doctor says I'm to be here another four weeks, and then he will let me go home." Two weeks later they had the wedding. Ellen and Ted came to see Aunt Tabitha before they left on their honeymoon trip, which they were shortening in order to have time to arrange the house before Aunt Tabitha returned to it. "We'll have everything ready for you when you can go home," they promised. "Don't worry about anything." Aunt Tabitha smiled after them, as they walked off together, Ted's arm possessively about Ellen's waist. WHEN the day came that Aunt Tabitha was to be allowed to go home from the hospital, Ted arranged for an ambulance to take her to Mooresville. She was carefully moved and returned to her little home and into a hospital bed which nad been placed in her room. Too tired to do more than sleep, she did not look around her until RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1954 she awakened the next morning to see the sun streaming into her bedroom windows as it had always done and to hear robins chirping on the lawn as they had done all her life. She moved her head carefully, looking at all the familiar furnishings of her room. The wallpaper was different, but she liked the freshness of the tiny sprigs of sweetpeas and green leaves. The curtains were new crisscross tie-backs of spotless white organdy; but the furniture was the same — her high bureau with the little mirror atop; her marble-topped washstand; and her chintz-covered box that made a seat under the south window. On her little bedside table stood a tiny brass figure with a bouffant skirt which she discovered to be a bell. In looking at it, she accidentally rang the bell. Immediately the door of her room opened gently and a cheerful voice said, "Good morning, Aunt Tabitha. How are you?" Ellen, crisp in starched pink gingham, her face smiling, came in. "Tm just fine,' Aunt Tabitha said, "and I like the way you have made my room so nice for me." "We put your own bed away until you are able to leave the hospital bed. It will be ready to put up for you as soon as you are able to get around. Shall I bring your breakfast now? Here, you freshen up a bit while I get your breakfast." Aunt Tabitha felt a glow of happiness and contentment. Surely this was to be the best time of her life. Young people with her in her own home. She ate a hearty breakfast. When Dr. Starks came the next day, he promised she " "THE BEST YEARS OF HER LIFE Sheuld be up and about in a chair within a week. Yest as he promised, a week later, Aunt 'Tabitha had a coming-out iparty. Only Ted and Ellen and Dr. Starks were present, but the occasion was a merry one for all that. Dressed in a pretty blue robe over her gown, her hair carefully combed into a neat bun on top her head, she was moved carefully from the bed into a wheelchair, and Ted pushed her slowly from her bedroom into the narrow hall of the little house and down it to the living room. Aunt Tabitha gasped with surprise when she saw what had happened to the living room. 'The roomsize rag carpets had been taken up and the floor polished into a mirror. A large oval rug had been made from the carpet, and small throw rugs from the same source filled in at doorways to the hall and dining room. New wallpaper and paint had brought freshness. Instead of the lace curtains that had hung at the big bay window, long full drapes were pulled back to let in sunshine and air. Ellen had brought her spinet piano; the horsehair sofa had been cleaned and rubbed until the rosewood gleamed. The whatnots stood in the corners as before, but the room was different and more charming than it had ever been. Ted pushed Aunt Tabitha on through the dining room, which was unchanged except for paper and paint, and into the kitchen, which gleamed with a new electric stove and refrigerator and linoleum. Aunt Tabitha drew in her breath in astonishment. "Well," she ex: 219 claimed, "I'd no idea you were doing all this." "T hope you don't mind," Ted anxiously commented. "We thought we might as well be using some of our things. We kept all yours and put them in the shed behind the house, so they'll be there if you ever want them." Aunt Tabitha did not answer. "She's growing tired," Dr. Starks said, "Musn't keep her up long this first time. 'Tomorrow maybe she can stay up a little longer." They took her back into her own room, carefully transferring her from chair to bed and lowering the back of the bed so she could drop off to sleep if she wished. The next day Aunt Tabitha seemed listless and had a poor appetite. She did not want to get up into her wheelchair. She lay apathetically, speaking only when spoken to and then only in monosyllables. Ellen was distraught. Finally she called Dr. Starks. "T don't know what's the matter," she said. "Aunt Tabitha seemed to be getting along so well —and now today she hardly touched her breakfast and lunch, and she just lies there, staring at the ceiling and doesn't even want to talk." "Tt think she had a little too much activity yesterday." Dr. Starks did not seem concerned. "Let her rest and don't bother her. Tomorrow she'll likely be herself again." Ellen worried over Aunt Tabitha until Ted came home at six. She had spent the afternoon preparing a delicious chicken dinner, because she knew Aunt Tabitha was especially fond of dumplings. She had gathered fresh flowers from the 220 garden she was so carefully tending for Aunt Tabitha and had placed a big bouquet of daisies and sweetpeas on Aunt Tabitha's table. Even these had not elicited any response from her. She had glanced at them as Ellen brought them in and had then looked away. F, LLEN went out to meet Ted in the driveway. She was almost in tears. ""Ted," she whispered, "I don't know what's the matter with Aunt Tabitha. She's so different today. Do you think she may be dying?" Ted's alarmed expression showed the sincerity of his concern. '"'What's happened?" he demanded, as he hurried to the side door. Ted stepped softly through the doorway into Aunt Tabitha's room. She looked up at him with an expressionless face. He tried to be cheerful and to act as though everything was as usual. "Hello, Aunt Tabitha. How are you tonight?" he asked, in what he tried to make his usual tone. She looked at him and _ spoke hollowly, "Ted, I am not so well." "Do you hurt somewhere? Shall I get Dr. Starks?" "No, he can't help me. I guess I'm just not meant to get well, Tee." "But you were getting well, until we put you into that wheelchair yesterday. Did we hurt you? Did we hurt your hip?" "No, Ted. I wasn't hurt. Didn't hurt my hip at all." Ted knew Aunt Tabitha. Something was wrong, and she wouldn't be all right until what was wrong was made right. But what was wrong?. You RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1954 Aunt Tabitha motioned Ted to sit in the chair beside her bed. For a moment she did not speak, then she said, "Ted, when I am gone, I want you to have this house and everything in it." "Thank you, Aunt Tabitha. But that's something to be thought about a long time from now." She continued as though he had not spoken "... On one condition." "What is that, Aunt Tabitha?" "On the. Condition that you always keep everything that is in the house. I would not like to go, knowing my things were not appreciated." There were tears in her voice. "T can assure you, Aunt Tabitha, Ellen and I will observe your wishes in this matter. We have done so, and we will continue to do so." She looked at him sadly. "Well," he demanded, "haven't we?" Aunt Tabitha did not answer his question. Instead she turned her head wearily and motioned him to leave. T was two o'clock in the night when Ellen awakened Ted. She was shaking him vigorously. At first he could not remember what it was she was talking about. "Ted," she was whispering, "I think I know what's the matter." "Matter?" he sleepily rejoined. "What's the matter?" "The chair," she cried excitedly. "It's the chair. I forgot about it." Ted was wide awake now. "Of course that's it," he agreed. "We should have remembered it was her pride and joy. Well, tomorrow I'll dig it out of the back shed and put it back into the living room." THE BEST YEARS OF HER LIFE "Oh, but Ted," Ellen wailed, "that awful green will just spoil all I've tried to do in the living room— and there are layers and layers of paint under that. "Makes no difference," Ted stoutly rejoined; "if all it takes to make Aunt Tabitha happy and well is that old rocker, in it comes, green or not. I'll get it out before I leave for the office." Ellen gave up the struggle. Ted could be very firm when he chose. And somehow she rather liked his attitude toward Aunt Tabitha. True to his word, Ted located the old rocker in the back shed the next morning. It needed dusting, cleaned it thoroughly, shaking the seat pillow and the sentable. Dow where Aunt Tabitha could not fail to see it when she awakened. Bed, her eyes full of | glanced from the chair to Ellen and back again. "Where'd that chair come from?" she demanded. "T thought you had thrown it away." Aunt Tabitha," El- "we haven't thrown away anything of yours. Just moved the chair out of the living room temporarily." "Tr's the one thing in this house that I love most of all," Aunt Tabitha said. «When | thought you had done something with it, I just felt I'd lost a lifelong friend. Now, I know you will love and cate for this house as | always have." 221 Ellen was soon on the telephone, calling Ted's office. "Ted," she chirped, "everything $ all right. It was the chair all the time. She thought we had disposed of it— that was all that was the matter." "Ts she going to get UP today?" he queried. "Ts she? She's up now—sitting in the rocking chair, in the living room. Goodbye now. I'd better go in there, before she falls out." Back in the living toom, Ellen found Aunt Tabitha Jooking around her with a puzzled expression. "What's wrong, Aunt Tabitha?" itha answered, doesn't look right 17 this room. The paint removed and the natural wood brought out again?" Ellen's smile was radiant. "Wonderful," she beamed. "You just sit until I come back. Til call Stone and Grooms and have them pick up the chair today. They'll have it back in no time." Aunt Tabitha hospital. Her little rocker gently, it as it would from the furniture man. She would make new covers after Ellen chose the material, of course. She smiled happily to herself. These would be the best days of her life, after all. Then, carefully, ever so carefully, she began to rock slowly. Willard Luce Page 222 For ever Mine Della Adams Leitner €, and here ith travel stains; dant fields, emains. Old home plac¢ Stranget mine garden pool in clothed in its ivy tobe, and what he made. Erhaps return 1 But something forever here 7 What Ij Takes Kay Islaub AUREEN got up as Soon as SUSPected the Stl was on the Verge the alarm Went off She of hysteria and as they sat down ved matically to on the Cdge of th be € had Close the window N around aken on f Beverly's hands an 0 Harvey's bed « Ivey! Wake P, said, "w, 80 happy YOU came to oney! It's x-thirty," The last © with us, Bever] all want Ost in g you t¢ as ha Y aS possib] In t athroom Tveyed here" herself jn he mirror. If there Wa Beverly's yes had louded With any comfort j "ing forty, it Was tears and her « you" ha Nn > to be forty ang Not look it. She had been barely audible, very fey wrinkles, and the new "And we're all so delighteg about haircut Certainly Minimize the ef. The baby...» fect of &ray that was just beginning not gone On, because Beverly, with at her temples. Maureen Was grate. Quick &¢sture, had Pushed her ful that She did not look as tired dark hair back from her face, and as she fe]t She was one-tired dogthe Yes tha € Maureen', d Ired, severa] Varieties of tired held g look ild PPrehension wasn't just that She h been "You tie bab Y mother UP with Dickie at least half a dozen 4g; d " uld not 5 eak i e times during the hight. Even after for a moment and her throat moved his Coughing quieted down, and ronvulsively, "She died When I was she got back into bed, she couldn't born," the dark-eyeq girl sleeping in the Put her arm around the trembling room that used to be John's before girl, "They have so Many methods he went Overseas. To make childbirth Safer Now, and the welcoming Committee had next morning, and it was Obvious been NOisy—the entire family: sey. She was fighting for courage, but, €n-year-old Dickie and the fourteen. After a Month, the fear Stil] seemed [ ee. D, of course, Harvey and herself. Si * It Was difficult to restrain the chil. MAUREEN scrubbed her teeth dren, and €ven Grandma Dunn had and washed. Then she went been Cunious and excited about back to the bedroom and shook John's Wife, Harvey again. "Come on, dear, it's €n Maureen had finally taken fter s1x-thirty." everly up t John's Toom, she had Is time he stunted and sat up Page 223 224 on the edge of the bed, looking big and tousled and not at all like a successful grain buyer in his polkadot pajamas. "Dickie coughed," he mumbled. "Yes," she answered his statement. "But he's sleeping now. I'm going to let him sleep. He can't go to school with that cough." Harvey lumbered sleepily into the bathroom, and Maureen began to dress. Dickie's cough was a worry. He'd had far too many colds this winter. Her mind drifted back to the more urgent worry. She must forget her own heavy fear concerning her older son and find some way to comfort his wife. Terror could be destructive, and Beverly and the new life within her must be kept secure and safe for John when he came home. After dressing, Maureen looked in on Dickie, whose seven-year length was curled into a relaxed mound under the jumbled covers. His breathing was easy, and he didn't look feverish. Then she quietly crossed the hall and opened the door to the room her fourteen-year-old twins shared. They were already awake, and she had apparently interrupted a low exchange of words, for Jean was wiping angrily at reddened eyes, and Jill's whole attitude, as she jerked bobby pins out of her hair, was one of impatient defensiveness. To Maureen, it was a constant source of surprise that her twins were alike in time element only. They did not share a single twin characteristic. Where Jill was gregarious and aggressive, Jean was quiet and shy. The identical shape and shade of their brown eyes were RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1954 denied in the fiery sparkle of Jill's flashing looks, the soft warmth of Jean's calm observance. Now Jill turned quickly to her mother. "Mother, I think Jean is just plain selfish about her purple shoes. They just match my dress, and she isn't even going to the dance...." Jean didn't speak, and Maureen could sense her waiting for her response—her mother's judgment in the case of the purple shoes. "The wisdom of Solomon, the patience of Job...." Those had been her own mother's words and that was exactly what it took to rear children. The argument of the purple shoes had been going on for several days, and Maureen felt sure the only reason the usually generous Jean refused the shoes was because she wanted so much to go to this particular dance herself and didn't have a date. "Jill, those shoes belong to Jean. She saved the money for them by making her school skirts instead of buying them ready-made as you did. If she doesn't want you to wear the shoes I suggest you stop asking." Maureen didn't like the smug look on Jean's face. "You better get up Jean, it's nearly seven." AUREEN closed the door to the twins' room and wondered if she had done and said the tight thing. Jill, who was slightly lazy, had no right to expect to reap the rewards earned by industrious Jean, and yet smugness concerning possessions was not good, either. Where was the right place to draw the line? On her way downstairs, Maureen WHAT IT TAKES passed Beverly's door and wondered if the argument had awakened her. In the last month she had wondered what Beverly must think of their noisy, energetic household. She had felt distressed that Beverly should become aware of the myriad daily problems to be met and solved with the children, and yet while she was living here, it was impossible to insulate her against their everyday life. In the kitchen Maureen moved quickly and efficiently to prepare breakfast, her hands doing tasks so familiar that she scarcely had to think as she worked. She remembered when John had first written about Beverly. He had met her at a M. I. A. Dance. Maureen knew at once that this girl was special as far as John was concerned, but she had been taken completely by surprise when, after knowing Beverly but one month, John had written and asked his mother to get his recommend from the bishop, as he and Beverly planned to get married right away. Less than three months after the ~ temple ceremony, John had been sent overseas. There had not been time for a trip home, but he had called on the phone, and it was then he had told them that they were expecting a child and asked if Beverly might come and stay with them. "She has no family, Mom, and she's scared," he had said. "Of course, John, she must come here with us. There's your room. We could fix it up for her. Why, she must come here!" Her voice had risen with urgency. So it was settled and Beverly had come. 225 As if it were yesterday Maureen remembered her own fear when she knew she was going to have John. And her own mother's words, "Maureen, women have been having babies since time began, and most of 'em seem to live through it. The really hard part about having a baby is rearing it to be a useful person. Most women can, and do, have babies, but it takes real courage and love, plus the wisdom of Solomon and the patience of Job, to rear 'em to be fine men and women." These words had been a comfort to her. They had made her feel a kinship with all other women down through the ages, and she had decided to concentrate on being a good mother when her baby arrived. HARVEY'S kiss on the back of her neck brought Maureen back to the present. She turned and moved into the circle of his arms, and they stood in a warm embrace without speaking. Each morning before the children came downstairs they stood so and seemed to draw strength from each other for the day ahead. Neither of them spoke, for words were unnecessary. Maureen sighed and drew away from the comfort of the embrace to turn the pancakes that were cooking on the stove. "Drink your orange juice, dear." "Yes, ma'm," he imitated Dickie. But he picked up his glass of juice. "What's the trouble? You seem to be in the glumps this morning." "Harvey, I'm worried about Beverly. She seems to be so nervous, so... So frightened." It was hard to put her feeling into words. 226 "She does appear to be a little apprehensive. But who wouldn't be, living with such a batch of inlaws?" He chuckled and began to butter his pancakes. Before Maureen could voice any further doubts, Beverly came into the kitchen. "Goodness, guess I've overslept again." She smiled shyly. "You could probably call it a habit, I've done it nearly every morning since I've been here." "Good morning, Beverly." Harvey beamed at the pretty, darkhaired girl, and Maureen was thankful for his gracious way with her. "There's no need for you to get up. You should sleep as long as you want to." Maureen smiled affectionately as she handed her a glass of fruit juice. "Oh, I don't feel like I have to get up, it's just that I enjoy... I mean it's so nice the way you all have breakfast together." Her lovely eyes grew concerned. "How is Dickie? I heard him coughing." "Well, he's sleeping and I think his temperature is gone. It's hard to say flounced into the room. "Hi, everybody!" She seated herself with an air of tragic melancholy. "Morning, darling. Who ruffled your feathers so early in the morning?" Harvey grinned at her. She didn't return his smile, but let the corners of her mouth droop further. "I don't see how anyone can be as selfish as Jean is. She's nothing but a dog-in-the-manger. She isn't even going to the dance. She doesn't have a date." "IT don't want any old date! I don't even want to go to the silly..' Maureen began as Jill - RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1954 dance." Jean's bravado, as she walked into the kitchen, was betrayed by the slight quaver in her voice. Maureen felt it was time she stepped into the argument. She cartied a plate of pancakes to the table. "T think you are both behaving more like four than fourteen." She went on conversationally, "Isn't Todd's cousin here from Salt Lake? He seemed like an awfully nice boy, and no one here would know he was a year younger than Todd. In fact, I thought he was the same age when I met him." Maureen watched the light dawn on fill. "Mother, that's a wonderful idea. Why didn't I think of it?" Jill turned to her sister. "Would you go, Jean?" "Oh, I don't know. I don't think...." Jean's pessimistic words were denied by the hope that was suddenly shining in her eyes. Jill leaped up from the table. "Tll call Todd right now." LATER, after Maureen had kissed her husband goodbye, she watched the twins start out for school arm-in-arm. It seemed that Todd's cousin wanted very much to take Jean to the dance, but because of that temporarily important one year's difference in age, he had been too shy to ask. Jill would wear Jean's purple shoes, and, in fair exchange, Jean would have the loan of Jill's crystal necklace. With a little luck, Maureen thought, that might be the last major crisis today, but there would be something else tomorrow. The comfortable old house WHAT IT TAKES seemed quiet and peaceful as she walked back to the kitchen. "Why don't you put on some more pancakes while I go check Dickie?" she asked Beverly, who still sat at the table, staring intently out the window. The girl smiled and moved toward the stove, and, when Maureen came downstairs after looking in on the still sleeping boy, the pancakes were steaming on the table. They often sat over breakfast this way in the morning, and it had given Maureen her best opportunity to get to know Beverly. She had found the girl sincere and sweet. Not once since the night she came to live with them had she mentioned her fear of having the baby. At times she seemed relaxed and normal, and then again Maureen saw a look of apprehension. Now Beverly spoke almost before Maureen was seated at the table, as though she had been planning the words while she waited, "I want to talk to you about something, it's... Well, I... I'm so frightened...." She seemed unable to go on. Maureen put down her fork slowly. Here it was. Now the fear would be out in the open. And that would be best. But did she have the answer? Could she find the words that would comfort Beverly? The answer that would quiet the destroying fear? "Beverly, women have been having babies since time began. With the care you get today...." "Oh, I'm not worried about the baby being born. It's...." Beverly began. "But I thought you... The night you came...." Maureen interrupt- 227 ed her, and then could find no words to voice her astonishment. BEVERLY laughed self-consciously. "I guess I acted like that at first. But, anyway, I'm not frightened about that anymore." "Then what...?" Maureen was at a loss for words again. "Well, it's partly Dickie. I mean he's been so sick. His cough must be a worry." Beverly spoke slowly. "Dickie will be all right, Beverly. Nearly all children have a bad winter now and then. Colds or coughs or both. Dr. Morse gave me a good tonic for him yesterday." She smiled reassuringly. "Why Dickie will be back to school in a week." "Yes, I know. But you've been up so many nights, and you're so patient," Beverly went on. "And then the twins. They're adorable but... Well, life is so complicated for them. Everything is so vital. And you always seem to know what to say and do. Like this morning at breakfast." "The twins are in one of the stages that all children go through. They're almost impossible to live with now, but in a year or two they'll suddenly be young women." Maureen laughed ruefully. "And difficult as they are, I hate to see them grow up." "T know. And then there's John." Beverly's eyes clouded with misery. "At first all I could think of was what it meant to me to have him go away. But now I see all the years, all the love and patience that made him what he is. Now I have an idea of how hard it must be for " you.... "Yes, it's hard." Maureen felt 228 heavy with sadness. "But every mother knows that someday her children will leave the home, and even while her heart cries out against their leaving, she knows that it is the way of life. A thing she must face, only war makes it much worse." Her eyes met Bevetly's. "I hope you never have to send a son to war." "That's what I mean." Beverly's voice was almost a whisper. "Giving birth to my baby doesn't seem such a problem anymore. It's after they get here. I don't know if... I RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1954 the kitchen chair and felt part of a heavy burden slip from her shoulders. Beverly would be all tight. She had stopped thinking of herself and was becoming concerned with the real job ahead of her. She had stopped worrying about the birth and was feeling her first responsibility toward the new life that would be put in her hands soon, slowly understanding that this new life would take all the skill and love and courage she could summon. The older woman smiled into the don't know if I have what it takes to be a mother." Maureen let her body relax into young girl's eyes. "When the time comes... You'll find you have what it takes," she said. ~~ > 3 Join the Crusade Against Cancer Sandra Munsell Supervisor, Magazine Advertising Services Another year has sped by. Another year has taken its toll of cancer victims. In 1953 the number of cancer deaths in the United States was approximately 227,000—one every two and one-third minutes. Yet, today, in the battle against one of our strongest and cruelest enemies—cancer—there are splendid indications that our hope and faith are not misguided; that the long winter of despair is no longer quite so cold nor quite so dark. In April, designated Cancer-Control Month by Presidential proclamation, the American Cancer Society will launch its annual Cancer Crusade. To carry on its year-around, three-pronged attack on this dread disease, in research, education, and service to cancer patients, the American Cancer Society hopes to raise at least $35,000,000 through contributions. Tens of thousands are living happily this springtime—and will live through many springtimes yet to come—because they were saved last year from cancer. Other tens of thousands could have been saved by today's knowledge, if only they had been treated in time. Why weren't they treated in time? Because of all of us. We haven't worked hard enough at cancer education and service to others. And we still haven't given enough money for training physicians, for clinics, and for research. More help is needed, much more! Let us assure continued progress by joining the Cancer Crusade. Second Best Blanche Sutherland and lowered the fire under the skillet before lifting a flushed cheek for Don's homecoming kiss. There were tired lines around her mouth, and a strand of fair hair had escaped its pin. "Dinner's late," she said, hurriedly putting plates and silver on the table in the breakfast nook. "Mr. Martin brought in some extra contracts to be typed—in triplicate, too, mind you, and at five-thirty." "Well, I'm late, too," Don consoled. "That's what comes of having to ride with Carson. He's always behind time." "IT wish we had two cars," Kay interjected impatiently, "or you would pick up the baby, and Id come home by bus. No—that wouldn't do. I'd be later than ever. Oh, well, wash Bobby's hands and put him in his chair, will you, Don? And start him on his dinner. He's so hungry and tired. Mrs. Meredith was just about to feed him when I finally got there." Don laid an envelope beside his own plate silently and picked up Bobby from the floor, swinging him to his broad shoulder. "Hi, old man," he said, his broad face tender, "how about a washup and then that egg, I see there?" Bobby rubbed his eyes with a small, grubby hand. "Egg," he demanded, "egg." Kay fluffed the potatoes, stirred gravy, and was sliding a pan of rolls from the oven when Don and Bobby returned, sleek and smiling. "That oven!" she ejaculated. "These rolls are too brown." Ke Webster turned the chops Don sniffed appreciatively at the warm odors emanating from the steaming utensils. "I like 'em brown. And chops! Who wants steak when chops are half the price?" He levelled Bobby into his chair and gave him his spoon. "Did you see what I brought home, honey?" he asked eagerly. Kay shook her head. "Dinner's ready," she said. Don sat down, opened the envelope, and passed the contents over, then straightened back, a smile lighting the broad planes of his face. "How's that?" he inquired. Kay dropped her eyes to the paper, then, "The car," she exclaimed. "In full, Dan, in full? Well, that's off our shoulders." "Yep. Our car at last, and still in good shape. And now...." He grinned at her. Kay poured milk into Bobby's cup. "And now. What do you mean—and now?" Don took an appreciative bite of his chop. "And now, you can quit working, honey. See?" "Quit!" Kay remonstrated. "The car's paid for, yes, but there's still the house." "T can take care of that. The fifty dollar raise I got, you know." "But that's not all, Don," Kay broke in, her blue eyes impatient. "The furniture is all secondhand stuff, as you know. The stove and refrigerator are both on the ragged edge. And then, I want one of these automatic washers—instead of spending half my evenings washing and drying clothes." Kay stopped for breath. Page 229 230 "But if you weren't working, you wouldn't need to wash evenings, honey," he objected. "We'll get all those things in time. Be reasonable, won't you?" KAY laid down her fork patiently. "But Don, Bobby's all right. Mrs. Meredith is wonderful with children, better than I would be. Bobby has playmates there, all about his own age. He'd be lonesome here all alone." "He'd get acquainted with his father and mother,' Don argued shortly. "The way it is now, we rush him to Mrs. Meredith's so early he can't even have breakfast here. Then, at night, after he's had his dinner, he's tired and goes to bed. That's no way for a family to live." Kay's lips trembled. She spooned baby food onto Bobby's plate, wiped egg smears from his mouth. "Well, I'm too tired to argue," she said. "T just told Mr. Martin this morning that I'd stay on, so I guess I'll have to." Don shrugged and finished his meal in silence, his mouth set grimly. But as they were preparing for bed, he renewed his plea. "Kay, think it over, won't you? I want a real home and a wife who isn't all tired out when I get here, where dinner's ready, and the kid's not too tired to play a little while. Can't you understand?" Kay, seated at the dressing table, took the bright stones from her ears and started brushing her short, blond hair. "Tll_ think about it," she said shortly. "Anyway, there's no hurty." But she was too tired to think, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1954 this night as always, and in the morning there was no time. Don doesn't know what he's asking, she reasoned with herself. Besides, I like working, and Mrs. Meredith is so lovely with Bobby. Breakfast, lunch, and naps right on time. And she's teaching all the children good manners and how to get along together. I couldn't do it. AY met Margery Holt in the drugstore downtown that noon when she went in after lunch to get some toilet articles. Marge had her baby with her, almost the same age as Bobby. "Still working, Kay?" she asked. "Yes, but Don's beginning to fuss about it," Kay answered. Then, "Do you think I'm unreasonable, Marge? You stay at home, you know how it is. I want to keep on working until we have some of the nice things." "Well, of course, Don makes more than Ed. But staying at home's no cinch. I'm real tired at night, and we don't go out much as we can't afford a baby-sitter very often. Bobby's all right, isn't he?" "Oh, yes, fine. Mrs. Meredith is wonderful. She takes care of four children, all under two. Some are creeping, some just staggering around. And the jargon!" Kay laughed. "She told me this morning that Bobby said 'Mawy' the other day. She thought he was trying to say Meredith." Margery laughed. "Of course, that's natural. He sees far more of her than of you." Kay winced, but did not reply, while Margery continued, "And once they get started talking.... My Danny was slow, too, but he's SECOND BEST been saying Da da and Mum for two or three weeks. Ed was so proud, you'd think no child ever talked before." "Mum, mum," Danny interrupted. "Da da!" his tiny hands waving in an ecstasy of accomplishment. Kay smiled down at him, a small stirring of jealousy in her heart. It wasn't any lack in Bobby, of course. She'd start tonight saying Da da and Mummy over and over. It wouldn't be long. "And his first step," Margery was bubbling on. "Oh, that was a day. Maybe, it's because Danny's our first, but Ed would hardly let the child rest a minute. 'Stand up now,' he'd say, 'like a little man. That's it. Now, come to Daddy.' Over and over, he'd urge him until I had to step in and put him to bed." She laughed. "I suppose it's the same with you." Kay nodded. She wasn't going to tell Marge that they hadn't known about Bobby's first step alone until he was really walking. Mrs. Meredith had too many first steps to report, maybe. "Well, I've a tub of laundry waiting," Marge exclaimed. "Come up some Saturday and we'll compare children. So long." '6 GAY Mummy, Daddy," Kay coaxed Bobby that night as she was preparing him for bed. She pulled a tiny shirt from over_his small blond head. "Mummy, Dadd p" vMawy," Bobby replied stolidly. "Mawy." "What's that he's trying to say?" Don asked from his seat on the bed. 231 "Meredith, I guess. At least, Mrs. Meredith thinks so," Kay replied shortly, "or imagines," she added. "Though with all those babies gabbing away, I don't know how she'd know who really did say ites Don's face was inscrutable. He started to speak, thought better of it, and lapsed into silence. "Did you think any more about giving up your job, Kay?" He asked later as she washed and he wiped the dishes. "No," she answered crisply. "Well, do," he urged. "You're looking tired, honey. I'd think you'd rather stay home." "Marg Holt stays home and she gets tired, too," Kay interjected, "teal tired, she expressed it today. They're having a hard time financially, too. I believe she envies us 2? Don shrugged and carried a load of dishes to the cupboard. "I wish I'd never let you go back to work," he said grimly. "Then the car wouldn't be paid for, maybe not even the doctor bill for Bobby, and a lot of other things," she flashed. "Don't forget that." She wiped off the table, hung up the towels, "I've some things to wash out," she said shortly. "Okay," Don said, his mouth a tim line. "Anything I can do?" "No," Kay answered and watched him out of the kitchen. Perhaps Don had forgotten how things had been, she thought, her hands deep in soapsuds. They had married on faith and a shoestrong. She had her job, he had his and, of course, with one rent to pay instead of 232 two and home-cooked meals so much cheaper than restaurant ones they had decided they could get along. They had for a time. The furnished apartment did very well until they found an unbelievable bargain in a house. They had furnished it with unclaimed furniture from a storage place, all on time, of course. Then, their luck had faded. Don's car gave out, and they had to buy another, and Dr. Wellman informed them that Bobby was on the way. Soon, there was only Don's salary. Doctor bills mounted, crib, carriage, layette had to be bought, later, hospital bills, nurses and pediatricians to be paid. The first of the month became a nightmare of juggling salary against groceries, bills, and house and car payments. There never was enough to go around. Kay watched Bobby through many a minor upset to save another doctor bill. "THEN, she had found Mrs. Meredith. Kay reached for the soap box, recalling her first encounter with her. She had gone for a walk in the park with four-month-old Bobby and a sudden rainstorm had sent her up on the porch of a nearby house for shelter. Suddenly, the door opened and a pleasant woman had appeared. "Come in, my dear," she exclaimed. "You're getting wet. I'm Mrs. Meredith." Thankfully, Kay accepted and found inside what seemed to be a room full of bassinets, cribs, playpens, all with children in them, all nearly the same size. "Are they all yours?" she asked in bewilderment. "Twins or tripRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1954 lets, or..." she stammered, looking from one to the other. "Oh, no," Mrs. Meredith laughed. "T only take care of them. It's just another way of earning a living." She picked a string of plastic balls up and handed it to the occupant of a bassinet. "I love children, and it's much easier if they're all about the same age." "But—but where are their mothers?" Kay gasped. "Oh, working. Diane, here has a father in Korea, Jerry over there in the play-pen, his father is dead. Mary's mother works to make ends meet. Different reasons, you know," she explained. "But sit down and let me see your baby. Boy, isn't it?" Kay complied, and by the time the rain had ended and Mrs. Meredith had disclosed her terms, she was thoroughly imbued with her new idea. Everything, the room, the babies were shining clean, the children seemed happy and well cared for. This would be the answer, and Mr. Martin, her employer, had told her any time she wanted to come back, he'd find a place for her. "Would you take Bobby?" she had asked. "TI really need to work, we're so in debt. And I'd feel perfectly safe if he were here." Mrs. Meredith hesitated and looked about. "I've never taken more than four at a time," she objected. "I'm afraid not." She brightened. "Judy's mother is getting better. Perhaps it won't be too long before she can care for her herself. Give me your name and telephone. I'll call when I can take him." Bobby had gone to Mrs. Mere- SECOND BEST dith at six months of age, ten months ago. They'd paid their debts, one by one, bought a few pieces of furniture, finished the payments on the car—and now.... Kay poured the pan of suds into the sink, filled it with fresh water, and started rinsing small shirts and stockings, overalls, and sweaters, Now, with an automatic washer, Bobby's clothes would all be clean and dried by the time he was in bed and she'd be through for the night. She crisscrossed a cord in the kitchen and hung up the small garments with a sigh of relief. Maybe this was the last time. There wasn't a single reason why the washer might not be decided upon tomorrow, or the next day at the latest. ON made only a small objection, going with her to decide on the make and size most suitable. After that, life went along as usual, except that Kay wasn't so tired at night, and they had their evenings together. "I guess you were right, Kay," Don owned grudgingly one evening. The weary lines had disappeared from the face she bent over her mending. "At least, about the washer," he amended. "What's that you are sewing on?" "Bobby's overalls. I've mended and mended them but hand-sewing doesn't hold. I believe I'll get a sewing machine. It would really be a saving. I could make the drapes for this room for a third of the price they charge." Don shook his head wearily. "Here we go again," was all he said. Kay went on, "And I saw a sofa in Hanagan's window, just the color 233 I want." Kay turned and looked about the room. "Everything's so shabby. Now, with new drapes," she went on brightly, "and another chair, you wouldn't know the place." "Honey, honey," Don begged, reaching forward for her hand. "Let's be satisfied with what we have until I can manage. I'll get the sofa and the drapes, and after a while the sewing machine. Just be patient, won't you?" He patted her hand. "Those are just things, and meanwhile we're losing a real home. Bobby is, too, if you'd only see it." Kay turned her head away. Was she unreasonable? Don looked so eager, it seemed to mean so much to him. Then, suddenly, something of the old panic she had felt before and just after Bobby's birth teturned. Who knew when bad luck might strike, and they'd be faced with bills again—every month turning this way and that, balancing this against that. She was doing this as much for Bobby's sake as for theirs, she thought irritably. She pulled her hand away from Don's. "Another year maybe," she promised, "just to be safe." ON pushed back his chair and got up abruptly, his dark eyes hard as a stranger's beneath the thick, dark brows. "And you have no faith in me and my ability to take care of you and Bobby." "Tt isn't that," Kay objected, but she knew it was. "Or are you a coward?" Don asked bitingly. He picked his hat from the closet shelf and walked out. Kay gathered up her mending with unsteady hands. She wasn't a 234 coward, she wasn't, and she didn't doubt Don. She only wanted to do the best for all their sakes. Later, in bed, she turned and tossed until Don returned, finally dropping off to sleep, promising herself that when the sewing machine was paid for, she would stop work. But not now, she told herself feverishly, Don would just have to understand. One afternoon, several weeks later, Mrs. Meredith called. Bobby seemed to have a cold, she said, his temperature was up a little. Probably, nothing to worry about, but Kay should come and get him. The other children must be protected. He did seem quite feverish, Kay found. She bundled him up and carried him to the car, trying to hush his crying. It couldn't be serious, Bobby was always so well. But she'd call Dr. Wellman. Then she'd call the office, and say she wouldn't be back that day, and after that, Don. "It's too early for a diagnosis," the doctor reported. "There are a number of things it might prove to be. I'll leave something for his fever and the cough. Keep him in bed and no visitors. It might be contagious. I'll see you tomorrow." Contagious? Oh no, Kay thought, dismayed. I'll call Don. Don arrived home early, his dark face anxious. "I got hold of Johnson and he brought me," he explained. "How's Bobby?" He stood over Bobby's bed. "Probably just a cold," he said without conviction. "Do you suppose it's something he caught over at that Meredith wom an's?" "No," Kay replied. "I called 'that Meredith woman' as you term her. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1954 She said the other children were all well. It's probably something he picked up at the zoo where you insisted on taking him Saturday." Don shrugged and looked at her in silence. Then, "I wanted you to go, too, remember? We have so few pleasures together with Bobby, honey. Saturday afternoon is our only day." "And my only day for finishing those drapes," she replied in a tense voice. Y the fourth day, telltale spots appeared on Bobby's face, and the doctor's verdict was measles. "Measles," Kay exclaimed. "Oh, all children have measles. How long will it take to clear up? My job, you know." "Two weeks, probably," the doctor said. "That is, if everything goes well, and there are no complications."; Kay sobered instantly. "Complications?" "Bronchitis, ear trouble, even pneumonia is possible. But keep him comfortable, no chilling, no drafts. Care is the necessary thing." After the doctor's departure, Kay stood watching Bobby, his small flushed face against the pillow. He coughed hoarsely and opened his eyes. ""Mawy," he called, "Mawy!" Kay bent and touched his hot little forehead. "Mommy's here, Bobby. This is Mommy. Do you want a drink of water?" Bobby turned his face away. "Mawy," he sobbed, "wan Mawy." He means Mrs. Meredith, Kay thought numbly. "Mawy can't come, Bobby. Daddy will be here soon, though." SECOND BEST "No. Mawy," Bobby sobbed over and over, "wan Mawy." That night Bobby woke scream. Ing with an earache. He cried constantly for "Mawy," until the doctor arrived with a sedative. "Who is it he's calling for?" he asked, "'a playmate?" "No, a Mrs. Meredith who has been caring for him," Kay replied slowly. "IT see. Too bad. Of course, she couldn't come." He turned in an attempt at jocularity. "Bobby'll have to get along with just his Mom and Dad. Usually, a good combination, though," he smiled. "If the baby's not better by morning, call me." Kay studiously avoided Don's eyes. She knew what he was thinking. He and she were second best in the eyes and heart of their own baby. And it was her own fault. She had sold their birthright for a mess of pottage. His first step alone had been for Mrs. Meredith, his first word had been her name. The mess of pottage was a box of receipted bills, a washer, livingroom drapes, and a sewing machine. Don was able and more than willing to care for his family's real needs. 235 She threw herself down beside the bed where Bobby was lying in a drugged sleep and wept. "You must hate me, Don," she sobbed hopelessly. "I hate myself. It's not only me but I've robbed you, too. I've given away Bobby's babyhood, as if it were nothing. And nothing can bring it back, ever!" She felt Don's hands lifting her. "T don't hate you," he said, his face against her hair. "I love you. I know you thought you were doing right, I've known that all along. You just were scared of unpaid bills, which we could pay in awhile with careful budgeting and not buying unnecessary things." He raised her chin and kissed her trembling lips. "Besides, by another month Bobby will have forgotten all about Mrs. Meredith. You'll see." "Do you think so, really? It seems mean, she's such a nice person," Kay sympathized, then brightened at a new determination. _ "Till call her in the morning and the Martin Company, too. They can both start advertising in the Wanted columns. Bobby and I are going to be occupied otherwise from now on," she concluded, with a glow of gratitude in her heart for her decision, She First Spring Came Thelma W. Groneman Come with me and I will show you Where the first spring crocus grows Beneath a hedge in wild abandon, Spills its gold on melting snows; Catching the robin's liquid notes, Coaxing the spring along to share The joy of newborn life and love, Come, and I will take you there. Nevada's Valley of Fire Willard Luce Willard Luce ELEPHANT ROCK IN THE VALLEY OF FIRE, NEVADA POLITICALLY, Nevada's Valley of Fire has a checkered history. At one time it was up for consideration as a national monument. When this was dropped, Nevada itself took it over as a State Park. Finally, the State withdrew its support, and the Valley is now under the Department of the Interior, Bureau of Land Management. It is being considered as an addition to Page 236 the Lake Mead Recreation Area, and as such would be placed under the supervision of the National Parks Service. But, regardless of the Valley of Fire's political affiliations, it is still a mighty interesting place to visit. Nevada Highway 40 is only twentythree miles long, running from the Lake Mead Recreation Area _ to Crystal, on U. S. Highway 91 and NEVADA'S VALLEY OF FIRE 237. Much of this twenty-three stone formations, including tw miles lS through the jumbled red elephant rocks. Fossils of marine ledges of the Valley of Fire. Reptiles and partial skeletons of Extending the borders of the camels have been found. Side roads Recreation 'Area would place the lead to petrified trees and petro tion of the park rangers who could Picnicking areas, constructed by help protect 1 vandals who the State 0 Nevada, ate still fairly are now T bing } of its pett ed intact put be sure %0 pring your trees smashing and shooting sts own watet N the eastern sions, and generally marring lS poundary of the Valley ls the grave, natural be marked by 4 large h adstone, Of 4 The Valley receives its name from soldier who didn' His death hap Brilliant at any time, these ledges, California. He died there in the two hun red to eight hundred feet shadow of his wagon, only a few high, become flaming red at sunset. Miles from the River an The tops of the ledges ar© jagged jess than half a mile from a Spring and broken, ™4 g the ledges aPin the TugEee nastone ledges pear even more like falls of flame. Water, like gold, ls where you Within the Valley are numerous it there in the desert., as the new growth appears. The sidewalks are covered, the street 15 covered, the gutters are piled high. Js it Los Robles 1 love or is it memories of such scenes of my childhood? J am; a ag _ For those who are no jonget children, peauty is always double. The peauty of today, and just as immediate, the beauty of yesterday, are tied inseparably Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, April 1, and April 15, 1894 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomeEN OF ALL NATIONS" AN ETCHING: It was a bright, clear morning in the Wasatch Range. The lofty, alpine valley near the head of the canyon, high up among the peaks, lay gleaming in the morning sun. White stemmed quaking aspens stood out in sharp relief against a background of dark pines. Their pale green leaves, shot through with golden sunbeams, trembled lightly in the gentle breeze.... Above and beyond the fringe of trees stretched an unbroken forest, and still beyond, yet in the near distance, rose rocky cliffs and snowy summits, outlined in grey and white against the deep blue sky.... —Anna D. Thrall SCHOOL OF OBSTETRICS AND NURSING: Mrs. Lizzie H. Shipp, professor and practical teacher of obstetrics, will open a school of obstetrics in Salt Lake City the first Monday in May. A half yearly course will be taught for the unprecedented low terms of ten dollars. —Selected WHEN THE SUMMER COMES AGAIN There will be glad rejoicing When the summer comes again, When the rivers break their fetters And the rills throw off their chains.... All living things as in one voice, Will unite in glad acclaim.... The vestments of glad adorning, Will be worn through earth's domain.. All its forces northward streaming When the summer comes again. —L. M. Hewlings WOMAN FARMER: Mrs. Virginia C. Meredith of Cambridge City, Indiana, proprietor of one of the finest Shorthorn herds in the country.... Believes there is no spot equal to a farm for at once furnishing a competence and enabling a woman to establish a beautiful home and bring up her children nobly. —Selected. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE IN SANPETE: The Relief Society Conference of the Sanpete Stake of Zion convened in the Spring City Meeting House, December 16th. President M. A. P. Hyde presiding. The branches of the Relief Society of Fayette, Gunnison, Sterling, Moroni, Chester, Mt. Pleasant, Wales, Spring City and Ephraim represented. Counselor Sarah Peterson was pleased with the humble spirit manifested. Spoke at some length on the storing of grain and culture of silk. President Canute Peterson advised the sisters to gather wheat for it will be needed.... —Mary A. F. Hansen, Sec. Page 238 PRESIDENT BELLE S. SPAFFORD, of the general Relief Society board, acted as the Utah vice-chairman of the 1954 campaign of the Crusade for Freedom. Last year, while serving in the same office, she received a personal citation from the national committee for her outstanding service. This was signed by Admiral C. E. Wilson, Henry Ford, and H. S. Miller. On a percentage basis, Utah was the highest 1953 contributor to the fund, of any state in the Union. The effect of messages distributed by broadcast, balloon, or otherwise, to the people behind the Iron Curtain from the people of America themselves (not the Government) is astonishingly inspiring to the recipients. ENLEY ALBRIGHT, after a courageous come-back from polio, became, in 1953, the first United States girl ever to win the world figure-skating championship. One critic comments, "She did to figure skating what Pavlova did to the ballet." A pre-medical student at Radcliffe, she has no ambitions to become a professional skater. N January, Mrs. Hattie Whitney (Sidney G.) Saville died. She was a granddaughter of Newell K. Whitney, first presiding bishop of the Church in Utah, and the last member of the family of Horace K. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon and Mary Cravath Whitney, pioneers of 1847. She was a former president of Ensign Stake Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association. [LONA KARMEL was a young high school girl in Poland when the Nazis invaded. She spent two years in concentration camps, where she wrote poetry on the backs of work sheets. She was later graduated from Harvard University, where she is now a teaching-fellow. Her first novel, Stephania, was a Literary Guild selection last spring. MASEL BORG JENKINS, Salt Lake City musician and teacher, was recently paid a high tribute by internationally famous Utah pianist Grant Johannesen, who spoke of his former teacher as being the "most important" in his long career of piano study. BIRTHDAY congratulations are extended to Mrs. Augusta Stenquist, Tremonton, Utah, for her ninety-ninth birthday; Mrs. Julia Caroline Beal Burr, Provo, Utah, ninety-six; Mrs. Amanda L. Pope, Garden City, Utah, ninety-five; Mrs. Anna Rogers Moyes, Salt Lake City, Utah, ninety-four; Mrs. Sarah Ann Smith Boren, Salt Lake City, ninety-two; Mrs. Amy Keister, Grand Island, Nebraska, ninetytwo. Page 239 CO > EDITORIAL Sj} VOL. 41 APRIL 1954 NO. 4 Arbor Day Plant thou a tree whose griefless leaves shall sing Thy deed and thee, each fresh unfolding spring. BYERY nation has in the pages of its history some heroes, some great deeds, or some incident in the national life which it desires to hold in remembrance, or some object to which it attaches some special significance. 'There are a number of the days on the calendar which are specially set apart as holidays in the United States. Most of these _ days are kept in remembrance of the past, but one of our American holidays turns its face toward the future, rather than toward the past. It is Arbor Day, which is kept as a symbol of progress, so that the children of the present may be able to prepare a blessing for the children of the future. Arbor day owes its origin to J. Sterling Morton, a former secretary of Agriculture, when he was a member of the Nebraska State Board of Agriculture in 1872. Before the inauguration of this day, Nebraska was called the treeless state. On the first Arbor Day, more than a million trees were planted. During the next twelve years over 350,000,000 trees, vines, and shrubs were planted. In the West there were many treeless plains, and this beautiful and useful custom of planting trees at once aroused the interest of other 'states, and the plan was generally Page 240 —E. M. Thomas. Taken up throughout the country. Arbor Day is set aside for the planting of trees and shrubs around the homes, along the highways, and in other places, where they are needed, for future blessings and enjoyment. The purpose of this celebration is to impress upon our boys and girls, our future American citizens, the necessity of planting trees for the security of our nation's material welfare, and to implant in their hearts a love of nature. 'Teachers, concerned over the rapid destruction of the forests, have used the occasion to tell children of the importance of trees and to teach them their importance to the well-being of the nation. Whatever the date that Arbor Day is observed in the different states, it is a wonderful time for families to enjoy happy recreational hours together. 'Take a drive out into the country, note the quickening of the earth as a result of the warm sunshine that has penetrated the ground, see earth coming to life. An urge will fill your beings to plant. Why not plan a day of activity for the whole family? If there is a new tree to be planted sometime during the spring, why not allow the children to enjoy the pleasure and make a ceremony of it rather than to hire someone to come from the nursery driveway look at yout house and for that purpose. Planting is the lot with the eye of a keen, observmost delightful business of gardenant stranger. What do you see? Ing. 'Irees should be planted with Do your home and its surroundings intelligent thought. 'They should live up t0 their full potentialities be carefully selected and tenderly as beauty spots? We may not be cared for after they are planted. Able to have costly homes, but we Children should be taught in the all can have clean, attractive yards home and in the schools to love and well-kept houses. Those who trees, the kinds to select for plant hold _ office, whether chut h OF ing im different localities, how to civic, should especially see to it that plant, and then how to protect and they set a worthy example in this care for trees. He who plants a tree regard. Plants a future beauty and joy, and Get the spirit of Arbor Day, do not only for his own, but for a fue some planting that will beautify ture generation. Your property and yout surround: However, we must remember Atings. Encourage and help those te bor Day means more than planting sponsible for doing so, to beautify trees. Shrubbery, plants, and seeds the grounds around the public of various kinds should be planted, buildings in yout town. Let us each ards should be cleaned, Sots and make this world a more beautiful the property around our homes place in which to live by truly obshould be made more sightly. The serving this Arbor Day. Next time you drive into your home _V. N. S. Ee Nellie W Neal (Resigns from the General Board T! Ig with regret that the general poard announces the resignation of Nellie W. Neal as 4 member of the general board. Sister Neal came to the board in May of 1949 with experience and knowledge of Relief Society work from her position as a stake Relief Society president. Since het appointment to the board, sister Neal has conscientiously and full heartedly carried out every assignment given her. She has given qa set of lessons for special study. Het artistic ability was recognized and Sister Neal was always ready to subordinate her personal wishes to the furtherance of Relief Society procedures and willingly carried out all instructions and recommendations. Her devotion and ability will be great ly missed by het associates WhO wish her success in her future endeavors. EDITORIAL 241 Notes TO THE FIELD A Centenary of Relief Society Out of Print Centenary of Relief Society was published for the one hundredth anniversary of Relief Society in 1942 and contains much valuable historical information concerning the activities of the society during its first one hundred years. It is now out of print, and the general board does not contemplate reprinting it, so we suggest that each organization, stake and ward, preserve one copy for reference. 'Those stakes or wards which already have them in their libraries should see to it that they are properly bound to preserve them and that the name of the organizaion is either printed on the cover or written on the flyleaf on the inside, so as to indicate clearly that it is the property of the society. 'Those organizations which do not already have a copy in their libraries should try to obtain one from someone in their stake or ward and have it bound. We recommend this same plan be followed in the missions. We suggest that these books be bound in one of the new synthetic materials, such as fabricoid, as this binding is considered more durable than leather. We have arranged with the Desert News Press, Salt Lake City, to bind the Centenaries in blue fabricoid with a 24-carat gold seal and lettering on it, according to our specifications, so that they may all be bound alike, and stamp the name of the society on the cover in gold for $2.25 per copy postpaid. A month to six weeks should be allowed for binding the books which should be sent direct to the Deseret News Press, 31 Richards Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah. We recommend that stakes make this an early project so that every organization may preserve a copy of the Centenary. Book of Mlormon Reading Project REPORT forms on The Book of Mormon reading project will be sent to stake Relief Society presidents in May 1954, and should be returned not later than July 15, 1954. The general board wishes to encourage all sisters to do the reading of The Book of Mormon for this year, which includes from the Book of Jacob through the 8th chapter of Alma. In order for a sister to receive credit, the reading must have been done during the year in which the lessons have been studied in Relief Society. Page 242 Prelude Mastc Florence Jepperson Madsen Member, General Board of Relief Society HE word prelude means: preceding or introductory. Prelude music has reference to the preliminary music played just before the meeting begins. Its purpose is to introduce or create an atmosphere appropriate to the occasion. It sets a background for what is to follow. The music chosen for the prelude may be sacred or secular, depending on the nature of the gathering in which it is to be used. For instance, if it is to be played before a pattiotic meeting, a type of music is Tequired that will stimulate a feeling of dynamic patriotism, the type that makes an audience want to sing along with the music. It should, therefore, be vigorous in tempo and have pronounced rhythmical accents. On the other hand, a religious service requires prelude music of an entirely different nature, music that is sustained and tranquil and which generates a feeling of deep spiritual fervor and devotion. Such music stimulates listeners with an attitude of silent, worshipful meditation and prepares them for devotional service. The organist and the pianist who have studied considerably have naturally accumulated a great number of musical compositions covering a wide variety of styles and types. The organist will have learned many numbers that can be used in church. The pianist, however, will have studied an entirely different kind of repertoire; therefore, will have fewer of the slow, sustained compositions that are best suited for church service. Nevertheless, there are many numbers, such as Schumann's '"Traumerei" and Handel's "Largo," that can be played effectively on the piano as preludes in religious service. Other similar numbers may be found by looking through piano compositions in music stores. Through this procedure one may, at the same time, determine whether or not one has the necessary technique with which to play the selected numbers. This is also an excellent way to become acquainted with new music materials. Another important factor in relation to prelude music is that of the timing element. The music should cease at the moment the meeting is to begin. This means that the composition has been correctly timed often enough to assure its rendition in the allotted time. On occasion it may sometimes be necessary to shorten a number in order to use it. This involves careful judgment as to what should or should not be used. However, when the composition is played it should still give the impression of completeness. 'There may also be occasions when it will be necessary to lengthen a number. This can be done, most generally, by repeating certain strains or parts of the composition or by playing it through again. Here, again, timing is a vital factor. Efforts should always be made to use appropriate prelude music and to correlate it with the spirit and subject of the day. Page 243 Books for Organists attd Pianists A. REED ORGAN BOOKS: Organ Voluntaries, volumes I and II, Scurerner and J. FIscuer................-.--$2.50 Thirty-Eight Voluntaries for Reed Organ, Jackson & G. SCHIRMER................ 1.00 Thirty-Eight Voluntaries for Reed Organ, J. FiscHer 7) in ae ee 1.00 cL | name ce NOM 1.50 Reed Organ Player, WacTer Lewis and T. PRESSER -....-..2-..-------- cece Kole) Forty-Three Organ Voluntaries, LORENZ -......2.2.2.22--222000-2000:000-0eneeeseneeeeeee tees ennee 85 Gems for the Organ, SHELLEY and G. SCHIRMER 2.0.0 cocci 1.75 Harker's Harmonium Collection, G. SCHIRMER........----..------+--0e-+-20000ee+-000eoe--0-ee+ 1.00 Ninety-Three Short Pieces for the Hammond Organ or Piano, Jackson and G. SCHIRMER (written in two staves)....0..0.2.2..0: coceeeeeeeeeee 2s B. SACRED PIANO MUSIC:. Sabbath Day Music for the Piano, O. DITSON......2...--.:-2:-20+-c---20eeceoeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee 1.00 Church and Chapel Voluntaries, DrEtsBAcH and G. SCHIRMER...........--.2-------++ 2.00 Chapel Musings, PERRY and PRESSER...........2..2...20: scecceseceeceeeeeeeeeeeeeeneeeeeeeeeeeeeeees -75 C. PIPE ORGAN BOOKS: Devotional Organ Music, Asper and Cart Fiscuer (also for ACOTONIC ONBAM) -........---acevoerceccen=-ceeseornnganestlenoen cts aanaclllbeeese------0n+-- sie 2.50 Organ Voluntaries, volumes [ and I], Scurerer and J. FiscHer..............2/......2.00 Church Music for the Smallest Organ, Nevin and J. FIscHer.........-....0...22-2--.. 1,00 Organ Melodies, LANDON and PRESSER..........2.2.-2:20cocecesseseeeeeeeeeeeeceeeseeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee 1.50 Ecclesiae Organum, WiLL1AM C. Cart and JOHN CHURCH..... W-..222--.-00.22--- 2.50 Organ Musings, PRESSER..........---------:+s+seeseeceeeceeeeeeseeeeneceeeeeeeeeeceecaeeceneeeeeteeeeenese 1.50 Chancel Echoes, Witi1aAm M. FEeLTon and PRESSER..............22.-2----200e-000020--= 1.00 Ongan Vistas; -Pamigemry —20.__200. 10s. 20 age eT --—--eee - -- ae 1.50 Twenty-Five Pieces for the Small Pipe Organ, SCHREINER and J. Fiscuer........ 2.50 The books listed are recommended by the Church Music Committee. SUPPLEMENTARY LIST OF BOOKS RECOMMENDED FOR ORGANISTS AND PIANISTS, Peery's Piano Voluntaries, LORENZ............:0::1+: s: s: sssseseseseesesensesesesesenseeseeseeeeeeeees 1.25 Church Service Selections for Organ or Piano, No. 2, RODEHEAVER................ 1.25 Chapel Voluntaries for Organ or Piano, Epwarp B. Marks...........-..2000000000-+ 75 Chapel Voluntaries for Organ, Harmonium, or Piano, Epwarp B. Marks (from Books I to X, inclusive) (2 staves)............ Cc: eceeeeeeeeee eee eeeeeeeeeeeee 75 Thirty-Two Short Pieces for Hammond or Pipe Organ, G. SCHIRMER (arranged by"@liarles@Bigyd )..28:_.... 22. 0b..... Etn... Tte aeceecnnee 1.50 The Sacred Hour at the Organ, ARNO, CARL FISCHER..............2-..----2-2--12-0--2--+- 2.00 Sunday Piano Music (For Church and Home), PREsSER.................-----.-.--------- 1.00 Piano Voluntaries, PRESSER..........--..---+2210cecee-0eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee eee eee eens 1.00 Sacred Piano Album for Home and Church, Caru FIscuHer.........................--- 1.00 Twenty Preludes and Postludes for Pipe Organ, TRUETTE, SCHMIDT................ 1.00 The Liturgical Organist for Pipe or Reed Organ or Piano, J. Fiscuer and Broruers (two staves) (volumes 1-6).............-.----------+ 3.50 Belwin Organ Album, Belwin Music Company (volumes I, II, and DS) ces 1.50 Classic and Modern Gems for Organ or Piano, PRESSER..........----20-100020+00-0-e0-0=- 1.25 Instrumental Church Service Selections (for Organ or Piano) Rodeheaver Co. 1.25 Church and Chapel Voluntaries for Piano, G. SCHIRMER................-.2-..----0-0----- 2.00 School of Organ Playing (op. 31) edited by SHrppENn BarNEs.............-.-.-.------- 2.50 Page 244 BOOKS FOR ORGANISTS AND PIANISTS 245 Because of the fluctuations in the prices of music, the above list can only be approximate. __ The Etude, a monthly music magazine, has in it an organ and a piano department, with a question and answer division. The cultivation of the voice and choral work are also stressed. 'The chorister, as well as the organist, will find valuable information and help in this magazine. It can be found in most libraries, or one may subscribe for it. It is published by Theodore Presser Company, Bryn Mawr, Pennsylvania, $3.50 per year. __ If the music listed above is not available' at your local music store, it may be obtained from the following dealers:. Beesley Music Company, 70 South Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah Daynes Music Company, 45-47 South Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah Glen Brothers Music Company, 74 South Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 2546 Washington St., Ogden, Utah 57 North University St., Provo, Utah Summer Fireplace Elizabeth Williamson Arrange this pleasing composition for your fireplace for the summer months. Use a large piece of aged wood, or driftwood, which you may have had to clean up a bit by using a wire brush or sandpaper. Some pieces of driftwood have worn smooth as satin and necd no cleaning whatsoever. Behind the wood, place a transparent bowl which will not be obvious, and use Michaelmas daisies or small flowers with small foliage. Dried field grasses are attractive, also. These almost neutral arrangements are delicate and will not clash with brighter and more colorful flower arrangements in other parts of your room. Hal Runsel, _ TABLE ARRANGEMENT BY FLORENCE C. WILLIAMS Let Your Sable Sell a Story Helen S. Williams | ates of parties is instinctive, virtually, to most of us. Friends just naturally seek friends to sew, to knit, or chat with, or to be entertained by someone whio is talented in music or storytelling. To some a party means just to get together—nothing more—nothing less. To Florence C. Williams, however, a party, either large or small, is an occasion, an event. No matter who the guests are, whether they are two or three precious old friends who come for a bit of lunch, or twenty, or fifty persons of distinction invited to dine formally, Florence Williams gets an idea and develops it into an ingenious work of art, interest, and originality. What are the guests going to do? Have they any special interest? What are their hobbies? What season is it—and what is at hand to make this party something in particular? These are the questions Mrs. Williams asks herself when she begins to plan for a party. On her table and at her parties she uses the essential principles which make for artistry: first, beautiful color; second, a focal point of interest; third, a flowing thythm; fourth, original and unique accents; and fifth and most important, harmony and beauty. Above is pictured a table set for a sewing-bee luncheon. It is exquisitely planned in every detail. Yet everything used could be found in almost any home. Three, six, Page 246 LET YOUR TABLE TELL A STORY 247 or eight could sit around this table and catch the spirit for a delightful afternoon of sewing.; A lovely bouquet exquisitely proportioned rises from a plain wicker sewing basket. Because the basket happened to be lined with yellow satin, Mrs. Williams chose pale yellow as her color scheme, and carried out all the details in harmony with the color. Daisies with yellow centers, grouped artistically, give the arrangement great style. They are arranged high and to one side. Then the soft ball of white yarn stuck with knitting needles, and the skeins of yellow wool in light and dark shades, balance the bouquet perfectly and create her focal point of interest on the table. Any lovely arrangement must have a feeling of motion, and the rhythm of this table is achieved by the pale yellow ribbons running artistically out from one side of the basket, with spools of yellow and white thread slipped on them and tied in casual ows. The clever and necessary accents are the buttons, tape measures, and tiny emery bags in the shape of strawberries. These follow the graceful curving lines from the centerpiece to the corner of the table, creating a lovely sense of rhythm. They add interest and carry out the theme for the afternoon of stitching and knitting. A beautiful table always gives a feeling of complete harmony. The cloth, place cards, flowers, and gifts must blend to express the central idea. Thus the cloth used is pale yellow organdy, around the edge of which are appliqued daisies, duplicates of the ones growing out of the basket. The place cards are large daisies (they may be artificial or natural). Their centers little pincushions with yellow and white headed pins stuck upright in them. On the corner of the table rests the guest prize which carries out and completes the unusualness of the central idea. The box was originally just a plain plastic spool box bought at a notion counter, but it has been glorified for this lovely spring sewing bee with various shades of yellow thread. Each spool has a tiny ring of seed pearls, circling its top. The box itself, fit for a queen, has been adorned with gold braid and rows and rows of little pearls. The recipient of this lovely and unusual gift will have it to adorn her sewing table for months to come as a gentle reminder of a wonderful afternoon as the honored guest of a friend who entertained so beautifully. Yes, Florence Williams is an artist. She loves people, and her hobby is planning 'and giving ideas for parties, ideas that make her parties linger on and on in the memories of those who attend. Surely after an afternoon at this lovely sewing party, the guests would leave humming softly to themselves, "We are sewing, daily sewing," and thinking, why I could do a table on that order myself, and have my friends come to a party at my house! —— Lt Happens Every Spring Verda Mackay Blossoms burst their bonds Fragile as chantilly lace Which each new spring is changed; Thus nature weaves a different pattern With all things rearranged. The Part-Time Heart Hannah Smith AL was taking her out to M dinner later, so Evelyn hadn't eaten with the family, but she had sat at the table with them. There was a lot of talking to catch up on, with her grandfather home again after so long a time. The dining room on a chilly California evening was a pleasant place, with the overhead light drawing the seven Adams faces into an animated circle around the table. The words and phrases ran _together: "Joe says he hates the Korea weather... You give the flag salute tonight... Four years before they put the road through... Pinch of rosemary in it... You can always borrow a bugle...." Rob, her twenty-year-old brother, was teasing his mother with a far-fetched account of his pre-medical school day; nineteen-year-old Kat had a letter from Joe Hanson in Korea she kept trying vainly to read aloud, and her father and Philip were arguing in a serious, important undertone about the scout meeting in the family basement that night. Then there was Gramps; there were so many things everyone wanted to ask him, even though they had been plying him with continuous questions ever since he got back from his trip to Ecuador. Evelyn sat with her chin cupped in her hands, her blonde hair falling forward in two soft fans on either side of her intent, pretty face, looking first at one and then Page 248 another of them, but most often at her grandfather, so worn and sparse-looking, his eyesight failing, but still seeming so young, hopeful, and full of the serene happiness she always associated with him. She felt an echo of the same happiness within herself, with the family all together again at last, and ahead of her a long evening with Mal. Mal! She caught a glimpse of the clock and gasped out loud. "Oh, no!" She jumped up. "It just can't be seven-thirty already! Mal's coming at eight!" "Hurry, hurry!" jeered Kat. "Old Sobersides will be mad if you're late;" "Won't Deadpan wait for you?" Rob drawled, sticking out a long leg as if to trip her, as she started pell-mell for the door. Evelyn gave them an _ absentminded grimace and dashed for the stairs. Running up to her room, she thought wryly of their nicknames for Mal. She couldn't wonder at them, really—there were two Mals, the reserved, stiff-faced one the family always met on his fleeting appearances in the front hall, and the Mal she knew and loved— the endearing and affectionate one who made her feel so special and priceless, the Mal she was going to marry. She knew, though, that after what had happened Saturday, Mal would be even more stiff and uncommunicative tonight than usual. It would never do to let him know THE PART-TIME HEART she had been dawdling at the table instead of getting ready; it would only add another point in the score he was totaling against her family. When the doorbell rang, she grabbed up her coat and purse and tan, but when she got to the landing she saw that Mal was already inside, talking to her mother. From above he looked polite enough; there was even a smile on his dark, craggily handsome face, but Evelyn went down the steps so fast she was breathless when she reached the downstairs hall. ER mother turned a calmly pleasant face and Evelyn drew an unconscious sigh of relief. "Evie tells me this is a big evening, Mal. A celebration." Mrs. Adams smiled up at him as she put her arm around Evelyn. Usually Evelyn would have returned the hug, but now, with Mal's eyes on her, she busied herself drawing on her gloves. "T've been counting the minutes!" she said gaily. "Really?" he said, and there was a faint edge of hostility in his voice. He steered her out the door with the briefest of goodnights to her mother and—just as she had feared —flared out at her before they were off the front steps. "Counting the minutes? Is that why you broke our date Saturday night?" "Oh, honey!" Evelyn put her hand on his topcoat sleeve, looking up at his face. Even in the dark she knew his expression—that baffling blend of reticence and hurt. "I told you over the phone how it was, Mal! Gramps got home that 249 evening—the first any of us had seen him for five whole years. I couldn't have been away when he came, now could I?" "If it hadn't been that it would have been some other vital family affair." Mal shook off her hand and strode ahead to open the car door. "Won't you be seeing your grandfather every day from now on?" Evelyn sighed, getting into the car. She turned on the overhead light so she could smile into Mal's face as he came around and slid under the wheel. "T love you, Mal," she said, pleadingly. "And this is the anniversary of the night we met. Let's not fight, darling." "But it wasn't a year ago tonight," Mal said stonily. "It was a year ago Saturday night." "I wanted you to come over, too —to spend the evening with all of - us. We had such a nice...." "I know. A nice family evening." She ran a cajoling finger along his jaw, and he smiled reluctantly. "All right, all right," he said. "But it seems to me sometimes that I come after all the Adams clan. You love me devotedly—part time." She slid her fingers between his and the steering wheel. ""Where are we going? Some place special? I'm starved." He started the car. "Well, I made reservations at E] Pollo for dinner, and I've got tickets for the play at the Biltmore." Evelyn put her cheek against his shoulder for a brief minute. "Oh, that's lovely. Just like last year. You're sentimental." "Pretty foolish," he replied gruff- 250 ly, "'to be so sentimental, I mean. A man lays himself wide open when he's in love with a girl." "Oh," Evelyn laughed, "you know that's what I like about you!" They drove into the parking lot beside the Mexican cafe and Mal helped her out. "I even got the same table we had last year," he announced. Evelyn nodded with delighted recollection, as he seated her, wondering if the two guitarists in the balcony weren't even playing the same music they'd played a year ago. "Everything's exactly the same. Except that there are a lot more drippings on this candle, the proprietor looks a good bit fatter, and Kat and Joe aren't...." GHE broke off quickly, hoping Mal hadn't heard, but when he sat down she saw that his eyes were resentful again. "You wish they were, I suppose. Evelyn, can't you spend even one evening away from your precious family?" She reached out to touch his hand, to make him look. At her. "Mal," she said, holding his troubled gaze, "Mal, I promise you, you come first with me. If you really knew my family, you'd know they wouldn't. "Well, welll Look who's here!" Neither Evelyn nor Mal had seen the tall, bald man or the little, bustling red-haired woman until the pair stopped beside their table. "Been wanting to meet this man!" Mal gave them a blank stare, then glanced at Evelyn. She was returning their smiles with what appeared to be joyful warmth. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1954 "Why, hello, Aunt Laura! Uncle Fred! How nice!" "We won't be butting in if we sit with you, will we?" The little woman was already motioning to a waiter. "Bring a couple of chairs, will you?" Mal had struggled to his feet; he took Aunt Laura's coat, shook Uncle Fred's hand. He didn't look at Evelyn. "My this is a pleasant surprise," Aunt Laura kept saying. "Been wondering when we'd see you, young man!" She wagged a coy finger at Mal, and Evelyn groaned inwardly. "Marry into the Adams family, boy, and you'll see relatives a-plenty!" Uncle Fred was saying, giving Mal a heavy wink. "Are those enchiladas any good?" Mal nodded. "Very," he said. He sounded polite enough, but the painful color in Evelyn's cheeks deepened. Aunt Laura kept up a steady flow of high-pitched inconsequential chatter, punctuated by Uncle Fred's heavy rumble, and Evelyn replied, smiled, nodded, as her misery increased by the minute. When the waitress came for their dessert order, Evelyn shook her head. "We'll have ours somewhere after the show," she said quickly. "We're in a bit of a hurry; we're going to a play." Out in the car she turned to Mal with a rueful smile. "Mal," she pleaded. "I'm sorry. Aunt Laura is—well, sort of silly, I know. We don't see them often, but they're very good-hearted....". Her voice trailed off, knowing her words sounded weak, defensive. THE PART-TIME HEART M*4 laughed shortly. "Sure you didn't tell them we were com: ing? 'That youd feel lonesome without some of the Adams clan along?" She sighed, "Oh, honey, what can I do to prove to you that [''m not tied to my family? That this idea is.--- "Py tell you," Mal said suddenly, Evelyn stared at him, wide-eyed. There's no reason for us to..-- "Ten't there? You said once you didn't want a big fuss. Was that ust talk?" "No! No, | meant that. But a wedding breakfast at home with just the... " The motor roared. "Just the family!" Mal said. He backed swiftly out of the parking lot. He gave her one bitter glance. "Just the family," he repeated scornfully. "Not even a groom, maybe. That sums it up, I guess." Evelyn saw that he wasn't driving toward the theatre, but she didn't care. She stared straight ahead. "Tt-it would hurt Mom's feelings.- - ~ "Marriage 18 made for two. And no more," he insisted. Family, their feelings' They had stopped in front of het house. "well," Mal said, and his voice was distant, gentle. "T guess this is goodbye, isn't it, Evie?" 251 All at once she was in his arms, and he was kissing her. "No, no," she whispered, but that was all she could say. HE house was quiet when she opened the door, although it was still early. When she tiptoed upstairs she saw there was a light under her grandfather s door, and she went by as quietly as she could to her room. As she sat by the front window, the clock downstairs struck eleven-thirty, then twelve. Still wide awake, she opened her door and saw that the light still shone from undet her grandfather's She needed to talk with who would understand. Then she heard a slow step and a hesitant tap on her door. She opened the door 4 "Yes?" she whispered. It was Gramps, looking very small in his too-large, shabby bathrobe. "Thought 1 heard you moving around. Thought maybe you'd like to come over and talk awhile before you go to sleep." His nearsighted gaze was eaget and lonesome, aM voluntarily, of the long years he ha been gone—how she had missed him. She followed him across the crack. Rt) y don't you get into bed? I'll read to you, she said, knowing that his eyesight could no longet cope even with a newspaper headline. "Fine!" he said. Be fine, dear." "Anything in particular?" "That would 252 She opened the book at random and began to read, her mind on Mal and her own problem. The words hardly made sense to her, but she kept her voice at a lulling, steady monotone, and in awhile the old man fell asleep. She put the book down quickly and tiptoed out, conscious that some fragment of what she had read was staying in her mind, but she pushed it back as she had the rest of her thoughts. She stood at her own window again and saw Mal walking up the front steps. She ran quickly down the stairs to meet him, before he could ring the bell, wondering why he had returned. "Oh, honey, honey, I couldn't wait until morning," he said. "I was so afraid you would never want to see me again." It was then that the words she had read to her grandfather came back to her, as sharply clear as if Mal himself had said them to her aloud. "Perfect love casteth out fear." "Mal," she said, "I'm not going to have a hurry-up wedding without my family there. Tonight when we were talking, I thought you were right, that I was too entangled in my family. But now I know what is wrong between us. Mal, you're the one with the part-time heart. You can't trust me when I'm away from you; yeu won't believe in my love. As long as you feel that way, our marriage would never succeed. We have to have faith in each other." He clutched her arm. "Evelyn, you make your choice—it's I or your family." She shook her head. "If you went to the other side of the world to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1954 live, I'd go with you. That's not the question; I know that now. If you're so jealous now of my family, sO suspicious, it would only be someone, something else, if we went to the end of the world together." He let go of her arm and drove away, while she stood watching him from the front door. When she awakened, sun was streaming in the windows. She sat up and caught a glimpse of her pale face in the mirror, and the memory of the previous night clutched at her. Was I wrong? She wondered. Just as she was starting to fasten the belt of her dress, the doorbell tang. She hardly noticed it, but the sound of the voice in the downstairs hall stopped her, her eyes widening with incredulous hope. She ran into the hall and looked over the banister. Sure enough, Mal was talking to her mother. He hadn't seen her. She couldn't read his expression or tell anything from the tone of his voice. "... Mind calling Evelyn?" he was asking. "Of course. She isn't up yet, though. Why don't you come in and have some breakfast with us while you're waiting?" Evelyn held her breath. Mal hesitated for a long second. Then: "Why, yes," he answered. "Yes, I'd like to." Forgetting how she looked, aware of nothing but the golden miracle of the morning, Evelyn ran down the stairs. "Mal! Mal!" she called. Darling! Wait for me!" She caught up with him at the door and they went in to join the family together. "Wait Gardening for the Home treezer C. W. McCullough To enjoy a garden, put on a wide hat and gloves, hold a little trowel in one hand, » and tell the man where to dig. HE above plan has a legion of devotees, but this article is not dedicated to those who practice their backyard agriculture vicariously. Rather it is directed to those who prefer the fruits of their own labors; those who find the spring catalogue of the seedsmen the most fascinating document in print; those who react instinctively to the challenge of a freshly plowed or spaded plot of ground. Home gardening, probably almost as old as man, has experienced the greatest uplift in its history during the last few years with the discovery of the means of preserving foodstuffs by quick freezing. When man perfected this new means of putting Jack Frost to work, more was accomplished than just to introduce an ingenious kitchen appliance. Barriers to the seasons were broken down, barriers between the menus of the frigid, temperate, and tropical zones—and in our little backyard gardens—the barriers between surplus wastes and economic usage. The home freezer has given "the man with the hoe" a new incentive and value. Thanks to the home freezer, the products of a garden that could be enjoyed only for a brief season, can now be prisoned in an icy package and kept practically garden fresh throughout the year. No attempt will be made to cov- 'er the entire field of desirable regional practices or the pitfalls of either gardening or home freezing. These are widely discussed in seed catalogues, government bulletins, and magazine articles that you probably have in your home. Others are available at your library or through contact with your county agent, your state agricultural college, or state department of agriculture and home economics. A garden should be carefully planned, not only to insure the planting of varieties that do well in your particular climate and altitude, but of equal importance, to insure that what you raise will find a ready market on your table. A great mistake of tyro-gardeners is the growing of vegetables the family do not care for. Consider the turnip! If turnips carry a low popularity rating with your family, plant them sparingly, or better, not at all. Use the space for crops the youngsters like, and, if you must, get your turnips downtown at lunch. Another mistake is over planting, the temptation to use up that package of seed. If your garden must be laid out in long rows, it is often wise to divide these rows in half with stakes, and limit plantings of a variety to a half row. JN planning a garden for freezing the products, one must give first place to those that freeze well and are old standbys: corn, peas, beans, beets, carrots. Then you can make your choice from a long list that inPage 253 254 cludes cabbage, cauliflower, broccoli, spinach, squash, melons, and _ asparagus, guided by family tastes, the amount of ground available, and climatic limitations. 'To round out your garden patch, some space should be allotted to small fruits, strawberries, and raspberries. Here are a few general suggestions: SPINACH and BROCCOLI: keep plantings small and follow with later plantings, ten days to two weeks apart. Corn: If your season is long enough for early and late varieties, plant each in blocks of several short rows rather than one long row. You will get better pollination and better filled ears. Ear worms can be controlled by dusting with an approved insecticide or dabbing on crank case drainings as soon as the silks appear. Peas: The larger varieties, such as Stratagem, Dwarf Telephone, or Giant Stride yield heavier and are easier to pick and shell. CABBAGE and CAULIFLOWER: Buy the plants for these! Dust with a powdered insecticide several times during the growing season to outwit the bugs. After cauliflower heads have formed, tie. Up leaves around heads to prevent sunburn. STRAWBERRIES: The everbearing vatieties are best for the home gardener. They provide fruit all summer and well into the fall. The Centennial is recommended. Plant in rows eighteen inches apart, spacing plants a foot apart. After three or four years of bearing, dig up a third of the patch and replant with young runners. Repeat this every year, and you will have young plants always coming on. Everbearing strawberries tend to bear heavily and then go into short rest periods, followed by new bearings. These bearing and rest periods vary with ages of plants, so by staggering the ages of your patch you will always have berries for table use. Keep well watered, and if berries become small, scatter a good RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1954 commercial fertilizer along the rows and wet down with lawn spray. For regular irrigations, row waterings are best. RASPBERRIES: Here again, the everbearing varieties are recommended. Raspberries require plenty of elbow room; three to four feet between rows and at least two feet between plants. Single plants fill up unused corners attractively. If heavy snows tend to break down canes, drive stakes into ground in the fall and tie up plants. Remember that the canes that grow this year bear the berries next year. Weeps: If treated right they are the gardeners best friends. A well-weeded patch is necessarily a well cultivated one. Get after weeds early before they get the upper hand and stunt the growth of the things you've planted. Time for Freezing One of the delights of growing a garden is that many varieties mature quickly. The dividends accrue rapidly both in terms of table use and largess for the freezer. Nearly all garden products can be frozen sat isfactorily; the exceptions being onions, lettuce, and other salad greens, radishes, and _ tomatoes. With your own garden close at hand, you can pick, pack, and freeze each product at the peak of its goodness and thus retain vitamin and flavor richness. Freezing is one of the simplest and least time-consuming ways to preserve foods at home. A complete guide of the preferred methods of preparing, packing, and cooking all types of foodstuffs suitable for freezing is to be found in Home and Garden Bulletin No. 10, Home Freezing of Fruits and Vegetables, published by the Superintendent of Documents, Washington, D. C. It will be mailed to you for fifteen GARDENING FOR THE HOME FREEZER cents. More detailed directions may be found in Your Home Freezer, by Ann Seranne (Doubleday & Co., Inc., New York, $3.75) and The Complete Book of Home Freezing, by Hazel Meyer (J. P. Lippincott Company, Philadelphia, $4.95). One general rule should be xemembered. Nothing but the best is worthy of freezer space. What you put into your locker, if properly handled and protected, can be preserved in the same good, fresh condition in which you freeze it—but it will not be improved. It is extremely important to be sharply critical of the fruits and vegetables you select for freezing. Discard everything with bruised or overripe spots, as well as the underripe that have not reached their full peak of flavor. Preparation for Deep Freeze Everyone who uses a deep freeze for any length of time picks up many ideas and practices that are not always found in the books. Here are a few gathered here and there that may contribute to a fuller and more varied use of your freezer: Vegetables, being pre-cooked before freezing, need less time for cooking than fresh ones. Cook just long enough to tenderize and thus preserve vitamins, bright color, and fresh flavor. Vegetables should be cooked at once after thawing, starting while they are still partially frozen. Com is best cut from the cob after blanching. For winter gourmets a few whole ears may well be frozen. For this, choose choice ears and leave the husks on. Do 255 not cook or otherwise wrap before freezing. 'This insures a firm cob and no cobby taste after cooking. Snap beans are usually cut or broken into short pieces. For variety, try freezing a few packages of the whole beans. These are particularly nice for salads and can be substituted for asparagus either as a base or for top garnishment. Cantaloupes and watermelons when frozen provide another tasty salad ingredient. Cut choice ripe meat into balls or cubes and pack in a container. For the thrill of perfect "fresh" peaches or apricots in the wintertime, try putting a few choice ones in the freezer whole and unwrapped. Allow an hour at room temperature for peaches to thaw. A half hour for apricots. Peel and slice just before serving. Dieters who cannot eat sugared fruits will find these a delectable addition to their menus. Fruits, such as peaches, apricots, and pears, tend to turn brown when frozen. This can be prevented by adding one half teaspoon of ascorbic acid to each quart of the sugar syrup used in packing them. All fruits should be served as soon as thawed. A few ice crystals in the fruit improve the texture for eating raw. Allow six to eight hours for thawing a one-pound syrup packed package in the refrigerator; two to four hours at room temperature; one-half to an hour in a pan of cold water. Fruits packed in dry sugar thaw somewhat faster. A little experimenting will give you the proper time intervals of your type of container between freezer and serving. New Designs for Gaster &gqs Courtesy Dennison Manufacturing Company Here is a basketful of ideas to help you design the many eggs to fill some lucky youngster's Easter basket. The simplest of materials are used to create these amusing art studies in egg form! Starting with the basic form—the egg—we suggest that you buy a dozen china ones, the type farmers use to set an example for their negligent flock. These are sturdier than their genuine brothers and will keep indefinitely. Of course, if you prefer, you may use real ones, either hard boil or blow each egg before decorating it. Eggs may either be dyed with any pure food dye or covered with pastel crepe paper. In addition to material used for coloring eggs, you will need bits of colored crepe paper, paper lace, doilies, paste, scraps of mat stock, ribbons, tiny gummed dots and hearts. To make these masterpieces proceed as follows: GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS Step 1—Color eggs—dye them, following the directions on the dye package, or wind them with % inch wide strips of crepe paper cut across the grain, pasting strips frequently as you wind so they will stay in place. 1. CYNTHIA: Here's a charming little lady all done on an egg! Wrap the egg first with pink crepe paper (or use a pink dye) to give her a lovely glowing complexion. Her dashing hairdo is made from narrow strips of yellow crepe paper curled around a knitting needle on the ends. Her mouth is a gummed heart—her eyes light blue and white crepe paper, with curling black eyelashes. A paper lace doily makes a fetching hat, especially when dashingly decorated with a pompon of slashed light blue crepe paper. Page 256 NEW DESIGNS FOR EASTER EGGS 257 2. PERSONALITY EGG: Use the favorite colors of the recipient for this egg, a nice pastel one for the background, with two contrasting colors teaming up to make the two-strand braid. The name is written with a % inch wide strand of a deeper shade, twisted to make a fine cord. Trace name on egg first. Apply paste over written name with a toothpick to hold twist in place. Trim edges from a paper doily, paste in place, allowing it to flare slightly. Paste braid over inside edge of doily. 3- FLOWERS IN A FRAME: Cover the egg with orchid-colored crepe paper and decorate it with a braid of pink and deep rose crepe paper. Make rosebuds by cutting two-inch wide strips of crepe paper across the grain in several shades (light pink, dark pink, red, yellow). Unfold a strip and wind it on itself to make a tiny roll about % inch thick, then cut off remaining length of crepe strip and paste another color to the roll. Roll this second strip around first roll to make a % inch thick strip. Repeat process with third color to make a three-colored rose. Paste end of last strip down to roll, and paste "rosebuds" on egg, using a few leaves cut from green paper to complete the bouquet. 4. QUIGLEY THE QUACK: Wrap two eggs with canary yellow crepe paper. Cut two bill patterns from mat stock mn conn amber at paper. Paste to narrow end of one egg. Cut eyes from colored writing paper (blue), and for the center of the eye, cut a small square of black paper. Paste eyes on sides of egg. Paste the "egg head" on top of another paper-covered egg towards the wide end. Wind around the neck a strip of yellow crepe paper tie ribbon and make a bow. Then paste the completed Quigley to mat stock covered with amber crepe paper. —— Directions for Gardening Maude Rubin One principle of landscaping, As all good gardeners know, Is planting taller plants in back In front plant something low. For the back, I chose chrysanthemums You know how tall they grow— In front, placed English daisies As something sweet and low. I watered them; I studied books On gardening in all phases. My daisy flowers are big as mums— My mums look just like daisies! First Bloom Desert Flowers Sudie Stuart Hager Vesta N. Lukei In springtime every woman knows The brief (No man could ever guess ) Bright jewels of spring The way a half-grown peach tree feels Are spilled in amethyst, In her first pink party dress! And topaz drifts across the gold Of sand. MRS. ROSE PASKETT THOMPSON AND SOME OF HER BEAUTIFUL HANDWORK Handwork Hobbies Bring Happiness Rose Paskett Cooke Thompson, Corinne, Utah, has made hundreds of rugs, doilies, tablecloths, and decorative items. Mrs. Thompson, sixty-two, has made about five hundred braided rugs, six hundred pieces of miscellaneous crocheting, crocheted edges on more than one hundred fifty handkerchiefs. She has given away about four hundred pieces of crocheted work, and her crocheting has been exhibited in twelve states. She also makes exquisite artificial flowers. She has another hobby of raising outdoor flowers, specializing in iris, of which she has about two hundred varieties, and roses of seventy-five varieties. Her Church work has included many years of service in the Primary Association, including four years as ward president; teaching in Sunday School; and visiting teacher and theology class leader in Relief Society. She has thirty grandchildren (including step-grandchildren) and four great-grandchildren. Page 258 Participation mn Relief Society Can Help Achieve Srue Happiness Edith Kaneko is creteachers was Brother Payton Alexated through service—serv- 'ce to our fellowmen and to God. Happiness comes from within. It is the result of satisfying the soul. We have a responsibility to be happy, not alone because of its effect upon us, but because of its effect upon others. By living the commandments of God and giving of our time and service to others, we may forget our difficulties and also spread happiness to others. In regard to this, I asked our ward Relief Society President, Pearl Fillmore, what the Relief Society has done for her. Was it just a Jot of hard work, or just what did it mean to her? She told me, "Yes, there is a lot of hard work—hours and hours of it; but the joy I've received from seeing the happiness that has come to others through my efforts has repaid me many fold. Also, coming to Relief Society meetings and associating with the sisters has helped to take my mind off our trials and tribulations." I should like to relate my person al experience, because in it I can best explain how true happiness was passed on to me through an act of kindness by two of the Relief Society sisters of my ward, an act that may have seemed trivial to them. I was born and reared in 'Tremonton, Utah, and my husband was born in Salt Lake City, but spent most of his life in Gunnison, Utah. One of his high school [os greatest happiness the time. Ander, and his Seminary teacher was Brother LeRoy Whitehead. After our marriage we decided to strike a happy medium and settle in Spanish Fork, which is about halfway between our former homes. That was in 1941, when war clouds were hanging heavily over us, and I often wondered how the people of Spanish Fork would react to our coming, since there were strained feelings between the people of the land of my ancestors and the people of this, our beloved country. Would they accept us, and if they did, to whom could we look for compan ionship? Such questions ran through my mind constantly as we worked at making a home for us and our little boy, who was just one year old at As if in answer to a prayer, one day in the autumn of that year, two Relief Society visiting teachers came and invited me out to Relief Society. Sister Ann Nelson and Sister Fanny Vincent have probably forgotten this little incident, but I have not, because the visit they made to me opened up a way towards a greater and brighter life. Little do they realize how much they have contributed toward making my life what it is today. They were sO friendly and so sincere that I had a strong desire to attend their meeting. However, I was just a little hesitant, so I asked my husband how Page 259 260 he felt about it. He told me that since I was invited, I should go. So two or three weeks later I attended my first Relief Society meeting, still a bit doubtful. But all my doubts and fears left me when I entered the meetinghouse and went into the Relief Society room. Never before had I been in a place where friendliness prevailed in such rich abundance. I could feel that the spirit of the Lord was there, although I knew nothing about the Church at that time. EVER will I forget the warm welcome extended to me by Sister Ida Anderson, who was the president at that time. I shall never forget her kind personality and the sweet smile with which she quickly put me at ease. I did not have the privilege of knowing her very long, as she passed away a short time later. I went home from Relief Society that day with a feeling of satisfaction that there are friends, if we look in the right places for them, and I had a stronger desire than ever to go back again. It wasn't very long until they asked me if I would like to become a member, and this was a great surprise to me, as I thought that only those who belonged to the Church were allowed that privilege. As time went on, I became more and more acquainted with the activities of the Relief Society and of the Church in general. A short time later I was asked to join the Singing Mothers, and no one can realize the joy I experienced from my participation in that work, because I love music, and up to that time had had very little opRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1954 portunity to satisfy my desire to sing. As time went on, I was getting to the point that I thought that I had attained the height of happiness, but, on second thought, I realized that I had not, and I would never attain that goal, because I was not a member of the Church, and for that reason my services to the Church were very limited. I began taking my little boy to Sunday School, because I felt that it was my duty to see that his religious training began at an early age, more so because it had been neglected in mine. I believe it was during these moments that my desire to join the Church grew stronger than ever. I often hoped and prayed that some day I would be able to serve the Church and the Lord in the same capacity as all my friends were doing. Years slipped by, with this desire growing stronger and stronger. Our boy, David, was nearing the age of eight, and it was my fervent wish as well as my husband's, to see him baptized into the Church at this age so that he could take advantage of the spiritual opportunities which the Church offered these young children. Then I thought how wonderful it would be if his parents could join him, and the three go down into the waters of baptism together. But I could see that my husband was not ready for this yet, and I did not want to be baptized unless he was with me, because in these few years I had learned that a man and wife must be together, for neither can attain exaltation without the other. It was my earnest prayer that some PARTICIPATION IN RELIEF SOCIETY day he would see the light as I had already done and accept the gospel. AVID'S eighth birthday came and went, and we did nothing, and by the time he was eight and one half I began to wonder if my hopes were in vain, but I wouldn't give up, because something told me that everything would turn out all right. Then about two months before David's ninth birthday, when I asked my husband what he thought about it, he said, "If that is what you want, then that is what I want. I, too, am ready." The following day—the day of our confirmation—it all seemed like a dream that we were actually partaking of the sacrament, and as we took it we felt the presence of the spirit of the Lord as we had never felt it before. Until this day we had been merely existing. From 261 that day on, we really began to live. Now we are able to participate in all activities of the Church just like the other members, and thus our service to the Lord is not limited. But we realized the height of happiness had not yet been reached at this point. We learned that in order to have this joy in the world to come, we must go to the house of the Lord and be sealed to each other. Meanwhile Duane and Paul had joined our family, so two years after the baptism, the five of us went to the Salt Lake temple and were sealed to each other for time and for all eternity, and now we have little Diane, born under the true and everlasting covenant. We have found true joy. I need ask for no more. All this spiritual wealth was brought to us through the little service rendered by the two Relief Society sisters. Julips in the Wind Evelyn Fjeldsted Bending forward in a gale, they seem To all be going somewhere far away, But, in the changing evening wind, they turn And seem to hurry back while it is day. Morning finds them standing straight and tall, A garden'study in tranquility. Undaunted by the wind and lingering frost, They raise their regal heads triumphantly. Ge Must Be Spring Hilda V. Cameron It must be spring, For my honeysuckle vine Is splotched with pastel beauty Like a lovely valentine. And at dawn this morning I heard a robin sing; Though chilly winds torment me, I know it must be spring. Sunshine and Rain Ruth K. Kent It takes a lot of clouds To make it rain all day; It takes a lot of sun To drive the clouds away; It takes a lot of frowns To make a child look sad, But only one big smile To make a child feel glad. "Within Our Reach" Donna Day HE boy, emerging from the flow of sleep, lay quietly in his bed on the back porch. With intense loneliness, he contemplated the tremendous and moving quietness of awakening. Could one awaken and continue dreaming? The slow consciousness of his surroundings took shape out of shadow. That first light brought the sudden realization that tomortow they would go to the crater. No, not tomorrow. Today! Lifting himself abruptly, he started to climb out of bed. There were so many wonderful things to see and think about. Suddenly his mother stood in the kitchen doorway looking upward. Out of the glowing east, spears of sunlight illuminated her face and put a glitter in her pale hair. She shook out her apron as if it were sun crumbs she was scattering. Quickly the boy was out of bed to inquire fervently if his mother remembered the promised visit to the crater. Could she forget when a pair of wide, inquiring eyes looked at her? The boy dressed quickly in the circle of the warmth made by the kitchen range. The bacon sputtered and the eggs bounced in the bubbling water. After breakfast he carried their lunch to the car. When, at last, he was in the car, he could not sit still. His heart knew a strange soaring. He had waited all summer for this trip to the crater. AdvenPage 262 ture lay down the long, straight autumn road. The wheels of the car stirred and rattled the brown leaves, and they scattered down the road behind them as noisily as rustlers on a midnight ride. A sagebrush plain appeared as the road ran level and unbroken to the base of the distant mountain. Then the land swept upward to the lift of the crater's shoulder. The crater was not as big as the boy had anticipated. The mother parked the car at the base of the mountain, and the two started the climb up the steep side. It was a desolate slope, warm and dusty. Coarse cinder ash sucked at their feet. The pea-sized lava fragments were pierced by scrub brush and rough salt grasses. Their breath came in short gasps, with the sensation that the world was slipping back while they were standing still. But, at last, they reached the first level, where an old road wound around through the red and. Gray rocks. The boy and his mother sat down to rest. It was changed air they breathed, ancient and aromatic. Shortly the boy stood up and studied the magic-shaped cone that towered above them. The crest seemed to have risen a little toward the sky like an elevated, dancing platform. The boy gazed up with an awe that is only for those who are young. The whole marvelous mystery of creation came rushing down to meet him, and then, he "WITHIN OUR REACH" was off up the old road that curved around toward the heart of the crater. The mother rose and followed, humbly, the golden and jubilant life of childhood. Few minutes more and the winding road on the crater's flank ended. Then, gully by gully, fold by fold, over the fire-red rock they advanced, pathless, toward the top. The ancient volcanic stream spilled down the sides in rude, limitless_ convolutions. Their feet crunched and slipped, the sliding rocks flung handfuls of lost echoes down through the ragged crater edges. Light from above, refracted, stung their eyes, and flooded the jutting rocks with a thousand colors. They finally stood on the top, on the edge of the highest cone, and surveyed the gaping chasm below. Two smaller craters overlapped the western side. The boy flung himself on_ his stomach, staring transfixed, his mouth open a little, his tousled head tilted on one side. His hazel eyes, lost in wonder, were never still. A dye made of sunshine and afternoon stirred his hair to creamed gold and coppered his skin. Those were moments of breathless silence while the crater yielded up its peculiar, savage kind of beauty that whipped and sharpened the imagination. Then the mother heard the boy's fast, indrawn breath. The boy was regarding the scene with both curiosity and consternation. His eyes were squinting, now, with intensity of purpose, his wide forehead puckered. His mother knew he had started that momen- 263 tous journey from which no child returns the same. She lay down beside the boy on the hard flowing rock. The top of the crater lay baking in the fire of the October sun. She could feel her skin broiling a little in the heat. It was not an invisible thing. She could see the heat dancing and waving like a veil. But the heat was as nothing, for the mother sat with her son in a magnificent frame, surrounded by the silent beginning, and received into the enduring past. Centuries and centuries of time pressed against them, each distorted convolution of cold lava became a chapter of history compiled through the ages. Eons of rain and wind had beaten and chiseled the crater. The fiery birth of creation lay sleeping all about them. The desolate and violent country was part of their homeland and their heritage, stretching from the base of the cones to the dark lines of mountains on the horizon. Cloud shadows passed above the timeless wilderness, followed by sunlight that crept across the land. HE boy and his mother watched quietly for a long time and knew the communion of silence, which was the strong binder of their affection. Finally, the boy stood up with restlessness, stretched himself with one sharp movement. Then he opened his arms wide, taking in all the crater, the whole earth, the everlasting heavens, in a great embrace. His face was pleased, warin. For a moment the face turned toward the mother was the face of a young child before a lighted Christmas tree. His mother reached up 264 and took his hand in hers. He playfully tugged her to her feet. Across a lazy spot where salt grass and rabbit brush crowded each other in the shallow soil, then down into the wide mouth, they threaded their way. Down scaly outcroppings the boy picked a path, with his mother's slender shadow behind, down steps cut in the immemorial past. It was a wonderful thing to go plunging down, digging heels in, the sensation of falling, yet not falling, stiffening the knees and digging the heels in, the sheer joy of descent. Time had tamed the giant volcano with its spectacular eruptions. Strange shapes, which marked its death agonies, crowded the wide pit. Against the blue steep of the sky, terrifying crags overhung the tim; the black angular rocks, sheared and smoky, clung about the walls. Stealing through a gap between two towering stones, the mother and the boy entered the crater, shadowed from the afternoon glow by the southern pinnacles. Concealed in the mottled shadow, they mounted a dais of weird, grotesque stones and climbed the precipices with RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1954 their eyes, up and up to the gaping hole cut by the ancient lava flow. It was like standing in a great amphitheater with a ragged hole in its side, tremendous, dark, leached by a thousand storms, brimming with reflected lights. The fragile, transparent blue of the sky deepened above until the color could reach no further intensity. It broke off suddenly into a bank of clouds. To the mother, it was like being alone in the vast universe, but to the boy, it was part of the eternal earth, something he had always known, like the slow awakening on an autumn morning. It was one of the perfect days of life snatched from the confusion of living, a day of pleasure that nothing could corrode, nor time remove, a part of the precious heritage of childhood—and of motherhood. The hour, the height and depth... Everything had sharpened their appetites. They would be famished by the time they reached the car. The mother watched the boy for a moment longer, then she slowly followed him up, up toward the slanting light. <> After Long Years Beatrice Knowlton Ekman After long years of questing to and fro, This homely kitchen is a restful place; The smell of burning pine, the rudy glow Of firelight upon each loved one's face.... Let me find anchor here and end my quest In this old house that memory has blessed. SV Usewers—Down a. Eloise Strinz TT problem of keeping the youngest member of our family seated during a television program, arrived with the new set. The youngest was given the place of honor on the ottoman, front row center aisle. Being a wiggler from way back, he wouldn't stay put. With his head in front of the screen, we viewed the back of his neck. _ Young children have an excellent close range vision. This accounts for their desire to sit close to a viewing screen. However, their interest is too short-lived to retain one position long. Since their boundless energy must be considered, miniature seats are out. The preservation of our family television unity cost only $2.76—and a little sewing time. I made a slipcover for the crib mattress our baby had outgrown. For the benefit of mothers who must use the crib for the next in line, a second-hand crib pad, sterilized, can be obtained for a few dollars. With four and one-fourth yards of thirty-six inch denim, at fifty-nine cents a yard, a packet of snap fasteners costing twenty-five cents, I had everything I needed to work with. Denim may be obtained in plain colors or in designs of floral pattern and plaids. A standard crib mattress measures fifty-six by thirty inches, and is four inches deep. Cut the top and bottom covering first. Allow five extra inches on the top cover. This will be used as a flap at the open end. On the remaining material, mark strips four and one-fourth inches wide. Nip and tear in strips. Sew the strips together. 'Twice the length and once the width will be used for the sides of the cover. The remainder of the strip will be used for a ruffle. Roll hem on one side of the strip, to be used for the ruffle. On the raw side of the strip, measure every three inches and pleat one inch of material with a basting stitch. For the top covering, hem one end with a one-inch fold. Roll hem either side for a depth of five inches. Attach the ruffle with the design facing the design of the top cover. Pin the siding strip, its design turned away from you, on top of the ruffle. Sew the width of the cover, starting at the end of the rolled hem. This pleating, or tuffle, encircles the top cover. While working on the bottom cover, the material is turned wrong side out. Do not attach fasteners until the slip cover is finished. Then mark carefully as this assures a better fit. The mat, with its slip cover, resembles a well-tailored pillow. It can be tucked away in a closet when not in use. Don't be surprised if the older children find it comfortable to lounge on. Of course, the legal owner will have something to say about this. No longer is it necessary to tap our youngest on the shoulder during a program and say, "Pardon me, but your head is showing." ~——e Apprehension Alice Whitson Norton The gentle voice of springtime called, "Come walk with me'— But I denied the urgent voice, Lest I might see Along a path I'd marked with gloom A crocus border in full bloom. Page 265 The Deeper Melody CHAPTER 7 Alice Morrey Bailey Synopsis: Steven Thorpe, a widower with three small children, is in love with Margaret Crain, a registered nurse who has taken care of his baby during an attack of pneumonia. However, Margaret is engaged to Dr. Rex Harmon, and, as the time for her marriage approaches, Steven feels that he has little chance of winning her. In the meantime he has become unwillingly involved in a romance with Miss Tate, his secretary at the Pikes Peak Machinery Company. Margaret's mother, a widow, who is temporarily acting as Steven's housekeeper, tells him that she thinks he should declare his love for Margaret even though she is about to become the wife of Dr. Harmon. Accordingly, he seeks an opportunity and tells Margaret that he loves her. 66] love you, Margaret," Steve repeated. His words were a pebble dropped into a pool of silence; her reaction to them like widening rings of light—the deep look of joy, the swift glad lift of her eyes, the radiance in her face, which brought Steve to his feet, his heart pounding mightily. Suddenly he was around the desk, and she was in his arms. Kissing her was a lost interval in time and space. Its moment, brief or long, was part of infinity, part of eternity. She was the first to pull away. "Steve! Steve, it's no use." "Margaret! I love you so much. Look at me, darling." "JT can't," she said. "I'm on duty. I'm engaged to Dr. Harmon." Steve released her and stepped back. "I know that. I've thought of nothing else for weeks. Believe me, Margaret, I'd have come before if I'd thought I had either a right Page 266 ora chance. You've drawn me like a magnet since the very first. I felt you were my own, made for me. I was sure long ago, but there was Dr. Harmon. There were my children. It seemed unfair to ask you to share such responsibility." "Tm trained to responsibility, Steve," said Margaret. "Besides I love the children—Davey, Ilene, and little Phyllis. I could take them for my own. In spite of me, I did take them for my own. I found myself planning for them as they grew. I couldn't sleep, sometimes, thinking of them, feeling I was running out on them. That was why I shut myself off from them." "And their father?" prompted Steve. "Were you a little drawn to him?" "Please, Steve," she said, lifting miserable eyes to his. "I have felt guilty enough about that. I didn't tell Rex, but I tried to make it up to him." Steve's heart leaped. A million questions pressed his tongue. He leaned across the desk to her. "You don't love him. You love me!" "What are you saying? He's a wonderful man, and a genius in his field." "That is not love," Steve began, and the telephone rang. It was the dreaded interruption, an emergency. Before his eyes Margaret was transformed from an appealingly uncertain woman—all woman—to an alert nurse, full of authority and decision; from the THE DEEPER MELODY circle of his arms, from being his own a moment ago, she receded from him rapidly, becoming remote in the urgency of her work. From this distance she spoke to him with finality. "Steve, this is madness. The invitations are out—some gifts have already arrived. Dr. Hanson and his wife have loaned us their beautiful home for the reception. Everything is arranged. Of course I shall marry Dr. Harmon," she said, and disappeared swiftly down the hall on her soundless nurse's shoes. GTEVE left. The hospital with mixed feelings. Her answer had cut him sharply, left no opening, no possibility of continuance. His hope of changing it was balked by sheer lack of time, but the remembrance of her quick look of joy, her radiance, her tacit admission that she was emotionally drawn to him were warm knowledge. And that kiss! If she could deny that, she was less of a woman than he thought. It was knowledge and memory that turned inevitably to pain, however, as the days followed. It was part of all the beauty he wanted to share with her, and could not, of the flowers that were on every hand, the flowers which were the usual messengers of a man's love for a girl, which he could not send —lilacs, violets, roses coming to bud on the trellises in the May sunshine. There were other messengers— books, candy, letters. She had his message, straight and hard, and bare of embellishments. Bombarding her with pleadings now might be only an annoyance to her during the days which should be those of happy anticipation. They could, granting 267 he were persistent enough, harry her into a confused and forced decision. Much as Steve wanted her, he told himself, he could bear no half measures. Certainly the next move was hers. The week was a nightmare. Part of Steve worked furiously on the job, went through the motions at home, smiled at the correct time, said the right words, made the right moves. Part of him stood back and watched almost impersonally the holocaust seething within him. He must again assume his old responsibility for the little ones, which lately had been left mostly Crain. Eventually they would fill his time and his thoughts, and neither would be a loss, for, along with the worry over them and the compounded fears he had for them, they were a constant delight, a source of perpetual amazement to him, as well as heart-tugging pathos, as when they talked of their mother. "Did my real mama die?" Davey asked one day. "She went away," Steve said. "Did she go to heaven?" "Yes, Davey. She's waiting there for us. Some day we'll go to her." "Tlene go to heaven Saturday," Ilene put in brightly. Everything in the past was to her "last morning," and everything in the future was "Saturday." "Ilene go Saturday. See Ilene's mama. Bring her home again." She laughed and shook her curls in gamin delight, and Phyllis laughed, too, clapping her hands and wrinkling her small nose. "Saturday I'll take you all to the circus," Steve promised, to (Continued on page 275) to Mrs. - FROM THE FIEL ap Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1950, page 278, and the Handbook of Instructions, page 123. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Laura M. Wilkin OQUIRRH STAKE (UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS FURNISH MUSIC FOR THE OFFICERS MEETING OF RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL CONFERENCE, September 30, 1953 Front row, left to right: Verena Waldron, First Counselor; Laura M. Wilkin, President; Elmina Toone, Second Counselor; Coy Manning, chorister. At right end of second row, in dark dress, Ireta Arave, organist. This group, which presented the music for the opening session of the Relief Society General Conference, September 30, 1953, also presented in Oquirrh Stake last spring the Easter cantata "Resurrection Morning," by B. Cecil Gates and Ida R. Alldredge. Sister Marianne C. Sharp of the general presidency of Relief Society was guest speaker. A special scriptural reading was given by Pearl Apostle. Special solo and trio numbers of the cantata were given by Ward Coon, Ivor Pickering, Shirley J. Duke, Betty Lou Jones, and Alice Gourley; Betty Heath, Helen Jeppson, Florence Cockerill, and Jeane Smith. Pianist was Billie C. Andreason. This same group has sung for stake conferences and other special meetings sponsored by the Church and the community recently. Page 268 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 269 Photograph submitted by Esther Miller MARICOPA STAKE (ARIZONA) FORMER RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS Seated, left to right: Vida Brinton (1945-1952); Fanna Dana (1909-1913). Standing, left to right: Mary Davis (1938-39); Clara Goodman (1939-1943); Eleanor Shupe (1932-1938); Irene Brown (1943-1945). Not in the photograph is Mary Clark, deceased, who served from 1913 to 1932. Ksther Miller is the new president of Maricopa Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Claire B. Jones CEDAR STAKE (UTAH), CEDAR FIFTH WARD VISITING TEACHERS HONORED FOR FIVE YEARS OF ONE HUNDRED PER CENT VISITING TEACHING Front row, seated, left to right: Viola Bauer; Vera Nelson; Arvilla Adams; Belle Jones; Lauretta Perry, stake Secretary; Verona Mosdell; Ardella Ford, First Counselor; Lillian Randall, President; Lamona Langford, Second Counselor; Rena Lawrence; Thelma Melling; Nell Heywood; Maude Robinson. Back row, standing, left to right: Leah Bess; Henrietta Leigh; Genevieve Melling; Harriet Hunter; Beth Ence; Astella Cason; Rose Lawrence; Olive Knell; Lottie Bladen; Mary P. Bauer; Theressa Peterson; Alice Matheson; Carol Draper; Caroline Jordan; Loie Jean Murray; Nina Mulliner. Claire B. Jones is president of Cedar Stake Relief Society. 270 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1954 — Pag Photograph submitted by Edith Anderson WEISER STAKE (IDAHO) VISITING TEACHERS HONORED AT CONVENTION, December 29, 1593 Front row, seated, left to nght: stake board members, beginning second from the left: Second Counselor Lucille Chandler; President Della W. Alder; First Counselor Dorothy Zaugg; literature leader Hazel Closner; Magazine representative Amy R. Williams. Edith Anderson, stake Secretary, reports: "We hold a convention each year. We stress the true spirit of visiting teaching and twelve visits each year to each Latter-day Saint family. We honor those teachers who achieve 100 per cent visiting teaching. Some of our teachers have been so honored for nine consecutive years. One hundred thirteen visiting teachers out of 187 in the stake were honored this year for 100 per cent records. Only part of the teachers are represented in this photograph." indies submitted by = HL. Wavenman BIG HORN STAKE (WYOMING), POWELL WARD RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS SINCE 1934 Front row, seated, left to right: Mary Helen Giles; Ethel Winkelman; Louise Hawley; Ruth Hecht. Back row, standing, left to right: Vada Tirrell; Zona Roper; LeNore Lewis; Irene Safford; Elizabeth Bunn. Amelia H. Robertson is president of Big Horn Stake Relief Society. EE NOTES FROM THE FIELD 271 Photograph submitted by Luella W. Walker SOUTH SUMMIT STAKE (UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS FURNISH MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, September 13, 1953 Standing at extreme right: Edna B. Taylor, stake chorister. Standing at left of the piano: True R. Field, organist. Luella W. Walker is president of South Summit Stake Relief Society, Photograph submitted by Lyle J. Coombs FRESNO STAKE (CALIFORNIA) WARD AND BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS, January 1954 Front row, left to right: DeLoris Carruth, President, Fresno Second Ward Relief Society; Zella L. Sheley, President, Tulare Branch Relief Society; Marguerite Mangine, President, Exeter Branch; Thelma Little, President, Hanford Branch; Corine Watson, President, Merced Ward; Emerald Mentzel, President, Dinuba Branch. Back row, left to right: Virginia Castillo, Secretary, West Fresno Branch; Ina Clay, President, Chowchilla Ward; Ethyl Buttcane, First Counselor, Coalinga Branch; Sarah C. Thomas, President, Avenal Branch; Barbara Works, President, Fresno First Ward; Golda Henderson, President, Visalia Ward; Naomi McEwen, President, Los Banos Branch. Ascencion Carillo, President, West Fresno Branch, and Eva Winsett, President, Coalinga Branch, were absent on account of illness when this photograph was taken. Lyle J. Coombs, President, Fresno Stake Relief Society, reports: "All of the officers were very modest when we asked for pictures for the Magazine, but we felt that they all should have recognition for what they have done. As a group, they are responsible for the Fresno Stake showing improvement all along the line, as shown by our annual report." 272 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1954 Photograph submitted by Grace C. Crandall KOLOB STAKE (UTAH), SPRINGVILLE EIGHTH WARD RELIEF SOCIETY MAKES ONE HUNDRED PER CENT VISITING TEACHING RECORD FOR SIX YEARS SINCE ORGANIZATION Officers and Visiting Teachers, front row, seated, left to nght, members of the presidencies who have served during the past six years: Minerva Jessee; Helen Robbins; Hazel Harrison; Floss Phillips; Margaret Huntington; Ethlyn Eddington; Ina Otteson. Second row, standing, left to right: Emily Crandall, who recently celebrated her ninetieth birthday; Ellen Erdman; Chloe Fox; Ileen Jensen; Mamie Curtis; Carrie Rawle; Stella Harmer; Mildred Graham. Third row, standing, left to right: Mary Frandsen; Floss Taylor; Lillian Crandall; Florence Simkins; Anabelle Llewellyn; Naomi Johnson; Ella Curtis; Edna Smart; Camilla Judd; Preal York; Bessie Brammel; Norma Strong; Nellie Anderson; Easter Harmer; Rowena Rigtrip. Grace C. Crandall is president of Kolob Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Vinetta R. Simpson WEBER STAKE (UTAH) ELEVENTH WARD VISITING TEACHERS MAKE ONE HUNDRED PER CENT RECORD FOR THREE YEARS Front row, seated, left to right: Rhoda Mumford; Leela Ferrin; Ellen Weaver, Secretary-Treasurer; Lillie Belnap, Second Counselor; Pearl Dransfield, President; Maude K. Smith, First Counselor; Annie Hiatt, oldest member, ninety years old. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 273 Second row, seated, left to right: Hannah B. Evans; Frances Owens; Lelia Wright; Janie Ophenkins; Jennie Bragonjie; Vinetta Simpson; Millie Garff; Priscilla Sneddon. Third row, seated, left to right: May Hansen; Eva Bothwell; Anna Boyle; Rhoda Wilker; Muriel Saxton; Annie Terry; Dora B. Peterson; Sadie Masters; Edna Hunt; Alice Kihlstrom. Fourth row, standing, left to right: Eva Galbraith; Ione Toller; Marjean Nasfel; Isa Law; Dorothy Grange; Helen Watkins; Cleora Bywater; Violet Stoney; Ella Burt; Lois Purdie; Lillian Binnie, visiting teacher message leader; Roma Broun; Ethel Ehlert; Viola Royle. Not present when the picture was taken were Dorothy Tanner, Gwen Evans, Helen Russell, Mary Donaldson, Rosetta Young, Mae Rowan, Laverna Shumaker, Carry Wadsworth, and Vivian Putman. Pearl VanDyke is president of Weber Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Nina J. Langford SOUTH OGDEN STAKE (UTAH), SOUTH WEBER WARD RELIEF SOCIETY AT WORK MEETING, September 1953 Front row, seated, left to right: Eillen Roberts; Verda Bouchard, theology class leader; Lamanda Ray; Luella H. Byram, Secretary-Treasurer; Mattie G. Ray, stake theology leader. Second row, seated, left to right: Eliza Rawson; Cora Poll, former secretary-treasurer, who served for many years; Mary Cook, former president; Lavern J. Poll, President; Ada H. Cornia, First Counselor; Eva Ray. Back row, standing, left to right: Annie Russell; Edith Peek; Thora Moore; Nellie M. Staples, work meeting leader; Murnine Foster; Rose Watts; Fay H. Ray, Second Counselor; Mae Bambrough; Stella Poll; Ethel C. Earl, literature class leader. Erma V. Jacobs is president of South Ogden Stake Relief Society. 274 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1954 Photograph submitted by Thelma G. Maloy MOUNT GRAHAM STAKE, LORDSBURG WARD (NEW MEXICO) RELIEF SOCIETY BAZAAR Left to right: Fae G. Gordon, Secretary; Pearl H. Walters; Beth G. Ellsworth; Lola D. Richardson. Twenty-eight members were enrolled in this ward Relief Society in January 1953. The bazaar consisted of several beautiful displays, including kitchen aprons and fancy aprons, embroidered and crocheted pillowslips and tablecloths, a lovely satin quilt, many novelty items, and some decorated plates. Thelma G. Maloy is president of Mount Graham Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Maude Warren CARBON STAKE (UTAH), PRICE THIRD WARD VISITING TEACHERS WHO HAVE ACHIEVED ONE HUNDRED PER CENT RECORD FOR THE LAST FOUR YEARS Front row, seated, left to right: Ruth Jewkes, First Counselor; Ora Jensen, President; Florence Mortensen, Second Counselor. Maude Warren is president of Carbon Stake Relief Society. The Deeper Melody i (Continued from page 267) change the subject, his heart aching for the motherless little things. Perhaps a man should deliberately, and coldly, hunt a wife to fill such a hopeless gap in his family. Perhaps he was to be blamed for con sidering such fine points as his own emotions when his children were in such need. Perhaps he should try to overcome his aversion to Miss Tate, for when Margaret was gone what would anything matter? Yet he could not think of Miss 'Tate and Ellen in the same thought. With Margaret it was different. He felt that Ellen would approve of Margaret. In the early days of their marriage they had talked as all young couples do. "If I should die," she had said then. "I want you to marry again." He had laughed too loudly at the idea, because of the premonition that had darkened his heart, and had gripped her to him. "You won't die," he had told her fiercely. "And if you do, you will always be my wife." Well, she was gone; but she was still his, and now, without loving her any the less, he also loved Margaret. He was musing, Steve told himself, as if there was still hope for him with Margaret, as if his love had not been ill-fated from the start. If he had met her a few months earlier—if he had recognized instantly what she would come to mean to him—if her need of him had equalled his need of her (for that had always been the missing ingredient) —if—if—if her wedding was not a mere few days away. Song Collections for THREE-PART WOMEN'S VOICES Come To the Fair and Eleven More...-...-------------- 75 — Harms Auditorium Collection—Vols. 1 & 2..-.....--ea..75. Fox Library Collection— Velo O) ccesecerccccococcsaasesenc00007.85 Lo Let's All Sing...........-....-. -85 Robbins Choral Collection 1.00 a Sacred Choruses...........--. -90 an Showtime Choral Collection—Vol. 1........-------------- 75 — Witmark Auditorium Collection.....------------------- ae WE PAY POSTAGE — Music Sent on Approval — Use this advertisement as your order blank | DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY | 45-47 South Main | Salt Lake City 1, Utah Please send the music indicated above. Cl On Approval ( Charge CO Money Enclosed ame! T \ I j { \ \ iN | Address wen I He ity & State.. Do a ena (> FIRST OF ALL — RELIABILITY iat "Music GC. é MAIN STREET SALT LAKE CITY 1, UTAH Page 275 276 Friday he worked through the noon hour, and Miss Tate brought him a roast-beef sandwich and a half pint of milk when she returned from her lunch. It tasted good, as well as saving him precious time. Of course he told her as much, thanking her sincerely. "Steve, you've looked so formidable the last few days I didn't dare tell you I have tickets for the symphony." "You shouldn't have done that, Miss Tate," Steve said. "But Jascha Heifitz is going to be guest artist, and I know you won't want to miss it." "T'm sorry. I can't go," Steve told her. "I'm sure many others would be glad to share your tickets." "It is that girl—Miss Crain—that we met at the theatre,' observed Miss Tate quietly. "You love her, don't you, Mr. Thorpe?" Steve lifted surprised eyes to hers. "Yes I do, Miss Tate. Very much." A part of his mind noted her resumption of the use of his last name, and was pleased. "She was Phyllis' nurse, you know." Steve could see his admission was a blow to her, even though she had expected it. He could see her thinking she had acted unwisely, and then grasped a straw of hope with a new thought. "Didn't she introduce that doctor as her fiance?" "Yes," admitted Steve, thinking suddenly that this was none of her affair. "I'm afraid it is Miss Crain, or no one, with me. It seems very probable it will be no one." "Oh," said Miss Tate. If Steve expected tears, as there had been once before, he was misRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1954 taken. Miss Tate lifted her head in a gallant gesture. "My boy friend is soon due out of the army," she said. "And that is exactly how I feel about him." Steve knew she was not telling the truth, that she had no "boy friend," but in that moment he felt sorry for her. Later, when he went through her office he noticed that her eyes were red from weeping, and that she was typing with exceeding vigor. She turned to the files quickly to hide her face, pretending to search for something. | "Good night, Mr. Thorpe," she called after him, and her voice was light and impersonal. ATURDAY he took the children to the circus, and they had everything—pink popcorn, balloons, the merry-go-round, and finally seats in the big tent for the threetinged show. Steve was enjoying it doubly, seeing it through their ecstatic eyes. They had left home in all the splendor of shining cleanliness, and in the beauty of their new clothes, but their activities thus far had altered the picture somewhat. Davey's hands were sticky from popcorn, Phyllis had ice cream on her nose and chin, and Ilene had spilled her popsicle down her dress. Steve regarded these as natural calamities, which a bath and clean clothes would remedy, once they were home, until Davey shouted "Other Mama!" and was gone, Tlene scrambled after him toward a point above and behind them on the benches. Steve, wiping Phyllis' face with his handkerchief, twisted to see. THE DEEPER MELODY Of course it was Margaret, and the whole picture was instantly readable. Dr. Harmon was with her, and between them sat a pale little fellow with crutches and braces. He was undoubtedly still a small patient at the hospital who had had a rough time. Obviously, - Margaret had donated her afternoon off and Dr. Harmon's time to showing him a good time. It was just as evident, from the cold distaste on Dr. Harmon's mouth, that it was Margaret's idea. Steve's two had thrown themselves upon her with abandon, and her arms were about them both, crumpled clothes, wind-blown hair, and sticky fingers notwithstanding. Steve leaped up to retrieve them, but Margaret shook her head vigorously. Steve noticed the white line of fury about Dr. Harmon's mouth, and settled back wickedly to enjoy himself. For a man who did not seem to like children, Dr. Harmon was certainly in a distressing predicament! HYLLIS had seen Margaret, however, and stretched her arms toward her. Margaret moved the children, making room for Phyllis on her lap, and motioned Steve to bring her. He complied gleefully, watching Dr. Harmon all the while. This last was too much for that dignified gentleman. He rose, pale with anger. "Margaret, let's get out of here." He didn't bother to recognize Steve, or to be civil, but strode out, carrying the little boy. There was nothing for Margaret to do but follow. Steve's heart smote him, and his mirth turned to bitterness, 277 ALL ORGAN AND PIANO MUSIC AND BOOKS FOR ORGANISTS AND PIANISTS Recommended for Relief Society Organists and Pianists available at GLEN BROS. MUSIC CO. — "3 BIG STORES" — 74 So. Main 2546 Washington 57 No. University Mail Orders Receive Prompt Attention @ The HAMMOND ORGAN Leads all others in churches, homes, and schools Salt Lake Ogden Provo Special Demonstrations During APRIL CONFERENCE in Salt Lake City seeing the disappointed look on the little crippled boy's face. He and the children stayed, but Steve blamed himself for spoiling Margaret's time. He went through all the motions for the sake of the children, but for him the day had lost its glory. Above his chagrin at having let his children embarrass Margaret in public, was the fact that he himself had precipitated what would obviously end in unpleasantness. After the circus-weary children were bathed and in bed that night he sat in the silent semi-darkness of the living room and touched again the depths of despair. It was literally the end of what had been a heavenly interlude in the lives of himself and his children. Actually, Mrs. Crain's bags were packed and standing in the hall. 278 Relief Society Women SPECIAL TYPEWRITING CLASSES HAVE BEEN SCHEDULED AT THE L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE Class No. 1 is now under way; Class No. 2 is being organized; and Class No. 8 is scheduled for the future. So get together a group of your friends and enroll in one of these special typing classes designed to help you keep genealogy records, personal papers, and any other typewriting you might need to do. Evening classes. You are always cordially welcome at... L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE 70 North Main — Salt Lake City, Utah The Pride of Your Library! Your Relief Society Magazines when handsomely bound into permanent yearly volumes acquire new value as excellent reference books. Just $2.50 (Cloth Binding) $3.50 (Leather Binding) Per Volume If necessary to mail them to you, the following postage rates will apply. Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles.......... 25 150 to 300 miles.........28 300 to 600 miles 34 600 to 1000 miles......... 42 1000 to 1400 miles......... 51 1400 to 1800 miles.....60 Over 1800 miles.................. = 69 office. Deseret News Press 31 Richards St. Salt Lake City, Utah Phone 4-2581 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1954 Steve could see them from where he sat, and they were a dark blot on his consciousness. Mrs. Crain and Margaret were to be the guests of Dr. Harmon's friend, Dr. Hanson, where the reception was to be held. In the next week there would be a round of teas and _ parties. In the morning Mrs. Crain would be gone; tonight was Margaret's last duty at the hospital. In an agony of despair and longing Steve could visualize her slender figure moving along the halls as the clock crept around past nine, beyond ten, to eleven. She would be off now, riding home with Dr. Harmon. Steve sat in the loneliness of his sleeping household while his mind went seeking her across town, his heart declaring his love for her in a worldless outpouring, and his mind compelling her to hear its message and to come to him. So intense were his feelings that the telephone bell, pealing out in the midnight quiet did not startle him, but was an answer to his command. He knew before he lifted the receiver that it was Margaret. "Steve!" she said and there was pent up emotion in her cry. "Margaret! Margaret, darling," Steve answered in kind, and in the long silence which followed: "Dearest, what is it? What has happened?" "Steve, I'm glad you, not Mother answered. I've done a most terrible thing. Nobody, not even she—nobody in this world will understand, nobody but you. Steve, I need you!" "Hold on, sweetheart. I'll be with you in five minutes," cried Steve, and raced for his car. (To be concluded) EXCLUSIVE AT SEARS! SEARS ROEBUCK AND CO. KENMORE Finest Rotary Needs No Oiling ® Nylon and Oilite bearing never need oiling! ©@ Aluminum frame for lightweight! © Dial type upper thread tension. Easy to adjust, to set. ® Hinged presser foot glides over pins and ® Forward, reverse control... Number stitch regulator. @ Adjustable presser bar knob. Silent Roun Blanche Kendall McKey I have come back. I, through our longing, Have pierced the strange wicket. I have come back, Not only to see you, Beloved; Not only to waken your heart To the springtime; But to be for a day what I was, Oh, Beloved, When you knew I was here! Dogwood Sime Mary Gustafson My feet would walk the woodland Where dogtooth violets bloom, With trillium and fairy bell And wild rose for a loom On which to weave a stretch of dreams Across a crowded day, To the melody of lark and thrush... For memory's resume. THE WORLD'S FINEST PIANOS Mason & Hamlin The Stradivari of Pianos KNABE The Piano of the Metropolitan Opera EVERETT Finest Toned Spinet Piano Built Cable-Nelson Finest Low Priced Piano Built ee All Obtainable At Beesley Music Co. Pioneer Piano People VIDA FOX CLAWSON Announces Three 1954 Conducted Tours HAWAII Sails from Los Angeles May 24 ALASKA Leaves Salt Lake City July 21 HISTORIC TRAIN Leaves Salt Lake City August 6 The HISTORIC TRAIN includes: Places of Interest in Church History, the Pageant at the Hill Cumorah, and many large eastern cities. For complete details write or phone: VIDA FOX CLAWSON 966 E. So. Temple—Telephone 4-2017 Salt Lake City, Utah Page 2/9 70 S. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH From Near and Sar Addressed to Elder Albert R. Bowen, writer of social science lessons. May we extend our congratulations on the course of study on the Constitution of the United States you have outlined for the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, which is currently in progress. We believe your program to be outstanding, both in its historical background, upon which to base present-day interpretations, and for the service it will render to the members, and through them their families and communities, by affording a better understanding and evaluation of that document which is the practical safeguard of our future. —Donald P. Bean Director, Stanford University Press Stanford, California I truly enjoy The Relief Society Magazine each month and I look forward to each new copy. May I improve with each new copy Of the Magazine I read; May I feast upon every word For all its worth and need. —Thelma Buell Marienthal, Kansas I wish to commend Alice Morrey Bailey for the very good writing in her serial "The Deeper Melody" (October 1953- May 1954), and also Dorothy Clapp Robinson for the beautifully worked out story "One Wild Rose," the prize-winning story in the Relief Society Short Story Contest (published in January 1954). The prize-winning poems were also worthwhile and lovely. Thank you for a wholesome, high-quality Magazine. —Katherine F. Larsen Salt Lake City, Utah I enjoyed the winging buoyancy of the first prize poem "Wings Over the West" in the January 1954 issue of the Magazine, by Lizabeth Wall Madsen. —Ida Isaacson Salt Lake City, Utah Page 280 Being among the first Relief Society members to subscribe for the Magazine, I enjoy everything in it. It has always been an inspiration to me. I remember the Woman's Exponent. We had it in our home. 'Today it thrills me to read of the many women in foreign countries and in the isles of the sea—how they wait and long for The Relief Society Magazine to reach them. Here are a few lines I wrote in honor of the visiting teachers: At the very second meeting The president-elect did call Sixteen women as a Necessity Committee To visit the sick, the poor, and all. Blessed were the visiting teachers Of that time so long ago.... Blessed be the visiting teachers of today— Their calling may not be necessity, But their duty is supreme. —Anna S. D. Johnson Salt Lake City, Utah I always enjoy our wonderful Magazine. The fiction is always so in keeping with the other contents of the Magazine... I think Sister Mary Ek Knowles (FebTuaty 1954, page 87) expressed such a beautiful thought in her little sketch— "Writing is my hobby, my husband and children my profession." I would like to write and ask her just how—just when— she finds time for writing, before her children get up in the morning or before they are tucked in at night? I have two boys, ages six and two... But it seems they keep me on the go every waking moment. —Florence D. Anderson Henderson, Nevada I do enjoy the Magazine so much and am glad that you give so much space to helpful articles and to poetry. I am a member of Pierian Club of the Chaparrel Poets of California, and other members of the group also enjoy the Magazine. —Mrs. Maude Rubin Santa Ana, California THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Now Offers Complete Service for Temple and Burial Clothes Including @ DRESSES @ MEN'S SHOES @ WOMEN'S SHOES Suitable for Temple Wear We invite you to visit the Relief Society Temple Burial Clothing Department when in Salt Lake City. 40 NORTH MAIN STREET, SALT LAKE CITY 1, UTAH Telephone 4-2511, Extension 244 Hours: Monday through Friday 8:30 a. M.-6:00 p. M. Saturday 9:00 a. M.-1:00 p. M. ONO LOL RP OP POA OP ES L. D. S. FAM: IS en Ss. © front In this 1953 Handy Book are: research aids, fenealo- ' lbossed In ist' Family Through the Ye; fold; fist's exchange, Fenealogica] feography, 4 directory rs. J P: ea SHEETS AVAILABLE HEA Y-DU ST BI D iS 9x 141 4 Family Group Records Sheets Sed Mmch binder Offer. Perman ce to your Most Valuable 5 Pedigree Charts $1-40 mA Possessions. The Fecords + al give a Complete his- 6. Ruled Family History Sheets 12.09 2 tory on your family and loved Ones, $5.00 7. Ersonal Record Sheets: A Man's Idea of 4 ONE-DISH MEAL! They'll all come running for this hearty dish! These tempting cube steaks taste better—and go farther — because they're prepared with Sego Milk. Double-rich Sego Milk adds extra flavor and smoothness to so many dishes — and saves money, too, because it costs less than ordinary milk. Io @ Ea Wary Lee "laglor's COUNTRY STEAK DINNER Directions Ingredients for 4 BUY oo. Aoe ceeneeneeceeeeecerereeeeeeeee 4 (1 Ib.) CUBE STEAKS 24 cup, fine, dry Roll steaks in a BREAD CRUMBS mixture Of....0.0....0...--..-..... 1 teasp. SALT Ve teasp. PEPPER Dip the steaks into —............ Y2 cup SEGO Evaporated Milk Roll again in crumbs. Brown slowly, 5 min. On each side, in VYe-inch hot fat. Cover tightly; cook very slowly 10 min. Or until tender. Remove to warm platter. Keep hot. Add to fat in skillet and, cook slowly 5 minutes..../4 cup finely cut ONION Drain and save 2 cups (1-lb. Can) the juice from - canned TOMATOES Blend into mixture 2 Tablesp. FLOUR in skillet. 1 teasp. SALT ~~" "Ve teasp. PEPPER Stir in V2 cup of the tomato juice. Cook and stir over low heat until mixture is thick, about MILK 2 minutes. T') Stir in tomatoes 2 cups canned, whole kernel rm NCae, = G s Ti) '4vg oc Uauro measuat 10% Heat until steaming hot. Put corn mixture around steaks. And drained.-e-cscccsso CORN (1-Ib. Can) Mr, Or mg ED TO 400 UITT THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - - - = Marianne C. Sharp - - Velma N. Simonsen - - - - Margaret C. Pickering - - RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - = 7 - - - a cs _ Associate Edito General Manager President First Counselor Second Counselor - Secretary-Treasurer Christine H. Robinson Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Helen W. Anderson Gladys S. Boyer Charlotte A. Larsen Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Elna P. Haymond - Marianne C. Sharp - Vesta P. Crawford Belle S. Spafford NO. 5 SPECIAL FEATURES Mother's Influence Edith Price Backman 284 A Mother's Prayer for Her Son Wilma B. Bunker 286 The Birth of a Heritage — The Gospel in England Elsie Scott 287 Coronation Roxana Farnsworth Hase 290 Miracles and Mother Eileen Gibbons 298 "Say It With Flowers" nniversary Souvenirs Mabel Law Atkinson 311 With No Regrets Myrtle M. Dean 323 Thou Shalt Never Cease to Grow "'Magazine'' Money Banks Caroline Eyring Miner 326 327 Lest She Forget Hazel K. Todd 291 Things Will Be Different The Right Decision! AVirginia M. Kammeyer 306 Frances C. Yost 312 The Deeper Melody — Chapter 8 — Conclusion Alice Morrey Bailey 318 GENERAL FEATURES Sixty Years Ago 300 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 301 Editorial: Portrait of Mother Vesta P. Crawford 302 New Serial, ''The Falling Shackles,'' to Begin in June 303 'Magazine' Subscriptions for 1953 The "Magazine'' Honor Roll for 1953 _...._... Marianne C. Sharp 328 332 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities From Near and Far Margaret C. Pickering 336 344 FEATURES FOR THE HOME Preserving Metal Planters Elizabeth Williamson 305 Launder That White Shirt Yourself Sina Mortensen — Woman of Many Hobbies 220...2.00..020.-cecceeeecee eee POETRY Maytime in the Valley — Frontispiece Ruth K. Kent 310. 317 ==Beatrice K. Ekman 283 Faith Mary Ellen B. Workman 296 Deserted Garden Matia McClelland Burk 297 To David Marjorie Foote 303 Evelyn Fjeldsted 309 Morning Glories Mother Love... NeHannah C. Ashby 315 Maryhale Woolsey 316 "So Shall We Reap" Christie Lund Coles 317 Come Gently, Spring Josephine J. Harvey 325 Fallen Giant Ivinetta R. Oliver 325 Motherhood Mary Gustafson 326 Vacation Just Beyond Ethel Jacobson 34] For Wood Violets Grace Sayre 342 Bright Hour.... The Olden Days and the New sone! Camilla Alexander 343 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 40 Nerth Main, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Mary G. Judd Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G, Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Vol. 41 Evon W. Peterson Leone O. Jacobs Mary J. Wilson Louise W, Madsen Aleine M. Young Josie B. Bay MAY 1954 Mlaytime in the Valley Beatrice K. Ekman The sun has climbed the morning stair And myriad insects strum the air; Out of the meadow lark's smooth throat Melodic strains of rapture float Across the valley's pulsing breast. From mountains east to mountains west, The emerald robe of spring is laid, Dappled with sunlight and cloud shade. The sego-lily chalice spills Gold pollen on the kneeling hills; From rock-walled canyons, clear streams flow To the lush pasture lands below, Where spiders weave a silver loom On wild rose hedges, pink with bloom; And blossomed plum adds nuances of grace With airy petals of white lace. The Cover: Channel Drive, Santa Barbara, California Photograph by Josef Muench Frontispiece: White Carnations, Photograph by Ward Linton Cover Design by Evan Jensen Mother's Influence Edith Price Backman Member, General Board of Relief Society Her children rise up, and call her blessed; her husband also, and he praiseth her (Proverbs 31:28). FE, are commanded to: Honour thy father and thy mother, as the Lord thy God hath commanded thee; that thy days may be prolonged, and that it may go well with thee, in the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee (Deut. 5:16). It is gratifying that our nation has sought to encourage and cultivate every sentiment which binds men and women to the home and which exalts motherhood. There cannot be homes without mothers, for they are the homemakers; and without homes the nation cannot long endure. A man's success and triumphs mean more to his mother than to himself. She never loses faith in him; she never forgets him; she never forsakes him. Her implicit faith in him is one of the beautiful things in life and a great influence in the world. Joseph Smith said, "The love of a true mother comes nearer being like the love of God than any other kind of love." Mothers had a great influence in establishing The Church of Jesus Christ in this dispensation. 'They experienced the hardships, persecutions, and privations incident to pioneer life. Because of their true testimony of the divinity of Jesus Christ, they were able to brave the many hardships which they encountered. From the lives of these great women may we learn to sacrifice more, to give more of our Page 284 real selves to the work of God, to instill in our children an abiding testimony, and a desire to serve him and keep his commandments. Many widows' sons have achieved nobly in the earth, and have attributed their success to the teachings and influence of their mothers. President Heber J. Grant gave us this burning testimony of what his mother meant to him: I live today as one whose mother was all to me. She sect an example of integrity, of devotion and love,. And of dcetermination and honor second to none. Her life was a sermon that rings through my soul to this day. One of the main reasons I am President of the Church today is that I have followed the advice and counsel and the burning testimony of the Lord Jesus Christ, which came to me from my Mother. During the troubled war days of George Washington, Mary Ball Washington, mother of the First President of the United States, in order to keep her faith strong would often say, "The mothers and wives of brave men must be brave women." She also said, "George is apt to succeed in anything he undertakes. He was always a good boy." This is an example of the implicit faith and confidence a mother has in her children. Nancy Hanks, mother of Lincoln, was a woman of simplicity and strength, living in the poorest kind of shack in the wilderness of Kentucky. Even though she may have MOTHER'S INFLUENCE felt the pinch of poverty, she did her duty toward this boy tenderly. As she spoke some of her last words to her nine-year-old son, this was her plea, her hope, "Be somebody, Abe." His kindness, humor, humility, and his hatred of slavery came from his mother. His love and affection for her were expressed in the statement he made saying, "All that I am or all that I ever hope to be I owe to my angel mother." N our own Book of Mormon, when the Nephites and_ the Lamanites were warring among themselves, they were given certain promises if they would keep the commandments of God, and told if they did not, destruction would follow. 'Then we have the marvelous record of two thousand Lamanite boys—just boys—who joined the army of the Nephites in order to help preserve themselves and their families. But they had been taught by their mothers that God would protect them if they would do their duty. These two thousand boys, part of the army of the Nephites, went into battle repeatedly, and the last struggle was so terrible that, we are told, all were wounded. When Helaman, their captain, saw their enemies driven away he was anxious for his young charges (he called them striplings, just boys) and he went among the dead and gathered them to find out how many were living. He found everyone of them alive, although many had fainted from the loss of blood. When Helaman, who was amazed at their miraculous preservation, questioned them concerning it, upon us that day. 285 their response was one of the greatest compliments to motherhood to be found anywhere: ".... We do not doubt our mothers knew it" (Alma 56:48). They believed what their mothers taught them. 'They had faith in God. They were preserved, and they helped save their homes and families from destruction. Some mothers have fallen below these standards, and some have exerted but little influence in the world. 'There are many women, who because of riches or other influences, have become idle, selfish, and miserable. 'They are not the mothers who inspire their children to become the leaders of men; but the overwhelming majority of mothers are brave, pure, sincere, and selfforgetful. The observance of Mother's Day has created an opportunity to express the love and gratitude we feel toward our mothers. Many beautiful tributes and honors are heaped Have we magnified our greatest of all callings, motherhood? Are we, as mothers in Zion, worthy of all these beautiful tributes? Are we living up to our obligations as mothers in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints to teach our children the truths of the gospel, and to be living examples of its principles? We read in Proverbs 22:6: Train up a child in the way he should go: and when he is old, he will not depart from it. If we teach our children to honor the Priesthood, the sanctity of eternal marriage, to keep the Sabbath day holy, to observe the law 2 286 of tithing, to hold family prayer, to be honest, truthful, and virtuous, to have love in their hearts for one another and for their Heavenly Father, we know they will not depart from these teachings. Every day will be Mother's Day, and our children will grow and develop to be useful men and women, upholding the highest ideals and principles of the gospel. A report was given in a recent stake conference that only one half of the missionaries interviewed in that stake to go on missions for the Church, reported family prayers were being held in their homes. Think what a priceless opportunity the parents of these young men are losing by not having family prayers, *K *K RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1954 where the bonds of love, unity, and security could be established permanently in the home. President David O. McKay said: One of the greatest needs in the world today is intelligent, conscientious motherhood. It is to the home we must look for the inculcation of the fundamental virtues which contribute to human welfare and happiness. Motherhood is the greatest potential influence either for good or ill in human life. May we as mothers be that potential influence for good in our families and realize the highest ambition of true mothers, that of rearing families of noble, successful, righteous children, who will arise up and call us blessed. *K K A Mothers Prayer for Her Son Wilma B. Bunker Be me a son, O Lord, wise enough to know the right and brave enough to do it. May he be as strong in defeat as in victory. Rear him, I pray, not in the ways of ease and comfort, but under the stress of difficulties and challenges. Give him the strength to meet these challenges with courage and resolution. May his daily life be clean and triumphant, his goal high and worthy. Teach him that mastery of self always precedes mastery of others. Build me a son who will have compassion for those who have failed and forgiveness for those who have hurt him. Help him to realize that true happiness comes from service to others—to forget oneself in a great and good cause. And after all these are his, add, I pray, enough of a sense of humor so that he will not take himself too seriously; enough optimism so that those around him are lifted up; and enough humility so that he will never cease to be modest, humble, and unpretending. And help him, O Lord, to remember that thou art ever present if he will but seek thee, I pray. The Birth of a Heritage — The Gospel in England Elsie Scott EMBERS of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints who visit Preston, England, whether they be from other towns in Great Britain or from America, almost invariably express the pleasure and interest they feel in being privileged to visit this historic town and to see the places which played such a vital part in the propagation of the gospel in this land. It was about four in the afternoon of the 22d of July 1837 that Heber C. Kimball, Willard Richards, Orson Hyde, and Joseph Fielding, with three brethren from Canada, John Goodson, Isaac Russell, and John Snyder, arrived in Preston. They had landed in Liverpool, but lingered there only long enough to seek guidance from the Lord, and in answer to their prayers were directed to continue their journey to Preston, another thirty miles — a much longer journey then than it is today. Elections, commanded by the new Queen Victoria, were taking place with much celebration as these weary men, strangers in a strange land, entered the town of Preston. They were heartened by the message on a banner unfurled, almost above their heads, which stated in gilt letters "TrurH WiLL PrevarL." An omen? A message to the messengers? Truth did indeed prevail. It was opportune that one of the missionaries, Joseph Fielding, had a brother in Preston, a minister, and while Joseph went to visit with his brother, the other brethren found lodging in Wilfred Street, but visited with the Rev. James Fielding on the evening of arrival where they discussed the restoration of the gospel. An invitation to attend the Vaux Hall chapel next day was speedily accepted, as was the later invitation to address the congregation. 'This was a direct answer to the prayer of Heber C. Kimball that the Lord would open the way for them to preach. Viewing the sadly forsaken, dilapidated chapel today, with its rows of empty seats, it is difficult to imagine the large congregation that gathered on that Sabbath day to hear these strange men who spoke of angels again visiting the earth, restoring the gospel in all its truth to men. Of that first public meeting to be held in Great Britain on the 23d of July 1837, Elder Kimball has this to say: I declared that an angel had visited the earth and committed the everlasting Gospel to man; called their attention to the first principles of the Gospel; and gave them a brief history of the work which the Lord had commenced on the earth; after which Elder Hyde bore testimony to the same, which was received by many with whom I afterwards conversed; they cried, "Glory to God," and rejoiced that the Lord had sent His servants unto them. Thus was the key turned and the Gospel dispensation opened on the Page 287 288 first Sabbath after landing in England (Wuirney, Orson F.: Life of Heber C. Kimball, page 125). HAT the field was white and ready to harvest is proved by the way the people of Preston accepted the message and flocked to hear more of the glorious truths. The Rev. James Fielding, finding his congregation, and with them his livelihood, leaving, closed the chapel doors to the missionaries, but the Lord's work could not be impeded, and many of the people invited the elders to preach in their homes. So great was their success that several people were anxious to be baptized at the end of the elders' first week in England. No person who reads the Bible and believes can doubt the existence RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1954 of evil spirits, and it was in the room where the elders lodged in Wilfred Street, the encounter with the hosts of evil occurred, on the morning of the day on which the baptisms were to be performed, Sunday, 30th July, 1837. Enraged, no doubt, at the success the elders were having in guiding the people in the truth, the forces of evil made a determined effort to destroy the lives and plans of the missionaries. Heber C. Kimball recounts: About daybreak Elder Isaac Russell who slept with Elder Richards in Wilfred Street, came up to the third story, where Elder Hyde and myself were sleeping, and called out, "Brother Kimball, I want you should get up and pray for me that I may be delivered from the evil spirits that are tormenting me to such a het 2 2 "& ip 3 ' faa Sra ve: mg ity: rip Ee. Me WAR HALL hee DRAPIEUSE BAPTIST Oh a Pe BWR Courtesy Church Historian's Office VAUX HALL, PRESTON, ENGLAND THE GOSPEL IN ENGLAND 289 INTERIOR OF THE PRESTON BRANCH CHAPEL degree that I feel I cannot live long unless I obtain relief (Wurrney, Orson F.: Life of Heber C. Kimball, page 129). The elders arose and laid their hands on the tormented man, Elder Kimball being mouth, and prayed to the Lord, and rebuked the devil, but Elder Kimball himself was struck by some unseen power and fell senseless on the floor. When he recovered, they continued to pray, and a vision was opened to the minds of these great men. 'They saw legions of evil spirits coming towards them like armies rushing to battle, angry and desperate. Is it to be wondered at that Elder Kimball stated that he could never look back on that scene without feelings of horror? Yet by it, horrifying though it was, they learned the great power of the opposing forces and the Lord did not forsake them. HOSE early missionaries had undaunted faith; they had a strong testimony of the divinity of the work they were called to do; and through Preston. Not all the power of hell could turn them from their purpose. Indeed, it is likely that their vision strength ened their testimonies and their determination to go forward and spread the gospel to all who would hear it. And so the time set for the baptisms found the elders on the banks of the River Ribble, which runs 'They were not alone, however. Great interest had been aroused in the minds of the people. Baptizing as practiced by this strange new Church was something unheard of, and it is recorded that between seven and nine thousand people gathered to witness the baptisms of these first nme converts. 'There is a story told about the first woman in England to enter the waters of baptism. She was Ann Elizabeth Walmsley, who is said to have been in the last stages of tuberculosis, and had been warned by her doctor that to enter the cold waters of the river would be fatal for her. Her faith was strong, however, and she was carried to the riverside and was baptized. 290 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1954 What stories this picturesque Heber J. Grant, who unveiled the river could tell if it were able to plaque on the 27th of July 1937, speak! But surely none would be commemmorating those first bapmore inspiring than the events of tisms a century before. Preston that Sabbath. Only on one other Branch holds a firm place in the such occasion has an event atBritish Mission, and proud are the tracted people in their thousands, Preston saints of their heritage and that was the visit of President their lovely new chapel. - jo Coroner Roxana Farnsworth Hase Ov of doors Spring stretched her graceful, fragrant fingers almost across the pebbled walk leading up to the white house. It was as though she wished that she might venture clear inside. Yet, a bit of her glory was there, for the second daughter had gathered enough lovely white blossoms to fill the blue vase on the table in the room. She had taken them in quietly, and no one had bade her stay. Perhaps they thought her too young. The room was hushed, as though church might be about to begin. Yet, this was not a church, but a small, clean room. The people there were assembled for a particular purpose. Each one was busy with his or her own thoughts and tasks. This was an eventful day. The world at large had never even heard of the woman who was soon to be crowned a queen there. She was young and beautiful, with a certain radiance of countenance hard to describe. Her coronation was not a sudden, spur of the moment thing, as though someone had abdicated. It had been in preparation for almost a year. The principals had been well instructed as to what to expect and do. The preparations, while adequate, were by no means elaborate. The queen's gown was of snowy white cotton. It boasted no fine handmade imported lace or golden threads. There was no mile-long train, no ermine robe, no richly accoutered retinue, no high-stepping steeds with rich trappings. Missing was the martial music and gay aplomb, yet the expectancy of the moment filled all the room. The one person who could make the coronation a certainty had not yet arrived. It was this momentarily expected presence which gave such a somber air to the proceedings. Off to one side an elderly lady was praying with bowed head. She was the queen mother, and perhaps the most concerned of all, to have everything go off well. The queen herself, as she waited almost breathlessly, seemed in a tranquil state, for this was her day. The silence became more intense. No one so much as whispered. Then in an instant all was changed. 'The awaited guest had arrived! "It is a boy!" the doctor announced happily, and a lusty wail let everyone know that the prince was very much alive. The young man gathered the queen into his arms and kissed her as he smoothed her shining hair. In her eyes was a radiance that seemed brighter than stardust to him; his eyes were misty because the woman who had just received the most precious crown in all the world, the Crown of Motherhood, was his wife. Lest She Forget Hazel K. Todd ARTHA had always known through those three wonderful years that some day Linda's father Kent would come and take her away. She would see him, in imagination, coming through the apple orchard up the currant bush path that led to the home where she and Chris lived. She would see Kent's lean frame and his dark hair and the stride of his long legs. He would come and take away his child even as he had brought her that spring morning after her mother had been buried in the hillside cemetery. And then she and Chris would be left lonely and childless again, just as they had been before the loan of the tiny bit of sunshine that had filled the empty places with laughter and the long days and evenings with useful things to do. Martha tried not to think of that time, but it had a cruel way of slipping onto her unexpectedly in the night when the crickets kept her awake, or when Linda sat at her knee and she brushed the shining ripples of her yellow hair. Sometimes it cut her like a keen-edged knife when she saw Chris carrying Linda on his shoulders and chanting to her one of his funny rhymes. Just as now, she saw them coming through the orchard, Chris holding to Linda's bare legs that were round his neck. The little girl had a sprig of apple blossom stuck jauntily into her hair and she laughed merrily while Chris, in his deep, good natured voice sang out the words: Bow wow wow, The beggars are coming to town Some in rags, some in shags, And some in silken gowns.... Chris saw Martha then where she sat with her pan of strawberries on the garden bench. With an upward swing of his big arm, he slid his burden gently to the ground, and the little girl came running to Martha. She scrambled onto the bench and grasped the woman by the neck. "Guess what, Aunt Martha!" she babbled with excitement. "What?" Martha asked with interest. "Chris's goin' to build me a playhouse!" "A playhouse?" Martha exclaimed, kissing the child's hands round her neck. "A house with a chimney and a table and a cupboard, and...." "Wonderful!" Martha tried to squeeze the ache from her heart. "May I go tell Peter?" the child asked, still bubbling. "Why, I guess so, if you won't be late for supper," Martha said, and she watched the little girl run away on nimble bare legs across the orchard path. "Like a fairy elf," she whispered, and Chris came and sat down by her. He lifted the pan of berries from her lap and set them on the edge of the bench. "Could it be we're going to have strawberry pie for supper?" he asked, resting his hand affectionately on hers. Page 29] 292 MART IA half smiled at him and then suddenly she clutched his arm, "Oh, how can we ever give her up, Chris?" she held onto him desperately. Chris patted her hand reassuringly. He was always so calm about it. But she saw him gaze out across the apple trees to the green roof of the house beyond where Linda's parents had lived. "Three years is a long time, Martha. I have been thinking that maybe Kent will never come back." But Martha knew that Chris knew better. And after he had gone she still kept looking at the green roof that had become in the three years, an emblem to remind her that Linda was not really hers. She went back again to the days when Kent and Ann had lived there together. They had been so much in love. And she had shared with Ann the coming of her baby, a joy that would never be her own. But Ann had never been well after the birth of little Linda. More and more she had relied on Martha to help her with the baby and her other home responsibilities. And then had come the time when she could no longer take care of them at all. So she had died, and they had buried her in the hillside cemetery. Kent's grief had been an awful thing. In the early morning he had come to her carrying Linda, scarcely more than a year old. He had laid the tiny, golden-haired girl in her arms while his voice choked with tears. "Take care of her, Martha, for me. I know you and Chris will do it better than anyone else in the world. When I can stand it alone here without Ann I will come RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1954 back. Just for a little while, Martha." And then he had gone hurriedly down the path by the currant bushes, leaving Linda whimpering for her mother. Since then time had fled on wings of lightning for Martha, busy with her new-found joy. 'The days had lengthened into weeks and months. Three times the apple trees had bloomed. 'There had been brief messages from Kent, from different corners of the earth, and gifts for Linda, who babbled about a daddy that she couldn't remember, while Linda's life wound itself tighter and tighter around the hearts of two lonely people. ARTHIA was brought back from her reverie by the voices of Linda and Peter. They were coming through the orchard from Peters home, where he lived alone with his aged grandmother. Linda, skipping and Peter with his ragged overalls, his hundreds of freckles, and his stick horse that bucked and galloped for Linda's attention. "Aunt Martha, where is Chris?" Linda soon wanted to know. "Has he got my playhouse builded yet? Peter wants to see my playhouse." "Already?" Martha — laughed. "Why, darling, it takes days and days to build a playhouse. But I am sure Peter can see it when it's built." Peter grinned, showing a vacant space in his upper tooth row. Chris came then and took turns with the two children, bucking and galloping like a wild horse around the giant tree until he was so worn out he had to sit down on the ground to rest. LEST SHE FORGET "Will you build my playhouse tomorrow?" Linda wanted to know emphatically, as she climbed onto his knee. "Tf you will first let me tickle your toes and then your nose," Chris said to her with a funny wink. And she pulled his nose in merriment. But to Martha there was something ominous about the playhouse, as though it were a foreboding of disaster. Perhaps it was because she thought of it as something permanent, something to last through the years, the ones that were so uncertain. Even when she measured the tiny windows and planned the pink ruffled curtains, she had to shake off a sense of calamity. Too often she caught herself staring at the green roof beyond the apple trees. At night when she had tucked Linda into bed she found it almost impossible to tear herself away from the child's bed. Once when she sat thus, staring at the sleeping child, she turned and caught Chris watching her from the doorway. She was almost embarrassed, and in her bewilderment she went to hin and slipped her hand into his. He squeezed it without saying anything. Suddenly she turned to him impulsively and said, "Oh, Chris, what is wrong about the playhouse? 1 feel as though it were taking Linda away from me!" Then Chris let go her hand and held onto her arms with his two strong hands. He looked down into her face in tender solicitude. "Martha, don't let this come over you. It is the one thing I have been afraid of since that morning when 293 Kent left us his little girl. Perhaps she will always be ours, but, if she isn't, we must remember—we must not forget the things that are left!" Martha understood. It seemed she had always to be reminded. She looked at Chris gratefully. Big, understanding Chris! He had always come to her in her desperate moments. "Forgive me, Charis," she said. "It is a wonderful playhouse. Tomorrow I will finish the curtains." ND so the next evening Martha sat on the garden bench and stitched the pink curtains while Linda played with Peter in the sand pile. A little while ago she had seen him tickling her legs with a long stick and Linda had chased him around the apple tree with a bucket of sand, but now they were busy sticking sprigs of apple blossom into the tiny rows of sand they had made. Martha was finishing a red rosette on the tie-back. She laid it in her lap and looked up from the intricate work a moment to rest her eyes. And then she saw Kent as she always knew she would, coming up the path through the apple orchard, his long stride rapidly measuring off the distance between them. She watched him coming as though in a dream. Suddenly it was a crazy world that reeled and swirled, with somewhere a familiar face from out of the past that went round and round and _ presently came to a standstill immediately before her, so close that she could see the gray of his hair. It was appalling! Only three years ago his hair had been completely a dark brown, and now the temples were entirely 294 white, with streaks of gray throughout his head. Her lips formed the words, but it was a long time before she could make the sound come. "You—you have come for her!" "Don't you think it is about time?" Kent asked, watching her intently. "But—but you have been gone so long...." "Don't you remember, Martha, I said I would come back?" Then she felt Chris beside her, felt the strength come into her numbed body, and she could think. Chris was putting out his hand to the man standing there by the apple tree. "Kent, old man, it's good to see you." Martha stood up, trying to think of the things she must do. "Linda!" she called, and the little girl came skipping her one-leg skip. "Your... Daddy is here." ARTHA watched while every fibre of her body wanted to cry out in rebellion, as the little girl came hesitantly forward. Her hair was tousled from her play, but never before had Martha seen the lights shine so in it. Her hand slid into its yellow glory while she watched the man before them. He caught his breath quickly, and impulsively put out his hand. '"Linda—Linda—my little girl!" She came forward then, and he leaned and lifted her into his arms. He ran his fingers through her curls. "You are the picture of your mother," he said. "Aunt Martha says I have honeycandy hair," Linda said. "Yes, Linda, like hers—wild honey hair. 'Tell me, are you a good RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1954 girl? Do you do what Aunt Marthat and Chris tell you to?" "Peter doesn't mind his grandmother sometimes," the little girl said. "Sometimes he comes over here when she doesn't know it." "Now, who could Peter be?" The child pointed her finger to the sand pile where a little frecklefaced boy sat forlornly looking on. "That's Peter," she said. "Oh," Kent said, gazing at the lonely little figure. And then he added quickly, "I brought you something. Perhaps you can share it with Peter." He drew a long package from his pocket, hurriedly tore off the wrapping and opened the lid. Linda clapped her hands with pleasure. It was a box of tiny plastic birds. "Here, put them in your flower garden," he said, handing her the box. She took it excitedly and ran calling to Peter with the new-found treasure. "How will you take care of her?" Martha asked, sitting on the bench to relieve the wobbling in her knees. OR. A while Kent looked beyond the apple trees. 'Then he said simply, "I am going to be married." Martha stared at him. "She is a lovely girl, Martha. You see she was lonely, too. She lost her husband in the war. It has been wonderful, the peace that has returned to me since I met Joyce." He looked away again. "It is different from Ann, Martha. But I know we will find happiness together. And she will make a wonderful mother for Linda." LEST SHE FORGET The words cut like a knife. Martha could feel her face burning. She saw the confused look on Kent's face. He came quickly and sat down beside her. "Forgive me, Martha. I don't want to hurt you. I know you have been the best mother in the world for Linda. But don't you understand—| can't give up my little girl—the only thing I have left of that lovely past. Ann would not want me to give our child away." Martha had been struggling desperately. She spoke with forced calmness. "Yes, Kent, I have always tried to remember that Linda was not ours, and that sometime you would come back for her." There was one last hope. She must know. "Will you—will you be living in your place?" "No, Martha." He paused. "Joyce and I think it would be best to begin our life together some new place. I have sold the farm to a couple with six small children." Martha stared miserably ahead. She saw Chris leaning against the apple tree. She had forgotten him, He was standing there quietly picking the petals from a sprig of apple bloom. The loosened leaves float. Ed aimlessly to the ground and lay in a pink carpet at his feet, She wondered vaguely how Chris, who had carried Linda on his shoulders, who had told her his funny rhymes, and taken her piggy back riding, how he could stand there calmly pulling apple blossoms apart. "IT don't intend to take Linda away where you can never see her again," Kent was saying. "I know that I can never repay you at all for what you have done. She could 295 come back each year for a visit." His eyes dropped to the blossom petals at Chris' feet. "Perhaps in the spring when the apples are in bloom." Martha looked at him half gratefully, but her throat ached, and she could feel tears stinging her eyes. "When are you going?" "In the morning," he said, while Martha fought desperately to keep the tears back. "I want to spend one last night...." His voice trailed off with his gaze through the trees. O it was morning. Linda's hair had been brushed to shining ripples. Her gay little dress, starched and ironed to dainty crispness, tustled as she danced about excited. Ly around the big box that contained all her things. Then Peter was standing there shyly, pushing his queer package into Linda's hand. "It's my bird eggs, Linda," he said. "You can have them." And then before she had time to open the pitiful little package, or even tell him goodbye, he was gone. One moment Martha had_ the child in her arms, with the bright head against her breast and her own lips pressed to the shining curls, and the next moment she was gone. Martha didn't know how long she stood there staring at the empty trail down the currant bushes. But, suddenly, she was aware of the ring of Chris' hammer. She turned and stared at him. How could he be driving nails into Linda's playhouse! But he was! He was nailing the wooden chimney into its place, a square chimney marked off like 296 bricks, pointing mockingly into the sky. He must have read the horror in her face, for he laid the hammer calmly on the roof and stepped down from his wooden box. He came to her and took her two hands between his own. "Why are you building the playhouse, Chris? What for?" Chris pressed her hands until they hurt, hurt until she could have cried out. She could feel his eyes burning into her. "Because, Martha, darling, we can't give up. We must go on." "But, Chris, what is the use without Linda!" She was almost hysterical. "Martha, over across the orchard there will be children. You remember, Kent said—six small children. Their mother will need help. They can play in the playhouse. And— have you forgotten all the springs when the apples are in bloom, Linda will come. Her playhouse will be waiting for her. Don't you see? It must be finished, with the chimney and the table and the pink curRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1954 tains...." Martha felt the tension in Chris' body, felt him trying to help her. She reached out her hand unconsciously and it rested on a head. She looked slowly down into a pair of eyes red with crying. It was Peter, his tousled red hair filled with dry leaves and sticks from the bushes where he had wept in loneliness for his only playmate. Poor little Peter, living with a grandmother who was too blind to know that his overalls needed patching. "Peter," Martha said, "I must go to sce your grandmother. Perhaps I can help her. And — and you must come over every day and help me." She looked up at Chris, and he gave her a wink. "Better still," he said, beckoning to Peter, "I need a man to help me build this house. Peter, would you like to hold this wobbly chimney still?" Martha looked out across the apple trees to the green roof. It will still be there, she thought, to remind me of all the things that are left. Faith Mary Ellen B. Workman Time to grieve? Oh, heart, put grief away! Seek out the beauties of today— The unsung song, the flag unfurled, The babe new-born unto the world, The child's smile, eyes that shine Lighted by his love sublime. Life's joys are here, and here shall stay To make you glad upon the way. Your love is pure, Christ's gifts complete; In God's own time you, too, shall sleep— And live again, no more to weep! Come, dear heart, time is not long! Put off your grief, make life your song. Grace T. Kirton LILAC GARDEN AND PIONEER HOME IN EPHRAIM, UTAH Deserted Garden Matia McClelland Burk T cannot bear to visit any more The desert homestead where I was a child, And see that dry and thorny weed-grown ruin, My Mother's lovely garden, now grown w ild. Her neat, trimmed roses are an unkempt hedge; Gone is her dahlia rainbow in the fall; No trumpet vine calls hummingbirds in spring, No scarlet tulips blossom by the wall. Just one gnarled lilac, blooming by the gates One tangled bed of orange poppies gleams; No, rather would I seek more perfect flowers In that dear garden of my childhood dreams, Page 297 Miracles and Mother Eileen Gibbons 66 OTHER, it's for you!" M Three daughters, who used to dash for the telephone every time it rang and answer with an anticipant "Hi!" now calmly raise it from the hook, mutter a calm "Hello," and sigh, "Mother, it's for you." Listen closely, and you can hear them add to themselves, "It's always for you!" You see, I'm one of the three daughters, and my mother is the president of a ward Relief Society. She's relatively new in the job of being ward mother, but during the months she has been, we girls, our four brothers, and our father have witnessed a miracle. Miracles aren't exactly unusual in big families. Ours has managed to remain happy through periods of economic depression, broken teenage hearts, the cruel adolescent teasings of too many freckled-faced brothers, and the mischief of a seven-year-old named Ted. But Mother is the real miracle. For as long as we can remember, she has been doing extra, unusual things, to save time, effort, and money. Five a. M. Rising to pick raspberries on shares, midnight wallpapering parties, and the care of ten pens of rabbits are among her "saving" ideas. Add to these washing, ironing, cleaning, and cooking for nine, and you have someone much too busy to sit and visit, read a good book, or call on a neighbor for a friendly chat. Yet, these are the things Page 298 every busy housewife hopes some day to find time to do. That's why when Mother told us the bishop wanted her to be president of the Relief Society we all gasped "When?" Mother already moved from one job to another like lightning and was the first awake and the last to bed. We'd chastized her plenty of times about moving too fast, and now the Church wanted to give her one of its biggest jobs. For several days we talked about it. "She's just the person, but..." —'"Wouldn't she be wonderful! But...?" and then there was just the plain "But, Mother!" Of course Mother said yes. She had already said yes when we were going around the house wondering "When?" to ourselves and saying "But..." to her. At the time, Mother was in the Primary presidency and _ theology teacher in the Relief Society. She was baking twelve loaves of bread every weck, keeping a surplus of canned food in the basement, and frozen food in the locker. Mother also spent an hour every day helping the child up the street improve his reading so he could be promoted. She was giving several minutes a day to Larry because he needed tangible encouragement beside him while he practiced the piano. Torn denim knees had a way of appearing, and old rags had to be made into rugs. It was too expensive for the girls to buy all their clothes, MIRACLES AND MOTHER and as long as shirts and trousers could be made from Dad's old suits and our too-small coitons, the little boys would wear them homemade. A new latch on the door, new paint in the bedroom, the buckle torn from a shoe—a myriad of little jobs were already appearing daily and Mother was squeezing them in. And now the bishop wanted her to.... FE. Girls told her how happy we were, and at the same time gestured melodramatic stories about how we would probably have to quit school and our jobs so Mother could work in the Relief Society. That was several months ago. And Mother is still busy because she still has seven children and the jobs that go along with a big family. Of course, we all have to help a little more, but the miracle is still there. Mother has been able to do the job, keep up her home, and bring a new spirituality, enthusiasm, and happiness into her relations with her family. This is the miracle. Mother has more time and energy than she has ever had before. "Mother, it's for you," calls her to the phone at least a dozen times every day. Someone feels she ought to let Mother know that Sister Wallace is ill. Her first counselor phones to say, "Sure, we can go visiting the shut-ins this afternoon!" Perhaps it's a death in the ward. That usually means food to pre- 299 pare, comfort to give, an asecrtment of nceds to fill, There are flowers to arrange and children to tend. Meetings need to be planned, work days scheduled, offices filled— the usual duties of a president—all are there. And Mother does them. She thinks, eats, and sleeps Relief Society. It is her life, her chance to serve. She has found time to do it well, along with her washing, sewing, cooking, and cleaning, and the multitude of household jobs that come unexpectedly. And if you tiptoe into her room almost any evening, you'll find her sitting up in bed reading a good book, the newspaper, or a magazine —to her a luxury. And it isn't late. Only the little boys are in bed. But you see, Mother is tired at night as always. She still has too much to do, and we still tell her she does it too swiftly. But she is a new woman. 'There is contentment instead of exhaus- _tion after a day of hard work. There is joy at every chance to help or expression of gratitude from the helped. There is love between her and a hundred women she never knew before. Most of all, there is a realization and a firm testimony in her heart that wards are living, complex units that need a mother. And the children? We enjoy our miracle Mother. And it hasn't hurt us girls at all to cook a little more often, sew on a few buttons ourselves, or even to think now and then that "he" surely would have called, if Mother hadn't been president of the Relief Society. Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, May 1, and May 15, 1894 "For THE RicHTs OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomeEN OF ALL Nations" THE WOMAN'S CO-OPERATIVE INSTITUTION: Keeps on hand dress goods and trimmings, fancy articles and notions, books and stationery, equipose waists. Dressmaking in all its branches, millinery, latest styles, hats and bonnets cleaned and retrimmed. Feathers curled. Stamping done to order. —Selected WOMAN'S SPHERE: The Father chose her by and through whom all his spiritual children should come to earth, and so ordered that she should be first to know the advent of the spirit to its home... And not until she has endowed it with the virtues of her soul does she present it a priceless offering to the Lord. 'Thus woman is recognized by the eternal decree of the Father to be the first to cherish humanity.... In view of the fact that there can be no man... Without woman, we may cease to talk about woman's sphere as though it had a limit, other than the world in which she moves. —S. W. Richards THE ORIGIN OF LIFE We're now laying foundations of what we shall be, For life's current extends to eternity's sea; And whatever debases, ennobles, refines, By our acts we imprint in indelible lines. We're the offspring of God. We should never degradk The form which at first in His image was made.... —Eliza R. Snow TROUBLE: Never bear more than one trouble at a time. Some people bear three kinds — all they ever had, all they have now, and all they expect to have. —Edward Everett Hale HERITAGE:.... While we journey onward and upward, let us clasp hands as sisters in sweet assurance of helping each other to cross the desert of ignorance and the dark river of tradition, where the little boats of error and superstition glide in and out alluring the unwary. We will watch for the beacon light of truth that shines from afar over the Elysian fields of knowledge and understanding. And while we pursue our pioneer march, let us not forget the innumerable company that follow in our wake, and leave for them shining waymarks, hopeful harbingers of success in attaining the goal of our ambitions. —Selected RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE IN BOX ELDER STAKE: Quarterly conference of the Relief Society of Box Elder Stake convened in the Tabernacle at Brigham City, on the 13th of March. President Olivia Widerborg presiding. Sister Bowring: I heard Brother Kimball once say we should be as clay in the potter's hand, if we depend on the Lord we shall be so. We can do a great deal of good to each other.... Emelia D. Madsen: It is a sacred calling to be a president or an officer in the Relief Society. The teachers in visiting should try to find the needy. They need to possess the spirit of the Lord, the spirit of discernment, and great big hearts that they may find even those who shrink from receiving help in their need.... Counselor Mary Wright: Let us not find fault with each other, it is weakening to ourselyes, let us do all the good we can.... —Emelia D. Madsen, Cor. Sec. Page 300 MMA RAY RIGGS McKAY, wife of President David O. McKay of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, has been named Utah's "Mother of the Year" for 1954. She will go to New York City this month to join other state winners in the events taking place when the "American Mother of the Year" will be chosen. Mrs. McKay, mother, homemaker, musician, has long been active in community and Church activities and has accompanied President McKay upon his world travels. OLIVE WOOLLEY BURT (Mrs. Clinton R. Burt), noted and dynamic Salt Lake author, has three new volumes on the market. Young Jed Smith—Westering Boy is an interesting, action-filled story of this famous personality of the early West; Camel Express is the tale of a strange and little known episode in Western history; and Peter's Sugar F'arm, has West Jordan, Utah, as its locale. RS. BENJAMIN F. (Ardella Bitner) 'TIBBY, a native Salt Laker, but for the last twenty-one years superintendent of the Compton City Schools, Compton, Callifornia, delivered one of the prinWoman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon cipal addresses at the convention of the American Association of School Administrators, held in Atlantic City, New Jersey, in February. Past normal retiring age, Mrs. Tibby is considered too valuable to the school system to be permitted to leave. She ranks as one of the foremost women educators in America. GRANDMA MOSES, _ ninetythree, has just presented one of her latest primitive paintings, "The Battle of Bennington,' to the Daughters of the American Revolution. IRTHDAY congratulations are extended to Mrs. Lizzie Colborn, Salt Lake City, one hundred one; Mrs. Susanna Matilda Cowels Huish, Spring Lake, Utah, ninetynine; Mrs. Catherine Matilda Beck, San Leandro, California, ninetyeight; Mrs. Euphemia Jane Carter Freeman, Salt Lake City, ninetyseven; Mrs. Margaret Blair Crabtree, Idaho Falls, Idaho, ninetythree; Mrs. Martha Musser Sheets Davis, Salt Lake City, ninety-three; Mrs. Sarah Elizabeth Goodwin Binnal, Granger, Utah, ninety; Mrs. Rosella Marie P. T. Jacobsen, Mt. Pleasant, Utah, ninety. Page 301 CD _ EDITORIAL 9 VOL. 41 MAY 1954 Portrait of Mlother N a certain old-fashioned house, there was an embroidered sampler on the living room wall, which proclaimed a message that the children in that home could never forget. At first, when they were small, the message seemed to refer to their grandmother, but later, upon returning to the beloved family home, they knew that the message referred to their own dear mother. We are coming, Mother, coming— From the loom and from the mine— Though it be our last sweet homing On that mother breast of thine. In times of separation from our mothers, whether it be the absence caused by the temporary affairs of earth, or that longer waiting until the time of reunion in the heavenly home, we often try to picture in memory the portrait of our mothers. Sometimes an evanescent happening or even some familiar scene — a flower garden, a thread of music, a lighted window — may bring to us, unexpectedly, a vivid and strangely comforting portrait of mother. The dear face may be remembered well, and the busy, untiring hands, the quick step in the kitchen, the quiet step to a child's crib. One woman may remember that once, upon admitting some misdemeanor of childhood, the mother only looked at her with tears in her eyes, and had to wait to find something to say. Another woman may Page 302 recall how swiftly her mother's fingers flew in sewing white lace upon an infant's dress. 'The portraits are varied and beautiful. Though we may not realize the full influence of these memories— these portraits, we know that in large measure they determine our attitudes, our actions, the very course of our lives. One woman has been influenced throughout her life by seeing repeatedly, in memory, her mother, who had come to visit the daughter at college, standing, after class had been dismissed, with her hand laid tenderly upon a bench in the room, tears in the mother's eyes. Then she - said, "Such a thing as this learning was never possible for me, but I am so grateful that you can be here." Another woman, sincerely devoted to the work of the Church, recalls, as an indelible etching, the portrait of her mother — how she hurried down the poplar-lined street, taking her little daughter with her; how quickly the mother mounted the wooden steps to the Relief Society Hall, how soon she was taking charge of the meeting — then the music, the prayer, the quietness, and the light upon the mother's face. Strange how much is inscribed upon the pliant mind of a child through no direct word being said. It is by spiritual communion that much of earth's best instruction is given and received. EDITORIAL Many of us may be fortunate enough to recall the portrait of a mother who honored and respected the individualism of each of her children, who realized that each child is different from every other personality, the heritage given by the parents coming from ancestral sources remote and near, but always in a new combination of character. Istics, talents, and temperament, with an individual, everlasting spirit. The mother has been the life- 303 giving vessel, but her duty and her influence are best exercised through love, patient direction, and inspirational example. And mothers who are wise, as well as devoted, may, over the years and into old age, share in the shining hopes, ideals, and accomplishments of their children, and these mothers may be comforted by knowing that the portraits of all mothers are forever indestructible. —V. P. C. New Serial che Falling Shackles, "to Begin in June NEW serial, "The F alling Shackles," by Margery S. Stewart, will begin in the June Relief Society Magazine. 'This intimate and dramatic story recounts the sad and amusing experiences of a family from Europe who make a new life for themselves in Salt Lake City. The author is well known to readers of the Magazine, having contributed many excellent stories and poems. Mrs. Stewart's work has also received recognition by national magazines of wide circulation, and she has received awards in several contests, including the Relief Society Short Story Contest and the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest. So Da vid Marjorie Foote Tough and tousled three-year-old, Hurtling like a comet jet Along the path, across the street— A mercury with wing-shod feet. Bright ribboned years do now unfold, Shot with silver, red, and gold; High adventures to be met; Forward now your course is set; Life's dawn for you is sweet. We set small store by worldly gain But here's a jewel-studded crown: The sapphire of a blue tit's wing, The liquid gold the blackbirds sing; Pearl-studded trees in rain, Emeralds from the leafy Jane; The honeybee's topaz and brown, Gay rose's gorgeous ruby gown, Each sparkling gem of spring. This box is clasped with constant prayer And bounded with our love for you. Its key of truth will only turn If, with clear vision, you discern The Priesthood cloak that God sets there For every worthy son to wear. Oh, take these treasures and renew Your covenants each day; be true, Oh, let his lamp forever burn, 'Say Gt With Flowers" Norma W. South HE words so often used by the florist industry bring an intriguing thought to me. What has been said to me by way of flowers? What have I tried to say to others? When I was a little girl, no taller than a window sill, my world seemed to be made up mostly of flowers. Dozens of flowering house plants lined our windows. My view of the outside world was always framed by flowers and, as I grew taller, by lovely foliage and flowers. October, there was often wind and sleet and snow, but inside it was always summer. Mother's geraniums were deep red, bright red, old rose, pink, white, and salmon color. The Martha Washington geranium, with its gray-green leaves, had single flowers of old rose, with deep rose throats. 'The fuchsia was the wonder plant, with its delicate stems and lavender-red blossoms which hung down like bells on a Christmas tree. 'The Marguerite had fern-like foliage and large white daisy blossoms. 'Then there was the California pink which had a _ blossom of fine pink fringe and no leaves at all; it had queer needles like those of an evergreen! Every night through the long winter months, mother patiently carried her plants from the windows to the kitchen table where they would be safe from frost. Every morning she gave each plant a drink. One year she took new slips and repotted all the plants, using rich loamy soil from under the wild English willows. I have never learned any more of her secrets of Page 304 growing house plants; that is why I cannot grow them as well as she. Perhaps Mother was never conscious of saying things with her flowers; we were not conscious of receiving the messages. But they told us many things just the same. They told us that here was love and patience, not only for the plants, but for the children who lived with them. They told us that home was beautiful and warm and safe. As the plants cost mother not a cent, they told us that there are many beautiful and wonderful things in the world which have nothing at all to do with money. The blossoms cheered us through childhood illness and gave us courage when father was away at the hospital for three whole months. 'They taught us that God can do some very rematkable things. I can close my eyes and see the flowers and people marching through my girlhood. It is the junior prom. There are new formals, flowers, ecstasy! Now I am returning from a college spring formal. 'The young man in the tuxedo takes the rose from his lapel and presses it into my hand. The little flower tells the sweet message for which he cannot find adequate words. My wedding... There are flowers everywhere. Mother is saying, "Norma, the pink double hollyhocks have bloomed early this year, just for you." She is so happy including her flowers in the plans. "We'll decorate the table with glads, the white and pink coronas." I see again my wedding bouquet. SAY IT WITH FLOWERS The years are rushing on. There are flowers for birthdays, weddings, a funeral... My father's. Now I am lying in a hospital, not ill at all, but rejoicing over the safe arrival of our third child, a dear little boy. The door opens and a sweet little girl of nine enters, carrying a small bouquet picked from my own garden. Her blue eyes fill with tears; she is unable to speak, but the flowers tell what she has come to say. I reach joyfully for the flowers, and the little blond head goes down on my pillow. It is so lonesome at home without Mommie. I am again in a hospital, standing beside a white bed. It is a crisis in our lives; our daughter is very ill with pneumonia. I lay a cool hand on her feverish brow. "Darling," I begin, trying not to 305 let my voice betray my fear, "remember how our sweetpeas looked last summer on the fence? 'They were so pretty when a cool breeze stirred them." It is my way of saying, "Don't be afraid, dear. God will watch over you and make you well, even as he can change a very small seed into a beautiful flowering plant." She smiles and closes her tired eyes in sleep. It is a very good sign. Today a spring shower has refreshed my flower garden. The bleeding heart is blooming beautifully. 'The iris, narcissus, and tulips are waiting to be made into a bouquet for our table. 'Through the spring, summer, and fall, I will find things to say to my family and friends, and I will say them with flowers. Preserving Metal Pla nters Elizabeth Williamson y be prevent the corrosion of metal planters, line them with melted paraffin, Things Will Be Different Virginia M. Kamuneyer ment, surveying it with disgust. "Will I be glad to get away from you!" she thought. They would be moving soon— she and Bill and the children, away from the ugly little apartment, into the beautiful house with the big lawn and the willow tree. Sally leaned on her broom and dreamed. She wouldn't take one piece of furniture from this living room, not one thing! She'd give it all to the junk man and buy new for the home they were moving to. She gave the sofa a look that should have withered it. One side sagged where the children had jumped on it too hard. And the once-attractive blue frieze upholstery had succumbed to smears of peanut butter, jelly, and molding clay. Those plastic curtains were going out. She would have draw drapes at the big picture window—maybe cream-colored silk with appliqued roses to match the roses in that elegant carpet she had seen in Kranowski's window. She pulled herself back to the present, picked up the broom, and set it down again. She didn't feel like cleaning this place anymore. Why bother to mop and wax the floors, dust the furniture? Soon she would be bidding it all goodby. Sally decided to nourish her soul. She pushed Karl's truck out of the way and sat down with the new Home Lovely magazine. She flipped through the pages of beautiful exteriors and exquisite interiors, read an article on color schemes, and Page 306 Os mene looked around the apartpaused to admire a pictured devil's food cake and dream of whipping it up in her own gleaming kitchen. She became so absorbed in the magazine that she jumped when the kitchen door banged. Fouryear-old Karl and three-year-old Ann came in, demanding lunch. Sally looked at the clock—one-fifteen! She'd really have to fly if she got anything done before Bill came home from work. She hurried the children through lunch and got them down for naps, then washed the dishes and mopped up the soup and crumbs under the table. It was three o'clock before she got to cleaning the living room. Bill would be home at four-thirty. She shoved the children's discarded sweaters into the closet, dumped all their toys together into a box, and threw out some wilted flowers. Now to make the beds and see what she could prepare for supper. It was four-twenty-five. Sally opened the refrigerator and found some wieners and cold boiled potatoes. The children would love it if she fried the potatoes, but she wasn't so sure about Bill. He liked his meals balanced. She backed away from the refrigerator, both hands full, and bumped into her husband in the narrow space between refrigerator and table. Wieners and potatoes flipped upside down on the floor. "Oh, Bill! Just see what you've done!" She knew she shouldn't be blaming Bill for the accident, but the afternoon's rush had left her short- THINGS WILL BE DIFFERENT tempered, and, as she picked the food off the floor, the tiny kitchen suddenly irritated her. We need traffic lights to get ground in here, she thought, and then grew more cheerful as she thought of leaving it all behind. But still stood with the evening paper in his hand, wearing that "Now what have 1 done?" look. Sally gave him a peck on the cheek and carried the wieners to the sink to wash them off. Fried potatoes brought squeals of delight from the children and a disapproving look from Bill. Sally, on the defensive, said, "Honey, ] can't prepare 4 decent meal on two square feet of counter space." Bill grunted and speared a potato. "Just wait, darling," and she put an arm ground him, "vhen we move into that peautiful big kitchen I'll prepare wonderful meals!" Next morning the bank called to the loan had gone phone, and, find a box to Sally jumped to her feet and ran _ Karl and a neighbor boy were chasing Ann around the yard, squirting her with their wate! Istols. "Stop it! Both of you!" she cried and dragged the sobbing child away. She marched Ann into the house. She comforted her with a cookie and resumed her packing. It's the neighbor boys who teach 307 Karl those things, she decided, just wait till we move into a civilized neighborhood. The days moved quickly. Sally packed their belongings, wrote change-of-address letters to the milkman, the mailman, an the telephone company. She handed in to the rental office their notice of intention to vacate, and received in return a mimeographed sheet of instructions for leaving the apartment. Be sure, it said, to empty the garbage, mow the lawn, turn in the key, and so on, and so on. She handed the sheet to Bill when he came home, with the suggestion that he get busy 0m "operation lawn mower." Bill flopped in a chair, a pained expression on his face. "Let a man rest for a minute. I'll get at it after supper." He didn't get at it after supper, Tuesday evening him that they were moving Friday. Wednesday at supper she reminded him again, a little more firmly, and on Thursday afternoon when he came home, the lawn mowet was barring the door, Sally standing orimly behind it. "OK," Bill said, shame in his expression, "Py] mow it. But, you know, I'd enjoy it a lot more if it was our own lawn." His voice began to show enthusiasm as he pushed the mower through the grass- "Just wait till I get started on our Own yard, PM really manicure that Jawn—and trim the willow tree—and plant more flowers!" mpHeEY spent Friday and Saturday moving. Bill rented a truck, 308 and together they tugged and heaved the furniture onto the back of it. Sally had lost her battle to get rid of the living-room pieces. She was, in Bill's opinion, lucky to get a house. So the sagging sofa went along to the new home. When the last load was dropped in the middle of the living room, Sally stopped to survey the place. This was home, with the willow tree, the wide lawn, and the wisteria over the front step. She was completely happy. Sunday morning found them tired, stiff, and barely able to pull themselves to church. They came home and nibbled on cold cuts from the refrigerator, and Bill reminded Sally, "Be sure to call the electric company tomorrow, so they can send a man out to connect up the stove." Monday morning Sally waved her husband off to work, shooed the children out to play, and then sat down on a box of books, wondering where, in the littered living room, to begin putting things away. The enormity of the task depressed her, and she was tired. The Home Lovely magazine lay on top of a barrel of dishes, and Sally picked it up. She was intently comparing color schemes in the magazine when she was shocked to attention by a series of screams that could come from no one but Ann. Sally sprang to the door and saw Karl dragging Ann about the yard. Ropes bound her hands and feet. "Karl! Stop it! What are you doing?" "We're Indians. Her." I'm _lasseling "Well, don't let me catch you RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1954 doing it again!" She rescued her daughter, untied the cords, and started back toward the house. She noticed a lot of scraggly weeds along the brick walk, and stooped to pull one or two. An hour later she was still at it. She paused long enough to make the children sandwiches for lunch, and found, upon entering the kitchen, that Ann had tried to help herself to milk from the refrigerator and had dropped the whole quart. Sally cleaned up the mess and cut her finger deeply on a piece of glass. When the children were asleep, she went back to the weeding. As she bent and pulled, she was gradually aware of a noise—one that had been going on for some time. ALLY stood up suddenly, realizing it was the sound of running water. She followed it to its source, and stood aghast. One of the children had turned on the hose and left it running full blast near the half-open basement window. Water was pouring into the dark depths below. She turned off the water and dashed for the basement door to survey the damage. It was worse than she had imagined. The water pouring in from outside lay two inches deep near the window, and a leaking pipe overhead was adding to the flood. Sally ran to get a mop and a broom to stem the tide before it spread to their trunks of precious things. She pulled on her overshoes and waded in, sweeping the water before her to the door. Mop, sweep, mop, sweep, for two hours she worked, until she had swept all she could out the door, THINGS WILL BE DIFFERENT Opped in exhaustion on the couch. Got?" and Bill stalked to the tefrig- "Wieners and cold potaIt was too much. Day had been ing seemed to rough her tears Bill standing over her with that "Now What have | done?" expression, Where have I seen that look beWl grabbed her shoulders and Shook her hard. "What's the matter? Hey, Stop it, for goodness 309 "Oh, Bill!" And she went off into peals of laughter again, "['m laughing at myself. Fo, being s0 stupid! Thought Just Moving leaks—eyen the wisteria's got blight, began to laugh and Sob at the same time, "'T'm the same forgetful] Person I've Even the children are ever. Oh, h or nowhere," a Morning oF lie Evelvn F jeldsted Morning glory bells are Tinging; The wind ha; found their muted chimes, Vings of butterflies are tipping High above a plane is flying, With sun-splashed Wings, far out of harm, € mighty engine, lifting, singing, Fills the sky with morning charm, Butterfly and plane creation, Each to its own destination! : a = Shat White Shirt Yourself Ruth K. Kent ee a white shirt to the laundry a few times, and you will spend enough to buy a new shirt. It is easy to do up a white shirt when you know how. This is the way I have found to be best for me. The ironing itself is not so much the problem as the preparation for ironing. First the washing—scrub the collar and cuffs with soap and a stiff brush. Wash as usual and rinse out all the soap. It is advisable to rinse a white shirt even though a no-rinse detergent has been used, in order to rid it of any grimy water. Hang the shirt on the line by the back shirttail, being sure to spread it wide. Pull the collar, cuffs, and button hole pleat down the front into shape. Hang in the sun to dry, if possible, or someplace in the air, where the shirt will dry quickly. If it must be dried inside, do not crowd it. Do not starch the shirt until it is dry. To starch, use one tablespoon of a good starch to one cup of warm water. (Use more starch if the shirt is to be stiffer, but that must be determined by experimenting). Add one teaspoon of salt to the starch and stir well. Now dip the collar into the starch, rub it in well, and wring out. Do the same with the cuffs, being careful not to get the starch on the sleeves. And for an especially good job, gather just the pleat in front into your hand and dip it into the starch and wring out. Now sprinkle the whole shirt and roll tightly. Before ironing, make these important preparations: See that the iron is clean. Wash off the bottom, and, if necessary, scour off lightly any black spots. Place a clean dish towel or part of an old sheet over the ironing board cover. Spread newspapers on the floor beneath the ironing board. And, if available, put a piece of beeswax or ironing wax beneath the ironing board cover at the head of the board. Set the iron just below "cotton," or approximately 350 degrees. If the iron is too hot, it will leave scorch marks where repeated ironing is necessary. First iron the under side of the collar, pushing in from the corners to the center. Iron the band until it seems dry. Turn over and do the outside of the collar, being careful to push any fullness to the back of the collar. Now move the collar to the far edge of the board and let it hang over. Iron the collar band on the edge of the board until it seems dry. If the iron pulls hard, rub it across the wax placed at the head of the board and it will glide smoothly. Iron the cuffs on the wrong side from the bottom edge toward the sleeve. Push the iron up into the sleeve from the inside of the cuff. Now, do the right side of the cuff. Flatten the sleeve along the underarm seam and iron the sleeve flat on the board, doing the side with the placket first. Iron out all the wrinkles carefully where the sleeve joins the cuff and do the placket neatly. Turn the sleeve over and do the other side. If the sleeve seems to pucker at the underarm seam, pull and stretch the seam while ironing. Fold the shirt along the line where the back is seamed to the yoke. Lay the yoke flat on the board and iron carefully. Iron the left front first, starting at the underarm seam and working towards the buttons. Then do the back, then the right front. Iron the pleat on the right front on the underside first, then iron dry and smooth on the right side. This is one of the most important things to watch when ironing a white shirt. The shirttail need not be done so carefully. Go over the collar and cuffs once again. Hang the shirt on a hanger to dry. And it is best to store shirts on hangers if there is hanging space available. Page 310 7 LAUNDER THAT WHITE SHIRT YOURSELF 311 If the shirt must be folded, do it the way the army does. Button the shirt and place it on a large flat surface (bed or table) back down. Gently fold the collar down against the breast of the shirt. Fold one sleeve straight across the front, the other sleeve over the first one. Lift the shirt tail and fold it a third of the way up. Now lift this fold and place it even with the top of the shirt. The shirt is now just the right size to lay away in a dresser drawer or a suitcase. If it must be made smaller, fold it in three, once from left to right, then the other side over this. It will come out unwrinkled in the places that show the most. It takes a little practice to learn how to launder a white shirt, but it pays off in savings, and in a man's pride when someone asks him, "Say, who does your shirts so well?" -~>_- Anniversary Souvenirs Mabel Law Atkinson Wee morning, while rummaging through my spacious treasure-chest of memory to find the gift of love I needed in my longing for children's laughter, I came across a box carefully wrapped and labeled, '"'Anniversary Gifts, 1934." Tears flowed freely as I opened each parcel wrapped in plain brown wrapping paper and saw the cherished gifts and the childish writing on the homemade, flowerdecorated cards. The first revealed a small rag dolly fashioned out of old white knitted underwear by the untrained hands of a little daughter of eight, the face worked in black uneven stitches, the body stuffed with bits of underwear cut fine by fingers that yearned to do artistic work like her twelve-year-old sister. Her gift, when opened, proved to be a hanky made from a salt sack, hemmed and embroidered by small hands which at that tender age were prophetic of her later skill. A bitter-sweet fragrance escaped as I began unwrapping the next gift, a "bookay of buetiful dandelines" from my four-year-old son whose note had been written by his older brother. Again I saw the childish beauty of this curly-haired "'little brother' gathering the flowers for me. Again I heard the lilting music of his laughter. I opened the last parcel with the hands of love tightening about my heart, and pearls of tenderness illumining my eyes, for the lad whose gift this was, is with us no more. Tied to the handle of a little basket made of burrs and filled with moss and wild violets, was a note in a loved, remembered boyish scrawl: "I have no muney, but I luv you." Again I saw this lad as a chubby babe of two sitting in the dooryard of a rented home, sans lawns and flowers, pulling bunch after bunch of the first tiny redroots of spring and laughing for very joy as he saw the pink rootlets. Seeing me watching, he held up a handful, calling, "See! Pitty, mama, pitty!" He loved beauty even then and found it in the pink of the roots of weeds. I recalled how, as he grew older, he was always bringing me starts of flowers for the window, and later on for a garden by our very own home. With gratitude in my heart that God had let me keep him until he was mature, I offered up a prayer that he is finding beauty in the heavenly gardens as he walks through them at sunrise as he loved to do here. What wealth was mine that morning as each shyly gave his gift! Since then I have received beautiful and costly gifts, but none have given me greater joy than those simple offerings of love on that anniversary in "our poverty year" when there were no nickels to spare. The Right Decision! Frances C. Yost the rolls in the oven, then took another peek at the dining-room table. It was beautiful with its centerpiece of autumn as, ters. Margaret's best silver sparkled on the alabaster linen. She was using her teakwood dinner set this evening. "Yes," Margaret said aloud, "everything is just beautiful. Why, anyone would think I was entertaining the Governor, instead of my family." Someone said the way to a man's heart is through his stomach, Margaret thought. With things sort of special, perhaps John will break down and tell me what's been bothering him lately. Margaret went to their bedroom and chose a brown rayon dress splashed with a daisy design because John liked it. Making a quick change, she combed her hair and added just a touch of makeup. Then, viewing herself in the mirror, she said aloud: "I may not be an 'Nustrator's dream of young Mrs. America, but I have a good husband, and I hope to keep him." Margaret's chin set with determination. As she waited at the door to welcome John, Margaret thought, life is good, I'm blessed with a perfect husband, if there ever was one, a handful of healthy children, a good home we can call our own, just everything. Except that something is bothering John, and I mean to find out exactly what it is, and tonight. Page 312 M ARGARET. Shelby popped "Smells good," John sniffed. "We're famished, aren't we, kids?" John and Margaret let the children supply the table conversation, for their day's experiences were bubbling over. After the meal was finished, Margaret saw her dinner set, linen, and silverware put in their places, then she jomed John in the living room. "You're a heart-filling armful," John said, laying aside his paper and pulling Margaret | down on the couch beside him. "Now we have 4 minute to ourselves, Marge, I have something mighty important to discuss with you." Margaret studied his face. It was almost too serious. He was going to tell her without asking. "Yes?" she questioned. "Hang it, Marge, I was going to tell you how important it is for a fellow to have a higher education in the business world today. I had so many reasons, but I might as well get to the point right off. I want to get a leave of absence from the office and work for my degree." "Oh, John!" Margaret gasped. It was as if she had been pricked with a red-hot goad. "I thought you were satisfied, you've worked up." "Tt's a competitive world. A fellow needs a good education to make the grade. I never had a chance before, but now we're kind of ahead, I thought...." John valued her common sense; even more, he valued her happiness. He counseled with her for both reasons. "College," Margaret repeated the THE RIGHT DECISION! Word which cut her as a razor blade —thin and deadly sharp. Her sensible mind weighed the problem as she saw the facts. Just when they were beginning to be able to have a few of the nice things of life, like the 'Tiltons next door, then, suddenly, to be asked to run a home without a steady income, was overwhelming! Margaret saw again in her mind's eye their first years of marriage, the skimping and saving, the making over and making do. John had been in college then. Margaret felt a shudder run over her, remembering. Things wouldn't be the same with John a college man. He would have to have quiet to study, or he might be away at the library or at school functions. The very thought of John in college was as if Margaret had been told John would suddenly be swept from the earth. She dared not speak lest she scream out in protest. They sat in silence while the precious seconds ebbed, then John reached over and took Margaret's chin in his strong, brown palm. A sudden film came over Margaret's eyes as he peered into her face. "I know it's a shock, Margaret darling." Huis dark eyes looked at her, but seemed to see into some reality beyond. "I can't tackle it without your help. You think it over for a day or two. Registration is a week off. I know you'll make the right decision."; * OK OK OK MARGARET heard John playing with the children in the back yard. Her own heart lay buried deep and aching. She picked up the evening edition of the paper and scanned it, but the words 313 blurred beyond readability, leaving the entire space for two single words which seemed to stand embossed in black type—John... College. Margaret laid aside the paper, walked to her little pearwood desk and opened it. She took clean writing paper and pen. 'There was a pigeonhole full of letters to be answered; this evening would be a good time. But her pen trails hesitated until she allowed to be wnitten the words which kept racing through her mind: John wants to return to college. Margaret tore the paper into pieces, then crumpled them for good measure, and dropped them into the wastebasket at her feet. She closed the desk and walked out into the garden. Autumn reigned with all its colors. A firey sugar maple, a burning oak, and a golden poplar mingled their brilliant leaves. White-limbed birches stood like nymphs in the shower of their gold hair. The mountains stood clothed in red and golds, with touches of bright evergreen, but Margaret was unconscious of the beauty of her surroundings. She walked as if in a daze to the aster bed. Here she had picked large gold and purple balls to adorn her table only a few hours before. She plucked the head from one, leaving the long stem unclad among its friends. Then her fingers began pulling the petals from autumn's queen of flowers. The petals fell one by one on the grass at her feet with alternate words—he will, he won't; he will, he won't. Margaret's life had been as fresh and full as the asters in the garden; now her life had suddenly become 314 as crushed and bruised as the flower in her fingers. She thrust the symbol upon the ground. 'Then, pushing the tears back, she entered the rear door of her home. Margaret could hear the children's voices above the rat-rat of the ping-pong balls in the basement. She decided to take a brisk shower. Then, perhaps, her family wouldn't notice her swollen eyes. But the shower was not refreshing as she had hoped, for the needles of hot water kept prickling into her flesh as if tattooing the word school. She donned a robe and went to their room to put on something fresh. As she entered their room, she usually took renewed pride in the chintz curtains and the spool bed in a white petticoat, but tonight she noticed none of this. John had crawled, as if exhausted, into bed. Poor dear, Margaret thought, if he goes to college, he'll never know what it is to sleep early evenings. Somehow Margaret managed to plow through the evening tasks of undressing the little children, listening to their prayers, and tucking them in for their dreams, but the feeling of brooding menace never left her. It was past her usual bedtime when she brushed her teeth, jerked the window open, and crept between the sheets. Hours later she awakened shaking. She rolled her head from side to side, but her body remained rigid, conscious of the sharp pain deep inside. Sleep must have taken possession of Margaret again, for when she opened her eyes it was a new day. But, for Margaret, it lacked the usual anticipation which a new day brings. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1954 IGHT followed day and day night, and it was Wednesday afternoon. Margaret stood gazing into their cold unused fireplace as she listened to the petulant drip of an autumn rain on the roof. Her hands were clammy as she churned inside. The hurt bewilderment still clouded her eyes. 'The very thought of years ahead with John at school stretched like a vast gray ocean—monotonous, endless emptiness. John had said she would make the right decision. Well, she would, all right. She would point out how the hundreds of war brides were struggling to help support a tiny brood of kiddies while their husbands sat in classrooms. She had seen too many young wives with their angular faces, always looking worn and sharply tired behind their brave front. Margaret's plan of action was clear now. John had said to think it over for a day or two. She had. Now, the moment John came home, she would point out calmly and clearly without any tears or violence, the wisdom of his going on with his job, devoting his time to the children and herself. Margaret rehearsed her talk, reassuring herself before she tried to convince John. Just then the doorbell rang. Margaret crossed the room to answer its "Why Mrs. Tilton!' Margaret said, her voice a little thick, "won't you come in?" Margaret had been crying. Her last glimpse in the mirror had assured her that she looked as if she had fallen flat on her face. Yet she desperately hoped her neighbor wouldn't notice. "T just dropped over to say goodbye. We're leaving the end of the THE RIGHT DECISION! Week," Mrs. Tilton stated. "Leaving!" Margaret echoed her astonishment. "Yes, work is taking Marvin to Armorville, so we're taking just what few things we need." Mrs. 'Tilton spoke with no outward appearance of regret. "But your lovely home?" Margaret questioned. "How can you bear to leave it?" "Well, I must confess I've never become married to any one house. Oh, I will admit it isn't all sunshine and roses to pick up and leave, but whatever comes, Marvin and I will meet it side by side." Mrs. 'Tilton had a wide, intelligent brow, and a generous, smiling mouth, things which Margaret had never noticed before. "You seem so very broad-minded, Mrs. 'Tilton. Why? Have you always felt like this... I mean... Standing by your husband in whatever he wanted to do?" Margaret finished her sentence haltingly. "I owe my viewpoint, in fact, my happiness in life, to a certain pioneer woman," Mrs. 'Tilton stated with doting inflection. "You do? May I ask her name?" Margaret inquired, making an overture of hospitality. "Why, yes, she was Phoebe Woodruff. A century ago she was a young wife like you, Margaret." "Please tell me about her." Margaret was gently being drawn from a fog. For the first time in three days she forgot herself. Her mind left the valley of dilemma and traveled the rugged path of the pioneers.... RS. Tilton's soft voice seemed to lead the way. "As I remem- 315 ber the story, the Woodruff couple was making their way to Kirtland to join the saints. Traveling wasn't streamlined, as it is today, and food was scarce. Hardships for Phoebe were more than she could bear. She passed away." "Oh! What a shame!" Margaret interluded. Forgetting herself, a bitter pain for Phoebe Woodruff rose strong and sharp in Margaret's throat. "Her spirit left her body, for she saw her body lying on the bed and her husband and friends around her weeping. 'Then two personages came for her. One of the messengers informed her that she could have her choice, she could go to rest in the spirit world, or she could have the privilege of returning to her tabernacle, and continuing her labors on earth, on one condition...." Mrs. Tilton paused. "What condition?" Margaret queried, her heart taking up its slow, wary beat again. "Why, that she stand by her husband and pass through all his cares and trials and tribulations and afflictions of life unto the end. Phoebe Woodruff looked at her husband and child and said, 'Yes, I will do it." "She did?" Margaret laid the two words out like little flatirons of exactly the same weight. "She chose the hard pioneer life just to help her husband? Death would have been sweet." "But she chose to be on the side of her husband, my dear," Mrs. Tilton went on in a low even voice. "This story, and a true one it is, has remained a guiding star in my life. Tt shows the place a wife has in life as a helpmate, the pulling of 316 a load together." Her thin hands rested in her lap. "Together," Margaret framed the word softly, almost reverently. "Yes, my child. God knew crossing life's path would be too difficult for man alone. He gave him a companion." It was then the two women seemed to lay words aside and choose a silence. At length Mrs. Tilton arose. "Well, I must be going." Then, turning, she laid her hand on Margaret's shoulder. "I hope you get to feeling better, my dear." Margaret walked to the door with Mrs. 'Tilton. Outside the clouds had broken. 'The sky was glorious and bright. It was as if bleak Oc- *K K RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1954 tober had moved back from the world, and summer had come to reign supreme again. It was tears of joy, mingled with relief, which rolled down Margaret's cheeks when the door was closed after her visitor. All her pent-up feelings of the past three days left her. Margaret's heart was washed clean, and filled with satisfaction and sweet contentment. She walked to the phone and dialed a number, then waited. "That you, John?".... No, nothing's wrong with the children.... I'm all right, too, John. I feel wonderful!... I know youre busy, and I won't keep you.... I just wanted to tell you, John, I've made the right decision!" xk x Mother Love Hannah C. Ashby How silently and swiftly Time has sped the years; I wear a white carnation When Mother's Day appears, Yet like a traveler of the deep Who sights the northern star, My mother's love still lights my path Though shining from afar. And in the great celestial plan Where family ties still hold, I know that she is waiting there— Her love has not grown cold. We know the stars that shine by night Are never seen by day. We walk by faith and not by sight; She taught me how to pray, O Shall Wo Reap Maryhale Woolsey As surely as we tend the splendid fields Where grow our winter foods and next year's seed, We cultivate the days — for they must yield Life's memories on which old age will feed. Sina Mlortensen— Woman of Mlany Hobbies T would be difficult for "Aunt" Sina Mortensen of Mesa, Arizona, who was born January 19, 1868, at Pleasant Grove, Utah, to tell which of her hobbies is most important in her life, and which gives her the most pleasure. She is particularly skilled in crocheting, and her many exquisite designs reveal a keen sense of artistry and color. She is an excellent quilter, her nimble fingers always flying on Relief Society work meeting day. Her Church services have included many years as a teacher in Relief Society where she has served in varied capacities, becoming a member when she was fifteen years of age. Now a member of the Mesa First ward, and still a visiting teacher, she brings joy and comfort to many homes. She has also been Religion Class, Sunday School, and Primary teacher, ae Come Gently. Spring Christie Lund Coles Come gently, Spring, Upon this street, Where youth once ran With jet-swift feet. Come gently, Spring, To mark the years, Where youth once shed Its war-dark tears. Come swiftly, Spring, Peace thread your rain, For youth is coming Home again. Page 317 The Deeper Melody CHAPTER 8—CONCLUSION Alice Morrey Bailey ARGARET was waiting for M Steve on the steps of the nurse's home. He _ rushed up to her, gripped her elbows in his palms, and searched her face. Her eyes were enormous and brilliant in her chilled face. She looked near hysteria. "Steve!" she said through. Stiff lips. "Steve, I've broken my engagement." Light splintered in Steve's brain, Lut he held his physical reactions calm. He put her wordlessly into his car and headed for the mountains. "Relax," he told her quietly. "Don't talk, but lean your head back and rest." She leaned her head against the cushions and closed her eyes, but her set features told Steve she was not relaxing, and she was not resting. He drove on, praying silently for the right words to say, the right things to do. When he had reached a point high above the valley, he turned the car into a sideway and switched off the engine. 'There was no sound there except the gentle sighing of the pines, and no light except the moon, which was shining full and bright. He turned to Margaret. "Tell me about it," manded. "Tt wasn't just one thing, Steve," she said without moving or opening her eves. "It was many things—first the way I felt about him, and the way I felt about you. I said I felt guilty about that, but I thought it Page 318 he comwould come after we were married —the right feeling, I mean. And then you said admiration was not love." Her incoherent words made beautiful sense to Steve, but he refrained from pressing the questions that rushed in upon him. "Go on," he said. "It was finally the babies." "The babies?" queried Steve. "Your babies—Phyllis and Ilene. The way they came to me last Saturday. We quarreled about it, and you know, Steve, a quarrel is sometimes a very good thing. 'Truth comes out in a quarrel. Rex doesn't want children. He said he was never going to have any children, and I could jolly well make up my mind to that." "Could a man really mean a thing like that?" marvelled Steve. "He meant it, all right. He said he had worked hard for his place in his profession, and no encumbrance of children was going to change his course. He said family responsibilities had wrecked his father's career, forcing him into choices he did not want, and they were not going to wreck his. I could never change his ideas on that, or, in fact, anything else. I could see very clearly what my life would be. I would cease to be an individual. I could not even be a woman." "Thank fortune you saw it in time, darling," Steve commented. "Only, Steve! Why didn't I see it before? Why did I have to wait THE DEEPER MELODY until everything was so hopelessly involved?" "It isn't hopelessly involved." "It is! Itis! All those invitations sent out, all those gifts that have come—the parties, the people, and the disgrace. I don't mind for myself, but much as I disagree with Rex, how can I let him in for this? He is a prominent man, and there will be publicity and gossip. Especially when it was all my fault. He loathes publicity, and gossip might ruin him professionally." 'éVOU are excited, dear. This thing has built up in your mind. His friends will be secretly relieved at not having so much to do, the gossips will be delighted with a choice tidbit until another one comes along, and what they say will build up his practice, not wreck it. It will not be easy, dearest, but we'll help you—your mother and I. Can you move from the nurse's home tonight? I'll put you in a hotel where no one can find you, and we'll do the telephoning." She shook her head. "No. This is my music and I'll have to face it," she said, and Steve had to be content. On the way back to the home Steve longed to explore what she had said about her feelings for him, but one glance at her face warned him she had taken the last ounce of emotion she could tolerate for one day, so he left her, full of worry for her, full of misgivings, at the steps where he had picked her up. After he left her, however, the worries grew. By morning, if he knew Dr. Harmon, or any man, Steve reasoned, the fellow would have faced all these consequences 319 and be willing to concede anything. He would be on the telephone or there to meet her, promising her anything her heart desired. In the face of all that was built up, could she withstand the man? He went directly to Mrs. Crain, awakened her, and told her what had happened. "Great day!" she exclaimed, but sobered on the next thought. "It's going to be hard for her, Steve." "It is," agreed Steve grimly, "I still think the hotel is a good idea. I'll make a reservation and send you there with your things. Get her, Mother Crain, as soon as you can. Get her away from that hospital and handle everything from the hotel. For her sake, and for mine, guard her from that oversized sense of duty." The week that followed was the combined nightmare of anxiety and the heaven of seeing Margaret when he wished, of calling her several times a day, of taking her out every night, while her mother sat uncomplainingly with the children and aided and abetted his every plan. He availed himself of all the messengers—flowers, books, and candy —that he had longed to use before, but in all that week he mentioned no word of his own love for her. It was more than concern for her; it was a point of pride. He did not want the company, even in_ her thinking, of the other man. He wanted her free and clear of Dr. Harmon before he brought his own love again to her attention. Rather, his messages were of gaiety, even nonsense. "This is the night watchman making his rounds," he would report. 320 "Steve, you're insane," she would say, but her laughter was music to his ears. FE took her to movies, quietly watching her face instead of the screen, to theatres, to dine and dance, and to the symphony to hear Jascha Heifetz. On the day she was to have been married he appeared at her hotel early in the morning and telephoned from the lobby. "TIL give you and your mother ten minutes to dress, my lady. The children are out in the car, complete with lunch basket. 'Today we are going to Cripple Creek." "Steve, I can't," she said miserably. He could tell she had been crying. "I won't take no for an answer. Either you come down, or I'll come up. PDon't you dare. I look a fright. Steve, you slave driver!" She came, though, in twenty-five minutes, not ten, dressed in a plaid skirt and a white blouse, much bathed as to eyes, which were swollen in spite of it. Mrs. Crain flashed Steve a secret look of misgiving and thanks. Steve ignored everything and loaded them in with high adventure. "Have you ever been to Cripple Creek?" he asked them, and was glad they said no, because he felt he could rely on the magnificent Corley Mountain Highway to interest them. Up and up they went, the road doubling back on. Itself in its sheer climb into grandeur. Steve was gratified to see color creep into Margaret's cheeks, excitement into her eyes, as she caught her breath RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1954 in the dark beauty of aspens and pines, of lakes mirrored far below, of vista on vista unrolled, of solitude and loveliness. 'This was a veritable paradise of crag and forest, of glass-clear creeks and thundering cataracts. Steve had traveled it many times, but its beauty never failed to smite him anew. He felt a personal pride in showing it to Margaret and her mother. Even the little children watched the trees flash by in silent wonder. HEY ate in a meadow two miles from Cripple Creek, beside a spring that bubbled out from between two rocks. A weatherbrowned log house, abandoned, sans doors and windows, stood at the edge of the forest. Margaret loved it. "Oh, Steve! Look at it," she cried. "I want that sweet little house. This is a paradise. Wouldn't it be fun to live here?" "It would, indeed," agreed Steve, deciding then and there to investigate the possibility of buying it for a vacation home. One could have horses and pasture them in the lush meadow for long trips in the surrounding mountains. It ought not to cost a great deal. "I lave never passed this spot without thinking the same thing!" "Tt's like a chapter from a Fortyniner tale," she said of Cripple Creek. "Steve, I can't believe it!" It was picturesque, the old, shacky buildings mingled with the new of modern machinery, the steep streets, and the little church with the old-fashioned steeple just beyond the modern school and library. As if to confirm Margaret's ob- THE DEEPER MELODY servation, a burro, long-eared and slightly larger than a big dog, ambled out into the street and stopped in front of Steve's car. He applied the brakes and was able to halt short of hitting it, and they waited while its small Mexican master, with high excitement, wildly expressive eyes, and vivid Latin invective, tried to pull the stubborn little animal off the street. It pulled back on the frayed rope around its neck, and sat upon its haunches. The children shouted, Phyllis cnied with fright, and Margaret and her mother laughed until they were weak. Several of the lad's friends came running; Steve got out of the car, and with concerted effort they pulled and pushed the determined little beast from in front of the car. Yes, it was a day to remember, and it accomplished its purpose. The women were relaxed on the way home and the children slept. Steve delivered Margaret and her mother back at the hotel weary to the bone, which was, this time, exactly as he wanted it. "She'll sleep tonight," prophesied Mrs. Crain. "She hasn't slept all week for thinking, and Dr. Harmon has pestered her every minute you haven't." "She's had quite a week then, between us," said Steve contritely. NEVERTHELESS, sharing Cripple Creek and the Corley Mountain Highway was solid and good within him, and only a sample of all the things he wanted to show her. He mentioned it to J. T. The next day. "You took your best girl to Cripple Creek yesterday?" repeated J. T.., swinging around to stare at him 321 suspiciously. "Steve, are you still letting that secretary lead you around by the nose?" "You jump at conclusions, J. T.," complained Steve. "You remember the nurse I told you about?" A broad grin spread over J. T.'s face. "You cut out her beau!" he guessed. "He cut himself out," Steve temporized. "She gave his ring back last week." "You don't say!" remarked J. T. Happily. "Have you popped the question yet?" "You're too inquisitive," accused Steve, but went on, "I did that the day Sam was hurt. She turned me down." "Hm-m," said J. T., wrinkling his brow in thought. "Steve, a man in your position should buy a home." "I'm going to," said Steve. "I've been looking for just the right thing. The place I'm in isn't...." "T know just the right place for you," J. T. Cut in. "A friend of mine built it a year ago. In fact, it isn't finished, and it's a bargain for twenty-three thousand." "Twenty-three thousand!" exclaimed Steve. '""What're you trying to do, J. T'., line your friend's pockets at my expense? Where would I get that kind of money—or even a down payment?" "You've got to learn to think in bigger terms, boy," said J. T. "As for the down payment, I've never given you the bonus on that Kettle Creek deal, and you've got it coming. You go see that house—and take the girl along with you." He told Margaret nothing except that he had a surprise for her. She looked uncommonly well and 322 rested. Steve could hardly drive for looking at her. Her eyes were happy and her mouth at peace. Steve put his hand over hers which was _ lying in the seat between them. She jumped visibly and flushed with pleasure. "Are you as happy as you look today?" MARGARET sighed. "Perhaps I should tell you that Rex left this morning for Boston. He had an offer there he has wanted to take. Dr. Hanson wanted him in with him here. In fact, he was using the loan of his home as a little pressure point to swing Rex his way—letting us et married from there." "Tt is all finished, then? Are you sorry?" "Sorry? No, Steve. No!" It was Steve's turn to sigh, with huge relief. Margaret looked at him sharply. "It strikes me, Steve, that, in my selfishness this past week—and before, I have given you a bad time." "That you have, milady," agreed Steve lightly, "but you've given me heaven, too." They had driven far out, toward the hills, and suddenly they were at the house. It was fabulous. "I can't believe this is it," said Steve. "Believe it's what?" queried Margaret. "You mystify me, Steve. Whose gorgeous place is this?" "The place we're going to buy," said Steve, preoccupied with tinging the doorbell. When there was RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1954 no answer he stepped back and compared the number with the address J. T. Had given him. "It's the one, all right. The key fits!" They swung wide the door and entered, looking around in unbelief at the beauty which greeted them. They went from room to room with little cries of delight, calling attention of each other to artistic touches or clever features. The builders had trapped spaciousness, sunlight, and mountain water with rare woods, gleaming chrome, and expert workmanship. Terraced down a sharp incline, it was raw and unfinished in some places, beautifully finished in others. They came at last to the picture window in the living room. It looked down upon a potential garden of black loam, sloping gently to a crystal brook, with natural woods beyond. There was a small, but complete orchard newly leafed, and space for vegetables. Here was space for growing legs to run, work for hands. "Five bedrooms!" Margaret was saying, "and all that black soil! Steve, we can plant...." She stopped short, lifting sweet, embarrassed eyes to Steve. "You said it correctly, darling. We can plant." He took a step toward her. "That kiss..." he began, thinking of the one in her office, the only one, but words were too slow. "That kiss," she finished for him when she could breathe again, "was the final argument." & With No Regrets Myrtle M. Dean HE came into my room; her eyes were sparkling pools of gladness, her lips were parted in a_ sweet smile. She was my youngest daughter, Marcia. A wave of happiness swept through me to see her there, young, beautiful, and good. I have reared her to be so, I thought, with a pleased satisfaction in me. She spoke breathlessly, "Mother, Jerry has asked me to marry him. Oh, I'm so happy." My stomach twisted into a knot, my heart sank heavily, and my surprise showed in my face. "Marry!" I said. "Why, darling, you are little more than a baby, and are barely out of high school. Of course Jerty is a fine boy, but there is plenty of time for marriage after you have done—oh, so many things." I did not want to hurt her. I didn't want to tie her to my apron strings, but there was so much [| had planned we would do together when we had time—when we had time I censured myself. Now I realized how I had let the daily grind of everyday things crowd out the little special things I had intended to do with my children. Marcia was my last one, and I clung to the thought of a little more time. She looked at me, crestfallen. The bright gladness had fled from her eyes. "But Mother, we are in love, really in love," she said solemnly. They were in love, and in September they were married. I tried to make her wedding a lovely one, but I was lonely and overwhelmed with regrets. Not for big things I had left undone. It was the little things—things that my children could have held close in memory all their days. We OK KR OK OK heard footsteps on the front porch, and then little feet hurtying down the hall. "Hi, Grandma, you got any cookies?" It was Jack and Judy, my son's children. Jack was seven and Judy five. "Mommy says we can come and see you a little while," Jack said. I was glad there were cookies in the cookie jar. I looked at the clock, for their mother was careful about their eating between meals. It was just three o'clock, so a few cookies and a glass of milk would be all right. I took their hands and led them out to the kitchen. When they had finished eating we went out to the back garden. Judy flitted about like a lovely butterfly over the green grass. Jack hurried hither and thither exploring about the yard. They discovered a thing I had not seen there—a robin's nest in the red maple behind the house. There were four blue eggs nestled down in the softness of lint and feathers. They found a hornet's nest, shapely and beautifully fashioned, clinging to the eaves of the garage. "T've seen hornet's nests, and the inside has little pockets like honeycomb," Jack said. "Do they eat honey like the bees do?" he asked. I could not tell him, and I found there were many of their questions Page 323 324 that I could not answer. I must find out more about all these things. I wanted to keep up with my grandchildren. Judy ran back in fear, as she heard the bees buzzing about the flowers. Some were deep in the heart of the honeysuckle blooms. Jack proudly explained how the bees stole nectar from the flowers and carried it to a hive and placed it in the honeycomb that they had made to hold their honey. I smiled at his knowledge. Then the children lay in the shade on the grass to rest, while I sat nearby. We looked up at the blue ceiling of sky. Soft billowy clouds floated about, forming lovely pictures on the blue background. The children were delighted as they found them; flocks of white geese feeding by the side of a deep blue pond, fleecy lambs gamboling over the meadows, beautiful trees covered with downy snowflakes, and great giants trying to push stones off a mountainside and hurl them down to earth. 'Then there were ships filled with bold pirates sailing swiftly across the sea to capture the gold that clung to the western sky at sunset, and to carry away all the crimson robes and purple, silken shawls that were lying on the mountain top as the sun slipped out of sight. The children and I laughed together, and I felt lighthearted and happy after this afternoon spent with my grandchildren. Perhaps some of my regrets could be lessened by trying to help my grandchildren find more of the beauty and goodness each day can hold. I had a great desire to help my young parents avoid regrets when their children would have gone to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1954 make homes of their own, to help them now to want to take snatches of every day to bind their children's hearts close by the things they could share. 'There are so many things to share: buttercups in the meadows, fish leaping in a sparkling stream, the lovely colors in a stone, a frightened rabbit or squirrel scampering away into the bushes. There is the wild, sweet aroma of burning mesquite or sage, with the hypnotic mystery of a veil of smoke from a campfire; then there are moments to quietly meditate and dream—dreams that uplift the spirit. Morning sunrise is more than a signal to dress and eat a hurried meal, then rush to school or to work. Each rosy sunrise is the beginning of a wonderful new day. As the gray dawn flees after the quiet of the night, then come the morning sounds—the birds, with first their gentle chatter in the treetops, then a bursting forth into their sweetest songs. And every hour of every day can give something fine and beautiful. It is worthwhile to enjoy the evening as the sun sinks low, and the sky is pointed with streaks of orange and gold and crimson, like fireworks sent up from some other world, when a soft glow is cast on the eastern hills that shelter the valley, the colors turning royal blue and terra cotta and smoky lavender which ends in misty gray, and then it is night. 'The lights of the day go out, but are replaced by a blue dome of sky filled with glittering, silver stars and a crescent moon. Then comes. The sweetest time of all, when the family has gathered after the long day—a time for re- WITH NO REGRETS viewing of each other's doings; a bit of news or a chance adventure, time for reading, or the telling of a story. When the little one's eyes are heavy with sleepiness, cuddle them close and take them to fairyland, or better still, tell them a true story. Have you heard your child say, "Tell me about daddy when he was a little boy." "Tell me about mother when she was a child like me." One need not always tell thrilling tales of adventure, but just the little intimate things that draw the children close. Stories of grandparents, of their faith, and their pioneer adventures will bind their hearts to their forefathers. 325 Have you heard people say, many times, "If my parents had just told me more about their lives and of their people." "Why didn't I ask my father and mother more before they were gone? Now it is too late." Perhaps the things that we crowd out of our days for want of time are the big things, after all. We will forget what we have eaten, the bed we slept in, and the grind of daily things, but the lovely times of closeness and beauty will linger to make our lives more glorious and our children's love more secure. With no regrets, we shall send them out to live joyous lives of their own. <> Si allen G tant Josephine ]. Harvey No longer will its shadow fall Across the corner of my lawn; Long, green fingers will not lift To hold the shining dawn. Yet in this quiet place, My eyes will always see The shadow-image Of a well-remembered tree. Motherhood Ivinetta R. Oliver So many tasks each day to do! It seems to me I'm never through With work. The house to clean. The hands that need Be washed, the knees to scrub, And mouths to feed. As all day long I hurry there I wonder how my load I'll bear. But when the western sky is red And babes are gently tucked in bed, Asleep, I sit me down And softly sigh Because my mending box Is piled so high. I sew, and rock, and doze a bit; I am so tired when lamps are lit. And Dad, beside me, reads the news, Contented is my mood. I muse And smile. I do not care How tired my feet. We have our own dear home And babies sweet. I'll do each task as best I can And ask no more of life's brief span. Thou Shalt Never Cease to Grow Caroline Eyring Miner She is over cighty, that wonderful mother of mine, and she is following the unwritten commandment, Thou shalt never cease to grow, literally. She is a member of the stake Sunday School board and does her studying and her visiting religiously. She is still reading for the public at showers and other entertainments; she still loves books, particularly the scriptures, and reads much. Her enthusiasm in life and in the beauties of nature is undiminished. She is ageless, and largely, because she has never ceased to grow. "The glory of God is intelligence" (D. & C. 93:36), is a philosophy of the Church to which we should give more than lip service. It has been stated in other ways: "As man is, God once was, and as God is man may become." How is this possible? By making the most of our time and talents. Time does not hang heavy on the hands of one who keeps the commandment, Thou shalt never cease to grow. Interesting things to learn about and to learn to do, are infinite. Think of Grandma Moses, Winston Churchill, and others who have adventured into painting or other new fields in later years. I recall as a child the many occasions when we read some of the choice books together, Tennyson's poems, The Last of the Mohicans, David Copperfield, the stories from the Bible and The Book of Mormon. We all learned to love books as children, and it has been a priceless heritage. 'There was an active participation in reading that our television-watching children of today can never know. There was a freer choice of what was enjoyed. We took many walks as children, analyzing rocks, gathering and examining wild flowers, enjoying the sunset and the sunrise, and the birds' singing and nesting. We loved to lie on our backs and watch the varied cloud formations; I still trace in memory the intricate patterns of ice and frost we studied and loved as children. We were keeping the commandment to grow always. All nature seems to follow this command: a tree puts on ring after ring of growth as long as life lasts; a seed pushes up and up through cement cracks or under porches, overcoming any handicap to grow and grow. Bodies, both human and animal, grow and change as long as life lasts. "Thou shalt never cease to grow" is a commandment every mother should exemplify and teach to her children, for in keeping that commandment one will have eternal youth and happiness. Vacation Just Beyond Mary Gustafson New lambs run the pasture, Calves frisk in meadow-green. Puppies chase the kittens With just a pace between. A colt romps through the morning, Three ducklings swim the pond; And sonny counts the hours away To summer, just beyond, Page 326 ' Mlaga zine Mloney Ba nks Ida G. Garrett, St. Anthony Second Ward, Yellowstone Stake, Displays the Money Banks Which Provided 114 Magazine Subscriptions for Her Ward he January 1953, Sister Garrett made unique Magazine banks and distributed them among the members of her ward so that when the time came for the renewal of subscriptions, each sister would have her money ready — and never miss the $1.50. When the special "Magazine Day" arrived, seventy-five women were present, all bringing in their banks, w hich were then opened. Some of the sisters had saved more than enough money to pay for their Magazines, others a few cents less, and some had saved just enough for the price of a subscription. The result was twenty-five new subscriptions and eighty 'nine renewals, making a total of 114 Magazines placed in a ward with only ninety-six members. On this special "Magazine Day," a program, taken entirely from the Magazine, was presented, and the Magazine representative had new banks ready for the sisters to begin saving subscription money for another year. The banks were made by fastening two paper plates together with tinfoil, and trimmed with ribbon. The banks were eolenigl and attractive and added to the decoration of the home kitchens. A small slit was made in the top of each bank for the insertion of coins. Page 327 Magazine Subscriptions for 1953 Counsclor Marianne C. Sharp HE. Loyalty, appreciation, and zeal which Relief Society Magazine representatives devote to their work of placing The Relief Society Magazine in Latter-day Saint homes and the support of the Relief Society officers, are greatly appreciated by the general board. Through the outstanding services of Magazine representatives The Relief Society Magazine as of December 31, 1953, was found in 121,014 homes. This Magazine for women goes into more Church homes than any other Church magazine. Latter-day Saint standards are reflected in all the contents of the Magazine. 'The Relief Society lessons contained therein, if studied and lived, will implement the words of the Prophet Joseph Smith when he directed that this society should save souls and that the society should assist by correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of the community. It is a far-reaching service which Magazine representatives perform in placing The Relief Society Magazine in the homes of the sisters of the Church. Many who excel in their calling have given years of devoted service. Year after year, some of the same names appear with outstanding records of achievement on the honor roll. Page 328 While all manuscripts which are submitted for publication are not accepted, it gives the general board satisfaction to find how widespread geographically are the submissions of sisters who show a desire to increase their writing talents and speak to the sisterhood throughout the world from the pages of The Relief Society Magazine. With the increase of 7,613 subscriptions in 1953 Over 1952, the hearts of ward and stake Magazine representatives should rejoice. Fifteen more stakes made the honor roll in 1953 than in 1952 and there were sixty-seven stakes ~~ which achieved 100 per cent or over (nearly one-third of all the stakes); there were forty-seven who made percentages between ninety and one hundred; and forty-six who made percentages from eighty to ninety. The average number of subscriptions steadily rises each year. The general board is happy that the support of the sisters enables their Magazine to continue to be published by and for them, and, in addition, rejoices to realize that this type of reading material, calculated to encourage and ennoble, is welcomed into Latter-day Saint homes throughout the world. dlonors for Highest Ratings Stake South Los Angeles (California) 245% Magazine Representative—Nancy Rupp Ward Downey First Ward, South Los Angeles Stake (California) 329% Magazine Representative—Connie Price Missions Western States—115% Mission Relief Society President—Mildred M. Dillman Mission District West Nebraska District, Western States Mission, 203% District Magazine Representative—Emma Mae Allen Mission Branch Skamokawa Branch—360% Puget Sound District, Northwestern States Mission Magazine Representative—Anna Jean Hedelius Ten Highest Percentages in Stakes South Los Angeles.........2..0.22.-220.--eeeeceeeeeeeeee245.... Nancy Rupp Sam Joaquin 2.2... Eee cece cece eeeeeceeseseeeeeeeeeeees 150.... Retta J. Watkins OL: ae147...-Mae A. Boyer 0: ae 140.... Elsie Weber Ooquirth oo. Eee eee eee eee 132.... Enid O. Heise Minidoka -..........2..2..21222.-2s:20-0-2eeeeeeeeeeeee! => 127.... Myrtle C. Lloyd PIOVO.......2--22-2200-0--0cec ce eecee eee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeees-- 1 26.... Flora Buggert Shelley _........2..2-2--2.-2-.2-22s2eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee 124.... Merle Young Rexburg..............-2.2--2-2-----seeecececeeeeceeseceeceeeeeeeees124.... Martha J. Erickson |, a 120.... Leona Budge East Los Angeles.....2.......222.22.-2se1eeecseeeeeeeeeeeeee 120.... Zelma Beck Missions Achieving Ten Highest Percentages Western States -2...2....2.22.22: ceeceeceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee 115...-Mildred M. Dillman Central States 2.22.22... Eee eeeeee eee eee 113.... Annie M. Ellsworth New England.........2.2..2.2.22-2s-2eeeeeeeeeeeeee eee g5----Carol Clark Califormia 2.0.2....... Eee eee cece ee eee ee eeceeee eects 94.---La Priel Bunker Texas-Louisiana.....2....2..2..221.21-0eeeeeeeeeeeee neers gl.... Phyllis D. Smith Northern States..........2..2:.-: c--c--eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee 89.... Nettie P. Smoot North Central States 0.0... 86.... Laura M. Hawkes West Central States......... E. Cscececceceeeeceeeeeeeees 85.... Marteal W. Hendricks Canadian oes sete eeteeeeeteeeeeteeeceeeeeeeeeeece 85.... Anna H. Toone Western Canadian...0.02....-s.. Ceeeeeeeceeeeeeeseeeeeee 85...-Elizabeth H. Zimmerman Page 329 330 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1 Ten Stakes With Highest Number of Subscriptions 954 South Los Angeles 2432 Moapa g10 Blackfoot 987 Sevier 846 Mesa 961 Big Horn 845 Glendale 958 Burley 822 San Fernando 929 East Long Beach 817 Ten Missions With Highest Number of Subscriptions Central States 1288 Northwestern States 883 Texas-Louisiana 1230 Central Atlantic States 831 Southern States 1158 California 680 Western States 1032 Eastern States 678 West Central States gol Great Lakes 639 Stakes in Which All the Wards Achieved 100% or Above Grant...000..... EneroCaroline R. Bennett Santa Monica.......... Lillie K. Whitehead Moapa.......2---2-----+++Florence A. Johnson South Los Angeles.... Nancy Rupp Mission Percentages on Honor Roll Western States Central States New England California Texas-Louisiana Northern States North Central States West Central States 115 113 95 94 gl 89 86 85 Canadian Western Canadian Eastern States Northern California Southern States Northwestern States Central Atlantic States South Los Angeles San Joaquin Nyssa Glendale Oquitth Minidoka Provo Shelley Rexburg Burley East Los Angeles East Long Beach San Fernando Stakes by Percentages 245 150 147 140 132 127 126 124 124 120 120 118 117 Union Palo Alto Santa Monica Long Beach Moapa Idaho Falls San Bernardino Boise South Salt Lake Pocatello Pasadena Cassia Bear River 116 116 115 114 113 113 113 112 111 110 110 110 110 Wilford Grant New York Nampa East Sharon Riverdale Bonneville Sevier North Tooele Portneuf Liberty North Idaho Falls Sacramento 107 107 107 106 106 106 106 106 105 105 10S 105 105 No. Subscriptions No. Subscriptions Bonneville................ Ruth Peterson Burley...........0.0....----Leona Budge East Long Beach...... Margaret Bryan East Los Angeles...... Zelma Beck Glendale................-. Elsie Weber Long Beach..:............ Ethel Sponberg No. Subscriptions No. Subscriptions Nyssa....-.------------00-+Mae A. Boyer Pasadena.................-Louise Willard Pocatello.................-Margaret Thomas Rexburg...................-Martha J. Erickson San Joaquin.............. Retta J. Watkins Shelley -..................-Merle Young MAGAZINE SUBSCRIPTIONS FOR 1953 South Box Elder Tacoma North Rexburg Phoenix Oakland East Mill Creek East Riverside North Pocatello Ogden South Idaho Falls Granite North Box Elder Tooele Bountiful Mt. Rubidoux Emigration San Diego West Pocatello Portland Bannock American Falls Highland Sugar House Yellowstone East Ogden Carbon North Jordan Rigby Denver San Juan Mesa Weiser Ben Lomond Humboldt Malad Zion Park Taylor Mill Creek St. Joseph San Jose Raft River Blackfoot San Francisco Twin Falls Inglewood Big Horn Bakersfield E] Paso St. George West Utah Cottonwood Kolob Murray Deseret East Rigby 'Timpanogos Ensign 104 104 104 104 104 104 103 103 103 103 102 102 102 102 102 102 101 101 101 101 100 100 100 Gooding Lehi Uintah Sharon Wasatch West Jordan Monument Park Spokane Salmon River Smithfield Gnidley Maricopa South Ogden North Carbon Washington Seattle Grantsville Mt. Graham Nevada East Jordan Utah Cache Cedar South Bear River Southern Arizona University Mt. Jordan Cannon Butte Mt. Ogden Columbia River Orem Park North Davis Berkeley Teton Star Valley Lethbridge Parowan Duchesne Bear Lake Salt Lake Chicago Uvada Weber. Palmyra Alpine Oneida Florida Davis Klamath Santa Rosa San Luis Benson Blaine Los Angeles Fresno Layton Lorin Farr Farr West Richland Emery Mt. Logan Wayne Alberta Snowflake Kanab Wells Nebo Franklin Temple View Woodruff Young North Weber Reno Lost River East Lethbridge East Provo Montpelier Juab North Sanpete Pioneer Hillside Roosevelt South Sevier Williamette Santa Barbara Detroit Hyrum East Cache South Davis Beaver Idaho Santaquin-Tintic Logan South Summit Garfield Juarez North Sevier Millard Panguitch St. Johns Moon Lake Riverside Lake View Summit South Sanpete Gunnison Lyman Moroni Morgan South Carolina Oahu Relief Society Alberta Stake Alpine Stake American Falls Stake Bakersfield Stake Bannock Stake Bear Lake Stake Bear River Stake Ben Lomond Stake Benson Stake Berkeley Stake Big Horn Stake Blackfoot Stake Blaine Stake Boise Stake Bonneville Stake Bountiful Stake Burley Stake Butte Stake Cache Stake Cannon Stake Carbon Stake Cassia Stake Cedar Stake Chicago Stake Columbia River Stake STAKES ON HONOR ROLL-1953 EnrollSubscriptions ment No. Pct. 650 828 324 842 353 522 461 342 631 561 876 1013 268 689 684 636 683 288 603 284 616 195 641 424 417 516 = 79 692 84 325 100 328 696 355 101 443 85 505 110 338 99 520 = 82 483 86 845 96 987 97 221 82 769 112 726 106 648 102 822 120 250 87 535 89 247 «87 613% 100 214 110 568 87 358 8684 360 383687 Magazine Representative Afton L. Remington Sadie Meredith Harriet Peterson Ethel Phillips Ida Sorenson Millie Sprouse Rennis A. Larkin Helen W. Jensen Ruth J. White Bertha Anderson Elma S. Johnson Almira Clayton Ruth W. Benson L. Emma Cordon Ruth Peterson Myrtle B. Hatch Leona Budge Harriet Millecam Orilla J. Lucas Jessie Johnson Gertrude Edwards Jane R. Hale Venice W. Prince Florence G. Andrew Della V. Davis Relief Society Gridley Stake Highland Stake Hillside Humboldt Stake Idaho Falls Stake Inglewood Stake Juab Stake Kanab Stake Klamath Stake Kolob Stake Layton Stake Lehi Stake Lethbridge Stake Liberty Stake Long Beach Stake Lorin Farr Stake Los Angeles Stake Lost River Stake Malad Stake Maricopa Stake Mesa Stake Mill Creek Stake Minidoka Stake Moapa Stake Montpelier Stake EnrollSubscriptions ment No. Pet. 385 351 91 782 785 100 860 650% 76 Mi 260 09 465 524% 113 687 663 97 543. 415 77 444 349 79 853 292 83 794 752 95 409 335 82 525 490 98 451 3885 85 772 812% 105 660 750 114 421 344 82 582 480 82 241 187 78 See Sl 99 781 709 9Ql 967 961 99 454 445 98 493 628% 127 806 910 113 658 505 77 Magazine Representative Violet Gray Lucy Harman Dorothy C. Bushnell Charlotte S. Ferguson Tla Stoddard Magdalen Lake Allige L. Anderson Nellie Heaton DeEtte Wray Ivy C. Anderson Dorsey Hodgson Hazel May Bone Emily Anderson Emily Platt Smith Ethel Sponberg Maude Close Velma Shurley Evelyn Pearson Mary B. Bush Opal W. Williams Lola White Alberta Startup Myrtle C. Lloyd Florence A. Johnson Hilda Parker 332 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1954 Cottonwood Stal. E Davis Stake Denver Stake Deseret Stake Detroit Stake Duchesne Stake East Jordan Stake East Lethbridge Stake East Long Beach Stake East Los Angeles Stake East Mill Creek Stake East Ogden Stake East Provo Stake East Rigby Stake East Riverside Stake East Sharon Stake El Paso Stake Emery Stake Emigration Stake Ensign Stake Farr West Stake Florida Stake Franklin Stake Fresno Stake Glendale Stake Gooding Stake Granite Stake Grant Stake Grantsville Stake 693 656 546 753 322 2538 699 458 690 657 604 513 580 561 464 287 286 682 405 863 534 417 773 352 686 466 639 648 820 654% 692% 287 140 102 107 Mildred A. Mollerup Effie B. Miller Bernice H. Brown Alpha Nielson Nora Jane Souter Ora Holgate Lovenna S. Cook June N. Allred Margaret Bryan Zelma Beck Mary T. Maxfield Karene N. Straw Sarah H. Passey Dale Burtenshaw Erma L. Haslam Edna M. Hansen Wilhelmina Bowman Fern M. Chappell Emily C. Pollei Emma P. Imlay Bertha R. England Renie Tompkins Phyllis W. Kingsford Claris Matheson Elsie Weber Mary Roy Clara M. Love Caroline R. Bennett Ruth Rydalch Monument Park Stake 512 Nampa Stake 582 New York Stake 233 North Box Elder Stake 591 No. Idaho Falls Stake 714 North Pocatello Stake 389 North Rexburg Stake 627 North Sanpete Stake 618 Oakland Stake 648 Ogden Stake 632 Oquirrh Stake 448 92 90 87 80 87 102 94 106 78 89 107 102 90 86 105 100 1038 104 76 105 78 147 104 103 83 132 87 84 116 Hazel Swain Myrtle Tenney Bertha S. Powell Mary M. Larsen Iona D. Coombs Hilda Peel Clara M. Duffin Isabell Svedin Emma Wilson Susan A. Mulliner Glenette C. Jones Christina N. Bott Lydia Bendall Elsie J. Bennett Janet L. Landon Elthura Mackay Opal K. Green Arvilla Parkinson Ruby T. Hansen Jennie A. Wallin Louise T. Randall Mae A. Boyer Agnes M. Nelson Chloe F. Summerill Eulalia W. Larsen Enid O. Heise Alice W. Harris Juanita J. Howard Dorothy J. Peterson HONOR ROLL 333 Mt. Graham Stake Mt. Jordan Stake Mt. Logan Stake Mt. Ogden Stake Mt. Rubidoux Stake Murray Stake Nebo Stake Nevada Stake North Carbon Stake North Davis Stake North Jordan Stake North Tooele Stake North Weber Stake Nyssa Stake Oneida Stake Orem Stake Palmyra Stake Palo Alto Stake 612 621 624 639 425 747 721 3864 448 554 722 457 592 379 660 513 964 426 Relief Society Park Stake Parowan Stake Pasadena Stake Phoenix Stake Pioneer Stake Pocatello Stake Portiand Stake Portneuf Stake Provo Stake Raft River Stake Reno Stake Rexburg Stake Richland Stake Rigby Stake Riverdale Stake Roosevelt Stake Sacramento Stake St. George Stake St. Joseph Stake Salmon River Stake Salt Lake Stake San Bernardino Stake San Diego Stake San Fernando Stake San Francisco Stake San Joaquin Stake EnrollSubscriptions ment No. 765 366 718 924 532 463 448 439 473 178 584 594 453 699 387 571 670 750 519 151 849 327 667 797 386 413 661% 312 789 963 403% 510 453 463 594 174 454 736 366 696 411 432 704 716 509 138 720 368 676 929 373 621 Pet. 86 85 110 104 76 110 101 105 126 98 78 124 81 100 106 76 105 95 98 91 85 113 101 117 97 150 Magazine Representative Pearl E. Rohde Bertha W. Mitchell Louise Willard Claradell S. De Witt Lucille P. Noyce Margaret Thomas Dolores E. Zobelle Ada L. Parris Flora Buggert Alice 0. Neddo Louise L. Bell Martha J. Erickson Lillian Patterson Sara Simmons Ruby B. Erickson Ona W. Taylor Martha V. Gattiker Agnes S. Pickett Nira P. Lee Eunice Hartvegson Franziska E. L. Kooymen Evelyn W. Heath Enid Miller Helen Yaple Josephine Danford Retta J. Watkins Relief Society Twin Falls Stake Uintah Stake Union Stake University Stake Utah Stake Uvada Stake Wasatch Stake Washington Stake Wayne Stake Weber Stake Weiser Stake Wells Stake West Jordan Stake West Pocatello Stake West Utah Stake Wilford Stake Willamette Stake Woodruff Stake Yellowstone Stake Young Stake Zion Park Stake EnrollSubscriptions ment No. 662 740 441 571 468 292 662 550 322 783 418 880 866 657 555 635 396 527 684 393 369 640 690 513 499 417 246 614 496 257 659 414 692% 796 666 528% 679 299 414 684 307 364 Pet. 97 93 116 87 89 84 93 90 80 84 8] 79 92 101 95 107 76 78 100 78 99 Magazine Representative Ruth Lanning Elsie M. Palmer Lenora Blanchard Etta B. Cowles Bertha Memmott Betty L. Young Gladys Blackley Mary E. Stimpson Emma B. Forsyth Florence W. Wright Amy R. Williams Mabel E. Wood Elma S. Johnson Ione Slayden Cleo L. Thatcher Dorothy R. Larson Mary Ann Lamoreaux Naomi Harris Edna Heward Josephine H. Maher Lillian E, Roundy 334 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1954 330 397 499 335 449 432 551 797 376 598 662 San Jose Stake San Juan Stake San Luis Stake Santa Barbara Stake Santa Monica Stake Santa Rosa Stake Seattle Stake Sevier Stake Sharon Stake Shelley Stake Smithfield Stake Snowflake Stake 744 South Bear River Stake 551 South Box Elder Stake 608 South Idaho Falls Stake 534 So. Los Angeles Stake 993 South Ogden Stake 441 South Salt Lake Stake 685 Southern Arizona Stake 500 Spokane Stake 415 Star Valley Stake 735 Sugar House Stake 757 Tacoma Stake 405 Temple View Stake 741 Teton Stake 460 323 394 412 252 516 357 495 846 349 742 604 588 485 635 548 2432 399 759 400% 437 380 629 757 423 625 580% 395% 509 422 98 99 83 75 115 83 90 106 93 124 91 79 88 104 103 245 90 111 76 87 92 86 100 104 98 78 86 94 102 Irene D. Perkins Vivian W. Redd Opal McDaniel Edith G. Swonger Lillie K. Whitehead Eva Southwick Chelta D. Brown Beth V. Anderson Dezzie Lamb Merle Young Althea Perkins Charlotte R. Allen Marjorie Stenquist Edith E. Baddley Renee J. Nielsen Nancy Rupp Laura M. Shearer Hedy T. Davies Louise Christiansen Edna B. Allred Edna H. Bennion Ethel R. Merrett Alta W. Whitehead Afton B. Dickson H. Della Blumel Zina G. Maland Ruby F. Christiansen Ora W. Thorne Jewel Halgren MISSIONS California Mission Canadian Mission Central Atlantic States Mission 1106 Central States Mission 1141 Eastern States Mission 806 New England Mission 369 North Central: States Mission Northern California Mission Northern States Mission Northwestern States Mission Southern States Mission Texas-Louisiana Mission West Central States Mission Western Canadian Mission 726 363 362 289 654 970 1380 1346 1060 437 Western States Mission 680 308 831 1288 678 349 310 243 584 883 1158 1230 901 370 94 85 75 113 84 95 86 84 89 83 ae 91 85 85 900 1014 115 LaPriel Bunker Anna H. Toone HONOR ROLL Mabel M. Nalder Annie M. Ellsworth Eva C. Taylor Carol Clark Laura M. Hawkes Amelia P. Gardner Nettie P. Smoot Mavil A. McMurrin Emily E. Ricks Phyllis D. Smith Marteal W. Hendricks Elizabeth H. Zimmerman Mildred W. Dillman 335 South Sevier Stake Taylor Stake Timpanogos Stake Tooele Stake 530 637 543 414 NOTES |\_FROM THE FIELD P< Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relicf Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "'Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1950, page 278, and the Handbook of Instructions, page 123. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Blanche K. Reid WEST JORDAN STAKE (UTAH), BINGHAM WARD LUNCHEON AND VALENTINE PARTY HONORS CLASS LEADERS AND VISITING TEACHERS Seated, center, front row: Blanche K. Reid, President; at Sister Reid's left, First Counselor Ruth Jacques; and at Sister Reid's right, Second Counselor Lily Timothy and Secretary-Treasurer Phoebe Siddoway. Sister Reid, in reporting this happy occasion, writes: "Dora B. Callicott, President, West Jordan Stake Relief Society, and her Counselor Mae Johnson were in attendance, and Sister Callicott gave a very inspirational address. She complimented the visiting teachers for their one hundred per cent record for the past two years, and the Magazine agent for obtaining one hundred per cent in 1953 and ninety-three per cent in 1952, and the excellent work of the class leaders — all of these contributing to the Bingham Relicf Socicty having the highest average attendance in the West Jordan Stake.... Our chapel is situated on the side hill and must be reached by a series of cement steps, which many sisters cannot climb, so this attendance is quite an honor. Our population is ever changing. Last year there were eighteen changes in the visiting teachers. We have only one former president living in the ward." Pag 6 ' NOTES FROM THE FIELD 337 Photograph submitted by Viola Porritt SOUTH BEAR RIVER STAKE (UTAH), TREMONTON THIRD WARD VISITING TEACHERS WHO ACHIEVED ONE ITUNDRED PER CENT RECORD FOR TWO YEARS HONORED AT BANQUET January 22, 1954 Front row, seated, left to night: Eliza Holland; Winifred Barfuss; Ethel Hamson; Lydia Roberts; Carol Stenquist; Hildur Stumm; Adna Conger; Flma Fuller. Second row, standing, left to mnght: Evelvn Jepperson; Belva Skinner; Louie Stokes; Lillian Barfuss; Margaret Smith; E thel Hamson; Alice Mae Buxton; Nola Rhodes; Ina Claire Fuller; Afton Rhodes; Vera John; Irene Kerr; Geneve Walker; 'Tekla Stenquist. Third row, standing, left to right: Dorthea Stenquist, visiting teacher supervisor; Hazel Roberts; Mae Roundy; Virginia Hansen; Aletha Konnely; Bernice Dedrickson; Greta Stenquist; Marcella Jeppson; Sarah John; June Lee. Gertrude Iverson, a visiting teacher supervisor, is not in the picture. A program was given, and each teacher was presented with a Relief Society pin. Rebecca Mortensen is president of South Bear River Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Grace West MURRAY STAKE (UTAH), MURRAY EIGHTH WARD VISITING TEACHERS WHO HAVE ACHIEVED A ONE HUNDRED PER CENT RECORD FOR TWO YEARS Front row, seated, Icft to right: Kay Nebcker; Dwella Hamblin; Clara Knight, Secretary; Helen Barrett, Second Counselor; Grace West, President; Erma Fairbanks, First Counselor; Mary Sabine; Olive Harding; Effie Jewell. Second row, seated, left to right: Clara Duffin; Effie Miller; Constance Aamodt; Ione Moulton; Lottie Evans; Lois Hodginson; June Rogerson; Mary Nelson. Third row, standing, left to mght: Martha Johnson; Wilhelmina Asmus; Oda Parks; Jane Jensen; Millie Nufter,; Donna Walker; Zadia Norman; Edith Shelley; Pearl Ohlwiler; Laura Peterson; Effie Jensen; Annie Williams; Thelma Colgrove. Ida A. Gallagher is president of Murray Stake Relief Society. 338 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1954 Photograph submitted by Alice I. Ferrin GRIDLEY STAKE (CALIFORNIA) RELIEF SOCIETY PRESENTS "VOICE OF THE PEOPLE" AT UNION MEETING, January 27, 1954 Stake chorister Theresa Sims stands at the right on the third row; stake organist Bernice French at the right on the second row; director of "Voice of the People," Dorothy Fife, stands at the left on the third row; Alice I. Ferrin, President, Gridley Stake Relief Society, stands at the left on the second row. Regarding this inspirational occasion, Sister Ferrin writes: "At our January union meeting we presented the very impressive special program which was given at our October Relief Society conference. We divided the program into speaking, choral groups, and Singing Mothers. We assigned different wards to do certain parts of these. We invited all officers and class leaders and all visiting teachers and anyone else who wished to attend, including the members of the Priesthood. The program was very well attended and well received. We feel that all who saw it had an increased appreciation of our heritage." Photograph submitted by Adella Ellis BEN LOMOND STAKE (UTAH), PLEASANT VIEW WARD VISITING TEACHERS HONORED AT A BANQUET FOR FIVE YEAR ACHIEVEMENT OF ONE HUNDRED PER CENT VISITING TEACHING February 5, 1954 Front row, seated, left to right: Elizabeth Jones; Lettie Ferrin; Susannah Johns; Florence Jensen; Emma Wade; Hattie Tarran, Secretary, Pleasant View Ward Relief NOTES FROM THE FIELD 339 Society; Adella Ellis, President; Norma Ferrin, First Counselor; Beth Parker, Second Counselor; Sarah Call, visiting teacher message leader; Eliza Tolman. Second row, standing, left to right: Mary Case; Thelma Rhees: Josephine Budge; Florence Christofferson; Verna Christofferson; Verna Mayhew; Oles Rhees; Sarah Johns; Lettie Berrett; Amelia Dickamore; Edna Bailey; Mary Walton; Olive Larsen stake visiting teacher message leader; Hazel Kirk. Third row, standing, left to right: Elizabeth Harris; Jennice Barker; Elberta Critchlow; Ruth Jones; Grace Williams; Elizabeth Rhees; Lucille Tams; Mildred Cragun, First Counselor, Ben Lomond Stake Relief Society; Eleanor T. Nielsen, President, Ben Lomond Stake Relief Society; Mildred Cottle, Second Counselor, Ben Lomond Stake Relief Society; Minnie Roylance, Secretary, Ben Lomond Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Joan W. Coombs TONGAN MISSION, RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES AT DEDICATION OF LIAHONA COLLEGE, December 1953 The Singing Mothers are seen grouped in the background, and in the front row are four members of the cast of a play given by the Relief Society. The girls are dressed as nurses, and the play was centered around the life of Florence Nightingale. Both the chorus and the girls dressed as nurses are from the Vavau District. The woman standing seventh from the right in the back row is Salote Wolfgramm, President of Vavau District Relief Society. Joan W. Coombs, President, Tongan Mission Relief Society, reports that the dedication of the college was an outstanding event in the history of this mission: "There were around 1,000 people to the dedication, including the Queen of Tonga, and many of the highly respected Tongan nobility.... Mata'aho, Princess and wife of the Crown Prince, Tungi, opened the bazaar, and then it was opened to the general public, who... Bought every article in the house in less than an hour.... The evening of the bazaar our Relief Societies presented a lovely concert and a group of plays from each district." 340 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1954 Photograph submitted by Ione J. Simpson SOUTH IDAHO FALLS STAKE, ELEVENTH WARD RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERS AND CHILDREN Standing, back row, left to right: Second Counselor Verla Ilickman; First Counselor Bessie Dawson; President ReVon H. Porter. Ione J. Simpson, President, South Idaho Falls Stake Relief Society, reports: "This ward ls composed of very young mothers. Always the children outnumber the mothers. The ward was organized in January 1952, with thirty-one Relief Socicty members. 'Today, the average attendance is over fifty. This photograph was taken at a regular theology meeting, with fifty-six mothers and sixty-four children present. This group also has an outstanding Singing Mothers chorus. 'Vhey have appeared on television, have presented a half-hour program once each month over radio station KID, as well as singing for many ward activities. 'Typical of their name, Singing Mothers, the twentyseven original members boast a total of eighty-eight children." Photograph submitted by Alice Alldredge MOAPA STAKE (NEVADA) VISITING TEACHERS WHO HAVE ACHIEVED ONE HUNDRED PER CENT DURING THE PAST YEAR Standing, center front, wearing dotted white tunic: Alice Alldredge, President, Moapa Stake Relief Society; Amy Wells, stake theology leader, next, at right; Hermese Thiess, stake music director, extreme right. Standing, second row, back of Sister Alldredge and to the right, Glenna Waite, President, Logandale Ward Relief Society. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 341 Standing, next to the back row, and first at left: Thelma Adams, President, Las Vegas Sixth Ward Relief Society; twelfth from the left, in the same row, Winnie Prince, President Henderson Second Ward Relief Society. Standing, sixth from left, in the back row, Ann L. Jones, President, Henderson First Ward Relief Society. The picture was taken at a recent annual convention and luncheon honoring the visiting teachers of the stake. During the convention an inspirational testimony meeting was held, with over two hundred in attendance. Photograph submitted by Madge P. Fowler PASADENA STAKE (CALIFORNIA) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT A "CHORAL FESTIVAL" December 4th and December 5th, 1953 Front row, seated: eighth from the left, LaVir Millard, director; tenth from the left, Macie Evans, organist; insert, at left, Helen Wnght, pianist. Madge P. Fowler, President, Pasadena Stake Relief Socicty, reports that these Singing Mothers practiced once a week for a whole year before giving these concerts. "Four months before the concerts were to be given, Sister Wright moved away, but she drove one hundred and fifty miles once a week to practice with the group and played for them both nights the concert was given. The organ was used with four numbers.... We are very proud of this fine group as the concerts were some of the loveliest ever presented in the stake." +>. Sor Wood Urolets Ethel Jacobson Purple is for regal things—for iris tall, For massed bougainvillea on a marble wall, For a king's raiment, a sleek pigeon's breast, And peaks of lofty mountains where cloud crowns rest. Purple is for petals stitched among the leaves On a forest altar beneath the oak's wide eaves, For love-shadowed eyes, and for dusk's folded wings; The violet's robes are for blessed things. 342 eeeeee DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 5-47 South Main alt Lake City 1, Utah nna a) > Zz Sacred Music for LADIES THREE-PART CHORUSES Beside Still Waters—Hamblen.............20 Bless This House—Brahe................-..- 16 If Christ Came Back—O'Hara.............20 In His Steps—Wilson.................-....... -20! Walked Today Where Jesus Walked—O'Hara........-.- ny 73 | Will Exalt Thee, O Lord—Harris.....15 © Lord Most Holy—Franck................-- 16 Oh, May I Know the Lord As Friend—Madsen..............-...-2--+----- 20 © Saviour of the World—Goss-Ray.....15 Seek Ye the Lord—Roberts WE PAY POSTAGE — Music Sent on Approval — Use this advertisement as your order blank Please send the music indicated above. CL) On Approval Lj Charge [] Money Enclosed 45-47 SOUTH MAIN STREET FIRST OF ALL — RELIABILITY nes — coe ( SALT LAKE CITY 1, UTAH RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1954 VIDA FOX CLAWSON Announces Three 1954 Conducted Tours HAWAII Sails from Los Angeles May 24 ALASKA Leaves Salt Lake City July 21 HISTORIC TRAIN Leaves Salt Lake City August 6 The HISTORIC TRAIN includes: Places of Interest in Church History, the Pageant at the Hill Cumorah, and many large eastern cities. For complete details write or phone: VIDA FOX CLAWSON 966 E. So. Temple—Telephone 4-2017 Salt Lake City, Utah Bright Hl our Grace Sayre Down in my garden I see a rose Burst into radiance As the wind blows; When I do not see, Only the flower Breathes the fulfillment Of its bright hour. Yet all the fragrance Of honeyed bowers Is held where the wind passed Over the flowers. Down in my garden I watch the rose Perfect its beauty As the day grows, She Olden Days and the New Camilla Alexander The world is getting funny Since folks have got so wise; They used to sell eggs by the dozen, Now they sell them by the size; They used to sell fruit by the peck, Now you buy it by the pound. If you have a dollar in your purse, You can't make it go around. I guess next they'll sell molasses By the yard or by the lick The way the world is going now— It's surely changing quick. And they're all so modernistic You can't do this or that One will say "Why that's illegal" Or, Don't do that or you'll get fat" 'Then, whatever people want today They always seem to get, And by the easy-payment plan They're never out of debt. In days gone by, when I was young, The husband's wages kept the house. Today the husband works the same— So does his loving spouse. But in those days, when husbands came From office or from store, With a nice clean gingham apron on, His wife would meet him at the door— "You're tired, Jim, but never mind, Your supper's at its best. Come in and put your slippers on And then sit down and rest." Now when husband comes From office or from store Worn and weary, tired out, Hungry and footsore, His wife will say, ""What ails you, Jim, You look so glum and blue? All tired out? Well, don't forget That I am tired, too. So go and shave and change your clothes And give your shoes a shine. We're not eating supper home tonight— We're going out to dine." No wonder that next morning They're sick and almost dead; With all their work and worry They don't seem to get ahead. Oh, these modern days, And oh, these times of style! Give me the good old-fashioned days When living was worthwhile. The Pride of Your Library! Your Relief Society Magazines when handsomely bound into permanent yearly volumes acquire new value as excellent reference books. Just $2.50 (Cloth Binding) $3.50 (Leather Binding) Per Volume If necessary to mail them to you, the following postage rates will apply. Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Up to 150 miles ooo... Cece eceesecseterececeeeneenenceee 150 to 300 miles.......... 300 to 600 miles........ 600 to 1000 miles... _ 1000 to 1400 miles 200000000. 1400 to 1800 miles....... Over 1800 miles....... Leave them at our conveniently located — office. Deseret News Press 31 Richards St. Salt Lake City, Utah Phone 4-2581 fo%@) Be Modern Live Electrically Electricity does so much, UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO Page 343 Srom lear and Sar Sincinc Motuers There the faithful Singing Mothers Raise their tender, lovely voices Sing their gentle songs with gladness, Cheer our hearts with their sweet music. —Vida E. Manning Sincinc nv Retier Society MEETING I'll say my thoughts as I stand to sing, And hope that my Heavenly Father hears The words in my heart I cannot say, And know that I'm glad I came today. —Zina V. Marriott These poems were contributed in a poetry writing project inspired by appreciation for the poetry in The Relief Society Magazine and the literature lessons, and sponsored by the Garland (Utah) Second Ward Relief Society. Ten women participated in the contest, all of them contributing inspirational poems on Relief Society work and home and family life. * * x Yesterday the carrier left a copy of your Magazine, addressed to Mrs. Marie EF. Leflang. I bought my home from the Leflangs in March. Apparently a change of address was not sent you, although this is the first copy of the Magazine left here. Between mails I took the liberty of reading several articles. And I was overwhelmed with some of the articles, especially "The Literature of England"— lesson 34—Alfred Lord Tennyson, Representative Victorian." I suppose it was a mere coincidence that this beautiful lesson (by Briant S. Jacobs) should come into my hands just at the time I was studying the English poets and their influence on American culture and _literature. The program of the Church and its auxiliaries has reached such proportions that my few words of encouragement seem like a still, small voice indeed, but allow me to humbly express them and wish you joy and suecess in the work of the Lord. —Sam J. Black Mesa, Arizona Page 344 I am now eighty-six years old and have taken The Relief Society Magazine, with the exception of two years, ever since it has been published, and have always enjoyed it. One time when I was a little gitl, and we lived in Salt Lake City, I was asked to give a poem in Primary. I didn't know we were going to have visitors. When Sisters Eliza R. Snow and Zina D. Young came in, I became a little nervous, and when they called on me first, all I could think of was the ladies sitting at my back. I gave the first part of the poem, and forgot the rest of it. I was going to sit down when Sister Snow put her arms around me and said, "Don't sit down, little girl, I am sure you know it. Just stand and think a minute." So I did, and recited the poem clear through. This advice helped me all through life to be able to stand and think a minute, as I have been a teacher in Mutual, Sunday School, and literature class leader and counselor in Relief Society. This is part of that poem I still remember: Open the door for the children, Tenderly gather them in— In from the highways and hedges, In from the places of sin. Some are so young and so helpless, Some are so hungry and cold. Open the door for the children And gather them into the fold. —Mrs. Minnie Champneys Nye Logan, Utah I just received The Relief Society Magazine for January and February, and T am certainly going to enjoy reading them. There is much in each Magazine that will help me in one way or another in my missionary work. —Clara Borgeson The Hague, Holland The Magazine is lovely. No one could deny that. The lessons are grand, the stories sweet and good and true; the sermons full of faith and good works. Even the statistics nearly burst out of the cover with pride. —Pearline I. Alley Laketown, Utah NEW and CHOICE in Church Literature Matthew Cowley Speaks... 1. This compilation of Apostle Cowley's outstanding addresses, sermons, and letters will inspire many to follow in his footsteps and to aspire more diligently toward eternal life and salvation. A wonderful book a marvelous tribute that will live forever $4.00 i. LARGE PRINT QUADRUPLE COMBINATION Book of Mormon, Doctrine and Covenants, Pearl of Great Price, and the Bible all in a compact family edition, beautifully bound in leather and gold stamped. Large, readable type for all readers. $27.50 3. MASTERPIECES OF LATTER-DAY SAINT LEADERS N. B. Lundwall Included in this book are: Formation of the Earth, by Orson Pratt; The Nearness of God, by B. H. Roberts; The Witch of Endor, by Charles W. Penrose; The Responsibility of Parents, by President Joseph F. Smith; Organized Intelligence, by John A. Widtsoe; and many other outstanding discourses and writings $2.00 4. YOUR FAITH AND YOU Mark E. Petersen With rare insight and precise directness. Elder Petersen discusses the problems of modern living and the sought-after solutions to these problems in the vital strength and truths of Mormonism. Eee RRR MOREE Ie IE = r l |: |] DESERET BOOK COMPANY | 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah | | | I | | | | | Gentlemen: to my account in the amount of $2.0... Ee eeeeseenceseeeeeseeneseenees for the following encircled books: | I | 1 | | Enclosed you will find ( ) check ( ) money order ( ) charge | | | | | | | Residents of Utah include 2% sales tax. Cellected from his stirring Deseret News editorials. GIG). «ccesttese cece recnnaannanoennnscscance-o-----econeense Zone... $3.00 State... Eee eee | U. S. POSTAGE 2¢ Paid PERMIT No. 690 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Today is your future... "Teaching" can be fun... Even if the pupils are dolls, teddy bears, and toy clowns..:. And who learns more about the subject than the teacher? Your little girl (or boy) may or may not want to become a teacher... But whatever the choice, it's up to you, today, to decide how you can best provide funds for your children's education. You'll s i. Find your friendly Beneficial ae. An eT agent a real help in solving this ra! Is iv ale important problem. Phe ~— f "uo X\ \ Over 14 billion dollars of life insurance in force. Insurance Company /s your seh David O. McKay, Pres. BEN A AL Salt Lake City - Utah (@)) NOL, 41 NO 8 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - - - - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - First Counselor Velma N. Simonsen - - - - - _ Second Counselor Margaret C. Pickering - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Mary G. Judd Evon W. Peterson Christine H. Robinson Charlotte A. Larsen Anna B. Hart Leone O. Jacobs Alberta H. Christensen Edith P. Backman Edith S. Elliott Mary J. Wilson Mildred B. Eyring Winniefred S. Florence J. Madsen Louise W. Madsen Helen W. Anderson Manwaring Leone G. Layton Aleine M. Young Gladys S. Boyer Elna P. Haymond Blanche B. Stoddard Josie B. Bay RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Edito - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford eneral Manager - - - - 5 - - - - Belle S. Spafford Vol. 41 JUNE 1954 NO. 6 SPECIAL FEATURES In Gratitude for Father.... Alice L. Wilkinson 348 Elder George Q. Morris Fills Vacancy in Quorum of the Twelve..........: Alma Sonne 352 Elder Sterling W. Sill Appointed Assistant to the Council of the Twelve.......... Avid L. McKay 354 Contest Announcements — 1954 357 Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest.........2.2c.. Cecccseseecesccecsecceeseesesscceeeveneccuceeevsnserenceeseneeees 357 Relief Society Short Story Contest 358 Equation for Better Poetry — Inspiration, Plus Maryhale Woolsey 360 Writing Is Work Claire W. Noall 364 First Ladies of Our Land — Wives of the Presidents — Part IV 2 Elsie C. Carroll 374 When Viewed From a Distance = Nora Yaros 412 FICTION The Falling Shackles — Chapter 1 Margery S. Stewart 369 Something Blue...0.000....... — ——. Sylvia Probst Young 386 GENERAL FEATURES Sixty Years Ago 380 Woman's Sphere soe Ramona W. Cannon 381 Editorial: The 124th Annual Church Conference Marianne C. Sharp 382 Notes to the Field: Summer Work Meetings. 384 Music for Special Program, Sunday, November 7, 1954 384 Brigham Young University Leadership Week seecsceoeeseareee OO4 Tribute to the Singing Mothers David O. McKay 385 Errata: "Magazine Honor Rol' i... Ccccce ccc caecceceesesecesssseeeevasesesseeescsetesseeesseeeeseeeeeee le 393 Safe Method of Freezing Corn. O...... Ccceccccccececccecceeeeceeeneeeeeeneee a: — -..... — a 393 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities 00..00.000.000.... Margaret C. Pickering 205 From Near and Far x 5 FEATURES FOR THE HOME Hulda Peterson, Homemaker and Musician sssesesenseesenseasecseseee a 391 A Different Kind of Bridal Shower oo. Cccc. Cc.. Ccccsccscccscsessnseecncoseseseeeeeseeseseeeenenens swe Helen S. Williams 392 Housecleaning Nostalgica.0.... C...-ccc-css-seon-cesercosnnetssssnsnenoassnennentannnsusarseecenasesessanensecsneneesVernessa M. Nagle 394 The Scratching Post ss Elizabeth Williamson 414 LESSON DEPARTMENT — TEACHING AIDS AND PREVIEWS FOR 1954-55 Teaching Aids for the 1954-55 Lessons Edith S. Elliott 400 Theology — Characters and Teachings of The Book of Mormon...........0.......... Leland H. Monson 403 Visiting Teacher Messages — Book of Mormon Gems of Truth.......02................ Leone O. Jacobs 405 Work Meeting — Selection, Care, and Use of Household Equipment Rhea H. Gardner 406 Literature — The Literature of England Briant S. Jacobs 408 Social Science — The Constitution of the United States................ Serssvostreseeeeeeee-Albert R. Bowen 410 POETRY First Love — Frontispiece Lael W. Hill 347 "We Thank Thee, O God,'' by Marjorie Foote, 351; My Faith, if Jean D. Wright, 356; Summer Sorcery, by Ouida Johns Pedersen, 359; No Barriers, by Lavinia M. Wood, 359; To a Yellow Rose, by Gene Romolo, 359; Her Wish Fulfilled, by Elsie McKinnon Strachan, 363; June, by Norma Wrathall, 368; Navajo Cradle Song, by Alice Morrey Bailey, 379; An Appreciation to Florence Jepperson Madsen, by Vida F. Swenson, 385; Rain Song, by Verda Mackay, 391; Neighbors, by Vilate R. McAllister, 393; Pilgrimage, by Ida Isaacson, 394; Pasture Lot, by Grace Barker Wilson, 399; Mirror Lake, by Vesta N. Lukei, 409; Daisies, by Christie Lund Coles, 4172. PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 40 North Main, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. = - -_— CO - THE BEST — OF COURSE! National pressure cooker canner a a ve j The U. S. Department of Agriculture j. Recommends the pressure cooker as being the only safe method for canning non-acid fruits, vegetables, meat, fowl and fish. This model holds 16 quarts, saves on your food budget. Complete with recipes and 'instruction booklet. Absolutely safe when directions are followed. Good design. 285 ZCMI SMALL APPLIANCES—Downstairs Store Mail Orders To: MARGOT MANNERS, ZCMI Salt Lake City 10, Utah Please send pressure cooker canner: State quantity _ Cash (] Charge [) CO. D. Pressure cooker canner will be sent Express Collect. Utah residents please add 2% State Sales Tax, First ove Lael W. Hill Very little girls, piquant as elves, Already woman-hearted, Love their mothers as themselves; But every little girl—every wide-eyed oneé— Owns a special world Where her daddy shines like sun. He is morning-wonderful and hero-high, Voice deep-warm as earth in June— But his smile is sky. His arms are willow wise; safe in their holding A little girl finds leaf-bright summer And love's enfolding. A The Cover: Lake in Echo Park, Los Angeles, California Photograph by Ward Linton Frontispiece: The Winding Connecticut River, Near Hartford Photograph by Ewing Galloway Cover Design by Evan Jensen In Gratitude for Father Alice L. Wilkinson tiful and appropriate tributes written to motherhood. Countless men and women throughout the world have given to their mothers the credit for their measure of success and accomplishments. It is fitting and right that they should do so, for mothers have an unusual opportunity and power in shaping the lives of their children. No one would deny that a mother's love seems to be the most perfect, and the most sincere, the strongest of any love we know anything about. But [I am happy for this opportunity to write a tribute to fatherhood, because of the influence of two fathers upon my life, my own father's and that of my husband's father, and because of the many fine examples of fatherhood I have seen and about which I have read. Because fathers play the sterner role in our society, and the daily vocations in life take them away from home so that they may not have the opportunity to get as close to the hearts of their children as mothers, we are prone to overlook the sentimental feelings, the tender love and affections that all good fathers have for their families. Father is often taken more or less as a matter of course. He is a necessity, he provides the food, clothing, and shelter. Often he is more to be feared than loved. Too often the realization does not come until too late that fathers yearn for an expression of appreciation and gratitude. Page 348 T HERE have been many beautiAt the first devotional assembly of the new year, Elder Harold B. Lee addressed the students of the Brigham Young University and he related the following story. A young woman had been summoned home to visit her dying father. On the train, alone with her thoughts, she unfolded for the hundredth time a telegram that read simply, "Father critically ill. Come at once. Mother." -All through the journey she prayed that the Lord would keep him alive until she could arrive and see him again. There came over her, now that he was in danger of being taken, a great desire that she could roll back the years and see him' again as she had seen him in her childhood. When she arrived home, he was still alive but in a coma, and a few hours later he slipped quietly away. She was assigned by the family to the task of going through his personal papers and taking care of what the family called the "unfinished business." She went carefully to her task to make sure that there was nothing that he wished to have done that would be left undone. As she searched in an inside pocket of his coat, she came upon a crumpled bit of paper which showed the effects of having been removed and read, and folded and unfolded many times. 'This crumpled piece of paper was a message from a young girl whom her' father had_ befriended, and this letter was a letter of appre- 'ciation to this great, noble father. IN GRATITUDE FOR FATHER He had seemingly clung to the message which this letter conveyed as something of a satisfaction that he hadn't received from his own daughter. 'The little girl had poured out her heart in gratitude that he had come at a crisis in her life, and she openly expressed her love for his thoughtfulness and kindness to her and his consideration. The daughter laid down the paper and wept because she realized that she had failed to give her father what another had given and the thing for which he had longed so much. "Unfinished business," but, unfortunately, the kind of business that she was not permitted to finish. There are many notable instances where the teachings, the philosophy, the cultural environment, and exemplary living of fathers have accounted, to a large degree, for the success of their sons. Robert Browning's life and poetry might have been entirely different had his father not been able to provide for him a tich intellectual environment. From his father he inherited his delight in recondite historical lore which was nourished by the fabulous Browning library of 6,000 books amassed by his father. His childhood was a happy one, due in large measure, to the approval and companionship with his father. The eldest son of Lafcadio Hearn, whose artistic and picturesque writings earned for him the reputation of being the greatest interpreter of Japan to the Western World, writes of his father: Father was of. Sensitive nature, easily moved but very firm in other respects. He showed his warm, tender feelings, not only toward his own family, but toward the grass by the wayside and insects. He 349 hated those who plagued the weak, or led lives of hypocrites. Crookedness of any sort he would never overlook. Wickedness, cowardice—these he detested. This same spirit of hating to see innocent things tormented increased as he grew older. In appearance he was like the spring ocean—serenc—but one could not have imagined that within that soul existed such a firm strong rock as no great wave or whirlpool could move. Money or rank could not buy his straight mind. President Heber J. Grant, who never knew his father, he having passed away when President Grant was but a babe nine days old, relates that many blessings came to him because of the honesty and integrity of his father, Jedediah M. Grant. When, as a young man, he needed financial help in some of his business affairs, he found ready assistance from those who had known and had confidence in his father. "It filled my heart with gratitude to God for having given to me such a father," said President Grant. "The incidents I learned about my father impressed me with a strong desire to so live and labor that my children would be benefited, even after 1 have passed away from this life, by the record which I shall have made." Y own dear father occupies a very special place in my recollections. He was tall, straight, and handsome, with an abundance of wavy black hair. Today that hair is a silvery white but seems no less abundant. Because of his friendly nature he was a favorite with all the children in the neigborhood. Long before he appeared in. Our driveway with his team and wagon after a long day's labor on the farm, we could hear his cheery whistle, 350 and, likely as not on his arrival, there would scramble out of his wagon a half dozen neighbor children whom he had picked up along the way because they had wanted to ride with him. He was the possessor of an excellent bass voice and for many years sang in our ward choir. At home when we children would start to sing, he would join us with his deep "pom-pom" harmony. I remembez when I was a Bee Hive Girl, I felt very proud when he was asked to direct our Bee Hive chorus, which was competing in a stake music contest. We won second place. He also played the big bass horn in our community band. Many, many miles he has marched in patriotic parades in our own and surrounding communities. He believed that "idleness is the devil's workshop," and he would not condone laziness in any of his children. His nature was gentle but firm; and he commanded the respect, love, and obedience of his family through his own adherence to high principles of honesty and integrity. He loved nature and all living creatures. I have heard him say many times, "There is nothing more beautiful to me than a freshly turned furrow." At one time an orphaned pet lamb which he had raised almost from birth had to be relieved of its suffering due to an illness. Father had to ask someone else to do the task. "How can I take its life," he asked, "when it has eaten out of my hands, plucked the fresh hay leaves from my jacket, and nuzzled its nose against my shoul-, der?" RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1954 The gospel and its teachings meant much to him. He had a great faith and believed implicitly in the spiritual assistance that comes through prayer. During the terrible influenza epidemic of 1917, as a member of the ward bishopric, he entered dozens of stricken homes, administering to the sick and giving encouragement and assistance to the bereaved families. 'The Lord was surely with him and blessed him with the physical stamina to withstand the virulence of that disease. Today, in his seventy-fifth year, he still works a full day, doing one of the things he has loved most, tending the flowers and shrubs of a public garden. He has a keen sense of community pride. His position is one without high-sounding title, but he performs it with meticulous care, as though it were the most important job to be done. Flis beautiful home flower and vegetable garden is a source of admiration for his neighbors and many friends. The homely virtues, sincerity, humility, friendliness, and a simple faith are the source of his strength. I am grateful for his life and the exemplary way he has lived. Another, for whose association I am grateful, is my husband's father, who has become a part of our family circle in his declining years. Learning to know him through intimate family living has been a good experience for my children. To be ever mindful of one whose tempo of living has been diminished, to accept his little eccentricities with good humor, and to indulge in some affectionate pampering have been a good lesson in discipline and tolerance for all of us. Grandpa, as everyone calls him, and my youngest IN GRATITUDE FOR FATHER son have been good pals. They play childish games together. Grandpa is patient, sometimes indulgent, and greatly amused with the boy's antics, while the youngster feels a perfect sense of security in his presence. The bond between the very young and the aged is close and beau- 351 tiful to see. He is now approaching his eighty-ninth birthday. We honor him for his industry and his length of years which we are trying to make comfortable and happy. The opportunity to express, in daily living, love and devotion to a father is a blessed privilege. (Written in honor of President David O. McKay during his visit to Scotland in August 1953) "Ve Shank Shee, O God. Oe. Marjorie Foote I turned the web-thin pages; time lapped back And I was there with Noah and his sons, Seeing the hope-rich rainbow span the sky And spill its splendor in each pond and pool That lingered in the valley round our hill. I shared the joy that Moses felt when he Beheld the bush ablaze with holy fire; With him I climbed to Sinai's rugged peak And plunged to depths of sorrow when he came To see the chosen ones in dance profane. Then, with Elijah, stern and stalwart seer, I shared a meal that ravens thither bore; And Cherith's waters, soothing, soft and sweet Gave peace of soul to combat Baal's priests, And strike a blow to establish Israel's Lord. When Peter loved the Lord my heart rejoiced, And I loved Peter for his sterling worth. He overcame his human frailties; He walked upon the waters of the world, And smote the ear from sin and selfish creeds. Oh, colorful has been this old earth's tale With names that spell high courage, hope, and faith, God's messengers dispatched throughout the world To light—relight—the gospel's pure white flame. Oh, Paul and James, Moroni, Nephi, too, Then Joseph, Brigham, John of latter days, From out the pages steps another seer. I saw him with my eyes; he shook my hand Oh, I will cherish this through all my years. Elder George Q. Morris Fills Vacancy in Quorum of the 'Twelve Elder Alma Sonne Assistant to the Council of the Twelve EW men have come to their responsibilities better fitted and qualified for the high calling of an apostle than does Elder George QO. Morris. Elder Morris is a product of the Church. He was born February 20, 1874, in Salt Lake City, Utah. His entire life has been one of unselfish service. His wellfounded convictions, his long experience in Church work, his devotion to the truth, his knowledge of the restored gospel, his genial personality, and his friendly and benign spirit furnish a strong background for his ministry as a special witness of Jesus Christ. Elder Morris has covered a wide field as a Church leader. Tis religious work began as a young man when he accepted a call to the British Mission, where, for three years, he laid the foundation for the numerous activities to which he has given notable service. He gave his heart to the program of the Church in accepting one responsibility after another as the calls came. Worldly ambitions and material benefits were not permitted to stand in the way of the accomplishments for which he is now recognized. The YMMIA gave him his opportunity to inspire and guide the younger generation, first as stake superintendent and later as general superintendent of this great organization. Under his leadership the Page 352 MORRIS _ ELDER GEORGE O. Youth's program grew and developed until it attained world-wide recognition. He proved to be an executive of unusual power and ability. As a member of a bishopric, and later as a bishop, he demonstrated his practical leadership and won the love and confidence of the people over whom he presided. He is a member of the National Council of Boy Scouts of America and an honorary life member of the American 'Trails Association, New York City. ELDER GEORGE Q. MORRIS During his presidency of the Eastern States Mission from September 21, 1948, to October 6, 1952, he was sustained as an Assistant to the Quorum of the 'T'welve Apostles being set apart on October 24, 1951, in New York City, by President David O. McKay. In this calling he visited the stakes and the missions, contributing to the work, encouraging and blessing the workers, making timely suggestions, and meeting difficult situations in a calm, deliberate, and effective manner. Wise in counsel and sound in judgment, he is always a leader and a thinker in the councils of his brethren. Elder Morris is the president and general manager of Elias Morris and Sons, a pioneer institution established by his father. He has been prominently associated with this monument and tile firm for many years, demonstrating his leadership in the world of business. He is also a member of the board of directors of the Prudential Savings and Loan Association. In civic affairs he has been similarly active and prominent, devoting his time and energy to community betterment. Organizations like the Community Chest, Travelers' Aid Society, Sons of the Utah Pioneers, Salt Lake City Chamber of Commerce, and the Utah Trails Association have had the benefit of his vision and experience. Positions of trust and responsibility in the various avenues of service to his fellow men have broadened his views and increased his capabilities in the great cause to which he has been so faithful and devoted. In 1905 Elder Morris was married to Emma Ramsey, talented and 353 wellknown musician and_ singer. She is the daughter of Major George W. And Amanda Ross Ramsey and was born in Bridgeport, Illinois, and came with her parents to Payson, Utah. Much credit for her phenomenal rise in the musical world must go to her father, a gifted singer, violinist, and flute player. He was the leader of his regimental band during the Civil War. His daughter received her first music lessons from him. She was a popular student at the Brigham Young University where she won contests in theme writing, public speaking, and singing. Sister Morris attained prominence as the winner of the vocal prize at the National Eistoddfod heid in the Salt Lake 'Tabernacle. The adjudicator was the famous Dr. Parry who came from Wales for the occasion. This was probably the beginning of her musical career. Successful in her studies in Berlin, Germany, under renowned teachers like Madame Klara Klatte and Blanche Corelli, she went to Paris, France, where she studied for several years with Josef Archinband. Her achievements brought her to the front in the musical circles of Europe and America. President Theodore Roosevelt named her "Utah's Nightingale." Elder and Sister Morris are the parents of three daughters: Miss Marion Morris, Mrs. Edward A. Woods, Jr., of New York, and Mrs. R. 'T. Stewart of Los Angeles. The family has always lived close to the Church, giving freely of time and talent for the promotion of God's work at home and abroad. Eider Sterling W. Sill Appointed Assistant to the Council of the Twelve Elder David L. McKay First Assistant Superintendent, Deseret Sunday School Union Board N April 8, 1954, in the Salt () Lake Temple, Elder Sterling W. Sill was set apart as an Assistant to the Quorum of 'Twelve. When he was called to address the conference in the 'Tabernacle after having been sustained in his new position, he expressed a philosophy which has guided much of his life: "The creation of man is still going on, and in a sense, each of us is a creator." In his busy life, Elder Sill has directed his energies to this creation —the influencing of others to good. He was bishop of the Garden Park Ward, Bonneville Stake, for ten years. Under his direction one of the most beautiful chapels in Sali Lake City was dedicated within one year from the laying of the cornerstone. 'Though a comparative newcomer in the ward, he was its first bishop, and exercised a remarkable influence. Members who had been inactive for years became enthusiastic workers, and the ward organizations began setting stake and Church records. Elder Sill was on two high councils—one in North Davis Stake and the other in Bonneville Stake. As chairman of the High Council Aaronic Priesthood Committee, he directed the activity of those Priesthood quorums, helping them bePage 354 ELDER STERLING W. SILL come more and more active as he combined his salesmanship techniques with his love of boys. Under his direction his stake reached the top ten stakes in the Church in Aaronic Priesthood work. In October of 1952, Elder Sill was named a member of the Sunday School General Board. One of his assignments in the board was chairman of the committee to revise the Sunday School Handbook. He at- ELDER STERLING W. SILL tacked the problems with his usual vivacity. He distributed chapters to chairmen of committees in charge of particular subjects, and then devoted weeks to assembling and organizing their suggestions. He then mimeographed the revision at his own expense, distributed the copies to the general board, collected them, and noted the board members' criticisms on his master copy, working from that point with his committee toward the finished product. His suggestions to the administration leadership committee of the general board have been welcome and worthwhile. 'The board will miss his cheerful and helpful association. LDER Sill is a fluent speaker, as is evidenced by his recent series of talks on the Sunday Evening Hour over KSL Radio Station. At one time he concluded that if every person prepared a talk for each sacrament meeting as if he were to be the speaker, he would be benefited as much as the speaker. With Sterling Sill, conclusion is action. So for the next year he prepared a talk for each Sunday night, whether or not he was asked to deliver it. 'hen he mimeographed the collection and gave it to his appreciative friends. It is not only in the religious field that Elder Sill pledged himself to the service of others. His influence as a member of the Board of Regents of the University of Utah from 1940 to 1951 will be remembered for a long time. He was chairman of this board for the last four years. While chairman he deplored the lack of housing facilities for the domestic science depart- 355 ment. Here was need for action, so Sterling Sill acted. His term ended before sufficient funds were raised for the new center, so he devoted hours, days, and weeks in personal contact, getting subscriptions from his friends and acquaintances. As a result, the Sterling W. Sill Family Life Center was recently dedicated, so named by grateful board members, faculty, and students. It is a beautiful home for girls studying homemaking and a lasting memorial to Elder Sill's energetic devotion to helping others. In the business field Elder Sill has been Salt Lake City manager for the New York Life Insurance Company for the past twenty-seven years, and inspector of companies' agencies in nine western states since 1941. He was the first Utahn to address the National Association of Life Underwriters and. The first Utahn to receive the degree of Certified Life Underwriter. The following year he became president of the Utah State Association of Life Underwriters. Sterling is the son of Joseph A. And Marcella Welling Sill of Layton, Utah. He was fifty-one years old last March 31. On September 4, 1929, Sterling Sill and Doris May Thornley were married. 'They have three children—John Michael, nineteen, David Sterling, fifteen, and Mary Carolyn, nine. His wife is an accomplished musician. She has been effective in working for the Utah Symphony. She is a member of the ward choir and is active in Relief Society. Her loyal support at all times at her husband's side has been a great force in his achievements. Sterling's friends know that he, loyal to them particularly w hen he a group of leaders. He will be a is needed. He will do all he can great influence in creating characfor a cause he believes to be just. Ter. ELDER STERLING W. SILL AND FAMILY In front, left to right: Mary Carolyn; Elder Sill; Doris Thornley Sill. Standing, at the back, left to right: David Sterling; John Michael. —_ My Faith Jean D. Wright Sometimes my faith is a shining thing, Gleaming and bright as the noonday sun. And sometimes my faith is soft and warm Like the darkness when day is done. But always my faith is a crutch to me— A broad shoulder to lean upon, A fire by night and a cloud by day, To guide me as I go on, 356 too, is loyal to a supreme degree— RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1954 A leader has been chosen to join Contest Announcements—1954 HE Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest and the Relief Society Short Story TT Contest are conducted annually by the general board of Relief Society to stimulate creative writing among Latter-day Saint women and to encourage high standards of work. Latter-day Saint women who qualify under the rules of the respective contests are invited to enter their work in either or both contests. The general board would be pleased to receive entries from the outlying stakes and missions of the Church as well as from those in and near Utah. Since the two contests are entirely separate, requiring different writing skills, the winning of an award in one of them in no way precludes winning in the other. It is suggested that authors who plan to enter the contests study carefully the articles on creative writing which appear in this Magazine, and also similar articles in the June issues for 1947, 1948, 1949, 1950, 1951, 1952, and 1953. Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest HE Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest opens with this announcement and closes September 15, 1954. Prizes will be awarded as follows: First prize -.....-----------++-$25 Second prize........-.-.----$20 Third prize............----.---$15 Prize poems will be published in the January 1955 issue of The Relief Society Magazine (the birth month of Eliza R. Snow). Prize-winning poems become the property of the Relief Society general board and may not be published by others except upon written permission from the general board. The general board reserves the right to publish any of the other poems submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rates. Rules for the contest: 1. This contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women, exclusive of members of the Relief Society general board, and employees of the Relief Society general board. 2. Only one poem may be submitted by each contestant. 3. The poem must not exceed fifty lines and should be typewritten, if possible; where this cannot be done, it should be legibly written. Only one side of the paper is to be used. (A duplicate copy of the poem should be retained by contestant to insure against loss.) 4. The sheet on which the poem is written is to be without signature or other identifying marks. 5. No explanatory material or picture is to accompany the poem. 6. Each poem is to be accompanied by a stamped envelope on which is written the contestant's name and address. Nom de plumes are not to be used. 7. A signed statement is to accompany the poem submitted, certifying: a. That the author is a member of 'The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. B. That the poem (state the title) is the contestant's original work. C. That it has never been published. D. That it is not in the hands of an editor or other person with a view to publication. E. That it will not be published nor Page 357 358 submitted elsewhere for publication until the contest is decided. 8. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. G. The judges shall consist of one member of the general board, one person from the English department of an educational institution, and one person who is a recognized writer. In case of complete disagreement among judges all poems selected for a place by the various judges will be submitted to a specially selected committee for final decision. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1954 In evaluating the poems, consideration will be given to the following points: a. Message or theme b. Form and pattern c. Rhythm and meter d. Accomplishment of the purpose of the poem e. Climax 10. Entries must be postmarked not later than September 15, 1954. 11. All entries are to be addressed to Relief Society Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest, 40 North Main, Salt Lake City 1, Utah. Relief Society Short Story Contest HE Relief Society Short Story Contest for 1954 opens with this announcement and closes September 15, 1954. The prizes this year will be as follows. First prize 0...$50 Second prize............----$40 Third prize -................---$30 The three prize-winning stories will be published consecutively in the first three issues of The Relief Society Magazine for 1955. Prizewinning stories become the property of the Relief Society general board and may not be published by others except upon written permission from the general board. 'he general board reserves the right to publish any of the other stories entered in the contest, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rates. Rules for the contest: 1. This contest is open to Latter-day Saint women—exclusive of members of the Relief Society general board and employees of the general board—who have had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication. 2. Only one story may be submitted by each contestant. 3. The story must not exceed 3,000 words in length and must be typewritten. (A duplicate copy of the story should be retained by contestants to insure against loss. ) 4. The contestant's name is not to appear anywhere on the manuscript, but a stamped envelope on which is written the contestant's name and address is to be enclosed with the story. Nom de plumes are not to be used. 5. A signed statement is to accompany the story submitted certifying: a. That the author is a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. B. That the author has had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication. (This statement must give name and date of publication in which the contestant's work has appeared, or, if not yet published, evidence of acceptance for publication. ) c. That the story submitted (state the title and number of words) is the contestant's original work. D. That it has never been published, that it is not in the hands of an editor or other person with a view to publication, and that it will not RELIEF SOCIETY SHORT STORY CONTEST be published nor submitted elsewhere for publication until the contest is decided. 6. No explanatory material or picture is to accompany the story. 7. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait for two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. 8. The judges shall consist of one member of the general board, one person from the English department of an educational institution, and one person who is a recognized writer. In case of complete disagreement among the judges, all stories se- 359 lected for a place by the various judges will be submitted to a specially selected committee for final decision. In evaluating the stories, consideration will be given to the following points: a. Characters and their presentation b. Plot development c. Message of the story d. Writing style g. Entries must be postmarked not later than September 15, 1954. 10. All entries are to be addressed to Relief Society Short Story Contest, 40 North Main, Salt Lake City, 1, Utah. Summer Sorcery Ouida Jchns Pedersen I will not yield to Junetime's subtle spell... I know her necromancy far too well To walk her scented fields through moon-washed nights, Or linger where she spreads her warm delights On summer porches (pools of friendly shade And cool, sweet sounds of ice in lemonade). One less aware might, all unwitting, drift Past trellised roses where bright petals sift To snare the senses, or, unknowing, fall Victim to a night bird's summer call And waken, heart bewitched, to find June gone Across the threshold of July's white dawn, No Barriers Lavinia M. Wood I planted a rosebush near the line That divided my neighbor's yard from mine. It grew and thrived and never knew Mine were the roses that on her side grew. My neighbor has a fine grapevine, That strays from her lot into mine. So we can never claim as ours The beauty of love, good will, or flowers. No vine or flower will draw the line, Between my neighbor's yard and mine, Jo a Yellow Rose Gene Romolo Oh, gift of splendored bloom, Whence came your loveliness? All roses are born beautiful, But in your yellow dress Of satiny-soft texture You are the loveliest. Nature must have gathered Gold strands strewn by the sun And with a deft, aesthetic hand Your petaled fragrance spun. Equation for Better Poetry— Inspiration, Plus Maryhale Woolsey* 66 pT must be wonderful to be able just to sit down and write a beautiful poem," someone says to me every so often, probably adding, ' 'you are fortunate, being gifted to receive such inspiration!" Remarks such as these are usually made at times and places wholly unsuited for replying with the truth. So I smile a thank you for the compliment intended, and let it pass. Actually, only once in thirty-odd years and unrecorded reams of writing, does a successful and effective poem result from "just letting it re- | main as it came to me." A poem can "come'' spontaneously in a satisfactory form, but rarely does. Personal experiences and emotions are not unique; they have universality, and are "worth writing about."" But these experiences must be perfected through patient work and long experimentation. However, the "test of time" without fairly regular effort would hardly be recommended as regular practice in poetry writing. For, through long storage, a work might lose any quality of timeliness it may originally have had; and in rewriting at a much later date, it might also lose the element of spontaneity. It is *Maryhale Woolsey, author of "Springtime in the Rockies," better to complete each poem to one's present satisfaction and go on to new projects, accepting today's dissatisfaction with last year's output as an indication of progress, of growth in ability. Students of poetry frequently ask, "Is this idea worth writing about?" The answer is usually in the affirmative—but with a proviso: If you can do it well. And this may be measured by how much you wish to write it—how strongly you feel it. This matter of feeling, of emotion, seems to be very important. In fact, emotion seems to be one parent of "inspiration," and the other may be intellect—the mysterious inner processes of one's mind, turning an idea around and over, studying it until it becomes an urge, until it is ready to be expressed. We can speed this process somewhat by conscious thinking and study; but when—and only when—the inner, subconscious absorption is complete, inspiration arrives. Incidentally, some poetry study groups use "assigned" subjects regularly as a workshop exercise. 'The delightful, and often astonishing vatiety of verses resulting, proves over and over that the idea is not the different, the original element, but that the development of the and many other lyrics and poems, as well as stories and articles, is well known to readers of The Relief Society Magazine and is widely recognized as a gifted iia Page 360 idea is. A really new idea is almost non-existent, except as related to new discoveries or inventions. The degree of simplicity of expression, is not always agreed upon by poets. Many writers believe that every poem should make use of some uncommon words. Some poets pride themselves in their ability to be inexact and inexplicable in their use of words. However, if simplicity is interpreted to mean clarity, it is certain that most readers would demand simplicity. The oblique poem of certain "modern schools of poetry" wins a small following. After all, the purpose of language is to communicate thoughts and_ ideas, not to mask them. This is a matter, however, in which each poet must make his choice and stand confidently and contentedly by it. To attempt writing in styles not in accord with one's honest instincts and _preferences, is to invite unhappiness and frustration. We must recognize that there is a place and an audience for nearly every kind of poetry. One pitfall for today's beginning writers, is a misconception regarding "free" (unrhymed) verse. Such poetry, if effective, is not easier to write than lines with rhyme and meter. A poet's measure of success may not be in his choice of poetic form, but in how well he communicates his thoughts; and wholesomeness and good taste may outlive and eventually outrank the so-called realism which depresses and troubles us. Beauty is as real as ugliness, light as real as darkness; and mankind's journey, viewed in_perspective, is unmistakably upward. It is no error to "sing" in tune. But having chosen our direction, having captured our inspiration in first draft, we must accept the necessity for rewriting, revising. A poet who says, "But I felt I was inspired in this, and I wouldn't think of changing a word of it!"... Or perhaps, "but my friends like it this way," is closing the avenues of improvement for herself and deliberately narrowing her opportunities. "But how can I tell what to change?" the inexperienced poet queries. In other words, what can be added to inspiration to make a better poem? The answer is, study and work. In some. Cases it is almost as simple as it sounds; in others, it can become very complicated indeed. But by the time we reach this stage, the potentialities of words, of language, are likely to have us so fascinated that we shall love struggling with them. BEGINNING writers everywhere seem to make certain similar errors. The same faults appear in practically all work of untrained poets. Some errors are so noticeable that they should be tabulated thoughtfully and eliminated by all who would achieve success in poetry writing. Since "how not to" helps us learn "how to," a brief discussion of some of these points may prove helpful to aspiring poets. By far the most common fault lies in the selection of overworked subjects. It is natural to wish to write about "mother" and "spring" and "pioneers" and "autumn glory," but we must seek out something new to say about them; new apEQUATION FOR BETTER POETRY—INSPIRATION, PLUS 361 362 proaches and interpretations. Poems re-extolling in general the courage and hardiness and virtue of pioneers might be rejected by the contest judges, but, for example, one which was a "portrait" of one pioneer woman might receive an award. So might one which revealed a pioneer farmer's moment of homesickness for an old home. This is what is meant by fresh and different technique. Frequently encountered are excessively long poems. 'loo often, these wander and wobble! A long poem must be very carefully worked out if it is to be good all the way through. 'The more lines, the greater peril of falling into triteness, repetition, careless rhymes—and of getting off the subject altogether! Next comes lack of clarity. Long, complicated sentences, with the subjects and their verbs separated by welters of modifying adjectives and adverbs and phrases, often awkwardly inverted, may end by telling nothing clearly. A word totally unsuited to the subject matter is often used for the obvious purpose of supplying a rhyme—and for no other reason. The use of poeticisms and contractions, sweh. As "'ne'er,"' "o'er," "neath," and "ere," today, is simply not allowable, and so unnecessary! Most of these faults vou can discover and correct for yourself. You can detect the "limping" meter (with experience, you will gain a feel for the permissible break in meter—which is not a break in thythm!). -You can determine whether the words you have chosen say what you really 'intended to say; and in the case of figures of speech (various comparisons), you can asRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1954 sure yourself that you are not falling into the mixed metaphor (i inappropriate comparisons )—one of the saddest of poetic tragedies. A friend once asked for my appraisal of these lines: The bird of time is ebbing fast away; Crumpling in bitter fragments of the day. She was hurt when I pointed out some of the faults in the lines. It required referral to a dictionary to convince her that birds do not "ebb," that "crumpling" does not produce fragments, and that her bird, somehow, in the process of "crumpling," was changed from a bird to a day! But when we changed the lines to something like this: The bird of time is soaring fast away; I grasp at crumbling fragments of the day. She admitted it did "seem to make more sense." ORD examination is a must for every poet who takes any pride in her work. Have vou ever tried going through a brief poem and taking every word to the dictionary? You may be in for some surprises— even with words you thought were thoroughly familiar to you. Again, take the important words—nouns, verbs, adjectives, adverbs—to a good thesaurus, and be astonished at the ones you find which add color, interest, strength, and clearness far bevond the effectiveness of the words which "just come' to you. The mixed metaphor and the inexact word may be your greatest obstacles to successful writing—of poetry or of anything you write. They may elude you so easily—but they need not, for study will surely find them out, and work can eliminate them. And if you don't eliminate them from your poeins, your poems are going to be eliminated by those of other poets who have applied careful criticism and revision to their "inspirations." Never, please, never, think that this study and work may take the joy out of creative writing. 'That joy increases with knowing you have created better poetry, made better use of your tools—the words of our wonderful language. You will be happier, knowing that your readers will gain keener enjoyment from what you have written. Poetry has a practical application, for both poets and readers of poetry: developing appreciation. Appreciation of the beauty, the wonders in our world; appreciation of our language which makes it possible to speak and to write of these. And appreciation is a highly desirable quality in a personality; like mercy, it "blesses him who gives and him who takes" (the poet who interprets and the reader who understands). With such a mission to fulfill, a poet's very best is worth striving for. Let us then be deeply grateful for inspiration, and add to it the best craftsmanship of which we are capable. "Inspiration, plus study and work'"—this is our equation for writing better poetry. REFERENCES FOR WRITERS OF POETRY Caine, Mervitte: Making a Poem: An Inquiry Into the Creative Process, Harcourt, Brace & Co., New York, $2.95. CoOBLENTZ, STANTON A.: an Editor Looks at Poetry, The Wings Press, Mill Valley, California, $2. Hintyer, Roserr: First Principles of Verse, 'The Writer, Inc., Boston, $2. MontGomMery, Vaipa Stewart: Verse Technique - Simplified, The Kaleidograph Press, 624 North Vernon Avenue, Dallas 8, Texas, $1. Her Wish Si ulfilled Elsie McKinnon Strachan Each dawn she wakes to dress and go alone Past empty rooms and down the quiet stair, Till in that kitchen, silent as a stone, She slowly sets a single morning fare. Where once her stove knew kettles large and small, Where meals left cupboards bare of every dish, Where talk and laughter rolled from wall to wall, She sits in idleness; recalls the wish— The wish that followed her from room to room As needs for children followed her to bed, The wish for time to think, time to resume Those carefree hours where paths of youth had led. She tastes her breakfast now, the clock's slow pace Reminding her, time does not always race. EQUATION FOR BETTER POETRY—INSPIRATION, PLUS 363 Writing Is Work Claire W. Noall* HE study of life, together with the imsight an author brings to bear upon it, gives him an idea of what to write about. Fascinating pictures of people struggling to meet situations abound everywhere. Yet, though situations for stories are as plentiful as leaves on a tree, ideas for them are never cheap. No story will have so much as the form of a leaf until an author has toiled over it and poured something of himself into it. When an idea has gone through the creative process, taking shape within one, it may come out so different from what it was to begin with that the creator himself may hardly recognize it. For fiction is not fact. Stories emerge from the raw material of life only at the cost of heart's blood. Once you, as an aspiring writer, have pondered an idea, or if you have grasped one in a flash, and have recognized an arresting conflict, what are you going to do with it? How will you shape this conflict — which is essential to every story? All stories involve two forces in opposition to each other. Opposition exists everywhere and in everything. A bird can't fly without the rush of air against its wings. But flight comes to the bird after a comparatively brief practice period. Writing stories may take years of apprenticeship before you can leave an impression upon your reader that will add to his enjoyment of life or his insight into it. And why do you write if not to show how imaginative power can function upon raw material to leave with your reader a vivid and desired effect? Why try to write if you do not wish to offer some purely individual consideration of life? In it the reflection may be immense though the facet is small. How can we shape so much in so little — a picture of deep, of courageous, of steadfast emotion, perhaps, in the small space of a few pages of writing? 'That is no small task. 'To accomplish it you must achieve your art form. How are you going to create anything of artistic worth? Face your job. If you intend to write, write. Write every day of your life. Though you may be busy with children and Church work, though you can use only one hour a day to begin with, write at the same time every day. 'The regular hour, the regular time to do your work is one of the first essentials in becoming skilled. The mind then prepares itself at that high point to function freely. 'Thoughts come, words flow, spontaneity may occasionally arise. The muse will not seek you. She may bless you; but usually she defies you. She simply opens a door to a silent room, a hard chair, and the dim light in which stories find Claire W'. Noall has written fiction and many articles, including features published in the Church magazines and in The Utah Magazine, Utah State Historical Quarterly, and The Western Humanities Review. Page 364 WRITING IS WORK their deepest being. It is up to you to bring your characters out of the dark into the light. Bring them out walking on their own two feet. Let them face their conflicts, let them solve them. 'The author must never appear to be doing so. Nor can anyone tell you how to do this, neither muse nor adviser in the flesh. But if you have talent, and if you have the desire that gives you no rest until you develop your talent, you can learn to write stories. You can master your technique. Begin both by studying and w riting. If you don't try to write you won't understand what books and people are trying to tell you about method and procedure. TTTEND writers conferences, if you have the opportunity, listen to established writers of fiction, study books and articles on technique. Never cease to read good fiction. Read the recognized master- © pieces. But remember that only you can teach yourself to express your own individual talent. [f your talent is not individual it is not worth the effort of development. Therefore, write, write every day. In one story you should have but one idea which concerns but one central character in one central situation. 'The situation involves a struggle, or a problem. Either at the beginning of your effort on a story, or by the time you have finished it, you must be able to state your central idea in a single declarative sentence. The completed story should reveal the focal point of the struggle. This may be unsolvable, but if so, it should lead the reader to think and live for a while with the prob- 365 lem that the fictional character has been led to face. We should now see beyond the story into the avenues of life open to him or her. The solution does not necessarily have to be packaged and tied with a neat bow. Life is not like that. Still the story must be focused upon its inevitable conclusion. The reader should also be affected by this conclusion. This effect should be produced through the action and through the change in understanding achieved by the central character. 'The character himself must go through this process of change. He must be different at the end of the story from what he was at the beginning. And thus the reader should find himself in a different mood from the one in which he started to read. The main goal in writing the story is to create this change in the character. In order to do this you, as author, must know all the characters in the story. Without this knowledge you cannot produce the effect that you are trying to create. To accomplish the change teferred to, you must know how the characters think, speak, and _ react. You must listen to their heartbeats. In the story everything that you yourself think and feel on the subject should remain out of sight. It is the reactions of your characters to their situations that count. Yet without reader reaction the count is of no value. The reader, too, must know these people. Can he hear them speak? Can he feel their sense of touch? Can he breathe the bright blue atmosphere of the frozen north on a sunny day that you describe? Or can he feel enervated by the red drouth 366 of desert sand dunes when the heat rises in visible rings? Give us what you choose, but give us both place and action in terms of concrete detail. Induce the feeling for what is to occur by including the kind of detail that pertains to the setting, the action, and the theme of your story. As far as possible, make every description, every event used support the theme and suggest the characteristic traits of the central figure. Make these dramatic details also suggest the type of action in which the main character is to be involved. Let them further the unseen elements of the piece, as well as the seen. Under the circumstances, it seems plain that if attention is called to the ringing of a bell, for example, that bell rings for some special purpose. SE the exact word, the exact gesture, the exact suggestion. You have no space for anything extraneous. You need all the room the story provides for its development. Though the form of the story is closely molded, the setting is essential. Begin with it. 'Tell us at once where the action takes place, and when. 'Take enough space to do this through rich and suggestive detail, not through plain statement of fact. Make the detail pertinent to what is to come. And make it serve to bring your surroundings alive. The character himself should help to do this. He should already be in action.. Let us see his face and figure. Let us feel his clothing — calico, silk, or homespun. Present the fabric in terms of what it is to mean. If your desired effect is an RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1954 affirmation of life, let us sense this final effect at the beginning through the realities of the person, the place, and the time. As you lead up from the beginning to the single concluding effect of your story, remember that no sentence should ever say more than one thing. No paragraph should develop more than one idea. Bring each sentence to its own conclusion. Let the last sentence of the paragraph bring its group of sentences to their larger and more important conclusion, until at the end of a section or natural division of your story, you have attained a definite effect. But do not stop with that effect. 'These climactic sentences must also lead to the transition that you are about to make to a new development. As you establish one idea, you must progress to another. 'The _ last sentence of a paragraph or a division should lead to the next; or it should provide the opportunity for the opening sentence of the next paragraph to serve as that bridge. The action, or the forward movement, must at all times be sustained. At the end of a developed section, a double space may indicate a lapse of time. Dialogue should be broken into brief passages. Seldom, if ever, let one person speak more than three sentences at a time. Never let a speech come from the air. Ground your people. Register the effect of the dialogue on the person spoken to. Bring both speaker and listener to life through relevant gesture, expression, and reaction. Thus the reader will also see and hear both speaker and listener. Persuade the reader to lose himself in his sym- WRITING IS WORK pathy for the problem that the characters face. N deciding how to handle your material nothing is of more lmportance than your choice of viewpoint character. Who is to be your main character? Who is to be acted upon to end up as the changed character? Will his story be told in the third person or will he himself relate it? Only by weighing your material thoroughly can these questions be determined. 'The decision should be preceded by the assimilative process that goes on in the deeper realm of consciousness. This realm is where the creative process of composing a story from the raw materials of life does its part. How to make the creative process function is another matter for study and practice. Briefly, it can be said that the process runs through a course of interchanging impressions. You have your idea for a story; but simply to record this discovery as such, no matter how dramatic or exciting, is not creating anything in the way of new insights into life. For, though you have taken your idea from life, in order to give it back as a story, you must transmute the substance. 'To accomplish this, yield your materials up to your subconscious mind. Bury them there that they may yield their essence up to you. Submit your will to theirs. Let them have their way with you that you may create from them the story that will eventually emerge through the power of both levels of your mind, the conscious and the subconscious. Let your characters come forth from the depths of your being. But 367 before you release them as participants in a story, make them into as full-bodied personalities as the space limits of the story will allow. Feed your conscious mind with knowledge of the situation with which you expect to deal, with knowledge of your characters, with practiced skill in techniques so that the subconscious mind will give you a rich return. Let it give you sufficient means to balance the conscious control which in the last analysis of your work you will have to exert. As a reminder of the deeper level, think twice of what William Butler Yeats says in his preface to the King of the Great Clock Tower: God guard me from those thoughts men think In the mind alone, He that sings a lasting song Thinks in a marrow bone. (Used by permission from The King of the Great Clock Tower, Commentaries, and Poems, The Macmillan Company, copynght 1935.) And so listen to the secret drumbeat of the lives of your characters, that in turn you may beat that drum to give us the rhythm as you capture it in word and mood. Give us a small piece of life that may yet reflect a wide stage upon which the reader himself may seem for one small moment to live and move. REFERENCES FOR STUDY Gorpon, CAROLYN AND TATE, ALLEN: The House of Fiction, Charles Scribner's Sons, New York, 1950. $5.50. Brooks, CLEANTH, ]R., AND WARREN, Rosert Penn: Understanding Fiction, F. S. Crofts, New York, 1944, $1.75. GuisELIn, Brewster: The Creative Process, a Symposium, University of California Press, Berkeley, 1952, $6. Don Knight CALIFORNIA POPPIES IN BEAR VALLEY NEAR PINNACLE, CALIFORNIA Page 368 Cut Norma W'rathall There is a time, between spring's fickle favor a > And summer's long hot hours of toil and care g, When fairy skies seem curved in blue enchantment, And perfume lingers in the warm, sweet air; When roses wreathe the earth with fragrant treasure, And butterflies flit through the long, bright da 8 & bug J As if their happiness were everlasting, And some ecstatic spell might make time stay; When every morning wakes the world to gladness And every night renews love's youthful dream. G Oh, June, hold back your gifts, like petals falling, To make our sad days fairer than they seem! 'The Falling Shackles Margery S. Stewart CHAPTER 1 HEN the conductor came \\y through the train calling "Salt Lake City... Ten minutes," Maria 'Tobler felt she could not endure the tension another moment. It had been mounting for days and weeks and months and years. Ever since the first prison gate had closed behind her and Mamma and Karen, this moment had been in her dreams and waking moments like a tormentingly far, beautiful star. It had been the burden of all her prayers and all the fierce longing of her seventeen years. Now it had come. One more gate through which to pass and the land would be hers. She looked across the aisle to Papa's white face and saw the strain. Was in him, too, tightening his mouth to a fine line, bringing his brows down over his gray eyes, making his long fingers clasp and unclasp on the arm rest. Papa had been years long in a worse prison camp than any of them. 'There -were times still when Maria wakened to his endless, nervous pacing. But here... Here, deep in the heart of this beautiful land, it would pass. Maria looked from Papa _ to Mamma's strong, dark face. Mamma was looking at her, smiling and nodding. "Is good," Mamma's lips formed. "Is very good." Beside Maria, Karen twittered and jumped. "I can't bear it," Karen whispered, her hands crossed on her thin breast. "I won't live until we get there. Just feel my heart, Maria. Isn't it zipping? I shall die and I am only fifteen years old, die before I have a chance to be happy." Maria laughed. Karen was always so dramatic about everything. Maria could almost see the visions Karen was conjuring up in her mind, her prostrate form, the startled passengers, the tragic procession that would bear the beautiful, young girl to her last resting place. "You know Papa said you are strong as a horse," Maria said. "It was the third American hot dog you ate last night that made you sick." Karen subsided furiously, "Meanie! You wait until you get a symptom." Maria put her arm around her younger sister. "When I get a job I will buy you a sweater, like the one the blonde girl was wearing yesterday. I will buy you a little string of pearls, and you shall go to high school and be one of them. Think Gf it." "IT can see myself," mured. She closed her eyes, and Maria rose to take down the last bag, smilingly aware that her sister was deep in another daydream. But, arms in mid-air, she was arrested by the furious screams of her small brother. Maria turned. Karen jumped. Phillip, in his father's arms, was protesting the end of the journey by kicks and screams. "You promised me Indians!" he was shouting. Page 369 Karen mur- 370 "Indians you promised me... I. Have not seen one, not even a baby one, not even a mother Indian. I won't get off... I won't!" IIE other passengers roared with laughter. Maria turned pink with embarrassment. How were they to know there wouldn't be Indians at every stop. In the few American movies they had seen, the land seemed to be filled with them, brightly painted, mischief bound, hurtling themselves down from rocky hills. "No," said Papa. "You must be | Phillip redoubled his _ protests until Mamma put out one large firm arm, brought him in one sweeping gesture to her ample lap, and silenced him with a look. Peace reigned. "We shall find Indians," said Mamma, "but first we have other things to do." She turned and peered through the window as the train slowed to a stop. "Do you see him, Maria? Do you see Cousin Frederick?" Maria and Karen searched from their window. 'Tow will we know, Mamma?" Mamma sighed. "I forget. He was only a boy when he left for America... Is long time." The passengers disembarked. Maria picked up one of the bags, pointed to the other, and Karen reluctantly followed her example. They trudged heavily on the heels of the school teacher from Chicago. When it seemed impossible that she would ever leave the train, Maria found herself being helped down the high steps, breathing the damp, smoky spring air, The night had RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1954 come and she regretted it, since now she could not see the city until morning. Beside her Karen jumped up and down. "Maria, Maria... We're here!" Papa and Mamma _ descended with more dignity but just as ecagerly. Only Phillip, forlorn as only a five-vear-old can be, bewailed still the lack of Indians. A man hurried toward them. "Christopher 'Tobler?" "Cousin Frederick!" cried Mamma. "I should have known you anywhere." Maria blinked. Cousin Frederick was paunchy and bald and wore thick, horned-rimmed glasses. Mamma had talked long and happily of a curly haired youth, so slim he had been the worry of his family. "You should have come yesterday with the others," Cousin Frederick mourned. 'Yesterday was bands, was newspapermen, was the mayor even, but today... Nothing." Mamma sighed. "It was Karen. She was sick, and we had to stopover... The others came without us." Cousin Frederick was still unhappy. "No sense of timing. Yesterday everyone was interested in the arrival of refugees. 'loday," he snapped his fingers, "they are forgotten. 'Today there is a new headlouvre." MAMMA laughed. "We do not need a mavor, or a headline. We are here, that is enough for us." But Maria crept close to her Mother's ample side. It was plain that in coming late they had offended Cousin' Frederick and were at once out of step with important happenings. THE FALLING SHACKLES "Tonight," said Cousin Frederick and mopped his forehead, "to night, my Hilda is having her baby, and I must rush you to your house and rush back to the hospital. Come, come, I will help you with your bags." "Oh, Frederick," cried Mamma pushing Maria before her, "you should not have come. You should have sent someone. Hurry, hurry, Karen. Come, Phillip. No, Papa, let Karen carry the bag, it will not hurt her." Maria hurried with the others through the great gates, up the ramp, through the station, and out into the night again. The bag was heavy. She found herself gasping for breath. Phillip kept getting in front of her, so that she stumbled on him with every step. They hurried the bags into the back of Cousin Frederick's car. They hurried inside the car, and even the automobile seemed to. Catch their nervousness and hurry itself along the wide, bright streets. Maria flattened her face against the window, trying to keep the pictures from sliding by so quickly, the beautiful stores, the lights, the many, many cars... A girl in a red coat who smiled at her at an intersection, a group of tall young men in blue sweaters striding down the street. But she could not keep the pictures in her mind; they tumbled into oblivion, pushed away by smaller streets, houses, a glimpse of a family around a_ dining-room table. Maria marveled at the uncurtained window. Her mind fled back to the years of shuttered windows, of hushed voices, the dreadful waiting for the booted foot upon the stair, the pounding fist. It was 371 obvious that no such terror lived in these wide streets. Karen's hand was making blue ridges on her arm. "Maria! Just look at the houses! We shall have one just as beautiful. I will stand at the gate... Like that girl... See. Oh, we went past her too fast." "IT saw her," said Maria dryly, "and the young man. I suppose you will have one of those, too, swinging on the front gate?" AREN pointed. "Oh, you! I won't be as hopeless as you when I'm seventeen. I'm not going to be old-seventeen like you. I'm going to be like the ones on the train, laughing and singing and_ swirling their ruffled petticoats." "Old seventeen?" Maria sat back, one hand on her throat. Dismay shook her. She hadn't thought about herself until now. It hadn't seemed important. It hadn't been important at all beside those years of horror and of flight, of the armies before them and behind them, and the hidden terror of the enemies among them, tracking them down for the crime of being "unsympathetic to the cause." All her childhood a nightmare of ner mother's tears and the stealthy whisperings of phantom feet pursuing them, as loud to Maria's childish ears as the scream of bombs and the bursting of buildings. Old seventeen. She thought of her friend Mathilda, who would never walk again; of Jennie, blind. What did it matter what kind of seventeen she was? She was here in America, safe with Mamma and Papa, with gay, reckless Karen, whom she had shielded so fiercely, with little Phillip, who ore was too young to understand any of it. It was enough. "Oh," cried Karen in despair. "Look at the street. I might have known!" She slumped against the seat. Maria sat up. They had turned into a narrow street, where the houses were either flush with the sidewalk or had pocket handkerchiefs of lawn. "IT might have known," Karen again. "It isn't much of a street," said Frederick apologetically, "but rents are very high, and not knowing whether or not the plant would suit you, Chris, I thought it better to go a little slow." "You did exactly right," said Papa. "You have done so much for us already. Now we do for ourselves." "We are strong," "We can manage." "Mr. Henderson said to bring you down in the morning, Chris. The job isn't much for you who have been a doctor most of your life, but it was all I could get." "Tt is fine," said Papa, "fine. It is the law here that a doctor from a foreign land must go to school again before he can practice medicine here. Is fine. We keep the law." He laughed. "Think of the people I save by changing my lifework." "No sir," said Cousin Frederick, "I have heard only of the many you have saved by being their doctor. In the camps they said you were magnificent." He shut off the ignition and opened the door. "Well, this is the house." Maria waited until they were all out of the car, then she looked up. Moaned said Mamma. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1954 The house was red brick and tall, with an ornate front porch railing from which palings were lost. "But we can fix the porch," she said. "I can fix it myself." "No," said Mamma, "we do not start on the porch. We start in the basement, then we go to the closets and the drawers. To fix the outside first is a he, it says we are all neat inside... Is not true at all. We begin in the center and work out.. Then we are right." Maria and Karen exchanged deep glances of resignation and despair. It was always like that. Even in the camps with nothing, Mamma had insisted on order and fought fiercely for what cleanliness she could obtain. "It isn't bad on the inside," Cousin Frederick. Said IIEY trooped after him up the walk and through the front door. It opened on a tall, narrow hallway with stairs leading upward to the second floor. On the right of the hall was the door that opened to a great, high-ceilinged living room with a fireplace. 'The furniture was old and battered, but comfortable. Karen ran ahead to open the double doors that led to a dining room, beyond which was a vast kitchen linoleumed in blue and white squares, with a gas range, blackened by age, in one corner. 'There was a square oil-clothed table in the center of the room. Maria looked at Mamma hesitantly. Mamma had voiced her wistful dreams for so many years, of an American kitchen as she had heard of them, gleaming with porcelain and chrome. How could this battered room compare? THE FALLING SHACKLES Mamma's cheeks were wet with tears. She went over to the range and caressed it with heavy, gentle hands. "I tried to believe, always, that I should have again my own kitchen, my own stove. Many times I could not believe at all, four families in one small house." "But, Mamma," Karen protested, "Gt isn't what I dreamed about at all. I thought we would have a house like the American magazines." Mamma patted Karen's cheek. "That is the human part of us to want everything at once, the castle, the big car, the famous friends, the safety, the jewels, the good times, the happiness, all in a moment of time. But God in his goodness sends some of us blessings a few at a time that we might enjoy each." Maria went to her mother and laid her head on her Mother's broad shoulder. Through all the terror and the violence and death, Mamma had stood like a rock, believing, rebuilding, planning, rejecting despair and defeat. "T love you, Mamma," Maria wanted to say, but the words seemed so inadequate for the torrent of emotion she felt. Now that Mamma liked the house or what she had seen of it, Cousin Frederick relaxed and _ became almost jovial. "Not knowing her time was today, Hilda made the dinner to celebrate your coming. It is all here." He opened the refrigerator. "She had me bring it down. A goose yet, roasted." Maria stood aside so Papa, too, could come and admire the shining white depths of the refrigerator and the contents so temptingly dis- 373 played. 'There was the goose, brown and crusty, needing only to be warmed up. There were a pie and an apple cake and sour cabbage and green beans. Cousin Frederick rubbed his hands. "You have only to warm it up. I wish I could stay." Mamma remembered Hilda. She pushed Frederick out of the room. "Not a moment more do you spend with us. Is too long already." There was a great silence when she came back to the kitchen. 'They looked at each other with wide, anxious eyes. The strange sounds of a strange place drifted in from outside, voices in aigument, a small boy calling his dog, the slamming of a gate. Maria saw Mamma's fingers tighten on her throat. "Is a big country." Karen came close to Maria. "Suppose nobody likes me. Suppose they hate me?" she whispered. "It will be strange not to carry my bag," said Papa wistfully. I am not like their als, Maria thought fearfully. I am different. I am an old seventeen. Suddenly Mamma laughed and clapped her hands. "Why are we standing here so solemn? We have a feast waiting for us. Maria find the dishes and the silver. Karen, help her set the table." It is strange, Maria thought, how you can coax happiness to come to you, in the sound of a_ bubbling kettle, or the unfolding of a clean cloth, or new bread on a flowered plate. How many other ways are there? I will search for them, then I will be stronger than any loneliness. (To be continued ) First Ladies of Our Land WIVES OF THE PRESIDENTS Part IV Elsie C. Carroll EFORE Ida Saxton McKinley (1847-1907), wife of the twenty-fifth President, (1897- 1901), chose Wilham McKinley from among her many suitors, she had graduated from college, had a trip to Europe, and had been a successful cashier in her father's bank. To their friends the McKinleys seemed unusually blessed with good fortune and |, piness. Her father gave them a home for a wedding present; W iliam was rapidly making a name in the political world; Ida was a leader in the social life of their community. But one loss after another of loved ones—her mother and two little daughters—caused an_ illness which left Mrs. McKinley an invalid the rest of her life. She retained her charm and _ personality, however, which kept her friends and, above all, the devotion of her husband. He had many speaking engagements, but he took her with him whenever possible, even though she could not walk except with a cane and the help of another person. During his two terms as Governor of Ohio they lived in a hotel near the Capitol. Each morning as he neared the building, he turned to the window of the hotel where she was watching and lifted his hat. Fach afternoon at three o'clock he left whatever he was doing and went to the window of his office and waved a handkerchief to her as 374 "4 v IDA SAXTON McKINLEY (1847 - 1907) she waited for his signal of remembrance. This gallantry continued when he became President. He ignored some former customs. For asec, she always sat at his right at state dinners, and at receptions he stood behind her chair with his hand on her shoulder. Her invalidism did not curtail the life in the White House. They entertained extensively. She went with the President to Buffalo in 1901 to attend the PanAmerican Exposition. While holding a reception in the 'Temple of Music, tragedy came to William McKinley. Part of the ceremonies were over and he had sent Ida to ' FIRST LADIES OF OUR LAND rest at the home of their host, when he was shot by an assassin. He said to his secretary, "My wife, be careful how you tell her." Six days later he died with his arm about hex as she knelt at his bedside, whispering "I want to go, too." She lived six years after her husband's death, Edith Kermit Carow Roosevelt (1861 - 1948) was 'Theodore's second wife. Alice Lee (whom he married in 1880) had died four years after her marriage and had left 'Veddy a little daughter, to be known later as "Princess Alice." He married Edith in London in 1886 and brought her back to his lovely home at Oyster Bay, where they lived happily as one after the other of their five children came. After Roosevelt became President (in 1901), the same comradeship between the parents and the children continued. Both he and Edith reserved some time each day for family life. It is said that Edith was a mother until after breakfast, the family's favorite meal; then she walked in the garden with her husband before he went to his office; then did household supervising, and by 1:45 was ready to be First Lady. She was the first mistress of the Executive Mansion to employ a social secretary. 'lo further conserve her time, she divided the people she needed to entertain into groups who would be congenial because of their positions or experiences. 'These things, together with her natural tact and charm, made all White House functions delightful. The Roosevelts spent all his salary on entertainment. Edith had a caterer under contract to serve all state dinners for eight dollars a 375 plate. This relieved her of many details for each event. * During this administration the White House was enlarged to provide offices and guest rooms. After that, the mansion was' seldom without guests. A striking social event was the marrage of Princess Alice. Gardeners worked for months on the decorations. A thousand guests witnessed the marriage. Characteristic of the ease and poise of the First Lady, is-the story that she spent the morning before the noontime wedding knitiing and visiting with Alice's maternal grandmother. With similar ease she made welcome unexpected guests her husband was in the habit of bringing to dinner when other guests—often cignitaries—were present. Both she and the President had the knack of making all their guests share happily in the conversation. EDITH CAROW ROOSEVELT (1 861-1948) 376 HELEN HERRON TAFT (1862 - 1943) The Roosevelt family all enjoyed the White House—formal occasions as well as pillow-fights or races down the long hall. 'Their slogan was "one for all and all for one." The second term of 'Theodore Roosevelt ended in 1909. Helen Herron Taft (1862 - 1943) had a keen sense of humor and a love of adventure. When _ life seemed dull, she madesomething happen to liven it up. She thought it would be fun to have a salon like famous French women used to have, where they gathered into their parlors people of wit and talent for good conversation. William Howard 'Taft was invited to her salon. Later he intimated that she had other than intellectual motives for her gatherings. They were married in June 1886 and took a trip around the world for their honeymoon. Settled, in Cincinnati, Helen continued her varied RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1954 activities. One was the organization of the Civic Orchestra. In igco Mr. Taft was sent to establish civil government in the Philippines, just ceded to the United States. When they arrived in Japan they were informed that they were to have an audience the next day with the Emperor and Empress. Helen had no dress acceptable for such an occasion, but she found an Oriental seamstress who made over an evening gown for the ritual. Between fittings, Helen practiced the low bow prescribed by Japanese etiquette. She appeared at court as if she had spent months preparing for the event. As First Lady of the Philippines, she endeared herself to the natives by making them feel that America was their friendly guardian. 'They came by thousands to her weekly "at home," where she pleased them by serving little Japanese cakes her native cook baked for her. Mrs. 'Taft was a great aid to her husband in the many important positions he held before he became President and was a distinctive First Lady during his administration (1909-1913). She fostered several significant projects. One was the erection of the bandstand in Potomac Park. On the opening day thousands thronged to hear the concert by the Marine Band. Regular concerts have been given there ever since. It was she who thought of having cherry trees in the park, and it was doubtless through her influence that the gift of a thousand cherry trees came from Japan. So, to her, the thousands who enjoy the Washington cherry festival every Seay can be grateful. William FIRST LADIES OF OUR LAND Howard Taft died Helen died in 1943. I 1930 and Fllen Axson Wilson ( 1860-1914) first wife of Woodrow Wilson, gave up her career as 4n artist when she married in June 1885. She felt that her career was to help her husband succeed in his, and that she did, pershe smoothed the way for him through the Policies and jealousies ELLEN AXSON WILSON | It is said that just before her death she Whispered that she bers of old, aristocratic 'irginia families. At the time of 378 Prom the Guenthe Portrait EDITH BOLLING WILSON work of making war." He believed that he was working for the war that would end all wars. After the war, Mrs. Wilson accompanied the President on two trips to Europe, in planning for the peace. On his return home, President Wilson sought to win American support for the League of Nations. He was ill when he started on a strenuous speaking tour and collapsed after making a speech in Pueblo, Colorado. Mrs. Wilson, with the help of secretaries, carried on the work of the President's office. She acted as executive secretary, advisor, nurse, and as an unfailing and inspirational companion. The Wilsons left the White House in 1921, and three years later Edith Galt Wilson became a widow. She still resides in the national Capital, and many sincere friends of former days and many officials of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1954 our present government are numbered among those who visit in her home and who regard Edith Wilson as a woman whose mind and heart and whose lovely and sympathetic personality not only contributed much to the eminence of her husband, but have made of her a personality greatly loved and admired, and respected for her faith in the destiny of America in world leadership. Florence Kling Harding (1860 - 1924) was a loyal and gifted helpmate. In fact one observer said: "If there had been no Florence to spur his ambition, Warren Harding would not have been President of the United States." Florence was trained in business by her banker father, who wanted her to have a musical career. She was married at eighteen and soon became a widow. Her father objected to her second marriage, which was solemnized July 8, 1891. Her unusual business ability was a great asset to her husband, a struggling editor. It is said that largely through Florence the Marion Star changed from an unknown newssheet to an important newspaper, and that she also helped the editor grow into a leading citizen. She assisted him in his political climb when he entered politics. His fatherin-law, then reconciled to the marriage, urged Warren to give up politics, but Florence urged him just as strongly to keep on, and worked to help make him a Senator, then President. He was a handsome, likable man, but he lacked some of the qualities essential to strong leadership, and he put too much trust in friends ' who were not reliable. His was a him while she was reading aloud to difficult administration, with reconhim" (August 2, 1923). Great for adequate solution. President Harding's wife stood helpfully by him on all occasions. Social life in the White House, which had been abandoned because of the illness of President Wilson, was resumed. At a May Day reception Mrs. Harding shook hands with seven thousand persons, which left her own hand so swollen her glove had to be cut from it. She was interested in welfare work, in the schools, and in Girl Scout activities. In the midst of all of Warren Harding's difficulties, his devoted wife was always beside him, even to ~ % oo Ta vayjo Cradle Song Alice Morrey Bailey Go to sleep, little one, don't you know it is night? All around you is slumber, yet your black eyes are bright. Dawn Boy has carried the sun to the West; In the Turquoise One's house he is now at his rest. Long shadows have thickened; Outside is the dark, And distant and weird Is the coyote's thin bark. All they of the winds, and the deer-folk are still, And the soft-footed tribe stalks its prey on the hill, And now the eyes of the Sky People peeping At you through the smoke-hole, their watch of you keeping. Your father is nodding, His fire has burned low, And his silver-work gleams In the red-embered glow. Your mother is weary, now quiet her loom, Its bright pattern dimmed in the hogan's soft gloom. Your sister is dreaming, sleep-flung on her pelt; In the blue of the firelight her small features melt. Your brothers have watered And bedded their sheep, And your black eyes are drowsy, So sleep, papoose, sleep. FIRST LADIES OF OUR LAND struction and internal problems too the last scene "when death touched 379 a FLORENCE KLING HARDING Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, June 1, and June 15, 1894 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WoMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE Women oF ALL NartIons" BRIGHAM YOUNG'S ANNIVERSARY: This the first day of June is quite a red-letter day among our people, on account of it bemg the anniversary of Brigham Young, who presided over the Church so many years and was also truly a Moses unto this people, a pioneer and leader into these mountain vales, where he founded towns and cities, and established order and maintained peace.... Let his birthday be kept ever fresh and green by our children and children's children.... —Editorial TO THE SISTERS: My thoughts are oft with my sisters and I desire to commune with them.... Our dear little Exponent is our friend, and it is a welcome visitor to all our organizations, and through this medium of communication I hope more often to correspond with the sisters.... Inasmuch as our long standing organizations have been blessed to do so much good in relieving the needy in the past, and there are now new duties requiring special attention... And praying that we nor any other people may ever lack bread or the necessities of life, I feel it will require us as a people to have courage and firmness to meet distressing times... Utilizing all that we can and that we have, and not going into debt. We can teach our children frugality and restrain them from wasting even a piece of bread.... My heart is in the latter-day work, and my prayer is that Zion may prosper.... —dZina D. H. Young, President, Relief Society KEEP THE LIGHT So keep the light about you; death is light, And life, and power to pure and chastened love, And death is only dark to doubt, and sight That has no visions from the world above. —Alice Robbins A BIRTHDAY PARTY: Thursday, May 3rd was the anniversary of the birthday of two of our dear sisters, Susan H. Wells and Bathsheba W. Smith, and as they are intimate friends, a party was given in their honor that day at the residence of Sisters L. A. And S. H. Wells, which was a very pleasant affair.... Miss Kate Wells and her sisters Miss May Wells and Mrs. Anette Culmer did the honors in a very graceful way, and the delicacies served were highly appreciated.... The friends whom one has known to be ever true in adversity as well as prosperity, should hold sweet converse now and then from the busy world apart—Editorial Notes. UINTAH STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE: Convened in the Stake House March 4, 1894, Sister Sarah Pope presiding. Counselor A. Bartlett said the Relief Society was organized by the Prophet Joseph for a wise purpose, and also spoke at some length on the subject of virtue. Counselor Mary Hall bore her testimony. Advised the sisters to read and study good books that they might store up knowledge and have something to talk about, besides talking about their neighbors, and asked the Lord to bless us in our work.... Sister Robison spoke a few words to the young sisters. Said they must be very kind to the aged, remember they were the ones that cared for us when we were small, be kind to them and take their counsel and the counsel of parents, for remember we will all be old some day ourselves.... President Pope said... It is but a few short years from the cradle to the grave, and let us do all the good we can... —Addie Longfellow, Sec. Page 380 BEE S. SPAFFORD, General President of Relief Society, has gone to Helsinki, Finland, as a vicepresident of the National Council of Women. To attend the triennial meeting of the International Council of Women to be held June 9.48th, 1954. Mrs. Spafford ls assigned to the sessions on moral welfare. MARA C. JOSEPHSON, Associate Editor of The Improvement Era, and general board member of the Y. W MILA. Will attend the triennial meeting of the International Council of Women in Helsinki as an alternate delegate teptesenting the Y. W M. LA. GIXTEEN prominent Latter-day Saint women have been memorialized by having the new student apartments for women at Brigham Young University named for them. The honored women are: Lucy Mack Smith, Fliza R. Snow, Emmeline B. Wells, Mary Fielding Smith, Aurelia S. Rogers, Anna Meith Maesar, Louie B. Felt, Romania B. Penrose, Alice R. Richards, Alice Merrill Horne, Elhs R. Shipp, Emma Lucy Gates Bowen, Louise Y. Robison; and three living Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon women: Mima M. Broadbent, Ruth May Fox, and Estella S. Harris. Based on the life of Mary Custis "authentic" Mrs. Lee was the only child and Washington. Most of her girlhood at Arlington, the showplace her father built on the banks of the Potomac. As wife of General Robert E. Lee, during the tragic days of the Civil War, she suffered much hardship. She died at Lexington in 1873, three years after the death of her husband. BIRTHDAY congratulations are extended to Mrs. Cynthia L. Bailey, Salt Lake City, ninety-eight; Mrs. Elizabeth Ann Nelson Glover, Candon, South Carolina, ninetyseven; Mrs. Sarah Ann Prince Butler, Eagar, Arizona, ninety-Six; Mrs. Dorothy Williams, Beaver, Utah, ninety-three; Mrs, Hannah Stubbs Jones, Salt Lake City, ninety; Mrs. Celesta M. Clark, 'Teton City, Idaho, ninety. Page 381 CO—> EDITORIAL = VOL. Al "JUNE 1954 She 124th Annual Church Conference S ancient Israel ascended to Jetrusalem yearly to celebrate the Feast of the Passover, so modern Israel, twice yearly, travels to the tops of the mountains to partake each time of three days of a spiritual feast. An enlightening and joyful spirit, permeated by a deep sense of peace, characterized all sessions of the one hundred twenty-fourth annual conference of the Church held on April 4-6, 1954. It was with reluctance that the assembled congregation dispersed at the concluding session. For three days they had partaken of the bread of life. As they were admonished, warned, encouraged, and uplifted by their prophet, President David O. McKay, and by the words of those others who have been called of God to devote their time to his service in behalf of their fellow men, high resolves to live the gospel more fully and thus surely to earn eternal life found lodgment in the hearts of the saints. Latter-day Saints sustained wholeheartedly the appointment of Elder George Q. Morris to the Council of the Twelve to fill the vacancy occasioned by the death, in December, of Elder Matthew Cowley, and of Elder Sterling W. Sill as an Assistant to the 'T'welve to fill the vacancy arising from Elder Morris' new appointment. Elder Morris' life has been spent in the service of the Church and Elder Sill's devotion to Church duties has been noteworthy. Page 382 Through twenty-seven radio stations throughout the Western States and the Hawaiian Islands, parts of the proceedings of the conference were heard by radio originating with radio station KSL. In addition to the coverage afforded by KSL-T'V for the entire three days of sessions, the first session on Sunday morning, was released over nine other 'T''V stations in Colorado, Arizona, California, Oregon, and Washington. The CBS Church of the Air on Sunday morning preceding the second session of conference (the first session being the Priesthood meeting on Saturday night) was addressed by President Reuben Clark, Jr. On the subject "Jesus, Our Risen Lord." Truly the commandments of the Master: "Go ye unto all the world, and preach the gospel to every creature" (Mark 16:15) is becoming more understandable each day as scientific marvels are bringing the inhabitants of the world within speaking distance of each other. In this regard President McKay _ recounted some conjectures of missionaries in Scotland, when he was laboring there some years ago, as to the seeming impossibility of preaching the gospel to every nation, kindred, tongue, and people. President McKay presided and conducted all the sessions of the conference. With love and appreciation, the saints heard his opening and closing exhortations. Latterday Saints were urged to heed the EDITORIAL words of the Lord as found in the fourth section of the Doctrine and Covenants: Now behold, a marvelous work is about to come forth among the children of men. Therefore, O ye that embark in the service of God, see that ye serve him with all your heart, might, mind and strength, that ye may stand blameless before God at the last day (D. & C. 4:1-2). President McKay declared: Four conditions contribute to the intensifying of the thought or sense of responsibility of the Church.... First of these are modern means of transportation. These have made practically all nations neighbors.... Another consideration is the willingness of men and women to consecrate their time, their means, and their ability to the advancement of the Kingdom of God.... Third, the fulfillment of prophecies made over a hundred years ago regarding the growth of the Church brings forcibly to our minds the responsibility of proclaiming the truth:. Here is another phase of Church work —— baptisms for those who did not have a chance to hear the gospel before they died.... A marvelous work and a wonder! The address of President Stephen L Richards beautifully gave his testament of the words of Paul "... LTam not ashamed of the gospel of Christ... President Richards continued: Why should we be ashamed of the gospel of Christ?... Undoubtedly one of the factors is pride, I think a false pride. There is sometimes fear that ridicule will follow such an acknowledgment... There are some who may regard the acknowledgment of spiritual power as a stigma of weakness.... There are some who seem to feel that their liberties are circumscribed by the acceptance and acknowledgment of spiritual forces.... There are those, constituting perhaps the largest portion of that group within the 383 Church who seem ashamed of the gospel of Christ, who are just too weak to stand up under all circumstances and conditions for the right and the truth as they know it to be.... I make this solemn declaration: If you are never ashamed of the gospel of Christ, if you will always pray to him and never defame his sacred name, if you will never make light of the Holy Priesthood and the ceremonies and ordinances of the gospel, a spirit of rebellion will never come into your hearts.... You will grow in faith and in good works, and when your life's mission has been completed and you go hence to your reward, the Savior will greet you, as he has promised, with those glorious words, "I am not ashamed of you." President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Advised, in a positive and scholarly dissertation, that Latter-day Saints should not accept the new revised version of the authorized Bible in place of the King James version: This King James or Authorized Version, "as far as it is translated correctly," has been the Version accepted by this Church since it was... Organized.... For the first three Christian centuries, and following Simon the Sorcerer, heretics and heresies, great and small, sought to destroy or wipe out the recognition of Jesus as Christ.... I refer to Arianism that nearly wrecked the Chnistian Church in the time of Constantine. It is an obscure and shifting doctrine that, shortly put, and in general terms, denies Godhead to the Christ.... The translation found in these various Revisions, contains, on the one hand, many passages that im effect voice Arian or near-Arian concepts, and, on the other hand, omits many passages that contradict Arian doctrines.... For a century and a quarter, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has declared the King James Version of the Bible to be the Word of God, with a reservation as to incorrect translations of the Greek text on which it was based.... To the Latter-day Saint, the final verdict must be that no text that minimizes or denies the Godhood of Jesus, can be re- 384 garded as the word of God, no matter how old and respected the manuscript may be which sets out such views.. To the Latter-day Saint, Jesus was the Christ, the Only Begotten, the Son of God, a member of the Trinity. All our modern scriptures are to this point, and the true ancient Scriptures will neither take away from, nor destroy this everlasting truth. In closing, President McKay feelRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1954 ingly directed his remarks to every Latter-day Saint: Now, my brethren and sisters, the hour is drawing to a close, wherem our great conference gathering will soon have become an event of the past. 'The sessions themselves will be mere history, but the messages, we hope, will ever remain on the tablets of our memories and will become moving factors in our daily lives. —M. C. S ~Ylotes 10 THE FIELD Summer Work Meetings T is the desire of the general board that a work meeting be held each month, as heretofore, during the summer period, June through September. Mastic for Special Program Sunday, November 7, 1954 N order to allow ample time for preparation, the numbers to be sung by the Singing Mothers in the special program for November 7, 1954 are listed below and are available now: "T Know That My Redeemer Lives," Epwarps, Hymns, Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, page 361. "Thanks Be to God," S. S. A. No. 2404, Boosey and Hawkes, Inc., Lynnbrook, New York, New York. If your dealer is unable to supply the second number, it may be ordered from the following stores: Beesley Music Company, 70 South Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah Daynes Music Company, 45-47 South Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah Glen Brothers Music Company, 74 South Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah Brigham Young University Leadership Week June 21 - 25, 1954 Brigham Young University Leadership Week will be held this year during the week of June 21st to June 25th. Lecture periods will deal with the courses of study in Relief Society and lectures will also be given on teaching methods in Relief Society. Mimeographed copies of some of these lectures will be for sale at a nominal fee following Leadership Week. It is suggested that Relief Society members who would care to purchase copies of this material, correspond with the Extension Division, Brigham Young University, as to their availability following Leadership Week. Sribute to the Singing Mothers President David O. McKay [Comment at the Seventh Session of the 124th Annual Conference, Tuesday, April 6, 1954] HEN we realize that these mothers come in small groups from various, and in some cases distant, parts of the Church, and have had only one or possibly two opportunitics to practice as a group, we marvel at the expression and inspiration that Sister Madsen succeeds in bringing out of this wonderful Singing Mothers organization. An Appreciation to Slovenes GYepperson INladsen Vida F. Swenson How priceless—those rehearsals! What a privilege we have had To learn to sing together. Sister Madsen, we are glad That you have come among us here in this great latter-day To bless us with your leadership, in your most special way. That precious instrument, the voice, can lovely be—or queer. We're sure at times disturbing sounds, in discord, reached your ear, The title, Dr. Madsen, is appropriate, indeed. You know just how to cure our ills and help us to succeed. Directions you give clearly; and your method is unique. We can't help knowing what to do whenever these words you speak: "Relax your jaw; don't "punch each word; get quickly to the vowel. Don't spread the e; look pleasant; you're not happy, if you scowl. And sing the message, not just words. You've much improvement shown! Just solo voices take those parts and sound just like one voice. Now get your breath right under it. 'That combination's choice, Just pantomime uncertain notes; the audience can't tell. To spoil it, it just takes one voice, so mark your copies well, Drive carefully; and do keep well; and a good breakfast eat. Leave early so you'll be on time. Let's all be kind and sweet." Your patience was unlimited; your helpfulness, supreme. The type of singing you produce surpasses any dream. Unselfishly you've shared with us your time and talents, too. And we regret the time's so short that we can spend with you, We're grateful for the full support your husband's freely shown, Yes, Dr. Franklin Madsen, your devotion's truly known. To those who've played the organ or piano faithfully, We say a hearty "Thank you!" You responded cheerfully. Dear Sister Madsen, we are proud when you step to your place To lead us Singing Mothers; and we read your radiant face. Though uttering not a single word, you speak; and we all stand, Responding to the message of your trained and guided hand. To feel the spirit of the song, we need but watch your face That mirrors each directive act performed with skill and grace. We sing the glorious hymns of praise, inspired through leadership That thnills us to our very souls and holds us in its grip. We catch the meaning of the words that are to music set, And feel a thmill of ecstasy we never shall forget. God bless you, Sister Madsen; may your life be sweet and long, That other added thousands may participate in song Because of your great leadership, so humble and sincere. May joy be yours as joy you've given, through each succeeding year. Page 385 Somethmg Blue Sylvia Probst Young RONMT her front porch rocking chair Susie McCarthy watched the summer twilight enfolding her valley in its gentle arms. Down in the pasture a frog concert had started, and from overhead the white eye of a star looked down. Summer twilight—how many times she had watched it from this old porch, how many times in the last fifty years! Fifty years—a smile lighted her wrinkled face. Was it possible that fifty years had come and gone? She looked down at Will resting on the steps, his graying head against the porch post. Will McCarthy—seventy-five. His hair had been raven black and his eyes bright and sparkling fifty years ago when he had brought her here as a bride. Funny, she thought, but wonderful, too, that I love him more now than I did then. What a long time ago that was, and how much a body learns in fifty years. From the steps Will McCarthy spoke without turning his head, "It's been a good day, Mother, a wonderful day. Did you think when I brought you here, Susie girl, that we'd live to see this day?" Susie shook her head. "I was too busy hoping you'd get me into the house without letting me fall to worry about what I'd be or not be doing in fifty years." "Yes, I guess you were," Will laughed, and turned to look at her. "Fifty years," he mused. "For the most part it's been good, too. You say Nina took her boys to the show —and Marian? Out with Howard, I guess." Page 386 Susie said nothing. Rocking gently back and forth, she was busy with her thoughts. Fifty years held so much to remember. She had come here as a bride to this big rock house, and in all that time she had never lived anywhere else. 'The house, the meadows, the orchard, the farm fields—here she had lived and laughed and worked and _ suffered, with Will always by her side. And she had come to know his every like and dislike; she could almost always tell what he was going to say before he said it. L'ogether, they had saved and struggled to buy the "south forty." She had hepled him plant the raspberries and set out the orchard trees. She had even helped shingle the barn. Will had helped her raise a flock of chickens and plant a garden each year. Not only once, but several times they had papered each room in the house. 'Their house that echoed with so many tender memories. In the big, north bedroom every one of her six children had been born, and there one baby girl had died. How many meals the seven of them had eaten together in the kitchen or, when there was company, in the dining room. How many songs they had sung around the organ in the front room. 'The organ was squeaky and out of tune now, and of course it was out of style, so they had moved it to one of the upstair bedrooms. Still, sometimes she played it just for old time's sake, and Will would listen or sometimes even sing. The organ had been a favorite thing. Carol had played it, but that SOMETHING BLUE was years ago. Carol had been dead twenty years come September, she had died when Marian was born. ARIAN—Susie smiled, thinking of her. She had lived here with them since her birth. How well she remembered bringing Marian home from the hospital—a tiny, blue-eyed gitl. She had filled the house with sunshine and Jaughter when Susie's boys and Nina had gone to homes of their own. It was like having her own children back again reading Bible stories to Marian, helping her to make the Christmas cookies, tiptoeing to her bedside in the stillness of the night. "Almost feel like going to bed, Mother," Will interrupted — her thinking. "I want to help 'Tom get the rest of the hay up tomorrow, and I'm not as young as I used to we." "But you act like it," Susie scolded. "The way you work a body wouldn't believe you were seventyfive." Still she was proud of him. The way he could do a day's work, the way he rode a saddle horse, as effortless as a young man. 'Tom was buying their farm, but Will was not content until he had helped with every chore the way he had always done. "Seventy-five," Will repeated, "guess I'm getting old. But it's been a good day, a real good day. Don't you think so, Mother?" It had been a beautiful day, a day of a lifetime. Nina had driven in from California with her two boys last week, and yesterday Mark and Walter and their families had come. "Tt's an event, Mother,' Nina had said, "you and Dad together fifty 387 years. I came up especially for a celebration, and that's what we're going to have—open house for everybody in town." Marian was all enthusiasm. "Oh, Gran, it's wonderful. All the roses are out, we can have your party outside. You and Gramp on the bench under the maple tree. Won't it be fun?" And Marian had caught hold of her grandmother and danced her around the room. Marian was bubbling over with happiness these days because Howard was home. He had been in Korea for almost a year, but now he was back with a thirty-day leave, the end of which was drawing near. Susie didn't like to think of his going again. They all liked him so much. "He's just right for our Marian,' Will had always said. IToward's folks had lived neighbors to them since Howard was a small boy. 'They had grown up together, Marian and he. "We had better drive into town," Nina had decided. "We want printed invitations and a few things we can't get around here." Of course Marian and Howard would drive to the city with Nina, but Susie couldn't understand why Will went along. "You'll be all tuckered out trying to keep up with these young folks," she said. Will had laughed at that. "I could beat any of them in a foot race," he told her. HEN, this morning, she had learned Will's particular reason for going to the city—this morning on their fiftieth wedding anniversary. When they were all seated around the breakfast table, Will had gone into the bedroom. He had re- 388 turned carrying a small package and beaming like a school boy. "For you, Mother," he had said, bending down to embrace her. Susie had opened it with trembling fingers, while her eager family watched. There in the little velvet box was a sparkling sapphire on a thin gold chain—a sapphire necklace, a replica of the one Will had given her fifty years ago, the one she had lost. But this one looks bigger and more beautiful, she thought. Quick tears came to her eyes. "Oh, Will, whatever made you remember?" she whispered. "T remembered for him,' Nina spoke up. "And I knew he could afford it now." Yes, he could afford it now, though it must have cost him a pretty penny. Blue had always been her favorite color, and he knew it. How many pairs of blue felt slippers he had given her through the years. But a sapphire necklace— sapphire was her birthstone, too. Will had bought her a sapphire necklace for a wedding gift. She had worn it on her wedding day and once more, only once more to a dance in the social hall. Somehow she had lost it at the dance. She remembered how she had cried, and how they had gone back and searched everywhere in the hall and asked folks all around. But the necklace stayed lost. Will had put his arms around her, comforting. "Tl buy you another one on our first anniversary," he had promised. Walter was born a few days before their first anniversary, and the years that followed brought more children and doctor bills, and the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1954 sacrifice and struggle to pay off the farm. Anniversaries came and went, sometimes Will even forgot them. But Susie never quite forgot the necklace, for whenever she saw a shining, blue sapphire in a jeweler's window she had to stop and look at it with a wistfulness in her eyes. Now, after all these years, Will had bought her a necklace once more, as he had promised to do. "Try it on, Gran," Marian had cried. She had lifted it from the box, but her hands had been trembling. With deft fingers Nina had reached for the golden chain and clasped it around her neck. "Isn't it beautiful?" they said. Susie turned to Will, she thought his eyes were misted, but he had been smiling at her. "Tl have to see how I look," she had told them. In front of her bedroom mirror, Susie had looked at herself for a long moment. The sparkling blue of the sapphire stood out with marked contrast against the drab brown of her wrinkled neck. For some reason, it didn't look just right. Funny how she would have treasured it years ago, but now she was seventy, and values were different. "It was meant for a queen," she told them, "not for an old lady like me "? To which they had _ objected strongly, but all through the day she couldn't help feeling a bit uncomfortable. Everyone commented on her beautiful necklace. Once or twice she heard Nina telling someone about it, and she couldn't help thinking that the neighbors might SOMETHING BLUE think that the McCarthys were trying to "put on the dog." NOW the day was over. Yes, it had been a perfect day; a day of roses and wedding cake, of sunshine and gaiety, with Will and her as guests of honor. So many people had called, friends, relatives, and neighbors—quite a few of them from out of town. All of the children had been home, and their children with them. "A pink-lemonade day," Marian had said. Anything she especially liked was always pink lemonade for Marian. "A pink-lemonade day," Susie said aloud. "What—what did you say, Susie?" "It's been a lovely day, Will. "Yes," he nodded. "The Lord's been good to us, Susie girl. Think Pll go to bed for sure now." He yawned loudly and stretched out his arms. Just then a car drove up. "Couldn't be Nina back this early." Susie peered out into the darkness. No, it was Marian and Howard. What could be bringing them home now? A lilt of young laughter and the murmur of their voices floated up to the porch. "That you, Gran?" Marian called. They came up the path arm in arm. "What's bringing you lovebirds back?" Will teased. "That, my dear Grandfather, is what we came to tell you." Marian's voice was like music. They sat down on the porch swing, and, suddenly, Susie felt that she knew what they were going to say. Will guessed it, too, and he put it into words. 389 "You want to get married," he said. "But Gramp, how did you know?" "That, my dear Marian, was shining out of your eyes right out of the darkness," Will told her. "You're right, Gramp. We want to get married, now before Howard goes." Marian's voice had grown quite serious. "I guess today made us decide, seeing you and Gran together like you were. You didn't wait until you could afford to get married, until everything in the world was just right." "But, Marian," Susie spoke up, "you wanted a big reception. You should have planned it when Howard first got home, there wouldn't be time now." "None of that matters, Gran, I just want to go to the temple and then be with Howard, wherever he is." "And I want her with me," Howard's voice came strong and clear, without diffidence. "And we're not afraid of anything the future might bring as long as we're together." "Well if that's what you want," Will told them, "then you have our blessing." RIDAY, June twenty-third, was a beautiful sunny day especially made for a wedding. In the big McCarthy farmhouse folks had been up since dawn getting ready for Marian and Howard to go to the temple. Marian and Howard—children yesterday, today getting married. 'hey would know hardships and uncertainty. It might be a year or even longer before they could settle down in a permanent home of their own. But Susie McCarthy knew that if two people loved each 390 other there was no obstacle they could not surmount, and for Marian and Howard she had no misgivings. Later, in the upstairs bedroom just before the small reception, Marian stood in front of the old walnut dresser mirror while Nina finished buttoning the white satin dress, and Susie looked with admiration at this sweet young granddaughter wearing the dress that she herself had worn. "Doesn't she look beautiful, Mother?" Nina stepped back and carefully eyed her niece. "I'd say everything's just perfect, the dress fits as if it had been made for her. You're lucky, Marian, I was too big to wear it. For you it's just right." "Just right," Susie agreed. It was a beautiful dress—heavy, white satin, with a princess neckline, long tapering sleeves, and a full flared skirt with a train. Fifty years ago she had been the bride in this same dress. Susie looked at Marian. Was everything as it should be? Suddenly she smiled. Something old, she said half to herself, something new—something borrowed — something blue. 'The dress is old, the veil, new, the petticoat, borrowed from Howard's sister —something blue? "Marian, you haven't anything blue, dear," she spoke aloud. "Oh, Gran, I forgot! But T must have something blue. What could I wear that is blue, Gran?" For a moment Susie said nothing, then she smiled. "I know exactly," she said. "Wait." HEN she came back she was carrying a small velvet box. Nina opened her mouth to say RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1954 something, but she didn't say it. From the box Susie took a shining blue sapphire on a thin golden chain, and with firm fingers she clasped it around the fair young neck of the bride. Marian gasped, "No Gran, no. It's your wedding gift." Susie smiled, "It's a bride's necklace, dear, a very young bride. I wore such a necklace, so shall you." In a few short hours the reception was over. Friends and relatives had greeted the new Mrs. Howard Saunders. She would follow him to army camps and share his life... For time and all eternity. The next day Susie thought the big, old house seemed unusually quiet. Nina and her boys had left, too, right after breakfast. "End of another beautiful day," she said, smiling at Will. Will nodded. "The necklace looked beautiful on her, Susie. I had a present for you before Nina ever came," he confessed, "got it over at Barker's, but Nina said it was no kind of a gift for a fiftieth wedding anniversary." "Where is it, Will?" Will went to the bedroom and came back with a shoe box. "Here," he said. "You've always liked this kind." Susie smiled—blue felt house slippers. A sudden feeling of joy and peace filled her heart. All of the good things had been hers with Will McCarthy these fifty years—all of the beautiful things that only a love such as theirs could know. "Just what I needed, Will," she said, slipping her feet into the new, blue shippers, "just what I needed.' ra SM Pes Bo; Hulda Povetson. Govan ber and Tisicion ULDA Peterson, sixty-nine, of Summit, Utah, has developed many useful and artistic hobbics — and all of them have helped to make her an exemplary homemaker and an enthusiastic and valuable worker in the organizations of the Church. Sister Peterson's principal hobby is. Piecing and making quilts, but she also braids and weaves rugs, docs all kinds of needlework, embroidery, applique, crocheted doilies, crocheted edges, and many other types of exquisite handwork. Widowed as a young woman, she became a practical nurse and made a living for her four children. She now raises her own vegetables and fruit and cares for many flowers. She has cleven grandchildren, and entertains the smaller ones by teaching them songs. At an early age Sister Petersonwas a teacher in Primary and acted as organist at the same time. She also played the organ in MITA meetings and in sacrament mectings. Later, she became Primary president in the Santa Clara Ward, which position she again held after moving to Summit. After this service she was appointed a member of the Parowan Stakc Primary Board. She is now a teacher in Primary. She has been a Relief Society visiting teacher for forty years and has played the organ for many Relief Society meetings. Hobbies and Church service have made her life happy and useful and have been a means of giving much joy to her family and her friends, —- ee saa Song Verda Mackay Laughing rain in silver tatters Streaks the windowpane and patters Out a harmonizing, merry making tune, It would seem that nothing matters To a rain that spanks and spatters All the puddles it creates one afternoon, Page 39] Hal Rumel TABLE ARRANGEMENT BY FLORENCE C. WILLIAMS Ya Different Rind of Bridal Shower Helen S. Williams bride-to-be, a party, the fun of giving a present (different yet useful!) — why any one of the above subjects is excuse enough for a party, but what would be nicer than a kitchen shower for a sweet bride-to-be? There have been all kinds of kitchen showers, but Florence Williams decided this one was going to be different. I*irst she found a branch of a scrub oak and _ sprayed it with bright yellow paint. It was planted securely in a solid foundation of plaster of Paris. Instead of flowers, her yellow oak tree blossomed with copper "Chore Girls," dozens of them. Page 392 A DIFFERENT KIND OF BRIDAL SHOWER 393 The tree was placed in a copper jardiniere which had been filled with moss and greens. Scattered here and there on the table were chore girls, as if a little breeze had blown them down to rest on the pretty yellow cloth with its white embroidery inserts. Sentinels made of wooden-handled stirrers marked the places for each invited guest. Their bow ties were made of stiff white paper, and perky little chef hats made of crepe paper and banded with stiff white paper reposed jauntily above the smiling faces. The eyes, nose, and mouth on each had been done with poster paint. The guests spent the afternoon embroidering dish towels and hemming dust cloths. Each had been asked to bring along with her kitchen shower gift for the bride, a favorite condiment with a recipe in which to use it. 'These were all placed in a clothes basket, which was the gift from the hostess, and presented to the guest of honor after lunch. This kitchen shower was unique and all of the guests had a delightful time. Neigh bors Vilate R. McAllister Arms folded, shoulders touching, row on row, Erect and proud, the city dwellings stand— Across the acres country homes reach out On either side, a friendly, clasping hand. ERRATA MAGAZINE, HONOR ROLL In the Magazine Honor Roll for 1953, printed in the May issue, a mistake was made in listing the Magazine representative for the New England Mission. The name of Carol Clark, Mission Auxihary Secretary, was given mstead of the name of Hattie B. Maughan, President, New England Mission Relief Society. The New England Mission received third highest rating among the missions and is to be congratulated upon its record of ninety-five per cent. SAFE METHOD OF FREEZING CORN Attention has been called to the inadvisability of following the method for freezing corn which appeared in the article "Gardening for the Home Freezer," April 1954, page 255. We are advised that the Bureau of Human Nutrition and Home Economics definitely does not recommend freezing corn without husking or scalding. Miss Elna Miller, Extension Service Nutritionist, Utah State Agricultural College, Logan, Utah, recommends that corn to be stored in the freezer should be husked, placed in boiling water, and boiled for seven to ten minutes for corn which is to be left on the cob. If corn is to be cut from the cob, a four-minute boiling period only is necessary. In both cases the corn should be cooled before placing in the freezer. Oe a Hlousecleaning Nostalgia Vernessa M. Nagle LMOST as though it were yesterday, the memories are crowding in—spring housecleaning time! No "lick and a promise" for that enterprise. Undertaken with the vehemence of a crusader, it swept its way from pantry to garret, and there was no retreating once the project was launched. Down came _ the base-burner; stovepipes were desooted; flues cleaned; the heaters and accessories stored for the summer. Up came the rag carpet, and the straw padding, pulverized and dusty, was carried away in_ tubs. Almost simultaneously the newly scrubbed floors were scattered with fresh straw. Again the carpets, shaken and rigorously beaten, were stretched over the straw padding, and the family walked, literally, again on air. Remember? A new "design," a combination stripe, scroll, and floral pattern wallpaper replaced the former faded prints, and again the wainscot gleamed with a new paint coat. From the beds disappeared the straw ticks, emptied, scrubbed on the washboard, left to whip in the breeze until dry, then rushed down to the strawstack to be once more inflated with fresh, pungent, taffycolored straw, and back to the beds before the dampness of sundown. The made-up bed, with freshly laundered comforters and clean feather pillows, was an invitation to luxury, provided one could ascend its new heights. With the laundered, stretched, and freshly tinted glass curtains up again, the house took on the aspects of prim civility. And then the housecleaning siege reached the grand finale—the fumigation stage. Sulphur fumes spelled disaster to any lingering germs that had escaped the scrubbing process. This procedure may be passe, but the memories of the "parlor" furniture on the. Front stoop, home-woven carpets draped across the clothesline, with every member of the family taking a "beating" turn, still give to one of those participants a pardonable, yet subtle feeling of accomplishment that today's more methodical, labor - saving methods seem unable to accomplish. > P ilg rir na ge Ida Isaacson I have been on a pilgrimage, And would you ask me where? It has been to the home of a daughter To help her and to share The joy of being at a crib-side And to watch the hours unfold— Be a part of the sweetest story That has ever yet been told. Page 394 \\\_FROM THE FIELD [~ Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1950, page 278, and the Handbook of Instructions, page 123. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Luella C. Ricks TACOMA STAKE (WASHINGTON), TACOMA FIRST WARD RELIEF SOCIETY ANNIVERSARY SOCIAL March 17, 1954 Left to right: Secretary Anona Ingalls; First Counselor Rosella Seal; President Bessie Groom; Second Counselor Lillie Parrish, At this social, historical events in the lives of the general presidents of Relief Society were presented by the former presidents of the ward Relief Society. The program was followed by a luncheon and dancing, with the husbands of the Relief Society members as guests. A gaily decorated birthday cake made a beautiful centerpiece for the table, which was decorated in the Relief Society colors, blue and gold. Luella C. Ricks is president of Tacoma Stake Relief Society. Page 395 396 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1954 Photograph submitted by Marion Pinkston LOS ANGELES STAKE (CALIFORNIA), HOLLYWOOD WARD SINGING MOTHERS Front row, seated, left to nght: Phyllis Sorber; Jeanne Marsh; Ruth Bishop; Betty Jacquet; Elva Anderson; Velma Dethloff, Dorothy Bacon; Emmeline Judd; Sloan Nibley; Stella Thompson; Mina Neilson; Lola 'Tanner; Ruth Fox; Ruth Regan; Johanna O'Connell; Ruth Douglas. Back row, standing, left to right: Lupe Lavell; Nelda Kelson; Nellie Lehr; Edith Kay; Veda Boothe; Magda Andreasen; Kathryn Webb; Agnes Campbell; Zoan Bean; Rose Halling; Opal Powell; Adelaide Clark; Jean Sterns; Thelma Knowles; Ella McDonald; Elinore Curtis; Gertrude West; Isabell Smith; Sarah Simmons. Marion Pinkston is president of Los Angeles Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Mima C. Hainsworth PORTLAND STAKE (OREGON) RELIEF SOCIETY SINGING MOTHERS FURNISH MUSIC FOR QUARTERLY CONFERIENCE, December 6, 1953 Mima C. Hainsworth, President, Portland Stake Relief Society, stands in the second row, sccond from the left; Louise Howell, Secretary, stands fourth from the left in the second row; Counsclor Veata Webster stands at the left in the third row; Myrtle Shirts, chorister, stands sixth from the left in the front row; Mary Smith, organist, at the right in the front row. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 397 Photograph submitted by LaPriel White TEXAS-LOUISIANA MISSION, WEST TEXAS DISTRICT ABILENE) BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY Front row, seated, left to nght: Dorothy Kelly; Addic Ilopkins, Second Counselor; Lola Graham, President; Patricia Jones, First € ounselor; Jessie Ghormley. Back row, standing, left to mght: June Brooks; Mattie Barber; Shirley Reynolds; Fern Duckworth; Ivy 'Tally; Greta Long; Claudette Stamps Phyllis D. Smith, President, lexas-Louisiana Mission Relief Society, reports that the women in this picture represent the total membership of the Abilene Branch Relief Society. The picture was taken on the day this organization held their first bazaar. Photograph submitted by Rula E. Frank SEVIER STAKE (UTAII), RICHFIELD THIRD WARD VISTTING TEACHERS WHO HAVE ACHIEVED ONE HUNDRED PER CENT FOR THE PAST THREE YEARS Front row, seated, left to right: President Elna C. Black; First Counselor Jessie B. Poulson; Second Counselor Mada Hansen; Secretary-T'reasurer Agnes Hopkins. Second row, standing at the left, visiting teacher message leader Luella Nelson. Ivy C. Ashby is president of Sevier Stake Relief Society. 398 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1954 Photograph submitted by Gladys B. Carmack SANTA BARBARA STAKE (CALIFORNIA) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE CONFERENCE, March 14, 1954 Gladys B. Carmack, President, Santa Barbara Stake Relief Society, stands next to the right on the third row; Ruth Wimer, chorister, is seated at the mght in the front row; Myral G. Clark, assistant stake organist, stands at the nght in the third row. A | Photograph submitted by Mildred E. Hansen FRANKLIN STAKE (IDAHO) RELIEF SOCIETY BOARD Front row, seated, left to right: Josie Condie, social science class leader; Mildred Oliverson, chorister; Audrey B. Hansen, Second Counselor; Matilda B. Gilbert, President; Nellie B. Brenchley, First Counselor; Mildred C. Hansen, Sccretary-Treasurer; LaDawn Hendricks, organist. Back row, standing, left to right: Nettie Niclson, visiting teacher message leader; Rhonda Poole, literature class leader; Lucretia Maughan, work director; Phyllis Kingsford, Magazine representative; Hazel Winger, theology class leader. Elly Jensen, standing at the right, has received a special assignment from the stake board. ' NOTES FROM THE FIELD 399 Photograph submitted by Thora Y. Larsen SALT LAKE STAKE (UTAH), FOURTEENTH WARD RELIEF SOCIETY VISITING TEACHERS ACHIEVE, A ONE HUNDRED PER CENT RECORD FOR TWO YEARS Front row, seated, left to right: Emma J. Williams; Beata J]. Howes; Anna M. Hamilton; Annie H. Erickson; Mary B Jensen, First Counselor. Back row, standing, left to nght: Thora Y. Larsen, President: Ida Sessions, visiting teacher supervisor; Charlotte Skidmore; Gardena <A. Baird: Anna Oakden; Willie B. Golsan; Mary A. Kirkham; Armenia Kynaston, Second Counselor, These women, whose ages range from seventy-onc to cighty-seven years (except for Sister Larsen), have served in their callmgs faithfully to achieve a one hundred per cent record in their districts, Sister Hamilton is an Indian Relief Socicty member. Sister Williams is the mother of Mary J. Wilson, a member of the gencral board of Relef Society. Marjone M. Ward is president of Salt Lake Stake Relief Society. Pasture Lot Grace Barker Wilson This corner of the pasture used to be Of smooth green velvet, hemmed by a pole fence To keep sleek mares. I had not thought to see The years could make so great a difference. Now only brambles grow to make a place Fit for a cottontail to hide. Here alll Else is deserted. Fence poles, for a space, Shine silver, and wild hollyhocks grow tall. LESSON DEPARTMENT Teaching Aids for the 1954-55 Lessons Edith S. Elliott Member, General Board of Relief Society Relief Society lessons lends itself to various types of teaching aids. 'he general board offers the following suggestions and ideas to help the class leaders present the maximum in teaching perfection. 'The class leaders must use good judgment in their selections. Audio-visual aids are nothing more than ways and means to clarify a point, stimulate thinking, save time and words, emphasize, and remind. Unless an audio-visual device furthers the lesson importance and interest, it will confuse and clutter and should not be used. 'Teachers should be absolutely ruthless in the selection of lesson helps. A few "straight-to-the-point" aids add enrichment to a topic, while too many half-hearted ones detract from the message and weary the class members. We desire to refer you to two excellent articles published in The Relief Society Magazine, written by Leone G. Layton, a member of the Page 400 Tk material for the 1954-55 general board: ""The Value and Use of Audio Visual Aids in Relief Society," January 1953, page 27; and "Suggestions on 'Teaching Aids for the 1953-54 Lessons," June 1953, page 418. The following articles will be helpful: "Why Use Films," by Henry ALpous Dixon, The Instructor, September 1952, page 310. - "Mount Your Pictures," by C1LARriBEL W. Atpous, The Instructor, March 1953, page 88. "Making and Operating a Hectograph," by Hazet West Lewis, The Instructor, April 1953, page 119. "Using Pictures in Teaching," by MarloN G. Merktey, The Instructor, September 1952, page 266. "Teaching Techniques," by CLariBEeL W. Axpous and Inez WirseEcxk, Convention Instructor, 1953. All of the above are on sale at the Deseret Sunday School Union, so North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah, at twenty cents a copy. Many colleges and universities have audio-visual aids departments, with large stocks of material for LESSON DEPARTMENT rent. We advise stake leaders to acquaint themselves with the aids from these sources. By way of review for some, or as new material for others, the following general list of items and equipment that will help to dress up the lessons and add sparkle to their presentation is submitted: Posting charts Blackboards. Whiteboards Bulletin boards Flannel boards Railway cardboard Poster board Large sheets of butcher papcr Poster paints Crayons (regular) Large shipping crayons Water colors Colored pencils Colored ink Colored wax pencils Colored chalk Felt pen Stick figure charts Growing charts Charts in general Maps Graphs Pictures—large as possible Cartoons Tear sheets—magazine and newspaper Projection screen Films and projector for same Slides and slide projector Opaque projector Hectograph Records and record player Thumb tacks Scotch tape Sticky tabs This is by no means a complete list, but will serve to give you some ideas. May we caution you to be careful not to mar the walls of our meetinghouses in displaying any of the teaching aids? Large display or bulletin boards can be used for back- 401 ground for any materials requiring thumb tacks or Scotch tape. Do not think you must try out all of the suggestions in this listing. Choose the onesthat will make your topic the most meaningful. Preparation is so important. Sec that your aid is neat, suited for adults, clear, large enough to meet the needs of the size of the audience, and definitely to the point. May we add that a spark of humor, when appropriate, is wonderfully refreshing. We suggest that the objective of each lesson be displayed prominently on a blackboard or bulletin board. This will keep the class members reminded of it and serve as a constant reminder and guide to the class leader. Theology Lessons Place the lesson objective on the blackboard or display it in some prominent place. For our Book of Mormon course of study we can still obtain valuable help from the Reynolds chart and the growing chart. 'The latter may be mere character listings or characters listed with a very short identification following each name. Do not attempt to use maps, because we do not know where the detailed Book of Mormon activities took place. Remember, this is not a course in geography. We are making a study of the great characters and their teachings which will aid us in either gaining or furthering our testimonies of the gospel of Jesus Christ. The Primary Association is publishing more of The Book of Mormon pictures by Arnold Friberg, in The Children's Friend. 'They are 402 admirably suited to our lessons, and will be: "Ammon Defends the Flocks of King Lamoni," March 1954; "Helaman Leads an Army of Two Thousand Ammonite Youths," April 1954; "General Moroni," January 1955. Visiting Teaching For those who are not at home in their districts the visiting teachers can leave a visual aid. Write the objective and its scriptural source on the back of the "Notice of Visit" slip. Leave it in a safe place, so that the family may know not only that a call has been made, but that there is a lesson thought which may be pursued in the home. Work Meeting The lessons for the work meeting for 1954-55 are titled "Selection, Care, and Use of Household Equipment." Appliance departments in stores will have quantities of literature which can be used for visual aids. Home economics departments of colleges and universities have good suggestions that are valuable to homemakers. Watch for pertinent articles suitable for this course in local and national magazines. Literature Lessons Place the lesson objective on the blackboard or display it in some prominent place. Teaching aids for Victorian literature are almost limitless. The Perty Pictures may be secured in several sizes. 'Their catalogue may be obtained by stake leaders by writing The Perry Pictures, Incorporated, Malden, Massachusetts. There are many book and magazine illustrations that will add interest to the lessons. The marginal RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1954 sketches in our literature textbook can be enlarged and used to advantage. 'The book entitled Literary England, by David E. Scherman and Richard Wilcox, published by Random House, has many beautiful scenes concerning the period of our study. Films and recordings are accessible and help to create atmosphere of the period. 'The lesson previews are appearing far enough in advance to acquaint the class leaders with the year's course of study, so that they may be alert to radio, television, and motion picture programs which will greatly enhance their lessons. Social Science Lessons Place the lesson objective on the blackboard or display it in some prominent place. For the 1954-55 social science lessons, Class leaders will be delighted with the visual aids found in one of our texts, Your Rugged Constitution. The illustrations are simple, direct, informative, and entertaining. Class leaders may desire to enlarge some of the pertinent pictorial information so that the whole class may enjoy and learn from it. May we remind you of the portraits and short sketches of the signers of the Constitution found in The Relief Society Magazine for October 1953, page 649. Also, the graphs and charts to be found in both high school and college textbooks on United States history or United States Government and political science will be helpful. Parchment copies suitable for framing of "The Declaration of Independence," "The Constitution of the United States," and the "Bill of Rights" are available at $1.00 a set (3 Documents of Freedom) from Jeff Elliot Craftsmen, Station C, Flushing 67, New York. Theology—Characters and Teachings of The Book of Mormon Preview of Lessons for 1954-55 Elder Leland H. Monson S previously pointed out, the course of lessons "Characters and Teachings of The Book of Mormon" has been prepared for the purpose of encouraging the Relief Society members to read and study the book. The textbook of instruction is The Book of Mormon, out new witness for the divinity of Jesus Christ. The Book of Mormon contains many characters who looked forward with intense faith to the coming of the Son of Man in the meridian of time. Among these characters stands Alma, one of the great missionaries in the history of the Nephite civilization. Talking to the people of Gideon, Alma defined what we mean by the divinity of Christ, saying:. He shall be born of Mary, at Jerusalem which is the land of our forefathers, she being a virgin, a precious and chosen vessel, who shall be overshadowed and conceive by the power of the Holy Ghost, and bring forth a son, yea, even the Son of God (Alma 7:10). Jesus, according to Alma, was to have a mortal mother, from whom he inherited the capacity to die; and an immortal father, from whom he inherited the power to overcome death. Jesus became the Only Begotten Son of God in the flesh. This concept of the divinity of Christ is all important to Mormonism, for it gives to mankind an authoritative message. The Ten Commandments and the Sermon on the Mount become, not man's gift to civilization, but God's gift. Only such an authoritative message possesses the urgency and power to activate the lives of men and women. No woman can prayerfully study the work of Alma and of his brethren, Amulek, Ammon, Aaron, Omni, and Himner, without having her faith in Jesus Christ kindled and strengthened. Alma defines clearly and definitely how faith is developed and nourished. A careful study of Alma, chapter 32, by each class leader before beginning this year's course will serve to help each one to teach faith-promoting lessons. This should be the aim of each class leader. The doctrines and messages which Alma and his brethren gave to the people are fundamental concepts of the gospel as we know it today. These principles should be thoroughly studied. A knowledge of them will help us to understand the men who accepted and taught them. The lessons for this year cover the period just preceding the coming of Christ to the people on this continent. In our study of them, we shall see many fascinating and dramatic scenes depicting the faith of the characters who guided the destiny of the Nephite civilization during this crucial period. Fage 403 404 Class leaders should strive to make these characters and incidents live long in the memories of their class members. Narratives of specific battles should receive emphasis only. As they serve to reveal the characters of the men who engaged in them. In the first lesson, the class leader should make certain that she connects the lessons of this year with the last lesson given the previous spring, in order that the narrative continuity of The Book of Mormon will be clear. The reading text for the year is from Alma g through Alma 63. To receive credit in the reading project of The Book of Mormon, a sister must read these chapters during the year in which these lessons are studied. The titles and objectives for our lessons this year are as follows: Lesson 25. Alma and Amulek (Alma, chapters 9-16) Objective: To show how Alma and Amulek, in preaching repentance to the inhabitants of Ammonihah, were sustained by the Lord. Lesson 26. Missionary Activity of Ammon (Alma, chapters 17-20; 21:18-23) Objective: To show the change which takes place in the souls of men when the light of the gospel enters. Lesson 27. Missions of Other Sons of Mosiah (Alma, chapter 21:1-8; chapters 22-28) RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1954 Objective: To show the results of exercising faith in one's self, faith in a people, and faith in one's God. Lesson 28. Further Teachings of Alma and Amulek (Alma, chapters 29- 35) Objective: To show the great influence of prayer and repentance in changing the lives of people. Lesson 29. Instructions of Alma to His Sons (Alma, chapters 36-42) Objective: To show how Alma's admonitions to his sons emphasize that only through keeping the commandments of God can we achieve happiness in this life and joy in the world to come. Lesson 30. Moroni and the Nephite Armies Serve Their Country and Their Church (Alma, chapters 43-49) Objective: To show that the Lord will not suffer his people to be destroyed, if they remain righteous and uphold the truth. Lesson 31. Helaman, Son of Alma, And His Two Thousand Sons (Alma, chapters 50-58) Objective: To show the power of mothers in teaching their children to obey the commandments and not to doubt, but to put their faith in the Lord for their preservation. Lesson 32. Peace Comes to the Nephites Through Righteousness (Alma, chapters 59-63) Objective: To show the necessity of maintaining righteousness within a country in order to withstand the enemies without. Visiting eather ITlessages Book of Mormon Gems of Truth Preview of Lessons for 1954-55 Leone O. Jacobs HE series "Book of Mormon Gems of Truth" will be continued during 1954-55 and will, as previously, deal with the portion of The Book of Mormon covered by the theology department (Alma, chapter 9 through Alma 63). Many of life's most profitable lessons are to be found within this book of scripture. Some of these lessons will be used by the visiting teachers this year as topics for discussion in the homes they visit. The Book of Alma, comprising sixty-three chapters, is the longest book in The Book of Mormon. It contributes enlightenment on many gospel subjects and offers practical advice which can be incorporated into our lives today. 'This is the purpose of these messages—to encourage Latter-day Saints to put into practice in their lives the topics discussed. Alma was one of the greatest missionaries in Book of Mormon history. He has been compared to Paul, the apostle, in regard to the miraculous manner of his conversicn and the zeal which he exhibited in teaching and defending the gospel of Christ. The passages selected include the words of Alma and of three other men of great faith, Amulek, Ammon, and Pahoran, whose words express in a sincere and appealing way their desire to serve the Lord and bring souls to repentance. The general board again urges visiting teachers to commit these quotations to memory, so that they may be discussed in the homes with greater ease. It is recommended that the sisters in the homes be drawn into the conversation whenever possible. If they participate with ideas and experiences of their own, the visits will prove more profitable. It is suggested that visiting teachers write on the back of "Notice of Visit" slips (left when the family is not at home) a notation giving the respective objective and scripture reference for the visiting teacher message of the month. The messages and their objectives for the eight months follow: Lesson 25. "Now My Brethren, We See 4 God Is Mindful of Every People, Whatsoever Land They May Be in; Yea, He Numbereth His People, and His Bowels of Mercy Are Over All the Earth..." (Alma 26:37). Objective: To assure us that God watches over: all his children. Lesson 26. "But If Ye Will Nourish the Word, Yea, Nourish the Tree as It Beginneth to Grow, by Your Faith With Great Diligence, and With Patience, Looking Forward to the Fruit Thereof, It Shall Take Root; and Behold It Shall Be a Tree Springing Up Unto Everlasting Life" (Alma 32:41). Page 405 406 Objective: To point out that faith and great diligence are required in order to gain life everlasting. Lesson 27. "For Behold, This Life Is the Time for Men to Prepare to Meet God; Yea, Behold the Day of This Life Is the Day for Men to Perform Their Labors" (Alma 34:32). Objective: To stress the necessity of working out our salvation here and now, in mortality. Lesson 28. "... For That Same Spirit Which Doth Possess Your Bodies at the Time That Ye Go Out of This Life, That Same Spirit Will Have Power to Possess Your Body in That Eternal World" (Alma 34:34). Objective: To point out that whatever spirit possesses our bodies in this life will be with us after death. Lesson 29. "... For Just as Surely as This Director Did Bring Our Fathers, by Following Its Course, to the Promised Land, Shall the Words of Christ, If We Follow Their Course, Carry Us Beyond This Vale of Sorrow into a Far Better Land of Promise" (Alma 37:45). RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1954 Objective: To point out that everyone has the power within himself to reach "the land of promise" by living by the words of Christ. Lesson 30. "... As Ye Have Begun to Teach the Word Even So I Would That Ye Should Continue to Teach.... Use Boldness, But Not Overbearance; and Also See That Ye Bridle All Your Passions, That Ye May Be Filled with Love..." (Alma 38:10, 12). Objective: To show the need. Of being courageous in teaching the word of God and being filled with love. Lesson 31. "For That Which Ye Do Send Out Shall Return Unto You Again, and Be Restored..." (Alma 41:15). Objective: To lend incentive to the performance of good deeds. Lesson 32. "... My Soul Standeth Fast in That Liberty in the Which God Hath Made Us Free" (Alma 61:9). Objective: To show that we must hold fast to that God-given liberty which ensures our freedom. Work IT lecting—Selection, Care, and Use of Household Equipment (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Preview of Lessons for 1954-55 Rhea H. Gardner HE mismanagement of family finance has repeatedly been given as the most common cause of marital discord. 'The majority of homemakers, especially in their early years, find it to be their most difficult problem. To make a mistake in buying a gadget may not be too serious, unless it is repeated frequently. How- LESSON DEPARTMENT ever, as the dollar investment increases, such waste becomes truly significant. Because most of us are confronted rather frequently with decisions in making a choice of some piece of household equipment, a course of study dealing with the selection, care, and use of household equipment has been prepared. Efficient use of equipment includes the correct selection, arrangement, operation, and care of each appliance, so that the homemaker and her helpers may accomplish the maximum amount of work with the minimum amount of effort in the shortest possible time. Make the planning of your equipment purchases a family affair. Consider the needs of individuals and the family as a whole. If, before you actually begin shopping for a piece of equipment, you have determined your present and future needs, your ability to pay, and the available space, shopping time will be shortened and later disappointments will be minimized. The need for giving more serious consideration to the safety features of all equipment is constantly being emphasized, as accidents in the home continue to rise. 'Vhe National Safety Council reports that in 1955 approximately 5,700 persons died and 850,000 persons were injured in kitchen accidents alone. Kitchens and laundry rooms that are not free from accident hazards are not efficient. 'These are the rooms wherein most of the largest pieces of electrical equipment are used. Therefore, the first lesson in the current series will deal with safety in the home. If, as a result of these lessons, you 407 and all members of your family derive more satisfaction from the things you buy for your home, enjoy better health, have more time and energy for the companionship of each other, and reduce home accidents, the main objectives will have been realized. It is also hoped that these objectives will help you receive more value from the dollars you spend for household equipment. Economic values, important as they are to most of us, should be of secondary consideration to human values in presenting the lessons. Since there is no one textbook that can be recommended for use by class leaders, they are encouraged to seck reliable information from current publications and periodicals to supplement that which will appear in the Magazine. An announcement made early in 1954 stated that the advertising budgets of most manufacturers of consumer goods would be increased ten per cent for the current vear. 'This followed an earlier prediction, by persons of competence, that the income of the average family would be smaller than in the year just passed. With stronger appeals being made through each of the many mediums of advertising, Consumers must screen, more carefully than ever before, the advertising claims which they see, hear, and read concerning the worth of the goods they buy. The real value and success of these lessons will come through well-directed discussions and use of visual aids. The lesson titles for 1954-55 follow: 1. Home Safety 408 2. Sewing Machines 3. Washers and Dryers 4. Irons and Ironers 5. Ranges RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1954 6. Home Freezers and Refrigerators 7. Vacuums 8. Utensils for Surface Cookery ieee Literature of England Preview of Lessons for 1954-55 Elder Briant S. Jacobs ACCORDING to Matthew Arnold, literature is "the best that has been known and thought in the world." Such a definition does not acknowledge barriers of race,. Sex, place, or time—or we might put it another way by saying that the best is always applicable to the present. This is particularly true in Victorian literature's relationship to our own age: it almost tells us more about ourselves than we might wish to know. But this great similarity only proves anew that those who, in any age, aspire to "see steadily and see it whole" at once achieve, in some degree, a communion with the best. As you will recall, it was last year that we discussed the so-called "typical" Victorians: Tennyson and Dickens. If we continue further with this "easy" definition of Victorianism, Macaulay is too severely concerned with history and has too disciplined a style to be in the central Victorian tradition; Browning likewise was too intellectual and difficult (besides, he had no reading audience until the end of his life); and Charlotte Bronte admittedly was read by Victorians precisely because her novels differed so widely from accepted patterns of Victorian fiction. Who, then, remain as typical? 'Tennyson does completely, and Dickens in spots. All the rest, for one reason or another, were un-Victorian writers who happened to write during Queen Victoria's reign. There is no single label which can be applied collectively to this year's authors. 'They are as mixed and varied a group as was ever assembled —as various as was the Victorian period itself—and as our own. Where can one find greater contrast in style, for example, than to go from Carlyle and Ruskin with their lyrical, almost bombastic power; through Christina Rossetti and Emily Bronte, with their mystical intensities; through Lewis Carroll's hilarity to Matthew Arnold's ordered tones, deep and austere? And while George Eliot finds beauty and peace in Nature, Emily Bronte finds, in Nature, terror; Ruskin sees Art in Nature; Carlyle sees Work, and Arnold sees a force less than Man. While Carlyle and Arnold defend the aristocratic virtues, William S. Gilbert pokes deliberate fun at them; Dante Rossetti and Emily Bronte ignore them, and George Eliot contrasts the humble, honest peasant with decaying royalty. Rossetti and Ruskin would maintain that Beauty is all; Carlyle and Arnold and Eliot esteem most highly a moral humanity; and Emily Bron- LESSON DEPARTMENT te defies the social, cultural, and religious values and institutions of her time to find her strength within her own heart and mind. Such a list of contrasts could be extended indefinitely. Again, we travel forth in merry, deep, tense, provocative company. If only we will attend and study until we hear these authors' voices, their problems will be ours, their best hopes will stand ready to be considered by our own age; and our lives will be deeper and fuller for the experience. Again the text will be The Literature of England, Il, Woods, Watt, Anderson. The order of this year's lessons is as follows: Lesson 41. Thomas Carlyle (1795- 1881) 'Text, pp. 464-501 ) Objective: To meet Carlvle and allow him to be heard, that we might absorb the power of his voice while considering the depth of his beliefs. Lesson 42. John Ruskin (1819-1900) (Text, pp. 501-527) Objective: To relate Ruskin's artistic and moral opinions to the problems of Victorian England which so aroused him to action. Lesson 43. Dante Gabriel (1828- 1882) and Christina Rossetti (1830- 1894) (Text, pp. 745-760; 783-797 ) 409 Objective: To understand the nature of the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood's reaction to Victorianism, and to enjoy the poetic art of the Rossettis. Lesson 44. Emily Bronte (1818- 1848) (Text, pp. 716-720) Objective: 'To gain an insight into the inner life of Emily Bronte and to appreciate her suffering, courage, and power. Lesson 45. Wuthering Heights by Emily Bronte Objective: To become better acquainted with the novel as an_artform, and to weigh and consider Emily Bronte and Wuthering Heights, as they relate to us. Lesson 46. Victorian Humiorists (Text, pp. 826-8393) Objective: To appreciate humor better and to understand the necessity and value of humor in our own lives. Lesson 47. Adam Bede by George Ehot (Mary Ann Evans) (1819- 1880) (Text, pp. 26, 402, 409, 411, 422, 426) To enjoy Adam Bede and gain a grcater understanding of some universal human problems. Lesson 48. Matthew Arnold (1822- 1888) (Text, pp. 726-748) Objective: To weigh and consider Matthew Arnold's considerable contribution to English literature. <> Ml irro r La he Vesta N. Lukei As deep As tallest tree Or highest cloud it holds, This lake reveals no sounded depth, No stone. encal CvGaaniae—"T te Constitution of the United States Preview of Lessons for 1954-55 Elder Albert R. Bowen FE, live in a world of unrest and conflicting ideologies. Forces are at work which are bringing about vast and far-reaching changes in our world. Those forces are at work in this country and some of them are at complete variance with our way of life. 'This is especially true in the field of politics and government. Unless these forces and ideologies are propertly understood and evaluated, they will eventually engulf us. Without a knowledge of history and the institutions of freedom which form the foundation of our liberty, the struggle to maintain and preserve liberty in America becomes immeasurably more difficult. This is true because our political institutions are under attack as being outmoded or unsuited to modern life. As Latter-day Saints know that the Constitution was divinely inspired, it is their responsibility to prove these attacks unwarranted. A general knowledge of the provisions of the Constitution of the United States is basic to a proper understanding and appreciation of the institutions of freedom. For this coming year, therefore, we shall be concerned with the Constitution as a document. It is not expected that the intricate and technical aspects of the Constitution shall be mastered. It will be sufficient for our purpose to learn the gencral principles which Page 410 not so. The Constitution lays down. It is upon these Constitutional doctrines and principles that our national life has been built. A general knowledge and understanding of the Constitution should not be reserved exclusively for experts in political science, law, sociology, or economics. Many people have the impression that only the experts should be concerned with its study because lay people cannot comprehend its meaning. This is The Constitution is not written in obscure or difficult language. Its broad basic principles and provisions yield readily to a little careful thought. Furthermore, it may be said that a study of the Constitution can be fascinating, stimulating, and profitable. At the time the Constitution was presented to the people of the naion for adoption, it became the topic of national debate and discussion. It was widely and thoroughly talked about and debated among the people of every state. Americans of that day became students of the Constitution and, with such understanding, its adoption and ratification were a foregone conclusion. In order that every Relief Society sister may read the Constitution, it is the plan of the general board to print before the respective social science lessons for this year, those LESSON DEPARTMENT portions of the Constitution which will be studied in the lesson. The textbooks: Finptay, Bruce anp Estuer: Your Rugged Constitution; Stanford University Press, Stanford, California. Norton, THomas James: The Constitution of the United States, Its Source and Its Application; America's Future, Inc., 210 East 43rd Street, New York 17, New York. (The Rugged Constitution _1s referred to as Y. R. C.; Norton's book as C. Of U. S.) The following is a list of the lessons and objectives for Part II of this study, The Constitution of the United States: Lesson 8. Fundamental and Basic Principles and the Preamble of the Constitution. Objective: To consider the purposes of a constitution as the foundation of government and the manner in which those purposes are defined and provided for in the Constitution of the United States. Also to consider the purposes uppermost in the minds of the founding fathers in drafting the Constitution of the United States. Lesson 9. Its Form and Content— The Legislative Department—Article I (Texts, Y. R. C., pp. 14-109; C. Of U. S., pp. 7-97.) Objective: To consider the powers, functions, offices, and purposes of the Legislative Department and _ its telation to the other departments of the Government of the United States Lesson 10. Its Form and Content— The Executive (Article II) and Judicial (Article III) Departments— The Doctrine of Judicial Review 411 (Texts, Y. R. C., pp. 112-155; C. Of U. S., pp. 99-153) Objective: To consider the powers, functions, offices, and purposes of the Executive and Judicial Departments and their relation to the Legislative Department and to each other. Also to consider the great doctrine of "Judicial Review." Lesson 11. Its Form and Content— Articles IV, V, VI, and VII, and the Bill of Rights — First Four Amendments (Texts, Y. R. C., pp. 157-203; C. Of U. S., pp. 156-210) Objective: To study the relationship between the National Government and the states: the provisions for amendment of the Constitution; the miscellaneous provisions; and the first Four Amendments of the Bill of Rights. Lesson 12. The Bill of Rights— Amendments Five Through Ten (Texts, Y. R. C., pp. 204-217; C. Of U. S., pp. 210-227) Objective: To give further consideration to the Bill of Rights as a guarantee and protection to the rights and liberties of individual citizens. Lesson 13. Amendments Eleven Through Fifteen (Texts, Y. R. C. 219-237; C. Of U. S., pp. 228-251) Objective: To study the Amendments to the Constitution which were adopted following the Bill of Rights down through the Civil War to 1870. Lesson 14. Amendments Sixteen Through Twenty-Two (Texts, Y. R. C., pp. 238-269; C. Of U. S., pp. 251- 263) Objective: To study the Amendments to the Constitution since 1913. 412 ORGAN BOOKS for the Ward Organist ae At the Console—Felton.................... 1.50 —_- Chancel Echoes—Felton.................._ 1.50 aed Chapel Organist—Perry.................... 1.50 a Devotional Album—Asper.............. 2.50 —_— Music For the Consonata—Vol. 1 and 2—Behnke.......................-ea. 1.50 — Organ Melodies—Landon................. 1.50 —_ Organ Player—Orem........................ 2.00 —= Organ Voluntaries—Volumes 1} and 2—Schreiner _.......0.-2..-.-ee-eeeea. 3.50 pen Twenty-five Pieces for the Small Organ—Schreiner................2cos00- 2.50 WE PAY POSTAGE — Music Sent on Approval — Use this advertisement as your order blank DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 45-47 South Main Salt Lake City 1, Utah Please send the music indicated above. C On Approval 1 Charge © Money Enclosed Name. | | | Address i} t U FIRST OF ALL — RELIABILITY ssn Mase Co MAIN STREET SALT LAKE CITY 1, UTAH RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1954 When Usewed rom a Distance Nora Yaros (EE breakers crashed against the shore with such force the beach literally shook beneath me as I lay on the sands sunning myself. As the waves would mount to an awesome height and dash themselves into a swirling, churning, angry surf, I was overwhelmed with the realization of the tremendous power and potential destructive force of the ocean. Particularly at night did the waves appear as huge, black mountains advancing menacingly and relentlessly upon a mere human being. What a happy contrast is the feeling engendered by the sight of the ocean from the highway paralleling it—the waters gently swelling until they caress the shore with a light, frothy touch. From a distance, and especially from a high point of view, the ocean seems benign and gentle, luring one to frolic in its briny waters. Life's problems, crashing against human frailty, seeming to be insurmountable and without solution, too, lose their crushing power and invincibility when viewed from a distance — with just a murmur instead of a thunderous roar as accompaniment, atstes Christie Lund Coles Betrayed by their Waxen, chaste Simplicity, Their beauty Is valued lightly. Yet, slim-petalled And bronze-hearted, They are lovely And reassuring As the myriad stars That return nightly. is invited to LEADERSHIP WEEK JUNE 21 TO 25 No matter what position you hold in the Church, there is a place for you at this inspiring event. @ GREAT SPEAKERS—Members of the General Authorities and other great leaders will speak daily. ACCOMMODATIONS~—Stay right on the campus in comfortable rooms, and enjoy hearty, inexpensive meals. TOURS AND RECREATION — Tours will be conducted to industries and scenic spots. Plenty of opportunity for fun and fellowship. @® EXHIBITS—Valuable exhibits and movies will be on display almost constantly, INTENSIVE COURSES—Yours for the taking: Executive Leadership, Relief Society Aids, Genealogy Institute, Family Life Institute, Science, Travel, Music, Dance, Speech, Writing. FREE—There is no charge for the hundreds of classes. Take any you choose. BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY PROVO, UTAH Page 413 414 The Pride of — Your Library! Your Relief Society Magazines when handsomely bound into permanent yearly volumes acquire new value as excellent reference books. Just $2.50 (Cloth Binding) $3.50 (Leather Binding) Per Volume If necessary to mail them to you, the following postage rates will apply. Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles oo. Ccc cccesecesessecceeeceeeeeceecoee.25 150 to 300 miles occ cece.28 300 to 600 miles 2. Cece 034 600 to 1000 miles 2 lecccceeeeeeeseeee 42 1400 to 1800 miles 20 060 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press 31 Richards St. Salt Lake City, Utah Phone 4-2581 fo %@) RELIEF SOCIETY SINGING MOTHERS Get Your Music From Us! INCLINE YOUR EAR. OPEN OUR EYES.. THE LORD IS MY SHEPHERD.. JUBILEE GRANT ME DEAR LORD.......... HOW LOVELY ARE THY DWELLINGS.....16 ETERNAL LIFE ooo ee.16 IF YE LOVE ME ww..20 — We Have Also — THANKS BE TO GOD ooo cecessee 16 ORDER NOW! GLEN BROS. MUSIC CO. 74 So. Main St. Salt Lake City RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1954 She Scra 7 Post Elizabeth Williamson WHEN two kittens arrived at our home they began sharpening their claws on the upholstery. We shooed them away time after time, but they continued to select the better pieces of furniture until we felt the situation was desperate. Finally we found in the basement a piece of 4" x 4" lumber about fifteen inches in length. We mounted this on a base, nailed it to the base, tacked on some scraps of rug material which matched our rugs, and decorated the post with small jingle bells, a catnip mouse, and a rubber ball. These objects attracted the kittens, and soon they were playing with the bells and discovered, to their delight (and ours), that the rug covering was just what they liked for claw sharpening. Whenever they started for the chairs, we took them back to their post. At last they seemed to understand, and now they use the post exclusively. This idea might be used by a group of children who want a project for their club or a gift that is a little different. 1000 to 1400 miles Over 1800 miles 00.000... BesR NTRS at eons se cuscsersaa-2asee OL sncctecsecceseaee 009 From Near and Sar It is always a stimulation and a special treat to find a travel article by Willard Luce. To my way of thinking he is one of the ablest travel writers in the West today. After reading one of his articles, I am always inspired to see the place he talks about and have frequently done just that. These articles add color and variety to a wonderful publication, a very complete publication. —Manijane Morris Corinne, Utah It truly was a thrill for me to see the picture of my beloved mother, Martha H. Porter, in the March issue of The Relief Society Magazine. She was _pictured with other dear sisters who have been Relief Society presidents in my home town of Orderville, Utah. Along with years of service in the Church and community, mother has given birth to thirteen children (I am number 12), and I would like to take this opportunity to extend my thankfulness and appreciation to the Relief Society, which has certainly been an influence for good in our fami's life. —Laura Porter Brew Sacramento, California I enjoy the poetry printed in our Magazine very much, and it is my hope that eventually I'll be able to get my thoughts across in the wonderful way that Eva Willes Wangsgard does. Such a_ truly beautiful mind! —Charlene Scott Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania I have had the Magazine in my home for many years, way back in the beginning when it was called The Woman's Exponent. Due to my ninety-six years of age, I cannot be active, so the coming of the Magazine each month is like a visit from dear friends, and it keeps me up on the work and happenings of the great Relief Society. I enjoy the splendid articles, stories, lessons, and poetry. —Dessie N. Middleton Los Angeles, California We think that The Relief Society Magazine is one that has no comparison for its size. We look forward to it each month and read it from cover to cover. In the March issue for 1954, we saw on the page with the heading "Sixty Years Ago" a piece by Alta Witbeck entitled "A Plea for More Kindness Among Women." The thought came to us that a plea for more kindness among women is needed today as well as sixty years ago. There are so many needing a helping hand in this world of ours, not only in a material way but also in a spiritual way. A kindly act, a pleasant smile, a word of encouragement— let us do our utmost to help. —Grace Tippets Wright and Iona Wilkins Packer Lordsburg, New Mexico The Magazine has long been a joy to me. I have read it from cover to cover since joining the Relief Society some years ago, and, even as a child, I received inspiration and enjoyment from the fiction and poetry found in it. Often my husband has come in to find me in tears, and his remark is always, "Been reading The Rehef Society Magazine again, I see!" —Clara J. DeGraft Heber City, Utah I hate to miss an issue as I enjoy our little book so very much. I am a convert to the Church, and have never had the pleasure of going to church and Relief Society as I have had in our Church. I am proud that I can be called a Mormon. It is a wonderful feeling. —Mrs. Fred Hale Thermopolis, Wy oming I enjoy all of the Magazine, having had time during a recent illness to read some of the numbers I had laid aside when every minute of my time was occupied. We from Malad enjoy the work of Mabel Jones Gabbott. Her work is so clever and easy to understand. —Katie Harris Lewis Malad, Idaho Page 415 THE WORLD'S FINEST 4 PIANOS ¥ / —— Mason & Hamlin ia - The Stradivari of Pianos —_ => —=_ KN ABE You can still enter the ~—_>- EVERETT TYPEWRITING CLASS 6:30 to 8:00 p. M. On Monday and Thursday. Cable-Nelson Soon after you enroll in this special and Church work, as well as your own personal records. Get together a group learn at your Chureh business college. LDS pustvess coutece 70 North Main—Salt Lake City, Utah Pioneer Piano People 70 S. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH THE GENERAL BOARD THE HISTORIC TRAIN ee ee | Leaves Salt Lake City AUGUST 6TH Complete Service for FOR THE GREAT ay a P A G E A N T at the Hill Cumorah as well as Denver, INDEPENDENCE, NAUVOO, CARTHAGE, Chicago, Including for temple wear oMoaans Cleveland, KIRTLAND TEMPLE, Ni- @ Women's Shoes agara Falls, Palmyra, SHARON,. VERMONT, Boston, New York, ® Men's Shoes Washington, and MOUNT VERNON, etc. Hours Monday Through Friday en VIDA FOX CLAWSON 966 East South Temple ND 416 The Piano of the Metropolitan Opera Finest Toned Spinet Piano Built Finest Low ls! Piano Built All OWisiittite At Beesley Musi si¢ ('0. 8:30 a. M. — 6:00 p. M. 40 North Main St., Salt Lake City 1, Utah Telephone 4-2511, Extension 244 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1954 Relief Society at LDS class, you'll be typing your genealogy from your own ward and enroll in the same class. You'll have fun while you For complete details write or phone... SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Telephone © 4-2017 RELIEF SOCIETY TEXT BOOKS 1954-1955 BOOK OF MORMON 1. Missionary Edition — plastic $.50 (By mail postage 12c) 2. Missionary Cloth Edition $1.25 3. Library Edition $2.00 4. YOUR RUGGED CONSTITUTION Bruce Allyn Findlay and Esther Blair Findlay You'll find this page-by-page analysis of our Constitution a wonderful study book. The clever illustrations alone will help you grasp many of the principles contained in the Constitution of the world's greatest democracy. Add 10c postage. $1.50 5. THE CONSTITUTION OF THE U. S.— Its Sources and Its Application Thomas James Norton (Paper edition.) Add 8c postage. $.69 6. LITERATURE OF ENGLAND—Vol. II Woods, Watt, Anderson This generous volume contains the best selection _of.. English literature from the time of the RoZ mantic Poets — such as Shelley, Wordsworth, and Keats — to World War II. $5.50 25c postage. 7. ADAM BEDE George Eliot Here is a book filled with marvelous characterizations, vivid descriptions, and a richness of philosophy. A masterpiece. §$.95 Add 12c¢ postage. 8. WUTHERING HEIGHTS Emily Bronte (Pocket edition) This is one of the greatest romantic tragedies of all times... 0 Cathy and Heathcliff... Of the wild desolate moors... Of the lives warped by pride and selfishness. $.35 8c postage. - Salt Lake Tes Gentlemen: Enclosed you will find ( ) check ( ) money order ( ) charge to my account $............. Eecceececeeccceeeeeeee for the following encircled (numbered) books: 1 2 3 4 6 7 8 NOM oo ececccecccccececeeececeececcerereeceeeeweeenceneenees COT eeneneeee peo ccecccccococcocc REECE SS oosoaopesocoSoS Zone.......- State.........---2.----ee \ Address..........--ss00---+-- | The finest fresh _ aa ripe fruit gjq REM ee £a28 Fs — a.. ®. > €b a2: aw. £4. 4 My combined wits ~ > - The PUREST | s,. CANNING SUGAR MADE gives you... In > ms i ~ < HA) " a ee an Poe /} yw Perfect jams, jellies, and preserves Ist home-produced sugar in the COLUMBIA EMPIRE! * d ¥ = pyot AL 8, fe a the pe estan Ic for October ea ee ees ml Beautiful As Lace Hazel Loomis Lace fell like laughter from her fingers Ethereal, gossamer designed. But oh, the love, the thoughts, the dreams, That went before; how disciplined the mind; For she made lace of everything in earth and sky: Of wagon wheels; of dust behind the plow; Staccato beat of horses' hoofs; of toilers going home; Of cooking, gardening, scrubbing floors; of friends. But what of toil and sweat and grime? Of living on the plains? "Exquisite," Lizzie said, "when you make lace of it." Her kettle pot was boiling all the time; No one left her house not warmed and fed And feeling good inside; For she made lace of puddings, cakes, and pies, Of meats and bread. No one left a kitchen more content And satisfied. Better than food, her smile, Her elegance and grace, Rarer than Eden— Delicate as lace. Lace was her parlor—the very heart of lace. The broken threads, the sick, the sorrowing Came to her with crusts. "Make lace of these," they pitying cried, "a thread is left." "Yes, yes," she resolutely went to work. She gave her heart, her strength, her all. With mended threads she made lace More beautiful than before. They came and went with miles of thread; She mended all who wore a pathway to her door. They came with crusts And from their crusts she fashioned lace. ST The Cover: Along the Cimarron River, Below Eagle Nest Lake, New Mexico Photograph by Don Knight Frontispiece: Sego Lilies, Photograph by Elizabeth Larsen Cover Design by Evan Jensen From Near and Si ar Today, as soon as the Magazine arrived, I read the last chapter of "The Deeper Melody." This story has lifted me to higher realms. I am a better man for having read it. (My wife has noted some improvement and is wondering why.)... Seldom, if ever, have I read a story in which I've waited so impatiently for the next installment, yet while waiting have had a delicious morsel to think about. 'Thanks to the editor and the author, Alice Morrey Bailey. —J]. Sedley Stanford Logan, Utah It was thrilling to open The Relief Society Magazine today and read the article "The Birth of a Heritage — The Gospel in England" (May 1954). As a former Prestonian, it brought back many memories of the town of my birth. Ever since I joined the Church it has thrilled me to think that our town played such a big part in the first missionary endeavor (in England), and it amazes me to think of the courage that first group of missionaries had, to cross the Atlantic and set foot on foreign soil. It has also been my good fortune to find that one of my grandfathers joined the Church and was baptized by Orson Hyde two months after that first group of missionaries arrived in Preston. I am so glad Sister Scott wrote this article and you printed it. I am proud to know Sister Scott and her family. She is doing an outstanding work and is a stalwart member of the Preston Branch. —Emeline Foster Brigham City, Utah I am receiving The Relief Society Magazine as a Christmas gift from my sister. I have thanked her many times for her good gift to me. I find complete enjoyment from the beautiful, pictorial covers and in the pages of lessons, poems, and stories. A nicer Christmas gift cannot be found, —Ruth A. Droz Grand Coulee, Washington Somewhere in each issue of The Relief Society Magazine I find a message that seems to have been prepared especially for me. —Mary M. Long Montrose, Colorado Page 418 Mabel M. Hammer, social science class leader in Santa Monica Ward, California, conducted a patriotic poem-writing project. The following is one of the poems submitted: A Puiepce, A Sonc, A PRAYER "TI pledge allegiance to my flag..." My own child's voice above, the rest I hear In eager effort, trying now To learn, for it is her first year. She has learned new words... We had never heard her speak of loyalty before, Nor of liberty, Nor of justice, nor of peace or war.... She adds another line now To the prayer she has always said, "God, please bless America." Humbly, gratefully, I bow my head. —Hermoine Sanderson The poem "Mother Love," by Hannah C. Ashby in the May issue of the Magazine is a lovely appreciation of motherhood and makes excellent reading for a Mother's Day program. I read this selection as a musical reading to my son's accompaniment with a friend in a trumpet duet on Mother's Day in our ward, and it was enjoyed by many mothers, fathers, and children. —Joyce P. Christensen Murray, Utah I certainly appreciate and enjoy The Relief Society Magazine from cover to cover, and I always look for a familiar name in "From Near and Far.'' What wonderful and inspiring stories are in the Magazine. I especially look for the name of Dorothy Clapp Robinson, as she was stake social science leader in Boise, Idaho, when we lived in Melba. —Stella Armstrong President, Grant's Pass Relief Society Klamath Stake, Oregon THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - - - - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - First Counselor Velma N. Simonsen - - - - - Second Counselor Margaret C. Pickering - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Mary G. Judd Evon W. Peterson Christine H. Robinson Charlotte A. Larsen Anna B. Hart Leone O. Jacobs Alberta H. Christensen Edith P. Backman Edith S. Elliott Mary J. Wilson Mildred B. Eyring Winniefred S. Florence J. Madsen Louise W. Madsen Helen W. Anderson Manwaring Leone G. Layton Aleine M. Young Gladys S. Boyer Elna P. Haymond Blanche B. Stoddard Josie B. Bay RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - S ° - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - esta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Vol. 41 JULY 1954 NO. 7 SPECIAL FEATURES "In the Shadow of the Temple'' — The Site of the New Relief Society Building.............. Ee ee, eee ee eae ~~ Preston Nibley 420 Tale of the Trail — A Visit to Phantom Ranch C. W. McCullough 430 First Ladies of Qur Land — Wives of the Presidents — 'Part V — Conclusion.... Elsie C. Carrol 434 The Birthday serore evens ee, elHelen Hooper 427 "The Way" ne aanRuth Moody Ostegar 449 The Falling Shackles — ~ Chapter; ae Margery S. Stewart 455 From Near and Far....... 418 Sy bd hey Cereb) / Me fo) ee. 442 Woman's Sphere a... Ramona W. Cannon 443 Editorial: The Responsibilities of Freedom Vesta P. Crawford 444 Notes to the Field: Program for the November Fast 'Sunday Evening Meeting 0....... Sssseee 446 'Magazine' Rates for Mexico, Central America, and South America lG 6X es ¢ =o (:\ lo 446 Hymn of the Month— pon cnnevesacerescracs en 5 eS 446 Annual Report for 1953 - a.. Margaret C. Pickering 462 Notes From the Field: Relief Society ACiVItIGS ooo ecccsccc cece sesesececeseeeversveneeeeeMargaret C. Pickering 474 FEATURES FOR THE HOME Needlecraft — A Useful Hobby (Nora Warenski Ross) 2.20.22 --cc. Ccececscccceccscescecessesueeeenseneneeeeees 448 Bibs for Babies —...0.220. 2. = — ——.... Elizabeth Williamson 496 LESSON DEPARTMENT 'TiFieg eo eeeappaaPibbesapety Carvch NOILeland H. Monson 477 Visiting Teacher Messages: ''Now My Brethren, We See That God Is Mindful of Gio POOPIE... V.--n0-c---mneosacceccenenaceneees sanecconncvenvanenecenoraneesesnsasbbsesenasseceecsvecessenserceeseneraveansasoneseeessLeone O. Jacobs 482 Work Meeting: Home Safety. _—_ Rhea H. Gardner 483 Literature: Thomas Carlyle 22222 cccoc cece ceccceccece cece cece cece ee eenteeceeeeneeneeseeeseneneceeeetoneeneesBriant S. Jacobs 484 Social Science: Fundamental and Basic Principles and the Preamble to the Constitution A __ A _A__ ARceeteeseeeeseeeeessesessteesrseeeeeeeeeAlbert R. Bowen 489 POETRY Beautiful As Lace — Frontispiece nn... Cee cece ceeencescecenceneereeeeseneeeceatecececeteoseneececeeneecenseoseesossHazel Loomis 417 Ode to a Deserted Cottage 220...... S.-cccccecececeeecececeseeeceee ences. Norma ie Post 426 Dawn Luella N. Adams 441 This Be Our Strength Alice Briley 445 Gateway to Zion 20... Eee ceeeceeeeeeceeeeceeeeeecnececeeeeeeeeeteceeeeecees Elaine A. Walters 445 Sioux Chieftain''s Prayer -Mabel Law Atkinson 447 Frontier Women Leslie Savage Clark 447 Great-Granddad's Doty 20....2.2-.:. Ssescecececeeeeceeeeceseeeeeeeees: Elsie McKinnon suo 461 Hands. U....---sceccceneeeeeee-s. Nes Nooo cnse see 0 Bc ccsecence ceeAlice Rich 476 The Lighted Lamp. =. Lgpembine J. Tiantst 495 Desert Morning.....22..-2..--.-------1-----eeeeeee a IB rr a _- Enola Chamberlin 495 "Towra ce cena ca Rese nn setae Creo cSSSESESS «ote senanemen en aeCatherine B. Bowles 496 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 40 North Main, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. This Is My Country. 2.0........ Cceececccesssceseecenseceeneccseescconeeseteeetenectersesoessensneseeaececeaeeees...... Ida Isaacson 454 "In the Shadow of the Temple" The Site of the New Relief Society Building Preston Nibley HE plot of ground on which When President Brigham Young the new Relief Society Buildand the pioneers arrived in Salt Lake ing is being constructed, has Valley in July 1847, they soon loan interesting history which dates cated a site for a city, and on Augback to the very beginning of the ust 2d the work of surveying the settlement of Salt Lake City. City into streets and blocks was beHOME OF BISHOP NEWEL K. WHITNEY ON THE CORNER OF NORTH TEMPLE AND MAIN STREET, SITE OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY BUILDING Bishop Whitney, the second Presiding Bishop of the Church, built this home in the fall of 1848 or the summer of 1849. He died September 23, 1850. Three years later, in the summer of 1853, the artist Fredrick Piercy visited Salt Lake City and from a location on North Main Street sketched a part of the rapidly growing city, including the Whitney Home. This sketch is here reproduced by Richard Gregersen for The Relief Society Magazine. The building at right is the old Tithing Office. Page 420 "IN THE SHADOW OF THE TEMPLE" 421 OLD HOMES OF THE HORACE K. WHITNEY FAMILY, FACING ON NORTH TEMPLE STREET, FORMERLY STANDING ON THE RELIEF SOCIETY BUILDING SITE At the left, the home of Helen Mar Kimball Whitney. Whitney was reared in this house. Apostle Orson Ferguson The center house was the home of Lucy Bloxom Whitney, and the house on the might was the home of Mary Cravath Whitney, mother of Horace G. Whitney, who was general manager of The Deseret News for twenty-five years. Gun. Five days later the work had been so far completed that President Brigham Young and_ the Twelve gathered on the Temple Block "to select their inheritances." The history tells us that "President Young selected the block east of the Temple, and running southeast, to settle his friends around him." One of the friends whom he desired to have settle near him was Newel K. Whitney, the Presiding Bishop of the Church. Bishop Whitney did not make the trip westward with the first pioneers. At the request of President Young, he had remained in Winter Quarters to look after the affairs of the saints while the President was absent seeking a new location for his people in the West. President Young and the Twelve returned to Winter Quarters in the fall of 1847. The next year they led a great group of people, almost 5,000 in number, to Salt Lake Valley. Among these people was Bishop Newel K. Whitney. It is evident that President Young gave him the northwest corner of "the block east of the Temple," which he had reserved for himself and friends, as Orson F. Whitney informs us that his grandfather, Bishop Whitney, located on this ground in the fall of 1848. Bishop Whitney built a small adobe home on this property, eith- 422 er in the fall of 1848 or the summer of 1849. Soon the property became known as the Whitney corner. Unfortunately, Bishop Whitney did not live long to enjoy the freedom which the saints found in Salt Lake City. He died suddenly, after a brief illness, on September 23, 1850. Three years later, during the summer of 1853, an artist by the name of Frederick Piercy visited Utah, and, from a location on North Main Street, he made a drawing of the Courtesy The Deseret News THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY AT THE EXCAVATION FOR THE SUBBASEMENT OF THE NEW RELIEF SOCIETY BUILDING RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1954 young and growing city as it lay before him in the summer sunlight. The Whitney corner is plainly visible in this drawing, and we have teproduced it here for the benefit of the readers of The Relief Society Magazine. 'Thus, one hundred years ago, a humble adobe dwelling stood on the ground where the beautiful Relief Society building is now being constructed. The next to build homes on the Whitney corner was Hoiace K. February 10, 1954 Standing in the foreground at the right, left to right: Counselor Marianne C, Sharp; President Belle S. Spafford; Counselor Velma N. Simonsen. The women are facing southwest towards the temple. The building in the right background is the Joseph F. Smith Memorial Building, and in the left background may be seen establishments on the north side of North Temple Street. Hal Rumel EF SOCIETY BUILDING SITE n Main Street, between North Temple Salt Lake City, Utah. The two white stakes mark the southeast and southwest corner Page 423 SOUTH END OF THE RELI Looking southwest towards the temple o Street and South Temple Street, s of the building. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1954 Hal Rumel BEGINNING OF CONSTRUCTION OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY BUILDING February 16, 1954 The placement of the first forms for the concrete walls of the subbasement may be seen at the left (northeast corner of the building), immediately adjoining the steps of the Joseph F. Smith Memorial Building. Other buildings in the circle are, left to right: The Latter-day Saints Business College, Barratt Hall, and the Brigham Young Memorial Building. Hotel Utah may be seen in the background at the right. Note the ladder placed against the south wall of the excavation, and the service road sloping down to the center of the workings, used for transporting materials for. The building. Whitney, son of Bishop Whitney. This exceptional young man came to Utah in July 1847 with the first group of pioneers; later he set the type for the first number of the Deseret News, issued in June 1850. For many years he was a member of the Salt Lake Theatre Orchestra, and during his entire residence in Utah, he was a bookkeeper in the office of President Brigham Young. HE first wife of Horace K. Whitney, whose home was located on this property, was Helen Mar Kimball Whitney, eldest daughter of Heber C. Kimball, and a remarkable woman in her own right. For many years she was a prominent Relief Society worker in Utah, and a writer of considerable ability. She was the mother of Orson F. Whitney, brilliant writer, poet, orator and apostle. Two other wives of Horace K. Whitney lived on the Whitney corner, Lucy Bloxom and Mary Cravath. Mary Cravath's son, Horace G. Whitney, general manager of the Deseret News for twenty-five H "IN THE SHADOW OF THE TEMPLE" Hal Rumel THE PROGRESS OF CONSTRUCTION May 19, 1954 This photograph is taken from the north wall, looking south towards Hotel Utah, with the temple spires at the extreme right. Workmen are shown finishing the ceiling of the subbasement (floor of the ground story). In the foreground may be seen the forms for the cement wall of the ground story. The elevator shaft is in the center of the picture. Years, was one of the finest characters Utah has produced, a business man, a literary man, and a loyal adherent of the Church. The three Horace K. Whitney homes faced North Temple Street, and a picture of them is reproduced here, taken before they were torn down and destroyed, about 1900, to make way for the L. D. S. College. The first building constructed after the Church acquired the Whitney corner, in 1900, was the one now known as L. D. S. Business College, erected in 1901. In 1902, Mrs. Matilda M. Barratt donated the money to build Barratt Hall, in memory of her son Samuel M. Barratt. In 1903, the Brigham Young Memorial Building was erected on the south side of the campus, and the Joseph F. Smith Memorial Building was constructed in 1910. All of these buildings remain in use. Now, "in the shadow of the temple," on the northwest corner of the block to the east of the temple, where a hundred years ago, pioneers established their homes, the walls of the Relief Society Building rise higher each day. The building will be substantial, beautiful, and ade- 426 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULy 1954 exemplify the strength, the stead. Tion which is destin fastness, the work, and the message exalt al] womankind Ode toa Deserted Cottage Norma Parkinson Post Tired, old, forgotten, it stands With broken, cobwebbed windows Like bleary, sightless eyes, Mute evidence of age and desolation, What lives, what happy thoughts, Sly, mischievous, curious Squirrel, which, Searching for nuts, scampers fearlessly Across its doorsill, stops, sniffs, departs With disdainful flirt of fluffy tail; Or gorgeous painted butterfly, Flutters, and jis gone, taking with it That brief Tay of sunshine and life, leaving, Once more, loneliness and gloom of memory, great organizaed to bless and quate for the work of administering the affairs of Relief Society. It will of the worldwide sisterhood — the Relief Society, the The Birthday Helen Hooper MILY heard the front door opip en and was pleased. Never, she reflected, had that door been locked in all the years since Thomas had built the house and brought her here as a bride. The unlocked door was a symbol of security in this valley of the mountains. She listened to the footsteps -coming through the long front hall. She felt sure it was some of the children come to visit. She loved to have them come, for grandchildren and great-grandchildren were all dear to her heart, and it eased her mind when she could see for herself that they were well and happy. They entered the dining room, where she lay on the couch by the window. It was her grandson Eugene and his family. She tried to sit up to welcome them. "Here, let me help you, Grandma." Helen hurried over and slipped her arm under the frail shoulders, and said, "Gene, come turn her feet around, please. 'There, right on the footstool. Is the pillow comfortable here, Grandma? Spencer, dear, couldn't you wait until Grandma gets settled before you kiss her?" The little boy had climbed up on the couch, and his lips were loving against the soft, withered cheek. "Grandma, will you be a hundred next week?" he asked. Young Eugene pushed forward and pressed a kiss on the other cheek before she could answer. "Grandma, — how does it feel to be nearly a hundred?" he asked. She looked at him anxiously. He was frail like his grandfather had been as a boy, and she worried about him the same way she had worried about Albert. 'Today he looked better—he seemed to have gained a little weight. Reassured, she answered them both together, "I will be one hundred years old next week, dears, and I don't feel any different at all." Her happy smile took in the others, too, and Carolyn stepped close. Leaning forward, she kissed the wrinkled forehead and said, "We ought to have a big birthday party for you, Grandma." Emily smiled, but answered firmly, "No, dear, I wouldn't like a party. Parties are for young girls. How old are you, now, dear?" "T''m fifteen," Carolyn answered. Emily nodded. "Fifteen is the time to have parties." She included them all in her glance, as they seated themselves around her. "T remember how much I wanted to go to a dancing party on my fifteenth birthday. It was a special dancing party celebrating the Fourth of July, but it was my birthday, too. The captain had passed the word along as the wagon train closed in the big circle to make camp for the night. While my sister Lizzie and I started to get the supper ready, I told her I was going to ask father to let me go." HOOK OOK OK FoMILY looked at the faces around her, but they seemed to have changed, somehow. Her grandson's pleasant face seemed to have taken on the stern, purposeful look of her Page 427 428 father, and Carolyn's laughing blue eyes belonged to Lizzie, as she stirred the corn-meal mush and whispered, "Wait until father has had his supper, before you ask him. As soon as we get the children washed and in bed, I'll put your hair up for you." Delighted, Emily fingered the braids hanging loosely over her shoulders, and in her mind's eye she could suddenly see herself with highpiled hair transformed into a grownup young lady, dancing, laughing, weaving in and out in the glow from the campfires, while the fiddle sang the melodies of enchantment. "P-s-s-st," Lizzie's whisper urged her sharply back to reality. "Get busy, here comes Father." She began automatically to do the necessary chores. In spite of the natural fatigue from the long hours of walking over the dusty, heat-shimmering plain, her toes tingled with the urge to dance, and she hummed softly while she worked. She gathered the younger children into a circle for family prayer, and then helped Lizzie serve up bowls of hot corn-meal mush and sizzling slices of salt pork. After they had eaten, she started the nightly ritual of scrubbing the young ones clean and tucking them in bed, while Lizzie washed the dishes and cared for Mother and the new baby in the wagon. All the while a part of her consciousness was focused on her father, trying to impress him with the competence and mature ability of an added year. She crawled out from under the wagon with a final warning to the boys, and stood by the inside front wheel. A feeling of gaiety and exRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1954 citement seemed to pervade the entire circle, and Brother Jonas was already tuning up his fiddle. Suddenly she couldn't wait another minute. She stepped up on the hub of the wheel, holding onto the seat where her father sat talking quietly to her mother, who was inside the dark interior of the wagon. "Father...." He turned and looked at her. "Yes, Emily?" "Father...." Her heart was fluttering, and felt as big as a bucket inside the small frame of her ribs. Her voice was thick with longing. "Father, I'm fifteen today—a whole year older. May-I go to the dance with Lizzie tonight?" There was a silence while her father deliberated. At last he said, "You are growing up, Emily, learning to do a woman's work." He paused again, and she urged him on, "Yes, Father?" "There is more to being a woman than you realize, child. We'll wait another year. Sixteen is soon enough to start dancing with the grown-ups." ER fluttering heart stopped, and was encompassed in a vast ache of disappointment. As she jumped to the ground, she heard her mothers voice ineffectually consoling. She seized a bucket and headed toward the bushes bordering the creek a little distance beyond the circle of wagons. A moment later Lizzie joined her. "No use fretting, pet,' Lizzie sympathized, with the superior wisdom of nearly two years. "It will be all the more gay for the waiting." "T don't want to wait! It isn't fair!" Emily's disappointment THE BIRTHDAY burst into anger. "I'm old enough to do everything but have fun." They reached the creek, and, tucking up her skirts, Emily waded out to where the stream was swift and clear, before filling her bucket. The water and sand were soothing and cool to her feet. She turned back and sat on the bank and let the water lave them with rippling gentleness. é The bushes behind her rustled softly in the night breeze, and here and there she could hear the soft call of the night birds. Lizzie, taking advantage of the darkness, had unfastened her bodice and begun to scrub herself industriously. Emily's tears welled up afresh, as she caught the faint gleam of her sister's white skin in the darkness and thought of Lizzie dancing gaily, while she waited alone in her bed under the wagon. She felt unloved and incredibly lonely. Suddenly their father was beside them. The pressure of his fingers on Emily's shoulder was at once a warning and a command. She arose quickly and walked with him, noting that his other hand was guiding Lizzie. They walked swiftly and without a sound until they reached the circle of wagons. Safely inside, Emily slowly released her pent-up breath and her troubled eyes searched her father's face. Except for a small tightness around the lips, she could see no difference. His voice was calm as he explained, "There are Indians in the bushes along the creek. The men just brought word." The short hair at the nape of Emily's neck seemed to rise up and a tingle ran all the way down her spine. Indians! She stepped in- 429 stinctively closer to her father, and he patted her head soothingly for a moment, then he said briefly, "Get to bed, now, lass." Quickly, and with loving gratitude, she obeyed him. ' "YVERE they real Indians?" Spencer's excited question jerked Emily's mind instantly back to the present. "Yes, dear, they were real," she answered. "Did you get hurt or anything?" asked Eugene. "No. They stole some of the cattle, but we didn't try to get them back. We didn't want to make the Indians angry," she explained. "You were lucky. They might have stolen you!" said Eugene. "Yes, dear, that was why I didn't care any more that I couldn't go to the dance." Her smile, faintly reminiscent, was lovely to see. Eugene giggled, and Carolyn asked, ""Weren't there any goodlooking boys that you wanted to dance with?" "T don't remember any, dear. Not until we went to a dance down in the bowery the next summer," said Emily. "And that is another story, and we have tired Grandma enough," Helen interposed. "We will go now and let you rest, Grandma, but we'll be back next week to wish you a happy birthday." A flurry of kisses and they were gone. Emily lay back. It was true, she was tired. She liked having them come, but it was nice and quiet when they left. One hundred years, she thought drowsily, and I wouldn't have missed a minute of them, not a single minute. Tale of the Trail A VISIT TO PHANTOM RANCH C. W. McCullough ANY travelers, who also love M music, have enjoyed the lilting, jerky trail picture of the third movement of Ferdi Grofe's Grand Canyon Suite symphony; but few have transposed that graphic music into one of the memorable experiences of their lives. Many tourists have viewed the colorful vistas of the Grand Canyon of the Colorado in Northern Arizona from the North or South Rims, but if the guest book at Phantom Ranch in the depths of the canyon is a true monitor, only a comparative handful of adventurers have experienced the thrill of seeing the great river there close at hand in its solitary canyon habitat. Yet the means of achieving this mecting is available at either of the two rim headquarters, both served by excellent highways. A railroad also transports tourists to the South Rim. The visitation involves intimate acquaintanceship with certain of a fast vanishing American fauna—the long-eared mule. Ironical in the extreme is the fact that this symbol of hard work and endurance, fast driven from even the farm by gasoline-consuming contraptions, should make his last stand as a beast of burden on the cliff trails of the West. When you sign up for the trip down the Kaibab Trail (from the North Rim) or the Bright Angel Trail (from the South Rim), you not only gain kinship with a mule but you change your name. You Page 430 lose your "Mr., Miss, or Mrs." title and become simply a dude. Not in derision. Being a dude on the Grand Canyon trails is something to live up to, a test of stamina and character, coupled with patience, fortitude, and courage to endure the joltings of your springless conveyance and the contours of a saddle— to say nothing of the trail experience that the park rangers describe as like unto "riding the cornices of the Empire State building." Being North Rimmers, my wife and I took the Kaibab Trail. That trail! Designed with cunning cupidity, it leaves the mule corrals to follow a meandering horizontal course through friendly woods until one becomes happily involved in what promises to be a glorious carefree adventure. Feet stretch happily into the stirrups and your whole being responds to the swinging gait of your mount, the musical creak of saddle leather. What a lark! Then the trail, rounding a curve, abruptly forsakes woodlands and the horizontal to flirt shamelessly with the wide-open spaces and the perpendicular. To meet this particular topography, our Linda, Alice, Mibs, or whatever the mule's name, assumes the accepted angle of a cellar door. In keeping, she lays each foot down with the friendly impact one experiences driving through chuckholes in the desert, except there are no springs in your vehicle, and the shock absorbency of saddle TALE OF THE TRAIL leather could learn much from automobile cushions. We go catapulting down a dizzy, twisting ledge on a trail only a few feet wide. A rough rock wall snags at our right elbow and knee, while those opposite members swing out over space often a thousand feet deep. Somewhere in the middle (we hope) is the rest of us, though we often doubt it on the sharp curves when either the prow or the stern of Linda, Alice, or Mibs becomes momentarily air-borne. E find ourselves doing some unpleasant Monday morning questioning: How did I get involved in this? Why? A few rides on the wife's saddle horse in the pasture back home might have conditioned me physically, if not mentally, for such an ordeal. Witness her sangfroid as she rides ahead chatting Kolb Brothers 431 with the guide. Being in the middle of the string of dudes, turning back is without feasibility though it offers rosy inducements. Anyway, such vacillations are forestalled by Linda, who insists upon keeping within swishing distance of the tail of the mule ahead. After seeming hours of shifting vainly in the saddle for some mythical easier spot, we reach the first trail sign: North Rim, 1 mile. Phantom Ranch, 13.4 miles. Oh, happy day! Only 13.4 miles to go. Down. Down. Other mileposts drag by. Occasionally our guide calls a rest halt. Whereupon the mules line up in a company front with their rumps to the wall and heads outward that their riders may better enjoy the view. Phooey! The situation offers one compensation. Once more we have regained the horizontal—then, heedTRAIL TO PHANTOM RANCH 432 less of the dude upstairs, Linda sinks to her knees and, with a forward tilting of her backline, goes all out for a clump of green vegetation far down the canyon wall. The lure of meeting the Colorado in the depths of the canyon becomes submerged by the fear of getting there instantly—over the wall of the precipice. No amount of frantic jerkings on the reins serves to cheat Miss Linda of her mid-morning lunch, which she nibbles at nonchalantly as she hurries to join the rest of the party. Noontime finds us at the half-way point, Ribbon Falls, where we stop for lunch. A proper appreciation of the beautiful spectacle and the fit-for-a-feast fried chicken is somehow lacking. There is still the other half of the trail to negotiate via the same means of locomotion. But, once more back in the saddle, we find that the steeper parts of the trail are behind us, that the cellar door slopes at a less forbidding angle, and the vistas are more to the liking of a plainsman. We find ourselves with time and inclination to note another series of trail signs wholly foreign to the dragging mile posts. 'These chart our swift descent, not in leagues, kilometers, or miles, but in ages and eons of time as we pass through the varied strata of the earth's underpinnings. We seem to rush down through the Permian, Mississippian, the Cambrian, the Algonkian, to the dark and twisted Archean, the greatgranddaddy of all earth's rock formations. GPURRED 'on by the contemplation of these formations and the geological expose thus afforded RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1954 us, we experience the thrill of thrills when we come to the sign that reverses the first milepost of the morning: Phantom Ranch, 1 mile. North Rim, 13.4 miles. Forgotten are the heat, the dust, the rigors of the trail behind. We even bestow a friendly pat upon our longeared conveyance—and a prodding to hurry her along, as we thread our way through an incredible orchard in bloom and glimpse the buildings of Phantom Ranch. Arriving, we turn our mules over to the guide, meet the genial manager of the ranch, who assigns us our respective luxurious, air-conditioned cottages. 'There, we see perhaps the most picturesque swimming pool in the world. To the trail weary, the cool waters fed by Bright Angel Creek are more refreshing to see than any meadow pool which may be reached easily and without peril. We are still there when the South Rimmers ride in. In a time lapse comparable to ours, they join us. Introductions are exchanged back and forth, and it takes the clang of the dinner bell to rout us from the cool delight of the pool. After eating, we have the one great achievement to enjoy—to meet Mr. Colorado in his lair, perhaps a half mile below the Lodge. We find him a muddy, snarling, cantankerous creature wholly different from the peaceful glimpse of him we had seen from the rim. Certainly, the man who penned the "Silvery Colorado" song did not gain his inspiration at Phantom Ranch. Back at the pool, there is an evening of song and conversation, stories of adventure, and tales of rivermen who have braved the rap- TALE OF THE TRAIL Kolb Brothers 433 THE POOL AT PHANTOM RANCH ids of the Colorado in boats. The chairs provided are comfortable enough, but most of the guests choose further to placate protesting anatomies with pillows brought from their cabins. It is hot in the canyon's depths, the climate being actually tropical, but thanks to airconditioning, a cool night's sleep is enjoyed by all. In the morning, after breakfast, we team up again with our mules and our guide and say goodbye to lovely Phantom Ranch as we backtrack yesterday's journey. Up! Up! Fifty-five hundred feet to the Rim! We pass by those leering mileposts. We climb through those rock ages —Archean, Algonkian, Cambrian, Mississipian, Permian. We re-discover all those aching joints and muscles we thought we had left behind at Phantom Ranch. At four o'clock, we top out at the Rim. My wife, more inured to the ways of the saddle, sighs that it is over. I just sigh. Somehow, I manage an exit from the saddle. A bus with soft, soft cushions is waiting to take us back to the lodge on the Rim. My wife begins planning a return trip next year. She wonders if we would have the same mules, the same guide. I wondered if she would have the same husband. I'm not sure I can recover from this one trip to Phantom Ranch.. —— First Ladies of Our Land WIVES OF THE PRESIDENTS Parr V—Conclusion Elsie C. Carroll (1879 - ), only child of Andrew and Lemira B. Goodhue, was born in Burlington, Vermont. She was a teacher in the Clarke School for the Deaf in Northampton, Massachusetts, when she met Calvin Coolidge, who had just finished his law course. After their marriage, October 4, 1905, Grace gave her talents and energies to the art of homemaking and mothethood. Since the State of Massachusetts was without an executive residence, when Calvin Coolidge became Governor, the Coolidges continued to live in their modest home in Northampton, and Calvin Coolidge commuted to the capital. Mrs. Coolidge graciously performed her official duties in Boston and kept up her homemaking activities in Northampton. In the summertime the Coolidges went with their sons to the Vermont hills to the home of Colonel John Coolidge, Calvin's father. A friend said: ''All the strength and simplicity of New England Vermont went into the lives of Calvin and Grace Coolidge, and into the training of their sons. They took that strength and simplicity with them when they went to the White House." The family was at their summer retreat when President Warren Harding died. Colonel Coolidge climbed the stairs of the farmhouse to give the news to the Vice-PresiPage 434 G ce Goodhue Coolidge Courtesy Library of Congress GRACE GOODHUE COOLIDGE dent, and, by the light of a kerosene lamp, Colonel Coolidge, by his right as a notary public, swore his son in as President of the United States, August 3, 1923. Mrs. Coolidge, already accustomed to social life, and blessed with beauty and charm, fitted into the role of First Lady with ease and gracious friendliness. Because of her vivacity and fine simplicity, she soon became one of the best loved of all our First Ladies. Even under the sorrow of the sudden and _ tragic death of her younger son at the age of fourteen, she remained strong and heroic, never allowing her. Personal grief to interfere with her duties as First Lady. She felt that FIRST LADIES OF OUR LAND her time and her energy belonged to her family and to the nation, and she ideally fulfilled the requirements of these exacting positions. But the strenuous activities were a strain on her health, and that was one of the reasons why Calvin Coolidge refused to run for a second term as president. 'The Coolidges left the White House in 19209. No First Lady ever left the White House with greater public regard. In 1931 Grace Coolidge was given a medal by the National Institute of Social Sciences, honoring her as one of America's greatest living women, and commending the "fine personal influence exerted as First Lady of the Land." After their retirement from the White House, the Coolidges returned to Northampton, Massachusetts, and _ later built a home on the outskirts of the city, which they called "The Beeches." Grace Coolidge, a widow for twenty-one years, continues to live in Northampton. This beloved woman will long be remembered as one who not only contributed poise, friendliness, and gracious dignity to her position as First Lady, but also fulfilled in her personal life the highest traditions of American womanhood. Lou Henry Hoover (1875 - 1944) first met Herbert Hoover in the geology laboratory at Stanford University, California, where she was a freshman majoring in geology, the subject which had made Herbert a mining engineer. 'Three years later, on her graduation day, he called from Australia a proposal of marriage and asked her to go with him to the Orient. After their marriage, Courtesy Smithsonian Institution LOU HENRY HOOVER 435 436 February 10, 1899, they went immediately to China, where people were surprised to see a young bride accompanying her husband on his exploring trips into the far interior of the country. But Lou Hoover, the first woman to receive a degree in geology from Stanford University, was well fitted to help her husband with all phases of his work. Herbert Hoover's assignments took him to Ceylon, Siberia, Australia, Egypt, Japan, and Europe, and his wife accompanied him on many of these journeys. No matter where they were, or however long or short their stay, Lou made a real home for her husband. They would rent a house and set up housekeeping, sometimes with the most meager facilities. Later, they returned to Palo Alto, California, and built the beautiful home on the Stanford campus which became a showplace because of its unique architectural features and its ornate furnishings which had been brought from many countries. The design of the home provided opportunities for outdoor living, which both the Hoovers enjoyed. Here they had only a year of contentment before Herbert Hoover was called to the service of his Government, and they went to Washington. He was Secretary of Commerce for eight years, then became President in 1929. Mrs. Hoover was prominent in Washington society and in social service work. She was an active worker in the Girl Scout movement, and gave support to worthwhile projects sponsored by women's organizations. 'To her friends she said that her work was to provide a background for her husband. But she did RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1954 vastly more than that. She took over many of the details of his responsibilities and freed him from tiring tasks. For example, she often took his place in giving commencement addresses and she appeared at various ceremonies where a speaker, representing the White House, was needed. She was pleasing and effective in these capacities because she symbolized her husband's high position, and her gracious personality appealed to the people. Lou Henry Hoover died in 1944. Her husband is still prominent in world affairs and is greatly respected as an "elder statesman'' who renders wise and willing service. Eleanor Roosevelt Roosevelt has been called the First Lady of the World as well as First Lady of our land. She was born in New York City, a daughter of Elliott Roosevelt, a younger brother of President Theodore Roosevelt, and Anna Hall Roosevelt. She was only eight years old when her mother died, and two years later her father died. She was reared by relatives and was sent to school in England. Upon her teturn to America, among her close friends was a distant cousin, Franklin Delano Roosevelt. 'They were married in 1905 while Franklin was a law student at Columbia University. She and Franklin were both born and reared in an atmosphere of wealth and social prominence, having the advantages of education, travel, and close contacts with many eminent people. When the tragedy of a disabling attack of poliomyelitis struck her husband, Eleanor Roosevelt found great resources within FIRST LADIES OF OUR LAND herself and was a comfort and strength to him. When she came to the White House in 1933, she was well prepared for the exacting responsibilities of a First Lady. She understood the social conditions of the country, and her natural friendliness and concern for people endeared her to thousands. She entertained at teas, receptions, and state dinners with grace and charm acquired through the years of her husband's distinguished career and her own €xtensive humanitarian activities. During World Wat II she held the official position of assistant director of the Office of Civilian Defense for a short time, and she vis- 'ted service men on the war fronts and acted as White House hostess for many political and military leadeg: Since her husband's death, in 1945, she has retained her interest in social service, and in world affairs. In 1945 she was appointed United States representative in the general assembly of the United Nations, and served as chairman of the human rights commission of the economic and social council. A distinguished lecturer, journalist, and columnist, Mrs. Roosevelt's This I Remember (1944) is her most popular book. She has recently completed a tour of the Far East, and her exeriences and impressions are Cal didly and effectively related in her newest book, India and the Awakening East. Bess (Elizabeth Virginia) Wallace first met Harry 'Truman in Sunday School when she was a young girl, and he was a schoolboy study- 437 Harris Ewing ANNA ELEANOR ROOSEVELT ing music. 'They came from similar backgrounds, and their ancestors had come from Kentucky to the Middle West. Harry 'Truman left his fiancee, Bess Wallace, to serve in France and heard the news of the Armistice on a rocky hillside east of Verdun. = The next spring he returned to his own country, and, on June 28, 1919, he married Elizabeth Virginia Wallace. They set up housekeeping in Independence, Missouri in a lovely home built by Elizabeth's grandfather, George P. Gates. The Truman home was a haven of tran- 438 Hessler Studio, Wieeieatiton, D. C. ELIZABETH WALLACE 'TRUMAN quility and affection, and both parents were devoted to their gifted daughter Margaret. During their evenings at home, Harry often played the piano, two of his favorite selections being Beethoven's "Sonata in C Minor" and Mozart's "Sonata IX." After Harry Truman was elected Vice-President, he wrote in his diary: "... I had a family situation to meet. Mrs. 'Truman and Margie would not be happy. But both were good soldiers when I told them what had happened." Bess stood beside her husband on the night of April 12, 1945, when, upon the death of President Roosevelt, Harry S. 'Truman took the oath of office as President of the United States. Mrs. Truman was already RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1954 accustomed to Washington society when she became First Lady, since her husband had served two terms as Senator and a few months as Vice-President. Also, Mrs. Truman had assisted her husband with his office work and was familiar with much of the routine of government. It has been said that Mrs. 'Truman has been "'as close as possible to her husband's work and as far as possible from his publicity." | Reticent and shy, yet discerning and sincere, Mrs. 'Truman, as First Lady, was courteous and friendly to all White House guests and callers. Possessed of a good measure of the endearing qualities of poise, serenity, and friendliness, she seemed fully to realize that the accomplishments and attitudes which make a woman a good homemaker and a devoted wife in her own home, also contribute greatly to her success as the nation's hostess. Although she cared little for the glamour and sophistication of social life, Bess 'Truman performed her duties with quiet charm and grace. She is an inspiration to homemakers and mothers everywhere who feel that a woman's influence in the world lies in her genuine womanhood, and in her unobtrusive support of her husband in his more public work. Mamie Doud Eisenhower has won the hearts of people not only in this country, but in other countries as well. Long accustomed to adjusting her life to the career of her distinguished husband, she regards the Executive Mansion as another house in which she must make a home for him, and in which she acts as the nation's hostess. Her naturally friendly and unassuming FIRST LADIES OF OUR LAND disposition, as well as her vivacity and charm, make this First Lady a favorite in her new position. Wife of a soldier and mother of a soldier, she has learned to accept responsibility and to assume her duties capably and cheerfully, in the tradition of duty established by many former 439 First Ladies whose husbands were generals. Mamie also is a cosmopolitan First Lady. She has lived in many places and associated with many types of people, and thus she has a sympathetic understanding of the different backgrounds and interests, MAMIE DOUD EISENHOWER 440 the different cultures and the different ideals which are dear to the people whom she meets in her official position. Her gracious dignity and her warm simplicity are much appreciated and admired. Mamie shares with her husband a love for the mountains of the West and a deep gratitude and affection for all of America and the heritage it has given its citizens. She gives the impression of a happy, courageous, and cultured American woman who stands with her husband for honesty, sincerity, integrity—qualities which the whole world needs today. President and Mrs. Eisenhower have a contagious friendliness and spirituality that give confidence and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1954 hope. Mamie has even captivated the press, which has nothing but praise for the enthusiastic manner in which she is carrying out her official duties. There is little doubt that the Eisenhower administration will be a highlight in history, and the problems and decisions of these critical years will have lasting effect upon the record of world events. Mamie Eisenhower is well qualified to be First Lady, and to make of the Executive Mansion a home for the President, and thus, in a broader scope, exemplify the fundamental work of the women, the wives of the Presidents, who have graced the role of the nation's hostess since that time when Martha Washington, in 1789, became the first First Lady of our land. —_- —— BIBLIOGRAPHY Branpvon, Dorotuy: Mamie Dowd Eisenhower, a Portrait of a First Lady, Charles Scribner's Sons, New York, 1954. Brown, MarcaretT W.: The Dresses of ae "s irst Ladies of the White House, The Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D. C., Crook, CoLonEL W. H.: Memories of ihe White House, Little, Brown and Company, Boston, 1911. Hoes, Ros—E Gouverneur: The Dresses of the Mistresses of the White House as Shown in The U. S. National Museum (a booklet), The Historical Publishing Company, 1931. D. C. For $1 a copy. May be ordered from Lawrence G. Hoes, 6115 Western Avenue, Washington, Hotioway, Laura C.: Ladies of the White House, Bradley, Garretson and Company, Philadelphia, 1881. MINNIGERODE, MEADE: Some American Ladies, G. P. Putnam's Sons, New York, 1926. PRINDEVILLE, KATHLEEN: First Ladies, The Macmillan Company, New York, 1932. SINGLETON, EstHER: The Story of the White House (volumes 1 and 2), The McClure Company, New York, 1907. SmitH, Besse WuitTE: The Romances of the Presidents, Lothrop, Lee and Shepard, Boston, 1932. Wuippte, Wayne: The Story of the White House and Its Home Life (booklet), Dwinnell- -Wright Company, Boston, 1937. Copy will be mailed on receipt of 15c in stamps sent to Dwinnell-Wright Company, Boston or Chicago. Wuitton, Mary OrmsseE, First First Ladies, Hastings House, New York, 1948. The Presidents and Their Wives, published by the Haskins Information Bureau. Copies may be ordered for 20c each from The Haskins Service, Washington, D. C. Jeff Thomson CRATER LAKE, OREGON Da wn Luella N 7 Adams I stood alone at daybreak In the silence of the morn And marveled at the glory And the beauty of the dawn, Morning star in distance Loath to set or fade away, while Glories of the night were changing To the glories of the day. Morning's first blush faintly Tinted eastern sky, As across the dome of heaven Ethereal clouds floated by. Wrapt in thought, I bowed in reverence To the peaceful, glorious dawn; Earth and heaven it seemed were merging God was near—I was not alone. Page 441 Orxty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, July 1, and July 1 s, 1894 "For tue RIGHTS OF THE WomMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomMeEN OF ALL Nations" ADVICE: Three very excellent things, and of great utility, advised by Washington Irving, are reading, conversation, and reflection. By reading we treat with the dead, by conversation, with the living, and by reflection, with ourselves. Reading enriches the memory, conversation polishes the mind, and reflection forms the judgment. But of these noble employments of the soul were we to say which we think the most impoz. Ant, we must confess that reading seems to be the groundwork of the other two; since without reading, contemplation is fruitless and conversation dui. And insipid. —Selected A GOLDEN WEDDING IN NEPHI: On the 13th of June, 1894, nearly one hundred guests met in the north ward Relief Hall... To celebrate the golden wedding of our highly esteemed friends, Brother Jacob G. And Sister Amy L. Bigler... Brother and Sister Bigler were some of the first settlers in Nephi, and the Bigler family are one of the most respected families in Nephi... Sister Bigler holds the office of first counselor to Sister M. Pitchforth, President of the Relief Society of the stake. She is a wise counselor and true and faithful to every duty. —E. S. Goldsbrough THE FOURTH OF JULY The stars and stripes are hailed with great applause, The simple heraldry of Freedom's cause, Long may they wave, we love these symbols pure, While peace and plenty make our homes secure, And the fair goddess who presides o'er all Sweet Liberty, O, may she never fall From that high pedestal, but ever stand The guardian angel of this far-fam'd land... —E. B. W. BIOGRAPHY: Mrs. Kate Chase is writing the biography of her father. She lives in the old home at Edgewood, where Salmon P. Chase lived while Chief Justice of the United States. She has managed the estate for many years, and has changed its appearance from a farm into a park. —Selected RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE IN SALT LAKE STAKE: President Horne in her opening remarks... Expressed her regrets at there being so few officers present, thought they did not honor their positions; if they were not alive to their duties they could not expect much of the members. They should stimulate and set good examples to the rest.... President Angus M. Cannon felt gratified with what he had heard. Tt had brought to his mind the first organization... And related some pleasing incidents of the same; spoke of the Prophet Joseph giving the first donation of $5.00... President M. I. Horne... Urged the sisters to take the Exponent, it was the only woman's paper and should be sustained.... —Ella W. Hyde, Ass't. Sec. Page 442 FARLY in 1849 the Council of Health was formed in Great Salt Lake City and met every two weeks in the wagon (in the house as soon as he had one) of Willard Richards, "botanical" physician. He, other doctors, and his English wife, a well-trained midwife, taught the Relief Society sisters the principles of health and nursing. In September 1953, a beautiful clinic, the Memorial Medical Center, was opened in Salt Lake City, memorializing Dr. Willard Richards and _ his three doctor sons, Heber John, Joseph S. And Stephen L. Dr. Paul S. Richards (grandson of Dr. Willard) who officiated at the opening was assisted by his daughter, the brilhant young surgeon, Dr. Lenore Richards. Dr. Lenore is the only woman ever admitted to the surgery department of the Cincinnati General Hospital, where she rapidly rose to the position of Chief Resident Surgeon of the hospital. HE four-day-old daughter of Prince Jean, heir to the grand duchy of Luxembourg, and his wife, Princess Josephine Charlotte, was given ten names at her christening ceremony in February: Marie Astrid Charlotte Leopoldine Wilhelmine Ingeborg Antonia Elsa Elisabeth Ann. The godfather was former King Leopold of Belgium, grandfather of the little princess. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon HE Woman's Home Companion has named as the six most successful women of 1953 the following: Mary Pillsbury Lord, America's delegate to the U. N. Commission on human rights; Dr. Helene Wallace Tolan, cancer research scientist; Mildred Carlson Ahlgren, President, General Federation of Women's Clubs; Dr. Frances Horwich, Ding Dong School teacher; Marianne Moore, poetess; Peggy Wood, actress. Each was given the Companion's Silver Distaff award. BEY ERLY JONES, eighteen-yearold, Ogden, Utah, high school girl, received national honors as the best cherry-pie maker in America. In contests supported locally by 4H clubs, Future Homemakers of America, and other youth organizations, more than fifty thousand girls competed. IRTHDAY congratulations are extended to: Mrs. Clara Brimmer Richards, Auckland, New Zealand, ninety-nine; Mrs. Hattie 'Tanner Watson, St. Anthony, Idaho, ninety-eight: Mrs. Lovisa Hulterstrom, ninety-seven; Mrs. Mary Dell Felt Young and Mrs. Matilda C. Robbins, ninety, all of Salt Lake City, Utah. Page 443 O-> EDITORIAL 9 VOL. 41 JULY 1954 She Responsibilities of Freedom N this time of testing of the institions of freedom, and in this day when the foundations of the Republic are being undermined by forces both within and without the borders of the nation, it is of the utmost urgency that the responsibilities of freedom be examined, and that a renewed and courageous devotion be achieved. Too long it has been the custom of many of us to be only more or less appreciative of the protective strength of the tree of liberty, without a determination to nourish the tree by assuming our responsibilities as partakers of the fruit of this great heritage. Indifference and neglect will never cause the tree to grow and flourish. We must at all times be aware of those duties which we, as individuals, can perform in gratitude for the shelter and protection we receive. We know that liberty draws its strength from the home, from the community, from the state, from the union of the states. And from the influence and example of our Republic upon all nations. Therefore, the foundations of moral, social, and spiritual law begin in the home, where the standard works of the Church which reveal and uphold the laws of God are not only revered, but read and studied and discussed with the family and explained to the younger children. With a strong foundation of revPage 444 erence for law, and a knowledge of the basis of law, the family can proceed to its further responsibilities. Obedience to law is enjoined upon parents and children, obedience to such regulations as crossing the street at the proper time, observing speed restrictions in driving, and being scrupulous in respecting the rights of our neighbors. Integrity begins in childhood, and it grows with the observance of law in the minute events of daily life. The mother and father and all the children who are old enough should vote, even though the issues of a particular election may not seem to be of vital concern to a certain individual or family. Government is the common concern of all of us, and a privilege such as voting, may not long be maintained if it is not used. Freedom may also be jeopardized by lack of devotion to public trust, and yet there are many, who, for various reasons, decline the responsibilities of public office. The coming of Independence Day reminds us that in the, past great sacrifice has been necessary to maintain freedom. We have inherited the snows of Valley Forge and the darkness of Gettysburg, as well as our independence as a nation and our re-united states. There is no indication in our world today that freedom can be maintained without the utmost devotion and sacrifice. Another aspect of freedom which is often overlooked is the consider- for ourselves, we must be willing to dependence, to be fully aware of our grant it to others. This is true of rights, but it is of even greater imreligious freedom, of the freedom of portance for us to perform our rethe press, the rights of peaceful assponsibilities, in order that the tree semblage, and the essential indiof liberty may flourish and give us vidual protection given by the Concontinued shelter and protection. Shis Be Our Strength Alice Briley This is the place—this palm of valley sand Within its curl of mountain fingertips. Now, come, ye saints; this is the place—our land Of promise, Zion of the West! Our lips Shall sing in one accord a stirring song Of brave ideals. One day this desert cup Shall overflow with beauty and along Its stream the vision of our faith soar up. This be our strength: that where men strive with grace, There God's kingdom is. This is the place! Ga teway to Soion Elaine A. Walters "T lift my lamp beside the golden door." Oh, words that swell my heart to ecstasy! Beloved land, a lady by your shore Fulfilled a promise that she made to me. Was I that weary, fainting, alien one? Did I believe that faith and hope were dead? Her torch was lit... More brilliant than the sun! I followed where inspired pathways led; My eyes beheld abundant wealth of soil. At last my heart holds fragments of sweet peace. These hands esteem the joy in honest toil— My words of grateful prayer shall never cease. Old knees... They never weary of your sod; I sought your lamp, and finding it, found God! EDITORIAL ation that in order to keep liberty stitution. 445 It is well for us to assert our in- —V. P. C. Notes TO THE FIELD Program for the November Sast Sunday &vening Meeting HE special program for Sunday, November 7, 1954, will be mailed to Relicf Society stake presidents early in August. We urge stake presidents to distribute these programs to the wards immediately upon receipt of them. The music for this occasion was listed in the June 1954 Magazine, in Notes to the Field, page 384. Mlagazine Rates for Mexico, Central America, and South America Yncreased Beginning with the publication of this notice, the subscription price for The Relicf Society Magazine for mailing to subscribers in Mexico, Central America, and South America will be $2. 'This increase has become necessary because of an increase in postage rates to these countries. Hymn of the Mlonth HE Church-wide congregational hymn singing project inaugurated by the Church Music Committee, will be continued during the coming year, and all auxiliary organizations have been invited to participate. The purpose of this project is to increase the hymn repertoire of the Church members and to place emphasis on the message of the hymns. Stake choristers and organists are requested to give assistance at union mectings to ward choristers and organists in carrying out this project. An analysis and story of the hymn will be printed each month in the Church Section of the Deseret News. Following is a list of hymns approved for the twelve months July 1954 to June 1955: Page 446 NOTES TO THE FIELD July, 1954 August September October November December January, 1955 February March April May June Hymns, 1953 edition How Gentle God's Commands We Give Thee But Thine Own Upon the Cross of Calvary Rejoice, the Lord Is King Our God, We Raise to Thee The First Noel While of These Emblems Come, Rejoice He Is Risen Father in Heaven To Nephi, Seer of Olden Times I Have Work Enough to Do Doddridge-Naegeli How-Cantica Laudis Raile-Robertson Wesley-Parker Snow-Stephens Traditional Nicholson-Schreiner Cannon-Cannon Alexander-Neander I libbard-Flemming Townsend-Clayson Pollard-Kirkpatrick Sioux Chieftain s Prayer Mabel Law Atkinson Great Spirit, help me Judge no man till I have walked In his moccasins. Soxireiiecow W cten Leslie Savage Clark The roots a woman's heart puts down Are strong and very deep. When she must leave the home she loves, For years across her sleep Will drift the dreams of climbing rose That arched a door she knew, And lighted windows through the dusk, And lilacs wet with dew. So women took green slender shoots For planting, when they went To wild frontiers—that they might keep The lilac's tain-washed scent, NORA WARENSKI ROSS Needlecraft—A Useful Hobby Nora Warenski Ross, seventy-six, of Calgary, Alberta, Canada, makes many quilts, aprons, pillowslips, and crocheted articles for her family, her friends, and for Relief Society. Sister Nora Ross, mother of six daughters, a woman of pioneer heritage who went to Canada in her early married life, has found lasting joy in her many hobbies, and in her Relief Society work. Recently she made forty-seven aprons, pieced four quilts, made four pairs of pillowslips, and crocheted twenty-five hot pot holders and doilies. She also quilted every Tuesday from May 1953 until the Calgary First Ward bazaar was held on November 5, 1953. For the occasion of her seventy-fourth birthday, Sister Ross was honored by having a pee written for her by her daughter, Eileen Ross Lott, part of which is quoted below: BRAVE SPIRIT You were never one to ask for favors, To sit and say that such was your just due, But you were one to work, and fight, if need be, Brave Spirit, all of us are proud of you.... Marned when in your youth... You might have chosen ease, the quiet life, Instead, you chose, together with your husband, To come up to this country wild and rife.... Your children all have left your hearthstone— Another generation and another voice; Would you have changed your life for ease and splendor? Not you, Brave Spirit, this was your own choice. 448 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1954 "The Way" Ruth Moody Ostegar clock popped open, and the one '"'coo-coo"' of the little bird reverberated throughout the still, dark house. Martha Whitmore raised herself on one elbow so as to see more easily the hands of the luminous dial on her bedside stand. One is such a disturbing number, she thought to herself. It might mean anything — twelvethirty, one, one-thirty—it could hardly be two-thirty. The hands pointed to one-thirty, and she sighed as she lay back down again. Now where on earth can that girl be? She thought. It seems like children just try to see how late they can stay out, with never a thought of their parents. Of course, she might possibly have slipped in without my hearing her. I'll just take a look in her room and see if she's there. Suiting the action to the word, Martha quietly arose, and softly, so as not to awaken John, her husband, crept down the hall. The sight of the open door and the moonlight streaming across the empty bed confirmed her fears; Beth was somewhere out in the night. "What's the matter, Mom, can't you sleep?" John's voice came to her from the other twin bed as she climbed into her own. "It's Beth," she said, "she hasn't come home yet, and here it is almost two o'clock. Do you think something's happened to her?" "Of course not, Martha. Aren't you ever going to get over wortyje two little doors of the ing? Beth's been away for four years now taking care of herself, she ought to be able to meet any situation." "But I can't help worrying; the party must have been out two hours ago. One reads in the paper about young folks doing such dreadful things, these days. Maybe they've had an accident!" "No, I don't think there's been an accident. That's one thing we would hear about. Now you go back to sleep and quit worrying. It's such a beautiful moonlight night; they've probably just gone for a drive." "But we scarcely know this boy she is with. What does she have to go chasing out for anyway?" "Well, you couldn't expect her to sit around and_ twiddle her thumbs until David gets out of the service. Beth has always been a good, dependable girl. She's been taught properly, and I'm sure there's no cause for worry." "IT guess you're right," Martha admitted, "but I know I won't sleep a wink until she comes." "Nonsense!" John ejaculated reassuringly, as he turned over. His gentle, steady breathing soon told her that he was asleep. ES, Beth has always been a good girl, she told herself, and began thinking of her as a child winning one hundred per cent attendance awards in Sunday School, saving her pennies in an envelope to pay her tithing, being organist for Primary almost before she had gradPage 449 450 uated, and on through the years. She thought of Beth's charm and beauty as she approached womanhood, the gay twinkle of her large, brown eyes, the clear, sweet tone of her lovely voice as she sang. Everyone loved to hear her sing, and they had been so happy when they were. Able to let her attend the B. Y. U. And take vocal lessons. Yes, Beth, their youngest, had always been a joy, very little worry on her account. How pleased they had been when she had told them of her engagement to David, who had recently returned from a mission, and how sensible they had thought her when she made known their plans to wait until he was out of the service before marrying. And then their joy had been complete when, after graduation, she had said she would like to go on a mission while David finished his term in the army. Now her pathway ahead seemed to lead clear and straight to happiness, and yet there was always the possibility that something might happen to change her plans, mar the way, and lead her down the road of doubt and sorrow. Martha thought of her own younger sister Grace, who had likewise been beautiful and talented, and how she had become confused in her sense of values and had given up the gospel for the glitter, the tinsel, the shiny things of life. Now, at middle age, Grace was a not-too-happy widow, living alone in her New York home. God grant, Martha prayed quietly, that nothing like that will ever happen to our Beth. She closed her eyes and began counting slowly in rhythm with her breathing, "One, two, three, four. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1954..-" Sometimes that helped her to sleep. A car turned into the street, and she lay tense and still, waiting to hear if it would stop, but it went speedily onward. "Nine, ten, eleven, twelve...." She heard the clock proclaiming that it was two in the morning. "I wish she wouldn't do things like this!" Another car pulled into the street, and this time, with a sigh of relief, she heard it stop. A moment later the side door quietly opened—now, perhaps, she could sleep. * x * * 66¢*OOD morning, Mother, have you something good for breakfast? I'm famished!" Beth, with her hair in pin curls and her dressing gown pulled over her pajamas, greeted her mother, who was busy with the breakfast dishes.: "There's a glass of orange juice in the refrigerator, and I'll fry you some bacon and eggs. Do you want to put some bread in the toaster? There's some of that good strawberry jam still on the table. And, in the meantime, what on earth kept you out so late last night? It was after two when you came in, and I don't think it's right for a girl who has been interviewed for a mission to be staying out all hours of the night!" "For heaven's sake, Mom, do you still lie awake worrying over me? I'm a big girl now, remember?" and Beth's smile was one which would have melted the most frigid heart. "Yes, I know you are, Beth, and I do have confidence in you, but there's one thing I've seen many times over the years, of which you may not be aware." "THE WAY" "What's that?" "It seems like the powers of darkness ever try to thwart the work of God. I have seen many young people on the verge of a mission suffer temptations that they never knew existed. Some have faltered 'and fallen by the wayside. Even Wilford Woodruff, that stalwart Church leader, said upon one occasion that it seemed that every time he was called to perform a mission the destroyer was determined to hinder him with sickness, trouble, or tribulation, and to discourage him." "That might well be, Mother," Beth answered seriously. "And I'll try to remember it. "To be forewarned is to be forearmed,' they say. But last night there was nothing to worry about. Jean's cousin, who had come over for the party, wanted a ride home, so we drove her over to Benson. It's about forty miles, and she insisted that we stop a few minutes, as her mother was sure to have something good in the refrigerator. She did too! Cold chicken, soda pop! Yum! Yum!" "You girls!" Martha was definitely relieved. "How you can eat so much and keep your figure beats me! Hurry up now, and eat your breakfast. I want you to help me wash the walls and ceiling of the kitchen today, so we can paint. I want to get the house all shipshape before you leave." "Do you have to start on the kitchen? Couldn't we begin on something easier and sort of work up to a climax?" "Well, you know it's like ironing, when you put the white shirts and starched things on top of the basket, the rest is easy." 451 MARTHA and her daughter were both hard at work when they heard the postman. Beth ran to see if there was a letter from David. "Here's a letter from New York, Mother. It must be from Aunt Grace." "That's strange," replied Martha, "IT was just thinking of her this morning, Open it and read it for me, my hands are dirty." Beth tore a strip from the end of the envelope. "Mom, she's coming to visit us! Listen!" She read the short letter aloud, which ended: "... And so, if you can make room for me somewhere for a few days, — Pll be arriving about Saturday, July eighteenth. I believe I'll enjoy telaxing a little in your fair city." "My word! She doesn't give us much time, does she? The eighteenth is this Saturday, and _ it's Wednesday now." Martha's mind raced ahead to necessary preparations. "We'll paint the kitchen tomorrow, and Friday we'll just have to paper that back bedroom, you know Mary's children scribbled on the wall the last time they were here. I wonder if we could afford a new bedspread—something pretty to match the new paper. After all, we want to make our home as attractive as possible." "Let's hurry," Beth suggested, "and shop this afternoon, then we could paint tonight, when dad's here to help us." Quite abruptly, she changed the subject. "I do wonder what she'll be like. Do you think she will be condescending and high and mighty, or do you think she'll be so worn out and complaining that she'll never even notice us?" "She can be very charming and sweet when she wants to be," her 452 mother answered. "As a matter of fact, in spite of her money, I feel rather sorry for her. After all, we've got the joy, peace, and security that a faith in the Lord and the gospel brings us, while her security lies completely with this world's goods." "You're probably nght," Beth answered with a smile, "but you don't need to get so dramatic about it. We'll just treat her like Aunt Amy or anyone else, and forget about social differences." HREE days later Aunt Grace arrived at the Whitmore home, which had been duly scrubbed, waxed, and polished, and. Smelled strongly of new paint and paper. She was dressed in a neat, plain, traveling suit, had loads of luggage, and was, as Martha had hoped, her sweet and charming self. Her neatly tinted hair showed no signs of gray, and her small, almost girlish figure gave no hint of her fifty years. The entire family was surprised at the way she fit into the pattern of their home and seemed to be just one of them. The next morning she sweetly refused their invitation to accompany them to Sunday School, but insisted that her presence should in no way interfere with their worship. "You know," she said smiling almost mischievously, "I've got a yearning to bake a cake while you're gone. I haven't made one for twenty years, I guess. Do you think I'll still remember how to do it? I'll have it all ready when you return." Memory wove a golden thread through the tapestry of their lives for the next few days—memories of the old farm where they were reared as children, the lake, the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1954 canyons, the creek, the old red schoolhouse, and all the spots which had entwined themselves around their hearts. Pilgrimages were made to these beloved places, and once again the two sisters relived the scenes of their youth. Throughout these days Beth acted as chauffeur, and one night she confided, "You know, Mother, I had no idea Aunt Grace was so sweet. I just love her! She hasn't said a word about all those aches and pains she used to write about." "I told you she was naturally sweet and charming. She probably only wrote to us when she was blue and not feeling well. One has to have someone's shoulder to weep on." One morning when Grace was wiping the breakfast dishes for her sister, the clear, sweet tones of Beth's voice came to them from the living room. "That girl's singing is just out of this world!" Grace said when the song was finished. "You never told me how beautiful and talented she has become, and with it all she is so sweet and unspoiled. [t almost makes me wish I had a daughter," she sighed. Martha, listening, detected a note of longing and loneliness in her sigh. HAT evening while Martha was preparing for bed, Grace called her into her room. Beth, she noted, was already there. "Ive been thinking all day about you, Beth, and do you know what I've decided to do?" "No. What?" came as a chorus from both her listeners. Martha felt a sudden premont- "THE WAY" tion, and prayed that Beth would remember the warning she had recently given her. "T'm going to Europe in the fall, and I've decided to take Beth with me. I've never had a daughter, you know, and I could do so much fen <." "No! No! You mustn't, you can't!" Martha's anxious voice betrayed her fears. "Why? I thought you'd be delighted. She could study voice in Europe and really have a career." "Well, it's like this," Martha answered quietly, quickly, getting control of herself. "Beth is planning on going on a mission this fall. In fact, she has already been interviewed." "Oh, that's nothing! She can go on a mission any day. That will keep. In this day and age of the universe you'd surely not be so narrow-minded as to keep Beth from real progress for a mission." Martha's eyes smarted as she choked back the tears. For a moment she would not allow herself to speak. "Wouldn't it be wonderful, Beth?" Grace took advantage of the silence. "We could visit London and Paris, and spend the cold weather in Italy, where you could study voice from the best masters in Europe. It would be a wonderful education for you; and what a French designer couldn't do with your face and figure! You'd be the hit of the American colony over there, and no telling what romance might ensue." "Tt would be fun!' Beth's eyes shone. "But I'm engaged, and what about my mission?" "Later, perhaps. Any girl can go 453 on a mission, but how many have the opportunity of studying in Europe? I really think you owe it to yourself and society. Everyone isn't blessed with a voice like yours." "But—but...." Beth started to remonstrate. "Doesn't the Bible say something about* improving your talents?" Grace hastened on. "After all, I'm not going to make an athest out of you. Can't you go on a mission in the spring?" "Well, I suppose I could. "Come, Martha, what do "you say? I hope you're not going to be difficult." ééTT'S entirely up to Beth," Martha spoke calmly, without a trace of her inward fear or misgiving that should Beth go, she would never fulfill a mission or marry her missionary. Sweetheart. "She's a child no longer, and it's up to her to make the decision." "Then it's all decided, isn't it, Beth?" Grace smiled in her most endearing manner. "We'll leave, let's see, how about Monday? You'll want a few weeks in New York before sailing." "Please, Aunt Grace, it's awfully sweet of you to ask me, and I do appreciate it, but do you mind if I give you my decision in the morning?" "Certainly not, but you're a smart girl, and I know already that you'll decide to go with me." "Please, Auntie," Beth laughingly hugged her aunt. "I want to think about it. I'll let you know in the morning." A few minutes later, Martha, with tears in her eyes, sobbed out the story to John. 454 "You did exactly right, Martha," he said, with his arm about her shoulders. "The decision must be Beth's. We know that a call from the Lord should be first and foremost in our lives, but she must never go on a mission feeling she's been coerced into going. She must decide; but I realize that tonight our daughter is making one of the most important decisions of her life. Come, let us pray." Kneeling side by side, with clasped hands, they poured out their hearts to God, praying that their daughter might be blessed with wisdom, strength, and fortitude. And then, strangely enough, Martha slept, not the harassed, worried sleep that anxiety usually brought, but the sweet, restful sleep of a child. Beth seldom arose before her father left for work, but the next morning a grave, serious girl entered RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1954 the kitchen as he was eating breakfast. "Dad, Mother," she said, "I've just told Aunt Grace that I'm not going to Europe with her. It wasn't easy." 'Tears came into her eyes and voice. "In fact, it was the hardest thing I've ever done. But I know I'm right, for I prayed and prayed, almost all night long. The answer to my prayer came to me just as though it had been written before me: "Whosoever shall lose his life for my sake shall find it.'" "Thank God," John murmured, and hastily wiped a tear from his eye. "The mother's loving arms encircled her daughter, who had been "weighed in the balance" and not found wanting. Martha felt that. Never again would it be necessary for her to lie awake worrying, for Beth was a woman, with a true and abiding faith in the Lord. Shis Gs My Country Ida Isaacson This is my country, cradled by God to give me the blessings I now enjoy. This is my country where free men and women dream and make dreams reality, This is where gallant little bands of people walked the dusty miles— Rowed the untraversed rivers to place a name, a faith, and a marker On barren plains and hills. 'They sang the songs of deliverance From tyranny, strife, error, cold, famine, disease, Indians, and death, They counted their battle scars with hungry and unhealed hearts, They loved this country. We owe them a debt. Memorials stand—silent—but remembered. This great and good country has groaned under its trials; But it has never given away to despair. The green, waving corn grows tall in America, And while God is watching over us, The morning and the evening stars take their places And they watch over us, also. We are not sheathed in an iron panoply of fear; Neither are we fenced in behind iron bars of injustice, The American flag continues to ripple in the gentle breezes Our people understand the price of liberty. _ The Falling Shackles CHAPTER 2 Margery S. Stewart Synopsis: The Tobler family, Maria, seventeen years old, the parents, and Phillip and Karen, members of the Church from Europe, arrive in Salt Lake City, and are met at the station by Mrs. Tobler's cousin Frederick, who has found a home for them. The house is old-fashioned and in need of repair, but Mamma Tobler is delighted and immediately begins to make the house jnto a home. ARLY rising was not a neighE; borhood characteristic Maria discovered, when she watched at the front window for neighbors to come shivering out to pick up their morning papers. Karen came to watch, too, and Papa took his turn. "Is spying," said Mamma, and tried to hurry them away. "No, no, Mamma, is interest," Papa smiled, tying his tie. It was a long wait, but, at seven, the first one came out, the woman who lived across the street. "Now," said Papa, "let us see how clever you are. What kind of a lady would you say she is?" Maria looked at the tall, grayhaired woman bending with such dignity to retrieve her paper, at the immaculate little garden, the carefully locked gate, the "No peddlers" sign upon the fence. "I think she will be hard to know." But Karen clapped her hands in delight. "A girl just looked out of the upstairs window. She's my age, I know it. I say they are wonderful people who will love us on sight." But Papa turned to Maria. "I think you are the one more nearly tight. We shall see. But I think she will be a friend well worth the waiting." Mamma called from the kitchen, "The eggs are done. You will be late, and Frederick will be cross. Remember, he must find Karen's school for her, also." Maria followed after Karen. She sensed her sister's unhappiness. "You may wear my gold locket if you like." Karen shook her head. "Nothing else on me is right. I do not want any more." At breakfast she ate scarcely anything. "I think," she said at last, "IT would rather stay home. I think -_I should wait a week or two before going to school." No one was at all deceived. "You are afraid," said Phillip gravely. Mamma turned anxiously from the stove. "But you must start, you have so much time to make up. You better go this morning." Maria watched anxiety furrow Karen's forehead. "I have no sweatet," she said. "I have only the blue dress and the black dress and the white blouse and green skirt. They will laugh at me. They will laugh at my shoes." "They will not laugh," Mamma said, "when you are clean and neat, when you have such pretty hair, curly by itself and pure gold." Karen hung her head. "When I talk they will laugh hardest of all." "Laugh before they do," Mamma said, "and you will soon be laughing together." "T am ugly," said Karen, "and the nearer I get to school, the uglier I Page 455 456 will grow. When I go in the rooms my nose will be a foot long." APA patted her shoulder. "I will give you three pretty pills," he said. "Hold out your hand." Karen obediently opened her palm. Papa took three pink pills from his pocket and closed her fingers over them. "When you cannot bear your ugliness another moment, take one pill, and like magic you will be pretty again. You will look just like the girl in the mirror upstairs." Maria laughed at the old, childish game, and, after a moment, Karen laughed, too. "Today," said Maria grandly, "I will get a job and then you shall have your sweater." Everyone looked at her wonderingly. "How do you know?" Maria tossed her bright hair. "This is America. Have you forgotten? Everything wonderful happens here." Cousin Frederick rang the doorbell and burst in before they could run to open the door. "A boy!" he shouted. "Can you imagine such luck? Four girls we have and then, at last, a boy! I thought the boys were all gone, but no, there was one for me after all." Everyone cried out with delight, even Phillip, who wanted to go at once and bring the baby to the house for a playmate. "We go to see Hilda, tonight," Mamma decided. Cousin Frederick slapped Papa on the back. "Your first day on the job. It is going to be fine... Just fine. We have several men there from our country. One, I think, was in the last city you stayed before RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1954 your arrest. You will have much to talk about." They went away, Frederick and Papa and Karen. Maria worked side by side with Mamma all morning. Mamma was true to her word. They mounted step by step, leaving a shining basement behind them, advancing on a soon-to-be gleaming main floor. At noon they stopped for a sandwich of leftover goose and a piece of the apple cake. Maria made the sandwiches while Mamma went out to call Philip. She heard her mother's voice rising in crescendo as the moments wore away without an answering voice. She stepped to the back door. Mamma turned from the back fence. "He is not here. Where could he be? Last time when I called he was playing with some little boys." "He is in another boy's garden then," Maria comforted her, but she untied her apron. "I will comb my hair and then I will look for him." She ran swiftly up and down the. Neighboring streets. But Phillip was nowhere to be seen. In gathering panic, Maria fled down a_ larger thoroughfare calling his name. Breathless, she paused on the second corner before a drugstore window. Miserably frightened, she stared unseeingly at the dusty, flyspecked windows, the advertisements of toothpaste. She straightened. Someone in the drugstore might have seen or heard of him. They would remember a little boy so blonde, so broken in his speech. Timidly she pushed open the swinging doors. She took a deep breath of the unfamiliar odor. How delicious it was, drugs mingling with perfumes and perfumes with some THE FALLING SHACKLES aromatic foods being kept at even heat. But Maria shook her head disapprovingly when she saw the finger-smudged glass cases, the dusty mirror behind the fountain. O one came forward. She took a few steps toward the fountain. "Hello?" she said hesitantly. There was the sound of falling boxes, the scrape of a chair. A dark masculine head poked itself from behind a floor display of face creams. "You looking for something, Ma'am?" Maria stared at him in astonishment. This was not what she had heard of American ways. Where were the furious tempo, the swift courtesy, the efficient flourish. She swallowed. "I... I came to look...." "Oh," the thin, dark face flashed a white smile in her direction. "Go right ahead and look. I'll just duck back for a little session with Blackstone while you're making up your mind." He disappeared again. Maria tiptoed forward: "It is for a little boy I look." The head came back again, interest warmed the dark eyes. "A little boy, you say... About so high?" A long, thin hand shot out from the display. "Blonde? On his way back to the ship?" Maria leaned against the counter, weak with relief. "You have seen him then? Phillip? Where is he?" "In the back. Asleep. Come along if you want to." Now the whole man made his appearance, tall and lean, cavernously young, he towered above her. His face was tanned and pleasantly homely. A lock of brown hair inched across his forehead every 457 time he pushed it away. "Phillip tells me it was better where you came from, everyone understood everyone there. He didn't have to tell them a simple thing over and over." "Oh," said Maria, not knowing whether to smile or not. 'The words had mirth in them, but the young man did not smile. She followed his example and tiptoed through the swinging half door to the apothecary part of the store. The shelves were filled with jars and bottles and boxes of all sizes and colors. On a cot under the window, Phillip slept, a green all-day sucker clutched in his hand. "It was cheaper than a_ sleeping pill," the young man_ explained gravely, "and twice as efficacious." He studied Maria frankly, "His sister?", She nodded: "And thank you for keeping him here." He grinned widely, his teeth sparkled. "That's all right. I had to get my good deed in before sixthirty tonight." He shot out his hand, "My name is Timothy Allred." There was a little silence. "Yours?" he prodded. MARA blushed hotly at her clumsiness. "Mine is Maria... Tobler. We came last night." "So he told me." Timothy nodded his head toward the cot. "Took one look around and said, no. It seems he wants to go back to the ship and start all over." "There were no Indians," Maria explained. "We had promised him Indians." "T see." He rubbed his chin. "I know an _ honest-to-goodness chief, 458 but he's down in Arizona, two days away." He looked again at Phillip. "It isn't just the Indians, the kids around here have been giving your brother a bad time." Maria bent over Phillip, gathered him into her arms, whispered him awake. Timothy Allred watched her carefully. "I just remembered an extra fine prescription for small bo societies." He reached in his pocket for a pad and wrote hurriedly on six or seven pages. He ripped them off and handed them to Phillip. "That will do it, I'm pretty sure." Phillip held them up to Maria. "What does it read?" Maria deciphered the sprawling hand. "Pay to the bearer, one icecream cone, when bearer is accompanied by Phillip Tobler."" She bent her head to hide the quick, grateful tears. "You are kind." "Nope... Just getting business for my Dad's store." Maria looked about her questioningly. Timothy Allred shook his head. "No, Dad isn't here. He's very ill. I came back from school to sort of run things until he's back on his feet." "T am so sorry." Marie looked about her. "But such a beautiful store. It must make you happy to take care of it." "Happy!" Timothy stared at her as if she were a new species of fish. "Selling pills to Mrs. Curtis and eyelash curlers to all the Junior High kids should make me happy? Aaak." "You don't like it?" Maria was incredulous. "T want to be a lawyer," Timothy said, "'a nice business-like profession. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1954 I want to help people. I want to be something." Maria backed away from his intensity. She took Phillip's hand. "IT do thank you so much, Mr. Allred." "Everybody calls me Timothy." "Mr. Allred," repeated Maria firmly. But she hesitated at the door, her eyes caught once more by the smudged counter. "Mr. Allred, for your kindness would you let me come in this afternoon and... And dust a little for you. I do not like to be beholden." She felt the furious color sweep her face under Timothy Allred's quizzical glance. He bowed very formally. "I accept your offer with deep appreciation, Miss Tobler. I, too, am a great avoider of beholdingness." HEY could scarcely believe at dinner that Maria had a job. It was like all the stories they had heard of life in America. Karen leaned toward Maria, breathless with interest, her dinner forgotten. "Tell me again. You went back and scrubbed the ice-cream counter and -then he said...?" Maria clasped her hands in delight at the mere memory. "He came over to the counter and he said, very gruffly," she made her voice deep, " "Who taught you to scrub like that?' and I said, 'My mother.' " Everyone looked at Mamma, who beamed and nodded her head. Maria took a deep breath. " 'I've been losing customers steadily since I came,' he said, 'and a very quiet and peaceful atmosphere it is, without a lot of people cluttering up the place, but unfortunately, Maria, the cash register is alarmingly silent.' So then," Maria said, "he leaned back THE FALLING SHACKLES and looked at me again and he said, "Yes, I think I would like even a bow] of stew if you served it. That's my criterion, Miss 'Tobler.'" Maria hugged herself in delight. "So there was my beautiful job. All the time I was fearful about what I could do in America, when I knew so little. But you see, already the doors swing wide, and I know...." She looked from one to another. "Now I know it is true. Now I know that here, you can be whatever you want to be." "But, Maria," Papa said gently, "Zs it always to be the drugstore?" She turned to him at once. "It is like a school, Papa. You understand? In the drugstore I will learn to know America, her speech, and her dress and her feelings, then it will be time for the next step." Papa cleared his throat. "Did you hear her, Mamma? Is good." "Is good," said Mamma softly and leaned over to kiss Maria's cheek. | "We have all taken a big step today, but I think Maria, she has taken the biggest." Maria turned to Karen. "All my talk about myself. We haven't heard a word about you. How was the school?" Karen mashed butter into her baked potato. "There is nothing to tell. The school is very large, and there are many boys and girls, and I am just one more bean in the sack." "Oh, no," cried Maria. "There must be more to it than that. They must have noticed you." Karen said slowly, "They are so kind here in America that you could weep just to hear it. They are kind to everyone. It is "excuse me' and 'Tm sorry' and 'Hi there," she explained to Mamma. "Hi there! Is 459 like 'hello to you.' That is what it means." She bit her thumbnail. "But with all their politeness I am still just one more bean." Mamnmm helped herself to more bread. Maria saw that it was more a need to be doing something than hunger. Maria saw that Mamma was troubled. "There are many takers," Mamma said casually, as if she were talking to herself, "and so few givers. That is why the takers are always hungry and the givers so much in demand." JAREN lifted her head sharply. "Now, Mamma, just come right out and say it. You mean I take?" "Sometimes we must sit and think about that, because it is so easy to always think well of -ourselves." Karen flounced up angrily, her gold curls bouncing. "You know very well, Mamma, that I do not have a penny. I have not one thing to give or I would." Mamma's voice grew softer still, "The pretty Madame Renee, on the ship, the one who played the piano so beautifully, she gave me a great deal of pleasure." "Or," said Papa, remembering, "the little girl, Celia, who was teaching all the children the new games. She seemed to give quite a little happiness." Karen hesitated by the door, and Maria sensed that she was half of a mind to flounce up the stairs and yet was just afraid she might miss something of value. "Little Mrs. Henie," reminded Mamma enthusiastically, "she could make pancakes like no one else in the world." Karen giggled. "Remember the 460 | time I ate so many and you were so ashamed of me. But I couldn't stop. Never have I tasted pancakes more delicious." Phillip rubbed his stomach. "I remember Grandma Henie." "And what of Timothy Allred?" Maria asked softly. "Didn't he give Phillip all the friends in the neighborhood, and it only cost him seven free ice-cream cones." "Yes," cried Phillip ecstatically, "seven new friends have I, and Mr. Allred has promised me an Indian chief... Only...." He looked about him with vast scorn, "Only he means it, because he knows right where they live." Karen stamped her foot. "You are so subtle all of you. You think I am still a child. But I will give you one free job of dishwashing, just as soon as I have run to the store for a pencil. Now I will see how your theory really works." Maria helped Mamma clear the table. She scraped leftovers onto wax paper. "Mamma," she said slowly, "how can you really know you have helped Karen with what you said, about giving? Maybe it will not do anything at all." Mamma smiled. "It is one of the certain things, Maria. You will see. Karen will search around inside herself and find something she never knew before." "But look at the artists and other people who never get very famous or very wealthy." Mamma poured soap powder into the pan. "It is a question of degree, my little one, one does not have to have thousands of people shouting his praises to be a most successful person." * RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1954 ARIA wakened from a sound and heavy sleep. She lay wideeyed in the darkness trying to think what had awakened her. Someone was singing. That was it. Someone singing a ballad from home, in her own tongue. She sat up. Karen was sitting on the window ledge, her face etched in light from the moon. She was singing the old, familiar song. But it was no casual or careless singing. Maria listened in amazement as her sister carefully rehearsed one phrase over and over until, with a sigh, she left it and went on to the next. "Karen, you will wake the house." Karen turned. She looked very angelic, Maria thought, in her white flannel nightgown and her moontouched shining hair. "Listen, Maria. | think I have it just the way I want it." She sang again. Maria listened critically. Karen's voice was pretty, gay and tender, and pleasing to the ear. Though not great in any way, it did possess a warm, contagious charm. "T like it," Maria whispered. "But even the birds are asleep. You will wake the house." Karen came back to bed and put her arm around Maria. "Tomorrow I shall look for a job after school, baby sitting, or something like that. Then I shall buy me a guitar and I shall practice my songs and never stop until I really have them the way I want them." Maria hugged her. "I shall be so proud. Think of it, my own sister Karen, singing before crowds and crowds of people." "T always wanted to sing," Karen whispered. "But I never really thought I could do it until tonight, when Mamma talked about giving. THE FALLING SHACKLES Maria, I've been thinking and she is right about this." Maria stifled the impulse to giggle at the astonishment in Karen's voice at her discovery. "Maybe it is not very practical to want to do, like making hotcakes, or embroidery..." Karen explained. "T']] make the hotcakes," Maria said. "We need people to sing to us, to keep reminding us of... Of the wonderful things there are in the world." Karen stretched out beside her. "It's this country," she said. "It won't let you stand still. Everywhere you look, there is something wonderful to do or see or be." Maria thought of the drugstore and the tall, strange young man who ran it. "Then how is it some of them are content to drift and dream and let all the years run out of their hands like water?" Karen shivered. "If they could see what we have seen and hear what we have heard, they wouldn't stop to eat or skeep for joy of being able to do what you want to do." She kissed Maria. "Don't tell Mamma," she whispered, "but even the girl across the street will not be friends with me. I am the strange "kD one. 461 Maria put her arms around Karen. "Tt is only for a little while. Remember at home.... It takes time for these things, a smile today, a word tomorrow... A little walk together the day after.. - " "Of course," said Karen. "It will be all right." But there was no conviction in her voice. After awhile she fell asleep. Maria could not close her eyes. She yearned over Karen and Mamma, over Papa and little Phillip. Oh, it was true what Mamma often said, "Old problems solved open the doors for new ones to enter." Maria smiled wryly to herself. She had thought every trouble would automatically be righted the moment their feet touched the golden shore. Beautiful America, she thought, forgive me. I am like so many, demanding you do everything for me, at once. Now this is foolishness, as Mamma says, you only hold the salve, we have to rub it on the sore place ourselves. Karen turned over with a protesting flop. "What are you doing, Maria, mumbling like that? How can a person ever get her sleep?" (To be continued ) Great Granddad s Day Elsie McKinnon Strachan Great Granddad now is mellow with the years, And yet his voice still tells exciting tales Of oxen teams and river fords, of fears When wagon riders crossed long, lonely trails. He tells of mile-wide forests felled by hand, Of horse-drawn plows which turned the virgin field; Of times when wheat was broadcast on the land. When he is gone, who then will take us back Where orchards were but dreams held in a maze Of wilderness and weeds; when sodded shack Housed faith and hope and plans for better days? Who will recall with story-telling skill Great granddad's day, when his proud voice is still? Selected Data ANNUAL REPORT—1953 hae activities and achievements of Relief Society for 1953, its 111th year, are reflected in this annual report. An increasing number of women of many nationalities, living under varied conditions, are benefiting from participation in Relief Society activities as shown in the reports of 209 stakes and 42 missions, Commendable increases were shown in nearly all phases of the program.; We congratulate the stakes and missions on the excellence of their reports. In the stakes, 68 were perfect and 126 required only minor corrections; in the missions, 7 were perfect and 22 required only minor corrections. The narrative sections of the reports disclosed a wide variety of activities which touched many lives. Membership reached 148,094, an increase of 7,740 over 1952, a gratifying, steady growth. 'There was, however, an increase of 18,955. Latter-day Saint families. Since the growth in membership did not keep pace with the increase in number of Latter-day Saint families, attainment of our goal—every Latter-day Saint woman a member of Relief Society—should receive constant attention from stake and mission workers. During 1953, opportunity for development through engaging in leadership activities was afforded 90,887 women, an increase of 5,390 over 1952. The average attendance at regular meetings throughout the Church increased slightly; theology and testimony meetings continued to have the largest attcadance, followed in order by literature, social science, and work meetings. Visiting teacher meetings increased 1,721 over 1952. The total average attendance was, 50.38 per cent (48.71 per cent in 1952) a commendable increase; in the stakes, 48.92 per cent (47.81 per cent in 1952); in the missions, 62.8 per cent (55.95 per cent in 1952) indicating that the missions are more rapidly expanding this vital activity. The increase of 191,788 visits by 3,613 more visiting teachers, in 1,754 more districts, brought the average number of visits to Latter-day Saint families to 8.01 from 7.87 in 1952. This increase, though slight, means that an average of 8 visits was made to each family during the year and evidences gradual advancement toward our goal of 12 annual visits to each family. ) Compassionate service held its important place in Relief Society as indicated by 7,912 more visits to the sick and homebound; and 1,235 more days care of the sick over 1952. In addition, the narrative sections of the annual reports recounted many other comforting acts of consideration for the aged, infirm, and unfortunate, which affected many lives and the services rendered were as varied as human needs. Over and above these services performed officially in the name of the society, members, inspired by the grand key words of Relief Society as given by the Prophet Joseph Smith: "Said Jesus, 'Ye shall do the work which ye see me do," and out of the goodness of their hearts, have performed innumerable needed and helpful services as good neighbors. Relief Society continued to support the Church Welfare Program through participation at work meetings, at sewing centers, and in other welfare projects. In Family Welfare Service an increase of 749 initial visits made to needy families under the direction of bishops, and an increase of 1,232 follow-up visits indicate Relief Society's earnest concern for those requiring care in this phase of the Welfare Program. The general board is grateful to all whose loyalty and devotion have contnbuted to the advancement of the Relief Society program during 1953. 'There is great need in the world today for increased faith in God, for extension of spiritual and cultural development, and for greater solicitude everywhere for the well-being of our Father's children. Meeting these needs has been the worthy objective of Relief Society from its very beginning and, with the continued support and devotion of our membership, this objective will not only be perpetuated but Relief Society's sphere of influence and servPage 462 1 ice will be expanded to bless peoples in faraway places now unacquainted with its bene- = "Mengarat 0. Paekiring, General Secretary-Treasurer Illustrations and arrangement by Don Mortensen and Doug Johnson, Audio-Visual Aids Department, Brigham Young University. MEMBERSHIP — 1953 303,504 L. D. S. Families BE 18,955 over 1952 Pn 148,094 R. S. Members + 7,740 over 1952 or, 48.79% of potential membership In Stakes 251,775 L. D. S. Families + 15,333 over 1952 119,615 R. S. Members + 7,427 over 1952 or 47.50% of potential membership "as: a SSI " amen a = 4 4 In Missions., 51,729 L. DS. Families + 3,622 over 1952 IS 28,479 R. S. Members + 313 over 1952 or, 1953 -_ 55.05% of potential membership LEADERSHIP ACTIVITIES 90,887 R. S. Members Participated in Leadership Activities, 1953: 85,497 in 1952. 1953 1952 General Officers -.............. Csssscceeeeeeeees 26 24 Stake Officers.2...2........ Ccsessesceceeeseeeeeee 2,421 2,281 Mission Officers............22..--::--0: ec0+-+ 504 465 Local Executive Officers -....0.0..0022... ~ 12,946 12,385 Other Officers...0........2..2.. Lescceeeee eee 6,291 5,993 Class Leaders.00...... Eeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee 12,097 11,360 Visiting Teachers —......2--..22..-eeeeeeeee 56,602 52,989 ANNUAL REPORT 463 464 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1954 GEOGRAPHIC DISTRIBUTION OF RELIEF SOCIETY ORGANIZATIONS AND MEMBERS—1953 Location Stakes Missions ' Totals OrganiMembers OrganiMembers OrganiMembers zation zation zation United States and Territories Alabama 14 178 14 178 Alaska 96 4 96 Arizona 99 5,772 24 438 123 6,210 Arkansas 9 117 9 117 California 258 15,374 33 774 291 16,148 Colorado 24 1,202 24 541 48 1,743 Connecticut 4 76 4 76 Delaware 1 2 1 27 District of Columbia 2 156 2 156 Florida 10 388 36 572 46 960 Georgia 3 91 22 398 25 489 Hawaii 15 816 43 833 58 1,649 Idaho 315 18,856 6 94 321 18,950 Illinois | 8 312 23 362 ail _ 674 Indiana | 1 29 22 478 23 507 Iowa 13 185 13 185 Kansas a 20 265 20 265 Kentucky 17 260 17 260 Louisiana 20 416 20 416 Maine; 9 80 9 80 Maryland 2 140 1 | ae 3 158 Massachusetts 11 167 11 167 Michigan 9 284 5 100 14 384 Minnesota 15 279 15 279 Mississippi 17 220 17 220 Missouri 24 492 24 492 Montana 11 315 42 894 53 1,209 Nebraska 9 152 9 1 Se Nevada 39 2,107 39 2,107 New Hampshire 2 24 Z 24 New Jersey 2 65 3 75 5 140 New Mexico 18 602 25 391 43 993 New York 5 183 19 348 24 531 North Carolina 44 797 44 797 North Dakota 5 41 5 41 Ohio 1 24 18 426 19 450 ANNUAL REPORT 465 Location Stakes Missions Totals OrganiMembers OrganiMembers OrganiMembers zation zation zation Oklahoma 19 264 19 264 Oregon 46 2,249 21 425 67 2,674 Pennsylvania 1 40 26 440 27 480 Rhode Island 2 | 2 21 South Carolina 12 404 yi 89 19 493 South Dakota 6 44 6 44 Tennessee 10 171 10 171 Texas 4 162 59 1,207 63 1,369 Utah 838 62,658 838 62,658 Vermont 3 31 3 31 Virginia 3 228 21 419 24 647 Washington 43 1,890 18 435 61 2,325 West Virginia 11 195 11 195 Wisconsin 3 100 14 148 17 248 Wyoming 50 2,761 12 249 62 3,010 Total United States 1,822 117,208 813 14,752 2,635 131,960 Other Countries Argentina 19 388 19 388 Australia 23 482 23 482 Austria 5 97 5 97 Belgium 6 49 6 49 Brazil 13 144 13 144 Canada pd 2,270 | 5) 961 107 3,231 Denmark 16 361 16 — 361 England 70 899 70 899 Finland 9 124 9 124 France 11 89 11 89 Germany - East (1952) 76 3,278 76 3,278 Germany - West 56 846 56 846 Ireland 3 35 3 35 apan 18 189 18 189 exico 3 137 60 1,058 63 1,195 Netherlands 27 438 27 438 New Zealand 69 975 69 975 Norway 13 328 13 328 Samoa 49 669 49 669 Scotland 6 77 6 77 South Africa 12 138 12 138 Sweden 38 471 38 471 Switzerland 25 330 25 330 Tahiti 16 277 16 277 Tonga e 39 618 39 618 Uruguay 22 355 22 355 Wales 5 51 5 51 Total Other Countries 55 2,407 761 13,727 816 16,134 GRAND Total 1,877 119,615 91,574 =. 28,479 3,451 148,094 466 163,492 'Total Meetings Held in Wards and Branches Theology Work Literature In Stakes... In Missions In Stakes... In Missions Social Science RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1954 MEETINGS — 1953 111,741 Regular Meetings in Suomee" Oneefaz allay 14,567 + 931 13655 + 12 20,519 + 1,640 15,916 + 536 14,274 + 1,076 10,515 + 794 (Optional Lessons in Missions) 12,538 + 827 18,820 Visiting Teacher Meetings 32,931 All Other Meetings 9,757 + 457 Increase Over 1952 41,072 4+ 649 Increase over 1952 1,441 + 152 ANNUAL REPORT 467 ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS — 1953 Regular Meetings 53,432 or 36.08% total average attendance in 1953 49,255 or 35.09% in 1952 te ean AY, Mittens Av, Aleem @yer 1382 Theology 44,846 13,520 58,366 +4,289 Work 38,647 12,577 51,224 +4,644 Literature 39,131 12,602 51,7a5 +4,626 Social Science 38,778 12,815 51,593 +3,350 Visiting Teacher Meetings 28,514 or 50.38% total average attendance in 1953 25,814 or 48.71% in 1952 Av. Attendance Av. Attendance Total Increase In Stakes In Missions Av. Attendance over 1952 24,788 3,726 28,514 + 2,700 VISITING TEACHER SERVICE 1953 1952 Over 1959 Total Family Visits 2,432,032 2,240,244 +191,788 Visiting Teachers 56,602 52,989 + 3,613 Districts 30,367 28,613 -- 1,754 Families Visited At Home 1,626,145 1,508,448 +117,697 Not Home 805,887 731,796 + 74,091 8.01 Av. Visits were made to each L. D. S. Family in 1953 7.87 in 1952 SEWING SERVICE Increase (or 1953 1952 Dem Total Articles Completed 246,686 210,955 -+35,731 Av. Number of women sewing monthly at Kinds of Articles Completed Quilts. 16,193 14,846 + 1,347 Children's Clothing 23,824 21,583 + 2,241 Household Furnishings 74,792 53,426 +21,366 Miscellaneous COMPASSIONATE SERVICE — 1953 Increase (or 1953 1952 'over 1952 Compassionate Services: Visits to Sick and Homebound __........... 217,306 209,894 ++ 7,912 Days Care of Sick........ 23,739 22,504 + 1,235 Number of Funerals at Which Relief Society Assisted.......... 6,598 6474 + 124 Dressing Only for Burial _................ 716 787 — 71 468 work meeting...............- 41,867 Women's Clothing...... 34,596 Men's Clothing............ 2,198 Articles.......... Seoec00--- 95,083 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1954 38,686 + 3,181 30,166 + 4,430 3,088 — 890 87,846 + 7,237 ANNUAL REPORT 469 CHURCH WELFARE SERVICE — 1953 1953 1952 "Average number of women participating in Welfare sewing at work meeting __.... 8,237 8,422 **Average number of women participating in Welfare sewAverage number of women participating in Welfare projects other than Welfare centers Increase (or Decrease ) over 1952 —1,579 + 1,934 *Due to smaller Welfare budget assignments to wards **Due to fewer calls for service on Welfare sewing at FAMILY WELFARE SERVICE — 1953 1953 1952 Number of initial family visits under direction of bishop............ 8,628 7,879 Number of subsequent Number visited who gave service on Church Welfare projects - 1,573 1,458 Number of women visited who sewed at work meetings.........-...... 1,738 1,505 Number of women visited who sewed for Increase over 1952 4+ 749 +1,232 4+ 115 4 233 j. 13 ing at sewing centers... 2,357 sewing......... =e....-.. 10,919 or follow-up visits.......... Themselves and families _...2,048 3,936 8,985 19,439 = 18,207 1,965 470 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1954 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL REPORT FOR STAKES AND MISSIONS Y Receipts and Disbursements, 1953 Cash Balance on hand, January 1..............$ 945,425.70 2 le | ee le se 1,423,757.66 $ 2,369,183.36 Disbursements...............2...--:--0c-0ce--ceceeseeee* 1,332,694.79 Cash Balance on hand December 31........$ 1,036,488.57 Assets and Liabilities, December 31, 1953 Assets Cash Balance on Hand December 31........$ 1,036,488.57 Wheat Trust Fund Deposited at Presiding Bishop's Office..................-...-. 422,912.22 Other Invested Funds (Savings, Bonds, etc.) -....-22-..----22--c-0sceeeeeeceeeeeeeeeees 93,413.34 Real Estate and Buildings.........................-.- 96,767.25 Furniture and Fixtures —....0.2222..-..2-...----------- 668,864.95 Other Assets -2...022.22..-.2-c2: cesceceeceeeeeeeeeeeeeeees 164,950.27 Total Assets.0.0...02220c02-eeeeeeeeceeeneee ees$ 2,483,396.60 Liabilities Accounts Payable........2.2.2.22..2..2..2.21ee20-0---$ 2,356.91 Balance Net Worth ~.............2..2222-2222222222--- 2,481,039.69 Total Liabilities and Net Worth........$ 2,483,396.60 REPORT OF FUNDS FOR NEW RELIEF SOCIETY BUILDING, 1947 - 1953 Receipts Contributions \.......2222...1....22220000eeeeeeeeeeeeee es$ 562,882.23 Tinian. Connec nett voter = 0, -aonnadeagacces+aeeenare 15,906.91 Proceeds from sale '""Wist Ye Not"...... 2,278.50 Total Receijate. Commen...$ 581,067.64 Disbursements Including Construction Expense _ 29,212.90 Cash Balance December 31, 1953..$ 551,854.74 ANNUAL REPORT 471 COMPARATIVE FINANCIAL AND STATISTICAL DATA 1953 - 1952 1953 1952 Changes 1952 to 1953 Number Number Number or or or Amount Amount Amount Per Cent Organizations Stakes and Missions, Total __....... 251 237 + 14 + 5.91 Cn 209 196 + 13 + 6.63 Missions.............2..22-.-2000-022---00-+ 42 # =- 1 + 24 Co ae 3,451 3,312 + ie St 1 Wards in Stakes 1,877 1,762 + 115 + 6.53 Branches in Missions __............. 1,574 T5580 4. Of +. 155 Membership Total _............. 148,094 140,354 + 7,740 + 5.51 Stakes ou... Cceeteceeeetecncenceeees 119,615 112,188 + 7,427 + 6.62 Missions........2.-.2----2--2.0eoeeeeeeeee- 28,479 28,166 + 313 4 1.11 General Officers and Board Members............--.2---.002---0---- 26 a + 2 - Ges Stake Officers and Board Members....0022..-2---.-0-.2--- eee 2,421 yx |: 140 + 6.14 Mission Presidents and Other Officers 200000022222 504 465 + 39 + 8.39 Ward and Branch Executive Officers 220. 12,946 129685 4= 353i + 453 Other Officers..........- 6,291 5985 + Be -+ 297 Class Leaders ___._. _ 12,097 11,360 + 737-428 6.49 Visiting Teachers.... 2... 56,602 52,989 + 3,613 + 6.82 All Other Members _................. 57,207 saber -| 2380 4 4.28 L. D. S. Families—Total _..... 303,504 284,549 + 18,955 4+ 6.66 Fiat eo. Ete 251,775 236,442 + 15,333 + 6.48 In Missions 2.0222... 51,729 Hepl07 - 3ige2) = 7.58 Meetings and Attendance 1. Meetings Held, Total........... 168,426 158490 + 9,936 + 6.27 General Board Meetings _...... A 29 + 2 + 6.89 Relief Society General Conference —.....22-..2.22e- 1 1 — -- Group Stake Conventions...... 106 92 + 14 + 1.52 In Stakes and Missions...... Nail 4,796 44635 335..- 7.46 Stake and Mission District Board Meetings.. - 2,673 2,496 + War =| 7109 Stake and Ward Officers | (Union) Meetings _.......... 2,123 1967 + 156 + 7.93 In Wards and Branches.......... 163,492 153,905 + 9,587 + 6.23 Regular Meetings for MemPOMS cee ceeeaee nn 111,741 105,468 + 6,273 + 5.95 March Sunday Night Meetee 9,360 9,365 — 5 — 5.34 Visiting Teachers MeetNGG, =... Sees eeeee eee ene 18,820 17,099 + 1,721 +10.06 Preparation Meetings _........ 18,842 17,501 + 1,341 + 7.66 Relief Society Conferences... 3,025 2,885 + 140 + 4.85 R. S. Conf. Preliminary Meetings.............-.----.----.--. 1,704 1587 + 117 + 7.37 472. Average Attendance at Regular eetings for Members In Stakes.2000000...022220cceeeeee eee In Missions.............-...222.--------. Per Cent of Members Represented by Average Attendance at Regular Meetings................ In Stakes..00000000.00..... In Missions............... Average Attendance at Visiting Teachers Meetings............. Per Cent of Visiting Teachers Represented by Average Attendance..........22...2.-.200 eects Visits by Stake and Mission Officers 1. To Wards and Branches........ To Wards by Stake Officers.. To Branches by Mission and District Officers -.......2...2.-2--+- Activities 1. Visiting Teaching: Number of Visiting Teacher Districts...........2.-.-22220002-00--+0== Family Visits—Total Home Not Home Per cent at Home................ Number Communications in Lieu of Visits. Educational Meetings: Average Attendance at Relief Society: Theology Work (Sewing).........-...--.-- Literature —.....2.2.2.-.---2...----- Social Science. Sewing Service at Meetings: Average Number of Women Sewing Monthly..............-... Total Articles Completed...... Kinds of Articles: Quilts Children's Clothing........ Women's Clothing.......... Men's Clothing..............., Household Furnishings.... Other (Miscellaneous).... We tence rece e een eee s ce wecenanee RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1954 1953 Or Amount 53,432 40,352 13,080 36.08% 33.73%, 45.930/, 28,514 50.38% 20,793 16,302 4,491 30,367 2,432,032 1,626,145 805,887 66.86% 29,491 58,366 51,224 51,733 51,593 41,867 246,686 16,193 23,824 34,596 2,198 74,792 95,083 1952 Changes 1952 to 1953 Number Number Number or or Amount Amount 19755 3- @, lv7 36,962 + 3,390 ieeo3 ot 787 35.09% 32.9507 43.64%, 25,814 + 2,700 48.71% 19,037 + 1,756 14,445 + 1/657 4,592 — 101 28,613 -+- 1,754 2,240,244 -+191,788 1,508,448 +-117,697 731,796 + 74,091 67.33% 27,012 + 2,479 54,077 + 4,289 46,580 + 4,644 47,107 + 4,626 48,243 + 3,350 38,686 + 3,181 210,955 + 35,731 14,846 + 1,347 21,565 + 21 30,166 + 4,430 3,088 — 890 53,426 + 21,366 87,846 + 7,237 Per Cent + 8.48 4. 9.17 4+ 6.40 +10.46 1953 1952 Changes 1952 to 1953 Number Number Number or or or Amount Amount Amount Per Cent 4. Compassionate Service: Visits to Sick and Homebound 217,806 209,894 + 7,912 + 3.77 Number Days Care of the Number of Bodies Prapdued for Burial..........0000000. 0... 716 787 — 71 — 9.02 Number of Funerals at Which Relief Society Assisted...... 6,598 6,474 + 124 + 1.91 5. Church Welfare Service: Average Number of Women Participating in Welfare Sewing at Work Meeting.. 8,237 8,422 — 185 —21.96 Average Number of Women Participating in Welfare Sewing at Sewing Center... 2857 3,936 — 1,579 —40.11 Average Number of — Participating in Welfare Projects Other than Sewing 10,919 8,985 + 1,934 +21.52 6. Family Welfare Services: Number Initial Visits Under Direction of Bishop............ 8,628 7,879 + 749 + 9,50 Number of Subsequent or Follow-up Visits -...........-.-.......-. 19,439 18,207 + 1,232 + 6.76 Number Visited Who Gave Service on Church Welfare: Projems 0............. 1,573 aoe + 115 + 7.88 Number of Women Visited Who Sewed at Work Meeting...........2.....-.-..-+- 1,738 1505 + 233 +15.48 Number of Women Visited Who Sewed for Themselves and Families.................... 2,048 1,965 +L 83 + 4.22 Total Number of Wards and Branches With Lists of Nurses 1,881 1743 + 138 + 7.91 Wards in Stakes 0.002200... 1,394 1277 + 117 + 9.16 Mission Branches in United States, Great Britain, CanFo fe 487 466 + 21 + 4.50 Magazine Relief Society en Finances Cash Receipts.............200c00000 1,423,757.66 1,268,613.82 155,143.84 +12.22 Cash Disbursements............ 1,332,694.79 1,121,721.23 210,973.56 +18.80 Net Assets.........2...--cccsccceeseeeee 2,481,039.69 2,312,020.37 169,019.32 + 7.31 ANNUAL REPORT SIGIR... ----n-anennene-e---evereceseseees Subscriptions............. Cssescsssseeee 473 23,738% 22,504%-+ 1,234% + 5.48 119,850 111,881 +. 7,969 + 7.12 = _ jNores fi FROM THE FIELD [7 Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1950, page 278, and the Handbook of Instructions, page 123. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES ul Photograph submitted by Ione Loveland MINIDOKA STAKE (IDAHO), PAUL WARD RELIEF SOCIETY VISITING TEACHERS ACHIEVE ONE HUNDRED PER CENT RECORD FOR TEN YEARS Ione Loveland, President, Paul Ward Relief Society, reports that in 1944 this ward achieved one hundred per cent visiting teaching. "Every month since then this has been maintained. So, in January 1954, we had a ten-year record of unbroken one hundred per cent visiting teaching. We are very proud and grateful to our teachers. Sister Clarinda Green was president when the achievement was first made. In 1948 Sister Ione Loveland became president, with Zola Hunsaker as first counselor and Rhoda Barclay as second counselor, and Grace Merrill as secretary. Florence Greenwell is the visiting teacher message leader, but was not present when the picture was taken, We love our work and are happy in it." Katherine Barnes is president of Minidoka Stake Relief Society, Page 474 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 475 Photograph submitted by Ella P. Bennion NORTH JORDAN STAKE (UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT EASTER CANTATA "RESURRECTION MORNING" April 18, 1954 Ella P. Bennion, President, North Jordan Stake Relief Society, stands at the right in the back row; Counselor Paula G. Wilson, fourth from the left on the back row; director of the cantata, Nellie Bennion, second from the right, back row; accompanist Lucille D. Smith, third from the right, back row; Secretary Mable G. Morgan, sixth from the left, front row. EEEEEE MERE riiitiik: 3 Sate EL —S aus: tM tly, Bice. "ou dt ey rv, dead' cen" ey! Om Rite Py SX poeTIS PL erd aesa 4 Photograph submitted by Ella O. Davis MOUNT LOGAN STAKE (UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS FURNISH MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE March 14, 1954 Standing in front, at the piano, left to right: Alvina Pehrson, chorister; Lila Jones, ianist. This was the fifth occasion, since the organization of the Mount Logan Stake in November 1946, that this chorus has furnished music for stake conference. Sister Ella O. Davis, Secretary, Mount Logan Stake Relief Society, reports that the renditions have been well received, and this year, 'lhe chorus was highly praised by Elder Oscar A. Kirkham of the First Counci! Of Seventy, who asked as a special favor to him that the chorus repeat two of the outstanding selections." Mae E. Jenkins is president of Mount Logan Stake Relief Society., Standing, second row, sixth from the right: Luana Jenkins, assistant pianist. 476 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1954 Photograph submitted by Cleona W. Hedenstrom OGDEN STAKE (UTAH), OGDEN FOURTH WARD WORK MEETING FEATURES "COVERALL" APRONS March 9, 1954 Front row, seated, left to right: Cleona Hedenstrom, President, Ogden Stake Relief Society; Mae Child, Secretary, Ogden Fourth Ward Relief Society; Amy Vowles, Counselor; Ella Stratford, President; Violet Perkins, Counselor; Kate Couch; Aurilla Folkman, work meeting leader; Margaret Mumford, quilting chairman. Second row, standing, left to right: Edna 'Tribe, Counselor, Ogden Stake Relief Society; Vivian Carlson, work meeting leader, Ogden Stake Relief Society; Ethel Lewis; Ella Crandall; Mary Colvell; Ethel Hatton; Crystal Watkins; Lora Wright; Alice Sipherd; Luella Mann; Martha Rampton; Margaret Dearden; Ireta Watkins; Echo Berg; Viola Woolley; Zena Gardner; Virginia Tribe; Alberta Greenhalgh. Cleona W. Hedenstrom reports the success of this unique apron project: "Sister Stratford had a large coverall apron which many of the sisters liked. The pattern was one which needed to be sized to the individual, so we asked all those sisters who wished to make this apron to bring their material to the February work meeting. There a pattern was cut to fit each sister, and each was assisted in cutting out her apron. As many as could, sewed their aprons on the Relief Society machines. While waiting to be helped, some of the sisters quilted on a baby quilt, crocheted, or embroidered. During the day sixteen patterns and fifteen aprons were cut out. Several patterns and aprons were cut out later, and the sisters urged to finish their aprons and wear them to work meeting, March 9, 1954. At the luncheon served at noon we honored Sister Kate Couch, who was eighty years old in March." Hla nds Alice R. Rich Like moon-etched dusky shadows, deep toil marks intertwine Across her hands, blue-veined and worn, and chart a pioneer line, IN DEPARTMENT Sheology—Characters and Teachings of The Book of Mormon Lesson 25—Alma and Amulek Elder Leland H. Monson (Text: The Book of Mormon: Alma, Chapters 9-16) For Tuesday, October 5, 1954 Objective: To show how Alma and Amulek, in preaching repentance to the inhabitants of Ammonihah, were sustained by the Lord. Alma Preaches Repentance ACCORDING to instructions from an angel, the same one who had appeared to Alma at the time of his conversion, he went a second time before the people of Ammonihah. Immediately they opposed him. "... Who is God..." they scoffed, "... That sendeth no more authority than one man among this people, to declare unto them the truth of such great and marvelous things?" (Alma 9:6). Alma boldly testified of their sins and called upon them to repent, saying: "... O ye wicked and perverse generation, how have ye forgotten the tradition of your fathers; yea, how soon ye have forgotten the commandments of God.... Yea, and if it had not been for his matchless power, and his mercy, and his long-suffering towards us, we should unavoidably have been cut off from the face of the earth...." (Alma 9:8, 11). Alma commanded them to tepent if they expected to inherit the kingdom of God, and warned of imminent destruction if they refused, quoting the words God spoke to Lehi:. Inasmuch as ye shall keep my commandments, ye shall prosper in the land?... Inasmuch as ye will not keep my commandments ye shall be cut off from the presence of the Lord" (Alma 9:13). He pointed out to them how this prophecy had been verified among the Lamanites. However, Alma declared that despite the fact that the Lamanites had been cursed, the Lord would show mercy to them and lengthen their period of survival in the land because it was their traditions which had kept them in ignorance. He prophesied that the day would come when this veil of ignorance would be lifted and they would receive the gospel. If, however, the people of Ammonihah rePage 477 478 fused to repent, they were told that their days would not be prolonged, but the Lord would use the Lamanites to scourge them and they should be visited with utter destruction. After reminding his listeners of the blessings, both spiritual and temporal, which the Lord had always given to the Nephites when they had been obedient, Alma testified that the time drew near that the Son of God would come and redeem all those who would repent and come unto him, but that the wicked who would not repent must pay the price of their sins. The inhabitants of Ammonihah were stirred to intense anger at being told that they were "... A hard-hearted and a stiff-necked people... A lost and a fallen people..." (Alma 9:31, 32). In their wrath they sought to imprison Alma, but the Lord did not suffer this trial to come to him at this time. Testimony of Amulek Amulek stood before the people and testified of the truth of the words of Alma. He pointed out that he, Amulek, was a descendant of Lehi who came through the loins of Manasseh, son of Joseph who was sold into Egypt, and that he was a man of influence and wealth. However, he did not try to hide the fact that in his life he had been wicked and had rebelled against God. Amulek said: "... I was called many times and I would not hear..." (Alma 10:6). He then recounted in detail how it happened that he had become Alma's close companion. ('The text Alma 10:7-11 might be read by a class member. ) At this point it appeared that some good might come as the result RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1954 of the teachings of Alma and Amulek for the record states that ".,. The people began to be astonished..." (Alma 10:12) but, as is so often the case, Satan, using wily and unscrupulous men, blinded the eyes of the people. It was customary for lawyers and judges to be paid according to the work they did and, if they could stir up trouble, they made additional money. Since the lawyers had been elected by majority vote, the people respected them. When the lawyers began to question Amulek, the people, therefore, were swayed by their words and commenced to turn against him. His reproof of their representatives served to increase their antagonism. Amulek warned that unless they repented, and if they cast out the nghteous from among them, the Lord would smite them with famine, pestilence, and the sword. "... They cried out, saying: 'This man doth revile against our laws which are just, and our wise lawyers whom we have selected" (Alma 10:24), and they called him a child of the devil. Amulek, perceiving that the lawyers were trying to ensnare him said:.. O ye wicked and perverse generation, ye lawyers and hypocrites, for ye are laying the foundation of the devil; for ye are laying traps and snares to catch the holy ones of God.... I say unto you, that the foundation of the destruction of this people is beginning to be laid by the unrighteousness of your lawyers and your judges (Alma 10:17, 27). Zeezrom was one of the most brilliant of these lawyers, a man "... Expert in the devices of the devil..." (Alma 11:21). He crossquestioned Amulek adroitly but LESSON DEPARTMENT without ensnaring him, for God was with his servant. Amulek then gave a comprehensive and powerful testimony concerning Christ and_ his mission. The record states that:. When Amulek had finished these words the people began again to be astonished, and also Zeezrom began to tremble (Alma 11:46). Alma Expounds Plan of Redemption As Alma spoke to Zeezrom, establishing the words of Amulek, Zeezrom became aware that Alma and Amulek knew the thoughts and intents of his heart. He inquired after more knowledge concerning the kingdom of God. His heart was touched, even though Alma told him plainly of his wickedness. Alma explained how ali men must appear before the judgment seat of God and be judged according to their works. Our thoughts, our words, and our work will all condemn us, if we have deviated from the path of righteousness. When men meet their God face to face before the judgment bar, they will then know of his justice and mercy. The wicked will undergo a second death, "*... He shall die as to things pertaining unto righteousness." 'This Alma called a spiritual death, the second death. (See Alma 12:16, 32.) It is evident from Alma's remarks that this life is a probationary state, a time when men may prepare for that endless state which is after the resurrection of the dead. (See Alma 12:24.) Alma also taught the people concerning the holy order of the Son of God, and of Melchisedek and Abraham. After calling the people to repentance, Alma asked them to look forward to the coming of the 479 Savior. He declared that his coming was not far distant, that the precise time would be revealed to just and holy men. Persecution of Alma and Amulek and Their Followers Many of the people believed the words of Alma and Amulek, but the greater part of them rejected the message and sought the prophets' lives. The unbelievers bound Alma and Amulek with cords and took them before the chief judge. Their enemies testified against them. Zeezrom was shocked at the evil he had caused. He was under a heavy burden of guilt and was tortured with the pains of hell. He pled with the people for Alma and Amulek saying, "... Behold, I am guilty, and these men are spotless before God..." (Alma 14:7) But the people refused to listen. They reviled Zeezrom and spat upon him. Moreover, they cast out all the men who believed in the words which had been spoken and stoned them: And they brought their wives and children together, and whosoever believed or had been taught to believe in the word of God they caused that they should be cast into the fire; and they also brought forth their records which contained the holy scriptures, and cast them into the fire also, that they might be burned and destroyed by fire (Alma 14:8). And it came to pass that they took Al ma and Amulek, and carried them forth to the place of martyrdom, that they might witness the destruction of those who were consumed by fire. And when Amulek saw the pains of the women and children who were consuming in the fire, he also was pained; and he said unto Alma: How can we witness this awful scene? Therefore let us stretch forth our hands, and exercise the power of God which is in us, and save them from the flames (Alma 14:9-10). 480 Alma forbade, saying that the Spirit dictated otherwise to him, and that the Lord received them unto himself in glory. Amulek then suggested that perhaps he and Alma would also become martyrs. "... Be it according to the will of the Lord. But, behold, our work is not finished; therefore they burn us not" (Alma 14:13). When the bodies of those who had been cast into the fire were consumed, and also the records which were cast in with them, the chief judge of the land came and stood before Alma and Amulek, as they were bound; and he smote them with his hand upon their checks, and said unto them: "... After what ye have seen, will ye preach again unto this people, that they shall be cast into a lake of fire and brimstone? Behold, ye see that ye had not power to save those who had been cast into the fire; neither has God saved them because they were of thy faith... (Alma 14:14-15). Alma and Amulek refused to answer. They were imprisoned and questioned, but still remained silent. The chief judge and his co-workers gnashed their teeth at the silence of their prisoners and spat upon them and asked: "... How shall we look when we are damned?" (Alma 14:21). For days these rulers starved them, mocked them, and left them naked and bound. After the lapse of many days, the chief judge and many of their teachers and lawyers came again to the prison. The chief judge, on this occasion, upbraided Alma and Amulek as follows: "... If ye have the power of God deliver yourselves RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1954 from these bands..." (Alma 14:24). Power of God Comes Upon Alma and Amulek After the last one had said the same words and smote them ce... The power of God was upon Alma and Amulek, and they rose and stood upon their feet." And Alma cried, saying: "... How long shall we suffer these great afflictions, O Lord? O Lord, give us strength according to our faith which is in Christ, even unto deliverance" (Alma 14:25-26). And God heard and answered the plea of his servants. The shackles were loosened. They stood as free men before their oppressors. "The fear of destruction" came upon their oppressors who sought safety in flight. But there was no safety for their tormentors. "... The earth shook mightily, and the walls of the prison were rent in twain..." (Alma 14:27) and the chief judge, the lawyers, priests, and teachers were buried beneath the debris. Alma and Amulek, alone, came forth unharmed. The people of Ammonihah, hearing the noise and seeing Alma and Amulek walking out of the prison uninjured, fled in terror. Alma and Amulek in Sidom Obedient to divine instructions, Alma and Amulek went to Sidom where, to their joy, they discovered the people who had been cast out of Ammonihah and stoned. Zeezrom was there also. He lay sick with a burning fever, the result of his mental torment and anguish over his past sins. At Zeezrom's request, Alma and Amulek came to his LESSON DEPARTMENT home, and, by the power of their Priesthood, healed him. "".. Alma cried unto the Lord, saying: O Lord our God, have mercy on this man, and heal him according to his faith which is in Christ.... Zeezrom leaped upon his feet, and began to walk" (Alma 15:10, 11). The knowledge of this miracle soon spread throughout the land. Zeezrom was baptized and went forth to preach the gospel to the people. Alma founded a Church organization at Sidom. He ordained priests and teachers to preside over it and to teach the members. He gave them authority to baptize whosoever wished baptism. 'The record states that "... They were many; for they did flock in from all the region round about Sidom, and were baptized" (Alma 15:14). After Alma had established the Church at Sidom, he took Amulek with him to his house in Zarahemla. Destruction of Ammonihah The inhabitants of Ammonihah, however, did not repent of their sins. "... It came to pass in the eleventh year of the reign of the judges... There was a cry of war heard throughout the land. For behold the armies of the Lamanites had come in upon the wilderness side, into the borders of the land, even into the city of Ammonihah, and began to slay the people and destroy the city" (Alma 16:1-2). The prophecies of Alma and Amulek were fulfilled, for:... The people of Ammonihah were destroyed; yea, every living soul of the Ammonihahites was destroyed, and also their great city, which they said God could not 481 destroy, because of its greatness. But behold, in one day it was left desolate.. (Alma 16:9-10). So terrible was the destruction that ordinary burial of the inhabitants was impossible. 'The Nephites piled their bodies in great heaps and provided them with a shallow coyering. For many years the scent was so repulsive that no one tried to rebuild the city. Because these people of Ammonihah followed the teachings of Nehor, the place was known as the "Desolation of Nehors." Peace Restored After the annihilation of Ammonihah, peace was _ restored throughout the land. Alma and Amulek went about among the people encouraging them to understand and live the true principles of the gospel. Many others assisted in the work and the establishment of the Church became general throughout all the land. 'The people looked forward to the coming of their Savior. And many of the people did inquire concerning the place where the Son of God should come; and they were taught that he would appear unto them after his resurrection; and this the people did hear with great joy and gladness (Alma 16:20). Questions for Discussion 1. What instances are given of Alma and Amulek using the power of the Priesthood? 2. What three things in our lives will condemn us if our hearts are hardened when we are brought before the judgment bar of God? (See Alma 12:14.) 3. What were the teachings of Alma in regard to the plan of redemption? Visiting Seacher IT lessages Book of Mormon Gems of Truth Lesson 25: "Now My Brethren, We See That God! S Mindful of Every People, Whatsoever Land They May Be in; Yea, He Numbereth His People, and His Bowels of Mercy Are Over All the Earth... " (Alma 26:37). Leone O. Jacobs For 'Tuesday, October 5, 1954 Objective: To assure us that God watches over all his children. OW reassuring it is to know that God is mindful of us all! To know that wherever we abide, be it in one corner of the globe or another, on the isles of the sea, in wartorn countries or under oppression, ~ God can account for us all and is concerned for our welfare. It is not at all strange that he is mindful of us. Are we not his very own children, created in his image, and with a spark of divinity within each one of us? Surely it is most natural for him to know our whereabouts. He is constantly willing to sustain and direct us. Not only can we be assured that God is mindful of his children, but we can also be assured of his hearing us, if we keep the channel of prayer open. And how is this channel kept clear% Only by the righteous living of those who wish to "tame in," Knowing that we are numbered unto him and that his mercy is extended over all the earth, makes it easier for us to accept the responsibilities and burdens we are called upon to shoulder. We know there is always one on whom we can rely, to whom we can go for guidance. We are not alone in the world. No matter how dark the clouds of discouragement and woe, we are not Page 482 lost to God—we are not forgotten. It is possible to have his spirit as a constant companion. 'Together, we can weather any storm. God does not always avert the calamities which are incident to the world around us and which envelop and plague us, because men must be free agents unto themselves. The actions of wicked men can bring suffering to many who are innocent. But the Lord can and will give us strength, faith, and comfort, if we seek them from him, so that we may live courageously. ~ We have heard of many instances in which individuals, under various circumstances, have felt the sustaining influence of our Heavenly Father. Many have testified that they felt his sustaining spirit during the grim experiences of war, still others receive inspiration from him amid the quiet stillness of nature. Many have found his comfort in times of illness, sorrow, and need. Let us not be disheartened if we find that we must live amidst very trying conditions, many of which come to us for our individual development. ' Remember, not one of us need be far from our Heavenly Father. Only our attitudes and the conduct of our lives can keep us remote from him. Work Neeting—Selection, Care, and Use of Household Equipment (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting)! Lesson 1—Home Safety Rhea H. Gardner For Tuesday, October 12, 1954 HE expression "safe at home" does not apply to the average American household. The annual toll in human lives in the homes of the United States is about 30,000. In addition, 150,000 more are permanently disabled, and five million are temporarily disabled each year. The cost of these home accidents, in dollars alone, is near $650,000,000., The ideal time to begin making your home safe is when you start making plans for the building of it. Many of us, however, may not be fortunate enough to have new homes, but we can learn to live safely in the homes we have. More accidents occur in the kitchen than in any other one room. Scaldings, misuse of kitchen equipment, and falls are among the major causes of home accidents. Burns can have serious results. Avoid them by removing covers from boiling or steaming foods or from roasters and pressure cookers from the far side first, by keeping matches out of teach of children, by using a safe hot pad when handling hot dishes, and by turning handles of cooking pans in from reach of youngsters. Next to the kitchen, the living room is the most accident-prone room in the house. Some of the accident traps here are slick floors (non-skid wax is now available), unsecured scatter rugs, worn carpets, long and worn electric cords, unprotected fireplaces, and bad furniture arrangement. Scatter rugs, with a triangular piece of inner tube, or rubber jar rings, stitched to each corner, are slip-proof. It is unwise economy to run an electric cord under the rug to a lamp on the opposite side of a room, or through a doorway to a lamp or appliance there. The cost of having extra outlets is far less than the cost of a serious accident. Fire screens are a must. Among the age group of people sixty-five years and over, bedrooms are highest in the accident toll. The most frequent reasons are: slick floors, insufficient light, and cluttered pathways. Older people, especially, need a light at their bedside, plenty of light in the room, and a clear pathway to the door. The bathroom contributes more than its share of accidents for its size. Inexpensive aids, such as a hand bar over the bathtub, a rubber mat in the tub, and a non-slip material for the floor help prevent serious bathroom falls. Misuse of electrical appliances in the bathroom has caused hundreds of deaths. Stairways are often "dangerways." Falls are most frequent here. The causes of them are usually loose Page 483 484 carpets, insufficient light, lack of hand rails, clutter on steps, and speed. Adequate electric wiring in your home is essential for safety as well as for efficiency in using electrical equipment. Check the wiring of your house before installing new equipment. Be assured by a competent person that the present wiring in your home can safely carry the load that will be placed on it. Fuses are the safety guards for the electric current. Never use a substitute for replacing a fuse. More home accidents occur at mid-morning and _ mid-afternoon than at any other time. HomemakRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1954 ers would profit from a ten or fifteen minute rest period in the morning and afternoon. Make your home a safe home by ridding it of all accident traps, then help your neighbor to do likewise. Thoughts for Discussion 1. What did home accidents cost you last year? 2. What precautions should be taken with kitchen equipment such as, butcher knives, scissors, electric irons, etc? 3. Discuss hazards of the bathroom, such as radios, heaters, etc. Reference: "Danger Spots in Your Home," McCall's Magazine, January 1954, 'page 36. Le Literature of England Lesson 41—Thomas Carlyle (1795-1881) Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: Literature of England, II, Woods, Watt, Anderson, pp. 464-501) For Tuesday, October 19, 1954 Objective: To meet Carlyle and allow him to be heard, that we might absorb the power of his voice while considering the depth of his beliefs. IN its place a picture might well be worth a thousand words; likewise the right word in the right place is worth more than a thousand pictures. In approaching Thomas Carlyle, how fully we need not only word and picture; we need also the ring of the author's voice as he boomed out his gnarled sentences of homespun wisdom, soul-shaking prophecies, and profound insights reaching deep into the human soul — deeper still into the very soul of England. Carlyle's was one of the strongest, sternest Victorian voices. While Tennyson and Macaulay were chanting in popular harmonies the theme "Zion prospers; all is well in Zion," Carlyle, Ruskin, and Arnold were Jeremiahs in the wilderness, warning England of the shallow, easy comfort which might well wither her soul and stunt her destiny. A study of their writings will give us a better understanding of England today. Carlyle's Life Carlyle was the son of a stonemason, a staunch Scotch Puritan who had an uncommon gift of forcible expression. Stern, devout but kindly, his integrity, belief in LESSON DEPARTMENT hard work, harsh criticism of the leisure classes, distrust of the fine arts, and hatred of hypocrisy were deeply impressed upon his son Thomas. The eldest of nine children, Thomas Carlyle so loved books and reading that his parents decided to make the necessary sacrifice to give him an education. So at the age of fourteen he walked the hundred miles from his home town of Ec-' clefechan to Edinburgh to begin his study for the ministry. He was not a distinguished scholar, and _ left school without taking a degree; le abandoned as well his father's strict religious beliefs, because he felt they curtailed his freedom as an individual. He taught school for a few years, and was tutor to the children of a wealthy family, but he hated teaching, and despised the aristocratic rich, both for their lives of ease and for their feeling of unquestioned, inherited superiority. Throughout his __ life 1 earned for himself the lasting friendship of intelligent, strong men and women. While at school he met a young teacher, Irving, who gave him access to his vast library and who introduced him to Jane Baille Welsh, a brilliant, beautiful girl, the only daughter of a wealthy doctor. Miss Welsh aspired to a literary career and Carlyle became her confidant and literary advisor. Their lengthy correspondence is one of the most spirited and exciting in the history of love. Poor, without any prospects, tormented by his own spiritual, political, and economic turmoils, Carlyle courted Jane for four years. In the meantime, through his readings, he discovered German literature, parCarlyle 485 ticularly that of Kant, Goethe, and Schiller. He supported himself by making translations of their works and by articles on German literature in the Edinburgh Review, the most distinguished journal of the day. The philosophy of the Germans regarding the significance of the spiritual attributes of all things, appealed strongly to Carlyle. Goethe was one of his great life-passions, and, perhaps more than any other man, Carlyle is responsible for bringing to the English people an appreciation of Goethe and the contemporary German writers. Yet, save for Coleridge and John Stuart Mill, Carlyle had no use for his fellow English writers. In 1826, at the age of thirty-one, his courtship was successful, for Miss Welsh finally accepted his proposal of marriage. She was intensely loyal to her husband throughout the forty years of their marriage, but she also was a dynamic individualist and the humors and distempers of their married life have become proverbial. Their home was the center of a loyal circle of friends. Both the Carlyles were noted for their brilliant conversation, yet, as Tennyson noted, "Mr. And Mrs. Carlyle on the whole enjoyed life together else they would not have chafed one another so heartily." No children were born to their marriage. Mrs. Carlyle died in 1866, at the height of Carlyle's fame and influence. From that moment he was incurably lonely and disconsolate, and old age was upon him. As part of her epitaph he wrote that when she had suddenly been snatched from him "the light of my life had gone out." 486 A Perry Picene THOMAS CARLYLE 1795-1881 Sartor Resartus Two years after their marriage, the Carlyles retired for six years to Craigenputtock, Mrs. Carlyle's inherited farm. It was so isolated that for as much as three months on end no other human passed by or came to their door. During this period Carlyle wrote "passionately," and very slowly on his greatest work, Sartor Resartus (The Tailor Retailored ). In approaching Sartor Resartus— in approaching Carlyle and the Victorian Age, we should remind ourselves how basic, how modern (really how timeless) are the problems dealt with. That which plagued Carlyle, today, plagues us still. Carlyle felt the greatest threat to England's future was materialism — the insane lust for things; money and gadget-worship; and greed. ""The RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1954 modern hell," said Carlyle, "is the fear of not succeeding," and today, 120 years later, his definition of hell is not less modern, but only more intense and terrible. Further, success now, as then, is popularly measured in things, not thoughts, in prosperity rather than in inner peace. Carlyle's self-discovery began from his awareness that things as they appear on the surface are vastly different from things are they really are. For Carlyle clothes do not make the man. We should not forsake our divine, inherent sense of right and wrong and slip into the easy,. Comfortable sloth of judging either the physical world or people by surface appearance only. Carlyle asks us to search constantly for the spiritual reality beneath. 'Thus, in this great satire on clothing, Carlyle but reaffirms age-old truths: that language is the clothing of thought; the body is the clothing of the soul; and the universe is "the living Garment of God woven upon the roaring looms of time." In the first section, "The Everlasting No," (text, pp. 466-470) Carlyle, speaking as Diogenes Teufelsdrockh, (Toy'fuls-drock) a German professor, recounts his spiritual growing pains. He has lost his simple faith of childhood and passed into a state of doubt, denial, and unbelief. Listen to Carlyle's full tones and living words as he expresses his feelings in "The Everlasting No":. Now when TI look back, it was a strange isolation I then lived in. The men and women around me, even speaking with me, were but Figures; I had, practically, forgotten that they were alive, that they were not merely automatic. In the midst of their crowded streets and _as- LESSON DEPARTMENT semblages, I walked solitary; and (except as it was my own heart, not another's, that I kept devouring) savage also, as the tiger in his jungle. Some comfort it would have been, could I, like a Faust, have fancied myself tempted and_ tormented of the Devil; for a Hell, as I imagine, without Life, though only diabolic Life, were more frightful: but in our age of Down-pulling and Disbelief, the very Devil has been pulled down, you cannot so much as believe in a Devil. 'To me the Universe was all void of Life, of Purpose, of Volition, even of Hostility: it was one huge dead, immeasurable Steam-engine, rolling on, in its dead indifference, to grind me limb from limb. O, the vast, gloomy, solitary Golgotha, and Mill of Death! Why was the Living banished thither companionless, conscious? (page 469, lines 9-33). And how bitterly Carlyle chides himself (and his fellow - Englishmen) when tempted to ignore the struggle and values of the divine spirit within, and succumb without complaint to self-righteous happiness merely because he is healthy, well-fed, and prosperous. Read the following words for the masterpiece of ironical statement which they are:... Is the heroic inspiration we name Virtue but some Passion; some bubble of the blood, bubbling in the direction others profit by? I know not: only this I know, If what thou namest Happiness be our true aim, then are we all astray. With Stupidity and sound Digestion man may front much. But what, in these dull unimaginative days, are the terrors of Conscience to the diseases of the Liver! Not on Morality, but on Cookery, let us build our stronghold: there brandishing our frying-pan as censor, let us offer sweet incense to the Devil, and live at ease on the fat things he has provided for his Elect! (page 467, lines 53-66). In Carlyle's own words, when did written thought ever come "more 487 direct and flaming from the heart of a living man?" Although Carlyle was thus submerged by the "Everlasting No" of his own disbelief, despair, and materialistic greed everywhere about him, still he refused to succumb. In a magnificent triumph over his whining, whimpering self, he achieved a surging, majestic tone of "indignation and grim, fireeyed defiance." It is in this roaring, fearless clarion-call that the immortal Carlyle speaks — Carlyle, the arch-enemy of easy wealth and spiritual smugness — Carlyle, champion of the Divinity in man, hard-working, thick-knuckled, fearless and free amid the mysteries of an affirming, benevolent universe. Though the following paragraphs are not in our text, they are useful to us since they summarize Carlyle, peasant and poet, at the same moment both clay and cloud: Two men I honor, and no third, First, - the toil-worn Craftsman that with earthmade implement laboriously conquers the Earth, and makes her man's. Venerable to me is the hard Hand; crooked, coarse; wherein notwithstanding lies a cunning virtue, indefeasibly royal, as of the Scepter of this Planet. Venerable too is the tugged face, all weather-tanned, be-soiled, with its rude intelligence; for it is the face of Man living manlike.... Yet toil on, toil on: thou art in thy duty, be out of it who may; thou toilest for the altogether indispensable, for daily bread. A second man I honor, and still more highly: Him who is seen toiling for the spiritually indispensable; not daily bread, but the bread of Life. Is not he too in his duty; endeavoring towards inward Harmony?... If the poor and humble toil that we have Food, must not the high and glorious toil for him in return, that he have Light, have Guidance, Freedom, Immortality? These, two, in all their degrees, I honor: all else is chaff and dust, which let the wind blow whither it listeth. 488 Herein we find the typical "carlylese." As opposed to the "Everlasting No," Carlyle further proposes his gospel of work: Our Works are the mirror wherein the spirit first sees its natural lineaments. Hence, too, the folly of the impossible Precept, Know thyself; till it be translated into this partially possible one, Know what thou canst work at (page 468, lines 55- 60). The following paragraph is from "Labor": For there is a perennial nobleness, and even sacredness, in Work. Were he never so benighted, forgetful of his high calling, there is always hope in a man that actually and earnestly works: in Idleness alone is there perpetual despair.... (page 491, lines 1-6). Realizing then that our whole daily life is spiritual, Carlyle, "in native God-created majesty, and with emphasis" protests against the negative values of life, affirming the "Godlike that is in Man, and how in the Godlike only has he strength and Freedom" (page 479, lines 68- 70). But to be true to his best self Carlyle would have man deny war, greed, materialism, love of ease and pleasure, and accomplish "The first preliminary moral Act, Annihilation of Self" (page 477, lines 40-41). Then man is ready to catch:... A glimpse of it!... There is in man a Higher than Love of Happiness: he can do without Happiness, and instead thereof find Blessedness! Was it not to preach forth this same Higher that sages and martyrs, the Poet and the Priests, in all times, have spoken and suffered; bearing testimony, through life and through death, of the Godlike that is in Man, and how in the Godlike only has he Strength and Freedom?... By benignant feverRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1954 paroxysms is Life rooting out the deepseated chronic Disease, and triumphs over Death. On the roaring billows of Time, thou art not engulfed, but borne aloft into the azure of Eternity. Love not Pleasure; love God. 'This is the Everlasting Yea, wherein all contradiction is solved: wherein. Whoso walks and works, it is well with him (page 479, lines 60-70; 77°85). For Carlyle, "Doubt of any sort cannot be removed except by Action."" But action, or work, should not be aimless, but a fulfillment of man's sense of Duty to the highest concepts of which he is capable. ""Do the Duty which lies nearest thee,' which thou knowest to be a Duty!" But Duty cannot be to some vague, distant Ideal, but to the here and now: Yes, here, in this poor, miserable, hampered, despicable Actual, wherein thou even now standest, here or nowhere is thy Ideal: work it out therefrom; and working, believe, live, be free. Fool! The Ideal is in thyself, the impediment too is in thyself: thy Condition is but the stuff thou art to shape that same Ideal out of... O thou that pinest in the imprisonment of the Actual, and criest bitterly to the gods for a kingdom wherein to rule and create, know this of a truth: the thing thou seekest is already with thee, "here or nowhere," couldst thou only see!... Produce! Produce! Were it but the pitifullest infinitesimal fraction of a Product, produce it, in God's name! Tis the utmost thou hast in thee: out with it, then. Up, up! Whatsoever thy hand findeth to do, do it with thy whole might. Work while it is called Today; for the Night cometh, wherein no man can work (page 481, lines 24-31; 33-38; 58-65). During the "hungry Forties," with the great potato famine in Ireland, two fears constantly hung over England like a pall: the fear of plague and disease, brought on by starvation and poor working conditions, and the fear that the mob LESSON DEPARTMENT would rise against the wealthy, ruling classes. Increasingly Carlyle fought for the rights of the exploited working classes, but he also became more strongly convinced that the masses could never be trusted to improve their own sordid lot -- indeed Carlyle blamed the trend toward democracy as the cause of England's suffering. This conviction that England could be saved only by the emergence of a great leader became increasingly vital to Carlyle. In 1837 he published his great History of the French Revolution, (Excerpts, text, pp. 482-484) presenting in France's disaster the living horror of what might happen to England if the mass population ever got out of hand. Carlyle's Heroes and Hero Worship, a series of lectures in 1840, again stated his belief in the need of a strong leader behind whom the people of England could mass their strength. In 1843 his Past and Present (text, pp. 485-501) reaffirmed Carlyle's belief in the gospel of work and 489 deeds (pp. 486-488), and his admiration for the fundamental English virtue of obeying that "inner feeling of what is true" (page 488). Of the many Victorian voices which gave England balance and bound her down to stern realities in an era of grave doubts and severe growing pains, both industrially and politically, Carlyle's stature and unyielding integrity dominate the period. A contemporary giant, a peasant and, at the same time, a firm believer in artistocracy, patient, penetrating, and fearless, 'Thomas Carlyle still remains one of the living attributes to the tenacity and spiritual strength of the English peoples. Questions for Discussion 1. Prove that Carlyle loved England. 2. What was Carlyle's "Everlasting No"? His "Everlasting Yea''? 3. Discuss Carlyle as an aristocrat; as a peasant. 4. After thus sampling the style of his writing, discuss his personality and character 5. What did Carlyle believe? What did he fear? Social Science—The Constitution of the United States Lesson 8—Fundamental and Basic Principles and The Preamble to the Constitution Elder Albert R. Bowen Texts: Finptay, Bruce and Estuer: Your Rugged Constitution; Norton, THoMas James: The Constitution of the United States, Its Sources and Its Application For Tuesday, October 26, 1954 Objective: To consider the purposes of a constitution as the foundation of government and the manner in which those purposes are defined and provided for in the Constitution of the United States. Also to consider the purposes uppermost in the minds of the founding fathers in drafting the Constitution of the United States. Four Purposes of a Constitution T is generally agreed by students of governmcat that constitutions have four esscntial purposes. 'The first of these is the establishment of the offices and divisions of government and the definition of the powers of each division and office. 'Thus 490 in the case of the Constitution of the United States, Articles I, II, and III provide for the Legislative, the Executive, and Judicial Departments respectively. Over ninety per cent of our Constitution is devoted to the establishment of these three great departments and the definition of their functions and powers. Second, a constitution usually, if not always, states the source from which the government it creates, derives its power. The Constitution of the United States boldly locates this source of power in the people themselves. It establishes Congress as a representative body without attempting to outline the method by which Congress shall be elected. This is left for the individual states to determine. Third, the Constitution of the United States establishes and defines the civil rights of the American citizens and sets up the machinery for their protection and vindication. 'These civil rights are declarations of fundamental individual rights, with which government is prohibited from _interferring. Among those named are the rights of religious liberty, freedom of speech and assembly, and others to which reference will be made. The fourth function of a constitution is to make provision for changes by orderly and free methods. In the case of the American Constitution, such change is brought about by the method of amendment as set out in Article V. The framers of the Constitution made provision for a government which is unique in many respects. Evidence of their genius is manifest in the reconciliation and compromises which they were able to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1954 achieve and resolve by charting new, untried ideas. The American Constitution was indeed a new experiment in government for which there was no pattern to turn to as a guide. 'There was no governmental structure in existence to serve as a model, and many of the framers' ideas had never before been conceived, much less tried. Federal System of Government What is generally conceded to be the most striking innovation under the American Constitution was its creation of a federal system for the new American state. By federal system is meant the creation of a dual government. Every citizen of the United States is subjected to the jurisdiction of two governments, with the single exception of citizens residing in the District of Columbia. Citizens are subject to two sets of laws, dual legislative, executive, and judicial departments. In the national field, within the framework of the powers enumerated and granted to the National Government, a citizen is subject to federal law and jurisdiction. In the state field, he is at one and the same time also subject to state law and jurisdiction within the state in which he lives or transacts business. Allegiance is owed by every American to both governments, with the single exception above noted. He pays his taxes to both and participates in elections conducted by each. He may commit an act which is a crime under federal law, but which may not be at all illegal under state law, or vice versa. The framers had a reason for creating this dual system. 'They purposely provided that the states LESSON DEPARTMENT should be the main centers of administration and legislation. Matters pertaining to local interest, such as property rights, suffrage, personal rights, and civil and criminal offenses, were, in the main, left to the states to administer and control. Matters pertaining to interstate and foreign commerce, relations with foreign nations and states, national defense, coinage, and other matters of national interest and importance, were given to the National Government to administer and control. It would have been impossible, at the time the Constitution was writ-. Ten, to have organized a centralized and unified national government such as developed in England. In the first place, England is small in area and homogeneous in population. America is tremendously greater in area and complexity. By providing for the administration of local affairs in each state, the peculiar needs of each locality within state boundaries may develop a government best suited to its conditions and requirements. Another important feature of the federal system, as we know it under our Constitution, is that by leaving legislation and administration of local matters in local hands, the need for a vast governmental machine in Washington was eliminated. Even so, the personnel of the National Government has continued to grow and expand at an alarming rate. Without the federal system of national and local control existing side by side, the vastness of the federal machinery of Government would be immeasurably greater than it now is. The system of states furthermore lends to the fostering of the im- 491 portant principle of self-government. Each state government offers a laboratory in government for all to see. From each one the best ideas may be taken and incorporated in the others. Separation of Powers Perhaps the second most important principle of government found in our Constitution is that which is known as "the separation of powers." That is to say, the powers and functions of government are not united in any one department or division of the state. On the other hand, they are divided among the three great co-ordinate branches of the Legislative, Executive, and Judicial Departments. Under the English system a struggle went on for centuries to determine whether the Crown (the executive ) or Parliament (the _ legislative) would be supreme. Parliament fnally established itself in the position of primacy. The founding fathers were extremely suspicious of the power of government, and in drafting the Constitution took pains to see to it that one division should not dominate and control the others. These divisions or departments are so set up as to act as a check upon one another. Nothing is actually said in the Constitution about the separation of powers, but this principle is implicit in the provisions for separate and distinct divisions or departments. There is much merit to the philosophy of separation. It tends to prevent one department, which might seek to carty out policies which are bad, from being able readily to do so. Thus if Congress attempts to pass legislation which is bad for the country, 492 it may be vetoed by the President, and, thus be prevented from becoming law, unless re-enacted by a twothirds majority which may override a Presidential veto. The provision to override is likewise wholesome, because it prevents a President from blocking, at his whim, a legislative program which perhaps a vast majority of the people and public opinion may be in favor of having enacted. Many such _ examples could be cited to show the usefulness of dividing the powers of government in such a way as to prevent domination by one segment of it. It must be admitted that there are some weaknesses in this system. In times of crisis when prompt and decisive action is called for, the government cannot act as quickly as might be desirable to meet a sudden emergency. On the whole, it can be said that the advantages of the constitutional separation of powers far outweigh the disadvantages, and during the whole period of our national existence it has had sufficient flexibility to meet every test encountered. People Source of Power In the beginning of this lesson, reference was made to the pronouncement of the Constitution that the people of the United States are the source of the powers of Government. It is not stated in the Constitution itself, in explicit language, that the Government detives its powers from the consent of the governed, but the principle of popular sovereignty is implicit in the system which it created. The Tenth Amendment declares that all powers not expressly granted to the National Government are reserved RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1954 to the states or the people. The language of the Constitution and its amendments which deal with individual nghts and their protection are conclusive evidence that the people are the source of political power. 'The choice of members of Congress is expressly given to the "people" and not to the states. 'The Amendments to the Constitution which followed the Bill of Rights (first Ten Amendments) forbid the restriction of suffrage based upon race, color, previous condition of servitude, or sex. Thus the right of the people to control the machinery of government is protected, and the principle of popular government established beyond question. Military Power Subject to Civilian Control In another very important sense the Constitution provides for the protection of popular government by establishing the principle that the military power shall be subject to civilian control. The colonists were firm adherents of this principle. It was deeply imbedded in English political thought by the time the colonies were established. Under the Constitution, the command of the armed forces is firmly placed in the hands of the President, which office is civil and not military. Also, the Constitution provides that Congress may not appropriate funds for military purposes for more than two years in advance. The right of the states to maintain a militia was recognized, and its command belongs to the governors of the respective states except when called into the service of the United States. Civilian Control of Government Paramount LESSON DEPARTMENT In addition, the right of the people to keep and bear arms was preserved as a means of preventing any military group from organizing and seizing power over the people. The right of all individuals to be indicted by the grand jury proceeding and forbidding the denial of the right of habeas corpus (See Your Rugged Constitution, page 95), when coupled with all the other safeguards of individual liberty, insure that civilian control of government shall remain paramount at all times. 'The only circumstance under which military control may be exercised is in time of war or national peril when the exigencies of national safety demand it. A serious and careful study of the Constitution of the United States can lead to only one conclusion—its authors were indeed endowed with a special kind of wisdom and sagacity. To Latter-day Saints and, indeed, to most Amertcans, this marvelous and wonderful charter of liberty can only be accounted for as the work of divine providence. The Preamble to the Constitution (Your Rugged Constitution, pp. 2-12; The Constitution of the United States, Its Sources and Its Application, pp. 1-6) The Constitution has a preface which is called "The Preamble." It is a statement of the purpose of the writing which follows. The language of The Preamble to the Constitution is remarkable. The wording is so significant that it deserves to be set out verbatim. WE THE PEOPLE of the United States in Order to form a more perfect Union, establish Justice, insure domestic Tranquility, provide for the common defence, promote the general Welfare, and 493 secure the Blessings of Liberty. To. Ourselves and our Posterity, do ordain and establish this CONSTITUTION for the United States of America. The first seven words of the Preamble boldly announce the people to be the sole source of authority by which this new Government was to be created. Never before in history had a people assumed to act for itself in the creation of a government through representatives of its own choosing. Not only was a people acting in the creation of a government but the action was purposeful. The words enunciating the purpose have a ring of determination and reflect deep understanding of the place and function of government among men. One purpose, and the most imperative, was to "form a more perfect Union." The weakness and impotence of the existing government under the Articles of Confederation (see lesson 5) was a threat to the very existence of the nation. It was paramount that those defects should be abolished and that effective government should be established in place of the existing order. However, this government was not only to have strength and stability, in addition and quite as important, it was to "establish Justice and insure domestic Tranquility." It was to be a government of laws and not of men, where all citizens would enjoy equal opportunity. The rights of all citizens were to be protected by a system of law courts which had not existed under the Confederation. Attention has already been directed to the fact that lack of a federal judiciary was an important reason for the impotence of the Confederation. Furthermore, by insuring internal peace and security 494 Sacred THREE PART Chowuser — Bless This House—Brahe.....................16 = Eternal Life—Dungan.....................-..-. 15 ws God Painted A Picture—De Rose.......20 — Grant Me, Dear Lord, Deep Peace: of Mind—Stickles 2.0.02... 16 ae. How Lovely Are Thy Dwellings— Smart ~...-.2..22-2---eeceneece cece eee eeeceeeeeceteeeeeeee.16 - If Ye Love, Keep My Commandments—Madsen............-.--.--------00---eoe--.20 _- Incline Your Ear—Wilkes......................18 —_ Jubilate Deo—Mozart..................-....--. 15 = King of Glory—Parks.......................... -20 = Lord Is My Shepherd—Smart..............15 -* Open Our Eyes—Macfarlane..............25 -* Thanks Be To God—Dickson...............16 WE PAY POSTAGE — Music Sent on Approval — Use this advertisement as your order blank DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 45-47 South Main Salt Lake City 1, Utah i | | | Please send the music indicated above. | (J On Approval ( Charge © Money Enclosed!! |! | |!! ' | Name 1 ' Address City & State FIRST OF ALL — RELIABILITY can Mase C MAIN STREET SALT LAKE CITY 1, UTAH RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1954 ("domestic Tranquility") the citizens under this government were to be assured the right to pursue the opportunity of realizing any lawful and moral ambition without interference or fear that the fruits of honest toil would be destroyed or impaired by assault from within. Since the nation was beset at that time, and would, perhaps, be threatened in the future from abroad, it was of paramount importance to make provision for "the common defence." 'This would be assured by uniting the powers of the nation in a national government capable and strong enough to meet all such outside threats. Great arguments and debates have been made concerning the meaning of the phrase "promote the general Welfare." Since the The Preamble itself is not a part of the Constitution, no grant of power can be construed to flow from it. As stated before, The Preamble is merely an announcement of the purpose to be achieved by the authors in setting up a new government. In order to find out the powers of government conferred by the Constitution, it is necessary to study the seven articles the Constitution contains. In order for Congress to legislate for the "general Welfare," the power so to legislate must be found in the Constitution itself. The purpose, closest of all to the framers' hearts, of the new government being created by the Constitution was to "secure the Blessings of Liberty to ourselves and our Posterity." A long and costly war had been fought for those liberties. They were to be guaranteed and preserved. The new government was LESSON DEPARTMENT to make sure that those liberties should not be lost or destroyed. Examination and study of the seven articles of the Constitution provide eloquent confirmation of the wisdom and foresight of its authors. Questions on the Lesson 1. What are the four essential and major purposes of a constitution? 2. For what reasons was the Constitution a unique experiment in government? 3. What is meant by a "federal" system of government? Why is the Government of the United States such a system? 4. What are the advantages of a "federal" system? 5: What is meant by the phrase "'separation of powers'? What are its advantages in a republican or democratic form of government? What are its disadvantages? 6. What is a preamble?. From what source does the Government of the United States derive its powers? Name some of the provisions of the Constitution which ensure control of the Government by the people? 8. What were the primary purposes in drafting the Constitution of the United States? She Lighted Lamp Josephine ]. Harvey There are storms That crash and thunder Leaving me wind-tossed And lost. In the stillness Beyond the darkness When quiet moments come, I hear the echoes Of immortal melodies And the flame of faith Burns ever constant. I can gather strength of life From eternal whisperings, And though I cannot see the mountans Through the storm, I know that they are there. And it is love that lights the lamp, Dispelling blackness from my way. 495 Dosent lor ing Enola Chamberlin Slowly the dark surrenders, Reluctant stars take flight. A red and silver javelin Pierces the heart of night. The dawn-cool fragrance rises From wild verbena blooms. The wind awakes to whisper In the desert willow's plumes. The cactus petals quiver To the timid cry of the wren And life holds a wave of gladness, For morning has come again. The Pride of Your Library! Your Relief Society Magazines when handsomely bound into permanent yearly volumes acquire new value as excellent reference books. Just $2.50 (Cloth Binding) $3.50 (Leather Binding) Per Volume If necessary to mail them to you, the following postage rates will apply. Distance from Up to 150 miles 20.0... Cece eceececeeeeeeereeeeeeeeeeeee 35 150 to 300 39 300 to 600 45 600 to 1000 54 1000 to 1400 Bee ME owe ncccccnce cececeeee. 164 1400 to 1800 miles 220 76 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press 31 Richards St. Salt Lake City, Utah Phone 4-258] o%@) Salt Lake City, Utah Over 1800 miles......... Rate...87 496 THE HISTORIC TRAIN Leaves Salt Lake City AUGUST 6TH FOR THE GREAT PAGEANT at the Hill Cumorah as well as Denver, INDEPENDENCE, NAUVOO, CARTHAGE, Chicago, Cleveland, KIRTLAND TEMPLE, Niagara Falls, Palmyra, SHARON, VERMONT, Boston, New York, Washington, and MOUNT VERNON, etc. For complete details write or phone... VIDA FOX CLAWSON 966 East South Temple SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Telephone 4-2017 ELECTRIC COOKING costs the average family & only about ~— 9¢ a day Cx SS) Be Modern Live Electrically UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1954 Bibs for Babies Elizabeth Williamson Boe never seem to have enough bibs. Here is one they love, and an easy one to make for your favorite baby. Bind the bib made of your favorite material with a cheerful, colorful tape. Embroider or applique a funny little burro. Attach to his neck two jingle bells. You may add one or two more bells at the neck of the bib. At first this funny musical bib may seem to distract the baby's attention from his food, but as the baby grows used to the gay sound of the bells, he will look forward to wearing his very special bib— —and you may even have to make more. Si wilight Catherine B. Bowles The golden sun sets in the west, The gentle breeze, a cool wind blows; The twilight lingers; time to rest As the day comes to a close. The golden sunset comes in life, The gentle breezes pass you by. The twilight comes, and night is near; Life travels on, and rest is here. STANDARD in easiest-to-read, de luxe editions 4 1. EBS Missionary Bible Large Print Family Edition. Complete with L. D. S. Ready References and Concordance — finest grade India paper with gilt edge — bound in black Persian Morocco Leather. $19.50 Indexed Edition—$20.50 2. Large Print Triple Combination Adapted in its large print for worthwhile study and investigation (Book of Mormon, Doctrine and Covenants, Pearl of Great Price), bound in the best— black Persian Morocco Leather. $10.00 3. Large Print Quadruple Combination The four standard works, in large print (Missionary Bible, Book of Mormon, Doctrine and Covenants, Pear! Of Great Price), bound in the finest Persian Morocco Leather. $27.50 Deseret I il Book Co. 44 Fast South nee - DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah foo SSS SS cacssto sess "ae | | | | circled (numbered) books: 1 2 3 ] | Address oo... E cece cece cece eee ce cee senceeceeteeeecenneeceteseeeeeeeeseseeeeee City State... Eee | 'Salt take ity, sab — — Gentlemen: Enclosed you will find ( ) money order ( ) check ( ) charge to my account for the following enNemec cence cee cence cece cee eecenneececceeenecccaesesesceacececeteeseesseeeeeseceseceeeees | | | IDA F-19-231 23213 DEC One Of Life's Proudest Moments The boy stands proudly before the entire Court of Honor while his mother, equally proud, nervously pins on the coveted Eagle. Truly, it's one of the high spots in a boy's life... And the lives of his parents. The Eagle award is a symbol of the accomplishment of a goal. In a sense, your Beneficial Life policy is like that, too. You can feel a real sense of accomplishment when, after considerable study and counsel with your Beneficial agent, you successfully work out an insurance program that will give your family the financial protection they need — at a cost consistent with your income. BENEFICIAL LIFE Over \4 billion dollars of ] nsurance life insurance in force. David O. McKay, Pres. VOL. 41 NO. 8 ) " Lessdhs for Nowsriber AUGUST low Shat Lt Ys Summer Christie Lund Coles I wish I were young now that it is summer, To come upon the morning crystal cool, To see the hesitant shadows move and quiver, To catch the sky's face, soft upon the pool, I wish I could find the meadows jeweled with sapphires, Star-tears that fell upon them in the night, To know the scent of clover, and the choirs Of larks that soar delicately as light; I wish I could climb the hillside mauve with heather, And watch my beloved valley drenched in sun, Dreaming it was my realm in this bright weather, Where every childhood hope was wrought and spun; Would each could find—in faith and penitence— The golden summer of his innocence. The Cover: "Mountain Pasture," near Albion, Cassia County, Idaho, Photograph by Harry Harpster Frontispiece: "Snapdragons,"" Photograph by Ward Linton Cover Design by Evan Jensen From lear and Sar Thank you for my award subscription. It was a pleasant surprise, and will mean a few more people hearing the gospel via the Magazine circulation. —lIvy W. G. Holder Stroud Branch Bristol District, England The articles in the May Magazine are all good. I especially loved Mabel Atkinson's "Anniversary Souvenirs." It makes me realize how often we discard the really important things, and they are forgotten. Caroline Eyring Miner's article "Never Cease to Grow" is fine food for thought. I read with a bit of regret that it was finished, the last of "The Deeper Melody" by Alice Morrey Bailey. I hope that she will continue to bring us many more fine. Stories. —I'rances C. Yost Bancroft, Idaho You don't know how delighted I was to see my poem ("Deserted Garden," page 297) in the May Magazine. 'The lovely old house is reminiscent of my father-in-law's old home in Alpine, Amzona. —Matia M. Burk St. David, Arizona We do enjoy the stories by our writer Frances Yost. 'They make us feel good for days and lift the shadows from our spirits. 'Thank you for printing — her stories. We know Frances. She is a fine person. —Zetta H. Ormond Bancroft, Idaho I have heard a number of women in our Ward comment that the Relief Society lessons in all departments have been especially outstanding and timely this year. Through reading them [ gain the same impression, which makes me wish that I might attend the meetings. I find the Magazine worthwhile in every way. —Iris W. Schow Brigham City, Utah Page 498 The May issue of The Relief Society Magazine is full of interesting material, and especially good fiction. I am always glad to see a story by Frances Yost, since she is a particular favorite with me and with my friends. We hope this gifted, sensitive writer's work will appear often in our favorite Magazine. —Mtrs. J. H. Thomas Shiprock, New Mexico The article on poetry writing "Inspiration—Plus," by Maryhale Woolsey in the June Magazine, I really pored over, and it made me feel that it was not hopeless for me to think I could write poetry. —Nellie B. Brenchley Preston, Idaho The Relief Society Magazine has always been a favorite in our home. It seems that the stories and poems are better than in any other magazine, and I enjoy the lessons very much. —Elsie Trussell Hattiesburg, Mississippi I would like to thank the general board of Relief Society for the prompt delivery of the Magazine, which I always look forward to with the greatest of pleasure. It is a wonderful Magazine and an education in itself. —Miriam Barber Brisbane, Australia I am sorry to say that I had never opened a Relief Society Magazine until I came out here in the mission field. It all started on a day I had to give a talk in a branch Relief Society on something that would be spiritually uplifting or faith-promoting. Now that my eyes have been opened to this great Magazine no person, male or female, should miss reading it from cover to cover. —Elder Kay Endow Hilo, Hawaii THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle 8S. Spafford - - - Marianne C. Sharp - = = Velma N. Simonsen - - - = = Margaret C. Pickering - - Leone G. Layton Aleine M. Young Mildred B. Eyring Helen W. Anderson Gladys S. Boyer Blanche B. Stoddard Josie B. Bay RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - = é = - a - i x Associate Editor - - - = c = - 5 General Manager - - - = - = c: President First Counselor Second Counselor - Secretary-Treasurer Christine H. Robinson Alberta H. Christensen Charlotte A. Larsen Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Elna P. Haymond - Marianne C. Sharp Vesta P. Crawford - Belle S. Spafford NO. 8 Contents SPECIAL FEATURES JPebhhies Copy Cot ILA baVep JeCN0) pepe ee eee ee Clifford E. Young 500 Washington State Wonder — Soap Lake......... Melba S. Payne 506... Marijane Morris 516 FICTION Dependable Jane... Myrtle M. Dean 510 New Light The Falling Shackles — Chapter iS. GENERAL FEATURES Jeieayen IN(Exete Tayel Jetete eee — ab Sixty Years Ago Editorial: onversation in the Home Notes to the Field: Copies of * Lessons for Spanish-Speaking Relief Societies in Stakes............... Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities —.......... FEATURES FOR THE 'HOME Bed Jackets Quilts for All the Family (Celesta M. Clark).,. LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER Theology: Missionary Activities of Ammon o.. I-. Cceecccccccccecceseeeeececeeeseeeneeceeees Visiting Teacher Messages: Lucile Tournear 524 _ Margery S. Stewart 532 498 'Wist Ye Not That I Must Be About My Father's Business?' 518 Ramona W. Cannon 519 Velma N. Simonsen 520 Again Available... 522 522 Margaret ic, "Pickering $39 Elizabeth Williamson 530 i Sail..2Leland H. Monson 547 'But If Ye Will Nourish the Word, Yea, Nourish the Tree as It Beginneth to en Work Meeting: Sewing Machines 20....0..... Cccccceeseseeccseseeeeeeeeeee Literature: Social Science: The Constitution of the United States, Article I]....... The Constitution of the United | States, Department — Article I.: Eee "POETRY — Now That It Is Summer — Frontispiece -2...........2.-.-2-c-ceceeseneecseneeeseneeseeessereeseceee The Love of My Savior on... Cceeceeeeee es The Source 20... Cece — God Hears Every Prayer —. Leone O J's 5 lll Sm Jacaranda in Bloom....... Son Flowers................ Manna » Two Together a In Their Lonely foo The Seventh Summer oo.. Icececeeccceeccecececeeceeceeeseceeeeeceeeeceneeeeeeneeeeeeeeeeneees Jacobs 552 Rhea H. Gardner 553 _...... Briant §. Jacobs 555... 960.. Albert R. Bowen 563 It's Form and Content — The. Legislative r Christie Lund Coles 497 Sarah Carlisle 505 —_Maude O. Cook 505.. Zelda D. Howard 505 eeEthel Jacobson 509 ae Louise Morris Kelley 515... Mable Jones Gabbott 521 gda Guenbesh Harlow 521 a ae Ing Smith 522.. Lizabeth Wall 523 LnNicthl eeee = -......=Vesta N. Lukei 567 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 40 North Main, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no eopies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1108, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Mary G. Judd Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Vol. 41 Costumed Models of the First itis. Woman's Sphere.. Evon W. Peterson Leone O. Jacobs Mary J. Wilson Louise W. Madsen AUGUST 1954 ee ice = a Fruits of a Living Faith Elder Clifford FE. Young Assistant to the Council of the 'Twelve 1954, a very unusual exercise was held in the field house of the Brigham Young University. On this occasion fitting tributes were paid to a number of great men and women who had contributed much of their means and talents to the institution that honored them. Among the men honored for whom buildings were named were the late President George Albert Smith, the late Dr. Carl F. Eyring, and Professor Herald R. Clark. An un- (—)* May the 26th of this year usual feature of this exercise was the honoring of a number of prominent women, many of whom have passed away and several of whom are still living, who have played an important part not only in the development of the Brigham Young University, but also in service rendered in the various organizations in the Church. In times past, the loyal and heroic lives of women have not been ublicized as they are today, especially in the fields of religion; and so it was a splendid gesture for the Brigham Young University to honor the women who were honored on that occasion. 'The Church has produced some very remarkable women—women noted for their great faith and who have been and who ever will be a source of inspiration to the Church as long as time endures. Lucy Mack Smith was one of these women. Incidentally, she was among those honored at the exercises referred to above. Lucy Mack Page 500 Smith was born in Gilsum, Cheshire County, New Hampshire, on July 8, 1776. Her mother is said to have been a fairly well educated woman. Her father was a soldier in the American Revolution. She grew up in the New England culture incident to her time. At the age of nineteen she met Joseph Smith, Sr., a devout man, whom she married on January 24, 1706. They resided in Sharon, Windsor County, Vermont. Here she reared a large family, her children being Alvin, Hyrum, Sophronia, Joseph Smith, Jr., who was to become the great Prophet of latter days, Samuel H., Ephraim, William, Kathryn, Don Carlos, and Lucy—seven boys and three girls. The early martied life of Joseph and Lucy Smith was one of hardship and privation, and those trials were to continue with them throughout their lives. In erder to better themselves they moved from Vermont to New York to the vicinity of Palmyra. It was here that their son, Joseph, in 1820, received his first vision. A remarkable thing, in connection with Lucy Mack and her husband, was the fact that they never doubted the story of their son, Joseph. It was a fantastic experience that he had to relate as he returned that beautiful spring morning from the woods to tell his parents that God the Father and Jesus Christ the Son had appeared to him in answer to his prayers. 'The boy was only fourteen years of age. Had there been any mental weakness in the child the FRUITS OF A LIVING FAITH parents would have known it, and would have recognized it. They might not have publicized it, but they certainly would have known of it, and would have endeavored to have kept their son under control. Throughout her life Lucy Smith was to play an important part in, and wield a marvelous influence over the life of her son. After the Prophet's martyrdom when many of the Smith family, not understanding the order of succession, turned to leaders other than the Twelve whom the Lord had designated to succeed in the leadership of the Church, Lucy never wavered, but remained true to her trust. Plans were made to have her join the pioneer trek to the West, and every effort was made for ways and means whereby the journey would be as free from hardship as possible under the then trying times; but Lucy, because of her age, decided to remain in Nauvoo. Under the direction of Brigham Young, a lot and small home were putchased for her, and she was made as comfortable as possible. She was also provided with a team and carriage. She, doubtless, decided wisely not to come West, but there is no record to show that she had any bitterness in her heart or antagonism toward Brigham Young or the 'Twelve who were now to lead the Church. She passed away on May 5, 1853, never denying her testimony nor her faith, but remaining true to the mission of her worthy son. She took no part with any of the factions that arose after the, martyrdom of the Prophet. AN interesting incident is related by Lucy Smith, showing a 501 strength of character and teaching a lesson of thrift and economy to the whole Church. At the outbreak of difficulties in Missouri in 1832, Joseph and Hyrum Smith departed from Kirtland for Missouri. Before leaving, the Prophet instructed Reynolds Cahoon to proceed with the building of a house which was to serve for both a meeting house and a school. Lucy relates in her Life of Joseph Smith: We were now unusually anxious to meet together as often as possible, in order to unite our faith and prayers in behalf of our brethren; but, for a length of time after they left, almost every meeting was broken up by a storm. In consequence of this, together with the near approach of winter, we began to urge upon Brother Cahoon the necessity of hurrying the building, but he said that he could do nothing about the matter, as he had neither time nor means.... Finally, I told my husband, I believed that I could raise the means myself to finish the building, and, if he would give his consent, I would try and see what I could do.... I then wrote a subscription paper, in which I agreed to refund all the money that should be given, in case it could not be appropriated to the purpose for which it should be subscribed.... Accordingly I continued to collect means and employ hands until the house was thoroughly completed even to the fastening of the doors; and when this was accomplished, there was but six dollars remaining unpaid, and this debt my husband afterwards discharged by the sale of produce. What a lesson to all of us! A word should here be said about Emma Smith. She suffered much and had many trials. She, too, bore a large family, but death came often to her household; sorrow was a major part of her life. She endured the hardships of Missouri. She saw her husband thrown into prison 502 with a possibility of being taken out on the public square to be shot with his brother, Hyrum. These experiences were more than a_normal woman could' bear. After much difficulty and hardship, she, with her children, reached Ouincy, Ihinois, where they were later joined by their husband and father. From there they moved to Nauvoo and established their home. After the martyrdom of the Prophet Joseph, Emma decided to remain in Nauvoo and, later, she married Lewis C. Bidamon. She died Apmil 30, 1879 and was buried beside the Propels Another great pioneer character was Mary Fielding Smith, the wife | of Hyrum Smith. She was born in England July 21, 1801. In 1834 she came to America, settling in Canada where she became acquainted with John 'Taylor who was then a young Methodist preacher, and his wife. Brother 'laylor became one of the first converts of Elder Parley P. Pratt in the Toronto area, and it was there that Mary Fielding joined the Church. Shortly afterwards, in 1837, she moved to Kirtland, and after the death of Hyrum's first wife, she was married to him and remained true and faithful throughout the balance of her life—another great soul who never wavered in her faith and confidence in the restored gospel. She endured the sufferings incident to the Missouri persecutions, and then, in Nauvoo, was to pass through the harrowing experience of having her husband martyred with his brother, Joseph, in Carthage Jail. After the martyrdom when Brigham Young and the 'Twelve presented their case to the people RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1954 as the authorized leaders of the Church, there was no question in Mary Fielding's mind as to which course she should follow. She remained in Nauvoo until February 1846, when she joined the exodus from Nauvoo and made her way with her fatherless children as best she could to Winter Quarters. The story is told that one of the brethren of the company with whom she was to travel raised some objections to having a widow with five little children in his company. Mary Fielding Smith assured him that he need not worry about them, that they would make their own way; and make their way they did, her boy, Joseph F., driving an ox team across the plains, and she doing her part and giving direction to her youthful charges, as they trekked their way in the mud and cold. She was a marvelous woman, and _ her faith, her devotion, and integrity will ever be an inspiration to the members of the Church. While Joseph Smith and_ his brethren were incarcerated in Liberty Jail, a room hardly big enough for an ordinary kitchen and under the most trying surroundings, it was to them that Emma Smith, with Mary Fielding Smith and_ other women, came to encourage their husbands and to assure them that all was well. ERY little has been written about the devotion and faith of the early women of the Church. They suffered with their husbands and children. 'They were driven from their homes. Many times persecution was greater than it would seem they could bear, and yet they never faltered. President Clark has paid FRUITS OF A LIVING FAITH a beautiful tribute to those of whom little has been written or of whom little is known in the founding of the Church and its establishment out here in the West. His talk given at the October 1947 Church Conference, published under the title, To Them of the Last Wagon, is a fitting tribute to the forgotten man or woman who was always willing, if necessary, to give his all for the benefit of the Church. It is not my purpose in this article to attempt to write what has already been written so impressively but I do want to call attention to two remarkable women who _ represent thousands of such whose lives were devoted to the Church. I refer to Brother Widtsoe's mother. Here was a woman who was born and reared in Norway under a beautiful culture, a woman refined in every way, very spiritual, deeply rooted in the traditions of her people; and yet when the gospel found her and the witness came to her soul, she was. Willing to give up everything. She had previously lost her husband; so that she, with her two boys, were left alone to fight life's battles as best they could, and under these conditions the gospel message came to her, and she accepted it. Her sister was likewise impressed, and she, too, joined the Church. These two heroic women decided to come to Zion; and packing what belongings they could, they, with the two young boys, neither of them yet in his teens, came to America and on to the West to settle in Cache Valley. The life of Sister Widtsoe reads almost like a fairy tale. Independent in her thinking and always devoted to the Church, she gave her two 503 boys a spiritual background that was to be reflected in their later lives, one of them, Osborn J. To be taken in his young manhood, but not-until he had left a lasting impression for the true and beautiful upen the students who were blessed to come under his charge in the old L. D. S. University. 'The other one, Dr. John A. Widtsoe, was destined to become one of the great leaders of the Church, and one of its great thinkers and interpreters of the truth. In the founding of Nauvoo by the Latter-day Saints under the leadership of the Prophet Joseph, there were drawn to the Church some well-to-do families from the vicinity of Westchester, Pennsylvania—Pennsylvania Dutch these converts were called. Among these was the family of Bishop Edward Hunter, who for many years was the Presiding Bishop of the Church. Bishop Hunter sold his farm for a substantial sum, and with his wife and family, came to Nauvoo. On meeting the Prophet, Brother Hunter donated all the money he had to him for the upbuilding of the kingdom of God. Another of these families was the Levi Riter family. His wife, Rebecca, was a Quaker. Her mother, Eliza Dilworth, was deeply religious; and Rebecca and her sisters grew up in the traditions of the Quaker faith—refined, cultured, and devoted to God as they understood his will. One day Mormon missionaries came to their home. 'They did not at first accept the message of the missionaries, but, after reading The Book of Mormon and_ after several weeks of careful thought and study, they were convinced that the 504 missionaries had given them the truth. When the mother of Rebecca Riter was to tell her husband, Caleb Dilworth, of the new-found truth, he issued an ultimatum that they could either denounce it or get out. It was a great decision for them to make, but the mother finally said that if that's the way it had to be, they would leave; and they packed their belongings and, leaving a good home, emigrated to Nauvoo. FTER the martyrdom of the Prophet, this Quaker family, with the rest of the saints, loaded their belongings into wagons and set out for the West. Had two boys. Levi Riter, the husband of Rebecca, was a_ strong character and a man of faith, but he could not quite see the wisdom of leaving their home in Pennsylvania and going West, they knew not where. So one day on the plains of Iowa before they reached Winter Quarters, he suggested to his wife, Rebecca, that they go back to their old farm.. He felt that it was a mistake to subject the two boys to the hardships which now faced them. No argument, however, could change the mother. A call from the leader had been a call from God, and he had said they were going to the Rocky Mountains; and to the mountains they were going. Finally, after this question had been argued back and forth, the mother suggested a compromise. In_ her quaint Quaker way she said to her husband, "Thee can go back if thee wants to, and when I get out to the West and have established a home, thee can come on." When the matter was discussed with the boys The Riters - RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1954 as to which they would rather do, go back to Pennsylvania to the old farm with their father or go on with their mother to the West, they chose the old covered wagon. Here may I add that culture and refining influences do not stem from material things, excellent libraries, musical instruments, or the modern gadgets of today. 'They are found in the inner feelings of the heart, the expressions of the soul, just as they were found in that old covered wagon in which lived a great mother whose influence on her children transcended all the so-called cultures and refinements of our modern age. Later on it was learned that a little child was expected, and the following June in a wagon on the banks of the Missouri River, a baby girl was born to this couple, and three days later the mother informed her husband that she was ready to go on, and on they came. Never again did the father suggest going back. At Haun's Mill the brethren, fearing that the mob was coming and learning that it was the brethren whom they were after and not the women, fled into the woods, and the women were left to defend themselves as best they could. One of the heroines of that tragic event was Jane Bicknell Young, wife ot Joseph Young, who stood in the door of her little cabin with her little three-year-old boy tucked under her apron to shield him and her year-old baby clasped tightly in her arms and defied the mob to enter her cabin. It is this type of faith, this devotion, this loyalty that have made our Church what it is today. 'These FRUITS OF A LIVING FAITH women were faithful supporters of the men in their ministry, and they suffered persecutions and hardships equally with their husbands. Women were driven out of their homes with their children, experiencing immeasurable anguish of soul and body; and someday, perhaps, we shall erect a monument to the thousands of women whose names are not heard of, whose faith and devotion made possible the establishing of the Church. I close this rather incomplete and unsatisfactory narrative by paraphrasing a few words written by the late Franklin K. Lane as a tribute to the pioneers of the West. Mr. Lane was a native of California, a 505 graduate of Stanford University. Early in his administration President Woodrow Wilson appointed Mr. Lane to his cabinet as Secretary of the Interior, where he served throughout President Wilson's administration: They trekked through the yielding, treacherous snows; fording swift running rivers; creeping painfully through rocky gorges; clambering up mountain sides; daring the limitless land without horizon; grinding their teeth upon the bitter dust of the desert; fainting beneath the heat of the raw and ruthless sun, starved, thirsted, fought; were cast down, but never broken. They never turned back. She Love of My Savior Sarah Carlisle I sat alone by the fireside Thinking of days past and gone. I thought of friends and surroundings; I thought of loved ones and home. 'Then over me came stealing an infinite gladness, So deep, so serene, so divine— It was the thought of the love of my Savior Who had given his life for mankind. My heart filed with joy and rejoicing To think he did this for me. Now I know I too must be giving For all he has given to me. She Source Maude O. Cooke From a fountain Deep within one's soul, Faith and courage flow, Giving comfort, Strength and power, To rise above life's woe. God Hears Every Prayer Zelda D. Howard No prayer is wasted, None left unheeded, God weighs them everyone, He answers always In the way that's best For every praying one. Costumed Models of the First Ladies Melba S. Payne dress models of the First Ladies who lived in the White House," said Mrs. Marie Whiting of Springville, Utah. "Five vears ago I visited the Smithsoman Institution in Washington, D. C., and my desire to create the inaugural gowns, displayed there on lifesize models, was greatly stimulated. 66 Pr: years I have wanted to I had with me a booklet which con-. Tains photographs of these women, and, as I looked at the real dresses I noted every detail and wrote it down by the respective photographs. If anything was left out of the booklet I knew I would have it firsthand right there on the margin." Being an expert seamstress and interested in designing clothes, Mrs. Whiting had confidence in her ability to duplicate the beautiful inauguration gowns. First of all, she knew she would need the models to dress. She confided her desires to her aunt and neighbor, Miss Zina Johnson who is also a hobbyist, being skilled in the art of ceramics. Miss Johnson immediately offered to make all of the dolls for Mrs. Whiting to dress. "IT was happy to do it," said Miss Johnson. "We stimulated each other, and, through our combined efforts, we were able to feel the thrill and satisfaction that come from doing truly creative work." The little models made by Miss Johnson are eight inches high, She Page 506 made one basic mold, then added more clay to the green-ware with which she could shape the arms and hair. In this way she could shape the arms differently and vary the hair styles, all of which she has done with amazing skill. After finishing the figures in this way, she baked them just once in her own kiln. There are thirty-five of these bisque mannequins, each representing a White House hostess. Most of them represent wives of the Presidents, but some are sisters, daughters, daughters-in-law, and even nieces, who acted as hostesses for the Presidents of the United States. "T could almost feel their personalities as I molded their arms and styled their separate coiffures," said Miss Johnson. "You see, I could add or detract with the clay, and I tried to catch the spirit and physical characteristics of each First Lady." Both Mrs. Whiting and Miss Johnson are students of art. Miss Johnson taught English and art in high school for several years. Both of these women have studied the lives of the First Ladies and have greatly enriched their own lives by so doing. "These historic women seem like personal friends to me. Each one. Has her own individual appeal," said Mrs. Whiting. "Some of the dresses were much harder to make than others. For instance, it took me four hours just to sew the seed COSTUMED MODELS OF THE FIRST LADIES 507 THREE STAGES IN MAKING THE MODELS OF THE FIRST LADIES Left to night: Mannequin as it comes from the mold; finished mannequin ready to be dressed, hair and arms added; dressed figure. Pearls down the front of the dress worn by Mrs. William Mckinley, but Mrs. Warren G. Harding's dress was the most difficult," she added, "because I couldn't use a basic pattern. I just had to drape and cut. The dress worn by Mrs. Harriet Lane Johnston, niece of James Buchanan, was the most elaborate one of all." Mrs. Whiting is now beginning the work on the dress Mrs. 'Truman wore at the 1949 inauguration festivities. The description of this dress was sent to her by Mrs. 'Truman's secretarv. These fashions in miniature accurately reflect the period in which they were worn. Martha Washington, in her soft pink colonial gown and bonnet, makes quite a contrast to the American Beauty short formal worn by Mrs. Calvin Coolidge. Then there is the shapeless narrow dress worn by Mrs. John Q. Adams, in contrast to the slender bodice and full over-skirt of yellow satin worn by Dolly Madison, wife of James Madison. Mrs. Whiting is the wife of a busy husband and has four children to care for. She is also active in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and in the civic affairs of her community. Her husband designed the clever carrying cases for the dolls. These cases are indispensable in caring for so many fragile pieces of art. Mrs. Whiting can safely take the dolls with her when she is invited to share with others the products of her work and study. She has shown these dolls in their beautiful gowns to more than sixty gatherings, and each time she tells about the life of each First Lady to her enthusiastic audiences. She received an all expense paid trip to Detroit, Michigan, as a guest of a large department store there. She 508 displayed the dolls in that store in the week before the inauguration of President Eisenhower. "The best things about a hobby," concluded Mrs. Whiting, "are the people you meet and the interesting letters you receive." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—-AUGUST 1954 warm friendly notes she has received from Eleanor Roosevelt and Mamie Eisenhower. The consummation of this project in the home of Mrs. Whiting has had an educational effect on all of her family, and one can be sure She has received letters from doll collectors wanting to buy the dolls, and many congratulatory notes. That certain phases of the history of this great country will have a greater meaning for them now and in the future. Among her most prized ones are the Ralph Snelson, Springville, Utah COSTUMES OF FIRST LADIES OF OUR LAND At left, standing, Marie Whiting, who made the models. First Ladies, in the foreground, left to right: Mrs. James A. Garficld, in purple satin gown, with ruffled train; Mrs. Abraham Lincoln, in purple velvet, with gored skirt and puffed sleeves; Mrs. Benjamin Harrison, wearing plum-colored brocade, with train; Mrs. John Quincy Adams, in white satin, with shirred trim around a narrow skirt; Mrs. George Washington (center, seated) in hand-painted, apricot-colored gown. Mrs, Washington wears a bonnet and carries a bag which she made; Mary Harrison McKee, daughter of Benjamin Harrison, in tan dress, with redingote effect; Mrs. Calvin Coolidge, in ted velvet gown, sleeveless, with flounces; Angelica Van Buren, daughter-in-law of Martin Van Buren, in deep blue velvet, with train and fichu; Mrs. William McKinley, wearing white satin, with train and beaded front panel. Standing in second half circle, left to nght: Mrs, Rutherford B. Hayes, in white who made the costumes; at right, Zina Johnson, COSTUMED MODELS OF THE FIRST LADIES 509 satin, with ruffled trimmings and train; Mary Arthur McElroy, sister of Chester A. Arthur, in a gown of silver and gray brocade, with front panel; Maria Monroe Gouverneur, daughter of James Monroe, in sky-blue silk, with overskirt trimmed in straw embroidery; Ellen Axson Wilson, first wife of Woodrow Wilson, in white chiffon, with brocaded overskirt; Julia Gardiner Tyler, second wife of John Tyler, wearing a gown with tiered skirt trimmed with multi-colored embroidery; Mrs. John Adams, wearing blue brocade, trimmed with a bertha, and holding a fan; Mrs. Franklin Delano Roosevelt, in blue lace with train; Jane Irwin Findlay, chaperone for the daughter-in-law (widowed Jane Irwin Harrison) of William Henry Harrison, in mole-colored velvet, with white collar; Mrs. Grover Cleveland, in flowered silk, with bolero; Harriet Lane Johnston, niece of James Buchanan, in white moire taffeta, with full train; Mrs. Warren G. Harding, in white satin, with train, shorter in front; Sarah Yorke Jackson, niece of Andrew Jackson, in white brocaded chiffon, with satin bodice; Mrs. James Knox Polk, in brocade, with puffed and ruffled sleeves; Mrs. Ulysses S$. Grant, in silver brocade with full skirt and lace bertha. Two models at left, in front of Mrs. Whiting: Mrs. Herbert Hoover, in light green satin, with overskirt and train; Emily Donelson, niece of Andrew Jackson, tan satin, with overskirt and bustle. Two models at right, in front of Miss Johnson: Mrs. Millard Fillmore, wearing. Orchid taffeta, with brocade flounce; Mrs. James Madison, in yellow satin, with lace bertha collar. Fight models standing at the back, left to right: Mrs. Edith Bolling Wilson (second wife of Woodrow Wilson) wearing black velvet, with beaded train; Martha Johnson Patterson, daughter of Andrew Johnson, wearing a silk damask dress and a cloak of Algerian style made of cream-colored goat's hair and silk; Mrs. Edith Kermit Roosevelt (second wife of Theodore Roosevelt), wearing blue brocaded satin, and holding a book; Martha Jefferson Randolph, daughter of Thomas Jefferson, white embroidered dress and Paisley shawl; Mrs. William Howard 'Taft in empire dress of white chiffon, embroidered in goldenrod pattern; Elizabeth Vavlor Dandndge, daughter of Zachary Taylor, wearing silk plaid, with full skirt; Mrs. James Monroe, in white flowered brocade, with saque overskirt; Mrs. Franklin Pierce, wearing black net with silver dots. (Not included are the models of Mrs. Harry 'lruman and Mrs. Dwight D. Eisenhower. ) Yacara mda ia Gloom Ethel Jacobson Heavenward, heavenward the great tree stretched Wide, wide arms, flower-etched, Aching with blooms a rarer blue Than heaven itself ever knew. The dancing blossoms clustered high, Garlands to veil the paler sky, Bells of sapphire to swing and fall Till a petaled carpet covered all.... Till earth and tree were the hue of heather, Hyacinth, periwinkle, martin feather, Mist at morning, hovering, clinging— Color of silence, color of singing. The wind shook another panicle free And a housewife frowned, ""What a dirty tree And, striding across the scattered bloom, She hurried in and fetched a broom.? Dependable Jane Myrtle M. Dean ANE smoothed her shining hair Jisee swept up from her forehead in soft, brown curls. For a moment she stood before the big mirror that covered the wall above the mantel, then smiled and pirouetted, sending her full skirt out in pretty switls as she watched her trim figure in the glass. She had just put on her blue, silk print dress. 'The blue of the dress was almost the color of her eyes. Suddenly Jane stood still and turned toward the door. For a moment she stared, as though some unwelcome visitor had appeared. "Pride goeth before a fall, Janie." Jane heard the words as plainly as though Aunt Martha Jane had been right there saying them, instead of down at Brentville, fifty mile away. Jane shrugged her shoulders and forced a little laugh. "Now, Jane Martin, don't be speaking Aunt Martha Jane's lines for her," she said half aloud; but she knew those were the exact words Martha Jane would have said, had she caught her preening before the mirror. She reminded herself aloud, "Remember what you told yourself when you landed at Av ondale, Janie. You are a new Jane now; new town, new people, and best of all, your husband has a new job, and you are not to be known as the old Dependable Jane up here either." Jane smiled as she remembered how proud she and Steve had both been when he had taken her down to his new office for her first time. Steve had looked so happy, and Page 510 as they went up the steps he had looked down at her smiling expectantly. "Oh, Steve, look, Strebel and Martin, there on the door in gold letters! Isn't it wonderful!" she had exclaimed proudly. "See, there is more there, too," Steve said, beaming. They read the rest together, "Attorneys at Law." She and Steve had laughed together like two children. 'They were remembering the days of struggle they had gonc through ever since they were married. When Steve had come home from a mission to England, he had gone into the army, and, after that, through law school. Kathy and Michael had come to them during the school years. "Remember all the nice beef stew we had, made from Sunday's roasts, and the nice soft bed we slept in, the living room couch let out for two?" Jane tried to smile, but her face was half serious, remembering, as Steve spoke. "And was it Mrs. Murphy, that you walked in on, thinking you were in our house?" Jane asked, laughing. "It was those houses all set in a tight' row, and all painted white with a tiny porch on the front; and was Mrs. Murphy ready to call the cops! We can laugh now it's over, can't we, Janie?" alt going to be different now, Steve," Jane said seriously. Steve's eyes grew thoughtful for a moment, "I'm still scared, though. DEPENDABLE JANE A new job in a new town, and I'm just not the sort that can sail on someone else's steam; I've got to do things for myself. Strebel took me in, now I want to show him that I can be more than a fixture about the place." Steve ran his hands through his dark hair, and pulled his brow into a worried frown. "Strebel took you in because he needed you. You were highly recommended to him by your school. Youll make good, too. I'm sure of it." Jane took Steve's hand in both of her own. "Thanks, Janie, I'll do it for you, and for Kathy and Michael." T had been only a few weeks since then, and Jane was proud of what Steve had accomplished. 'Tonight they were celebrating; not the way that Steve had planned, but at home with the children, and all dressed up. 'That is why Jane was wearing her new, blue silk print; it was Steve's favorite. "Hi, hon, how about a date for dinner tonight, at the Sunset Inn, or maybe we should go dancing?" Steve's voice had been bubbling over with happiness when he called her that afternoon from the office. "Steve, are you all right?" There was surprise in Jane's tone. She remembered how they had wrestled with their account book last night for hours, trying to figure how to make ends meet until payday. "Really Janie, I'm serious. I want to celebrate. I just got my first big case for the firm, all on my own. A big shot from the ridge walked in and asked for Steve Martin, and that's I, darling. I've been pulling hard to bring that oil case our way." Jane had loved the sound of his 511 voice; the sureness of it, after all his doubts, but they must wait awhile to celebrate. "Listen, Steve, dear, you remember last night, well, the budget doesn't balance any better today. We'll just have to wait awhile." "Guess you are right, Janie," he said, but his voice had gone flat. Jane almost hated herself for letting the old Dependable Jane crop up. It would almost be worth spending their last dollar, but she said, "You see, there would have to be a girl to stay with the children, too, and, Steve, I'd love fixing something special and celebrating here." She knew her own voice sounded deflated. "O. K. Pll see you at five-thirty." Steve had tried to keep his voice bright. Jane was glad that Steve seemed to feel really gay at dinner, and she was sure that they both ate more than they would had they gone to the Sunset. Sitting in the living room after dinner, Steve said, "It's a good thing I have you, Janie, to keep me from going overboard. You're the one who has taken the raps all along. With me first in the army, then in school, you had most of the responsibility of the children, too." Steve drew her close as he spoke. "You are so dependable," he finished. Jane straightened suddenly, and sat silently for a moment, her lips set in too tight a line for Janie's. "Please don't say that word here, Steve," she said. "Down at Brentville, I was always Dependable Jane, and that meant I was the town lacky; to head the committees on fund dinners, to sub for a teacher, to hurry down to the Red Cross He center, or fill in at a party on a moment's notice." Jane saw the surprise in Steve's eves at her outburst, and he said, "To me you are just my Jamie, but by those who called you Dependable Jane it was meant as a big compliment. Everyone in Brentville loves you, Janie, just as they will here when folks get to know you." Steve tweaked her ear and tried a grin at her, but her face was still solemn. "Why did Mother and Dad have to name me for Aunt Martha Jane, anyway? Everyone, including Aunt Jane, expects me to be like her, always good and dependable; at least up here she can't always be quoting her aphorisms at me. 'A stitch in time saves nine,' if a button is off. 'Wilful waste brings woeful want.' 'Birds of a feather,' and "Water always seeks its level,' and all the others." "Aunt Martha Jane was reared on pioneer rations, Janie, but, in spite of it all, she is an old dear." "T'm sorry, Steve. I've spoiled the evening, and this was supposed to be a celebration," Jane said sincerely. We must get acquainted with our neighbors. You'll soon have lots of friends here, and with our Church activities, I'm sure we will like it fine," Steve said. HIS reminded Jane that the Relief Society president had asked her to teach the literature lessons for the coming year, and she had made all kinds of excuses. "T have the children, and they take their nap in the afternoon," she had said. "We have a nursery, and an excellent girl to care for the children; RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1954 and there are so many fine women, I'm sure you'd enjoy mingling with them," the president had persuaded. Jane had finally refused, but not without a twinge of conscience. 'To herself she had reasoned, surely one deserves a rest after doing all I have done for so long. Yet she knew that Steve would be hurt if he knew, so she had decided not to tell him. "Oh, I forgot to tell you," Steve said. ""lhey have asked me to work with the Scouts this fall; so I will be right back in the old groove." Ilis eyes shone bright with pleasure. Jane thought of all the time chat Steve used to spend with the Scouts down at Brentville, and how he would be now, with a troop of boys walking over her rugs, and twisting about on the new chairs and livingroom set. She saw that Steve was looking at her, waiting for her comment, "Do you think you will like that job here? It takes so much of your - time, and with your work, you've just got to make good," she said uneasily. "Tm still a boy at heart, Janie, and the boys have to have someone to look after them. You know our Michael is going to be a Scout one of these days," Steve spoke thoughtfully. Jane felt a bit uncomfortable, and changed the subject. "One of the neighbors called this afternoon; the lady that lives in the red brick house a few doors down," she told him. "What is she like? You'll like her I hope." "Her name is Mary Carson, and she's. A nice person; nice—and dependable." 'Then, noting Steve's sly look, she added, "Like me." She wrinkled her nose at him, and DEPENDABLE JANE smiled. "She brought a plate of cookies for the children. She has two children, a boy and a girl." "I like her already," Steve said, looking pleased. "And isn't there one cookie left for me?" Jane brought the remaining cookies, and they munched them together as they talked. She was glad that Steve's enthusiasm returned as they spoke of his work. A few evenings later, Steve came from work, and found Jane bubbling over with excitement. "What do you know, Steve?" she exclaimed starry-eyed. ""Mrs. Darcy has asked me to be a guest at her club next Tuesday. Her husband owns the biggest department store in town; and Mrs. Cline, the banker's wife, will be there, and Mrs. Lane, she operates a travel bureau. I've just been dying to see inside the Darcy house," she ran on breathlessly. "Hum... My little Janie, with all the elite of the town," Steve said, but with less enthusiasm than Jane had wished. "I hoped if I met the right people it might bring business your way," she confessed earnestly. "These women are the social arbiters of Avondale." "We don't want to try too hard for business," Steve answered, and Jane felt that there was a note of reproof in his voice, as well as a serious, puzzled look on his face. Jane's face flushed with disappointment. She decided to try another topic, one she knew Steve would be interested in. "David Graham has just returned from his mission to England, he is to be the speaker in Church next Sunday," she told him. England had been Steve's mission field, too. 513 N Church on Sunday as Jane watched Steve's shining eyes as they listened to the missionary, she thought, Steve will never change; his Church will always be first, and a deep love filled her. "They were the most wonderful years I ever spent, those two and a half I spent in the mission field," the elder was saying. They all say that. Steve said those very same words, Jane said to herself. "It is serving others that brings happiness, and serving God brings the greatest happiness of all," David Graham went on, then he said, "serving in the Church is not a labor but a privilege." Jane was quiet and thoughtful as they drove home. "Serving in the Church is not a labor, but a privilege." Impatiently she tried to push the words out of her mind, but they kept coming back. Why should my conscience keep nagging at me? I've worked in the Church all of my life. Steve seemed to be lost in his own thoughts, too. When he spoke his voice was vibrant with emotion. "Elder Graham says that the whole Lester family joined the Church soon after I came home, and they told him I was the one who converted them. There are several others who have joined that I contacted while there. Oh, Janie, it makes me feel wonderful to think I have helped a few to see the light." A full moon was peeking over the tall hills to the east of them, and cottony clouds floated about in the sky. There was the spicy tang of autumn coming to them from the foothills, where the oaks and maples 514 were beginning to show bright coloring. Jane looked over at Steve; the moon shone bright on the tip of his nose. She moved close and laid her hand on his arm. A smile curved his lips, and there was a look of contentment and peace on his face. N Tuesday afternoon, Jane saw Mary Carson drive by on her way to Relief Society meeting. Her two small children were tucked in the seat beside her. Jane knew Mary would be giving the lesson today, for she had told her that she taught the theology lessons. Jane recalled vividly one of the lessons she had heard last spring, down at Brentville. It was, "Lehi, Man of Visions." It had given her such a wonderful feeling; especially the vision of the tree, which represented the love of God; and the rod of iron that led to the tree. This rod was the word of God. Jane had felt, then, that she would always cling fast to the iron rod and follow the narrow path, so she would not get lost in the mists along the way. Jane looked at the clock. She must hurry. In a few minutes a girl would be coming to take care of the children while she went to Mrs. Darcy's club. Now she tried to push the thought of the vision out of her mind. All forenoon she had been so anxious to meet Mrs. Darcy's friends and see her home, but now a scared feeling settled in the pit of her stomach. She arrived a few minutes early. She thought she had never seen anything so lovely as Mrs. Darcy's house. It was ultra modern, the long, windowed walls, the unique planter boxes, the rare pictures and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1954 lovely draperies, and the fine furniture. It was all so convenient and beautiful. She wanted to stand and admire everything. Then a sick feeling went through her as she noted there were ash trays on the tables in the living room. She knew that in hers and Steve's home, no one could expect to use an ash tray. Mrs. Darcy was friendly, but asked to be excused to finish preparing the refreshments. She said the lady that was to come to help her had been detained on account of an accident to one of her children. "Let me help; I'd be glad to," Jane offered quickly, then thought, there I go with my Dependable Jane assistance, at my first party in Avondale. "Oh, I would appreciate it so much. There are just a few things to finish," Mrs. Darcy said, and Jane followed her into the kitchen. Jane helped set out the food on pretty glass trays. 'There were dainty canapes, and crisp salads, then tiny frosted cakes, and a drink in sparkling crystal goblets. Jane listened to the women chatting as they ate their food, and the certainty came to her that she could not be one of them. She was in a hurry to get home, but she would have to stay it out. She thought of Steve's look when she had told him she was invited here. She thought of Mary Carson and her Relief Society lesson. She thought, too, of Aunt Martha Jane. Aunt Martha Jane thought social clubs were an utter waste of time, at best. As she reached home, she saw that Steve's car was in the driveway. Panic filled her. Had something happened to one of the children? It was not time for Steve to be DEPENDABLE JANE home. She wondered if the girl had called him from his office. She hurried up the steps, her legs weak and shaky. Steve met her at the door. "Is something wrong?" she asked Steve's smile told her things were all right, but he did not answer her question; he led her into the house. But her relief in finding the children all right was quickly displaced by dismay, for there in the big gold rocker, in the corner of the room, sat Aunt Martha Jane. FoR a moment Jane stood speechless. Of all the inopportune times for Aunt Martha Jane to come, it was this moment. Finally, Jane gasped breathlessly, "Why, Aunt Martha Jane!" Then, realizing that her face must be revealing her feelings, she tried to smile. "Aunt Martha Jane called from the station, and when you were not here, she called my office," Steve explained, noting Jane's discomfort. Had Steve explained to her aunt where she had been? Jane wondered. And another thing, what could she rake up in a hurry for dinner? She had planned on just serving leftovers tonight. At any moment she expected Aunt Martha Jane to come out with some prov- 515 erb, such as, "A virtuous woman looketh well to the ways of her household." But, instead she was hurrying toward her with a big smile on her face. She kissed Jane on the cheek. "T've missed you, no end, Jane. Everyone in Brentville has missed you both," she said, and her eyes were moist. Jane gave her aunt a pat on the shoulder, and found herself saying, "T've missed you, too, Aunt Martha Jane; I've missed you all," and there were tears of happiness and _ real homesickness running down her cheeks. She stood back and took a good look at her aunt. What she saw in her face was true goodness and dependability, and at that moment Jane decided that to be like Aunt Martha Jane would be wonderful, after all. Jane looked over at Steve, expecting to see amusement on his face, but he looked at her proudly, and very seriously. "Oh, Janie," he said, "the Relief Society president called a few minutes. Ago, and wanted to talk to you. She said something about she hoped you had changed your decision." Without explaining, Jane said, "T have changed my decision. I'll call her. In the morning." Son Flowers Louise Morris Kelley Dance under wild plum's windblown froth; Dream where the dogwood grows. With orange blossoms plight your troth Or serenade a rose; Wear orchids—but son flowers for me... Plucked by a boy of half-past three! Washington State Wonder—Soap Lake Marijane Morris GOME fifty-two miles south of the gigantic, man-made dam, Grand Coulee, in the State of Washington, lies a small lake, 1073 feet above sea level, three miles long and one mile wide, that is right out of our dreams. Not the kind of dream, however, that pictures moonlight and music and romantic waters; but the kind of dream that sometimes borders on the ridiculous, like walking barefooted down Main Street. We could, in this dream, bathe in a lake of soapy appearing water. We could frolic on sun-bathed beaches in "'soapsuds" to our knees. Then we could make our dream come true, for such a lake does exist. Its name—Soap Lake. To be more specific about its location, it lies at the southern entrance to the Grand Coulee in north-central Washington, 165 miles east from Seattle; west from Spokane, 120 miles; north of Pasco, 110 miles. Long years ago it must have been Courtesy, Bureau of Reclamation Ephrata, Washington DRY FALLS, NEAR COULEE CITY, ONCE A HUGE CATARACT IN THE COLUMBIA RIVER Page 516 WASHINGTON STATE WONDER—SOAP LAKE Gairtoasi Biteaii of PicRisiiiien Ephrata, Washington SUDS ALONG THE SHORE OF SOAP LAKE, WASHINGTON a delight to the Indians who first discovered its remarkable powers. They had great respect for its wonders. They called it "Smokiam," which has a literal meaning of "healing salts." The area itself is unusual and unique. It is exciting country, almost pre-historic with its somber basalt cliffs. To the scientist it is a treasure of geological information written in the rocks. It is sometimes referred to as "the Eighth Geological Wonder of the World." Part of the immediate section surrounding Soap Lake is Dry Falls. Once tremendous cataracts in the Columbia River thundered over 517 these falls during the last ice age. In the vicinity of Soap Lake and on its sunny beaches during most of the year unequaled sunshine prevails. The atmosphere is desert in nature in that it is free of dust and allows a superabundance of ultraviolet rays to reach the earth and the mineral water of the lake. The chemical content of the lake is interesting. It goes like this: oil, silica, sulphate, carbonate, _ bicarbonate, chloride, organic nitrogen, nitrite, nitrate, phosphorus, fluoride, sodium, potassium, calcium, magnesium, aluminum, iron, copper, rubidium, and lithium, with sodium and carbonate having the highest per cent solids. Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, August 1, and August 15, 1894 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomeEN OF ALL NATIONS" ADVANCEMENT: The ladies who have recently graduated from Dr. Ellis R. Shipp's School of Obstetrics are Mrs. Matilda Swenson, Mrs. Mary Ann Hamlin, Mrs. Leona Benson, Mrs. Marina Hansen, Mrs. Eliza Smith, Mrs. Mary Midgley, and Mrs. Sarah Vance. These ladics have shown marked integrity in their studies, received certificates of proficiency and we believe go forth to extended spheres of usefulness, and will in their respective localities fill a long felt want.... Truly their mission is one of the most grand and noble! One filled with daily and homely self-sacrifice, one to call into action the better part of their natures, their stern energies, and their soft and tender emotions.... 'his knowledge should be a component part of every woman's education. Let the minds of our daughters be cultivated and adorned with all the beauties of art, music, and literature, but let domestic science with the care and nursing of the sick, become an essential, aye an indispensable part of their accomplishments, —H. MEDITATION... And forever, and ever unfailing, Is the wealth of that infinite love, Through all life and all being pervading, 'Which proceeds from our Father above. But the life-giving means is the marvel The mystery, past knowledge and skill, No man can the secret unravel, It abideth in God, at His will. —E. B. W. NOTE FROM TEASDALE, WAYNE COUNTY: Although we are far away from your beautiful city, and only few in numbers, yet we enjoy the spirit of the Lord in our meetings, and we are trying to do our duty and adhere to the counsel given to us, in storing up grain, and studying the Lectures on Faith and stormg our minds with good and useful knowledge, and trying to live as becomes Latter-day Saints and mothers in Israel.... —Mary E. Adams, President, Teasdale Relief Society ADMISSION OF UTAH: Another star is to be added to our flag by the admission of Utah as a State. Utah... Has a record of industry, unequaled by any other state in the union. From dry, desert wastes, to fertile farms, it has been changed by... Industry in the space of but forty-seven years. —Louis E. Granger A REMEMBERED EXHORTATION Hold up your heads! My Sisters! Speak! And sing! 'That you may be heard! Watch the swelling throat and open beak Of the joyous little bird.... —L. L. Greene Richards Page 518 ELDORA JOHNSON M*:: MAUGHAN, Preston, Idaho, a Latter-day Saint mother of seven children, was selected as "Idaho Mother of 1954." A devoted Relief Society worker and active in other Church work, Mrs. Maughan accompanied her husband on a mission to New Zealand and taught school at the Maori Agricultural College. She has served in many civic positions of responsibility, including vice-president of the National Congress of Parents and Teachers, and delegate to the United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural departments. M*: PHILIP F. La FOLLETTE, wife of former Governor La Follette of Wisconsin, has organized in Madison, a Woman's Service Exchange, especially to help older women to find jobs where their particular experience and abilities will count. Women up to sixty, or older, some without high school education, ex-teachers, and 'office workers find employment which can fit in with their special home situations. ESTA P. CRAWFORD, Associate Editor of The Relief Society Magazine, was presented with a distinguished service award from Brigham Young University on Alumni Day, June 5, 1954. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon LDA NEVES STEINER, Kaysville, Utah, and her daughters Connie, Berdine, and Carolyn were recently presented by Frederick Dixon in a recital for piano forte in Salt Lake City. Mrs. Steiner, formerly of Pleasant Grove, gives of her talents for Relief Society. She received her first music lessons from her mother, Mary C. Neves, and she has given her own daughters much of their musical instruction. RS. OSCAR A. AHLGREN. President of the General Federation of Women's Clubs, in an address to women journalists, urged them to be positive in their attitudes; to be, for example, not merely against Communism, but for Americanism; to play down the story of a drunken teen-ager and play up the wonderful work of the 4-H Clubs; to give little space to a sensational divorce and much to the fact that religion should be taught in our schools. IRTHDAY congratulations are extended to Mrs. Lovinia Sylvester Berry, Hurricane, Utah, one hundred; Mrs. Elizabeth E. Spackman, Ogden, ninety-five; Mrs. Agnes G. Branch, Salt Lake City, ninety-four; Mrs. Caroline Clark Rigby, Bancroft, Idaho, ninety-one; Mrs. Sarah Jane Anderton Perkins, Woods Cross, ninety. Page 519 O-> EDITORIAL 9 VOL. 41 AUGUST 1954 ( ommmentaen les Clan Hlome NE of the most sacred obligations placed upon Latter-day Saint parents is the rearing and the training of their children in righteousness. 'Today, parents face greater competition in this sacred duty than at any time in the history of the world. Pick up the newspaper, what do we read? Sensational headlines, the text following with the giuesome ~ details. Turn on the radio, what do we hear? In quick succession stories of murder, mystery, violence, and crime. Flip the dial on the television set, and we are lucky if a most persuasive voice or a popular performer does not invite us to indulge in practices not in keeping with gospel standards. We cannot keep this competition completely out of our homes, but we can nullify, to a degree, the effects of such reading, hearing, and seeing, on our children, with influences that will successfully counteract their ill effects. It can be done, but only with thoughtful, prayerful effort. Possibly our greatest success will be achieved through the conversations which we have with our children, and the discussions which we carry on in our homes. One can listen to a group of children and determine by their talk many of the characteristics of the conversation in their homes. 'The ones reared where sensational subjects are conPage 520 stantly aired, may trequently echo some of the scandal and tragedy of life. 'They may, in general, lack refinement and, often, not have a desire to seek the best and exclude the worst. The more cultured and_ better educated people become, the more they refrain from discussing sensational details of domestic difficulties, thefts, and sordid crime. We should keep our children from this side of life by presenting to them the best that is in the newspapers, and help them to become discriminating in what they watch on television and what they listen to on the radio. Discuss with your children the wonders of nature, the accomplishments of men of science and invention, the things of God—children are interested in these things. Also, the conversation of a family should include something more substantial than local gossip. It has been said that small minds discuss people, average minds discuss events, superior minds discuss ideals. Tonight, before you fall asleep think back over the subjects that were discussed in your home today, especially those things that were discussed in the presence of children. Did they reflect a positive, joyous attitude toward living? Did they stimulate a desire for the worthwhile things of life? Did they ex- EDITORIAL pand the children's mental capacities and broaden their intellects? Did they inspire each one to resolve to live a more Christ-like life? Whatever we would have our children become, we should strive to exhibit in our own lives and in our conversations. 521 Just as we plan the balanced meals for our children's physical health, we should plan likewise to build up their mental strength by supplying good literature and good wholesome ideas that grow out of the daily discussions they hear. —V. N. S. —iManna Mabel Jones Gabbott And when the dew that glistened all around Had lifted from the wilderness of Sin, The manna lay like hoar-frost on the ground, White as snow, where snow had never been. They gathered it at morning, fresh as cress; It was their strength, their faith, their bread to eat; Each took his daily need, no more, no less; ' Like wafers made with honey, it was sweet. So is your love, my dear, a gift from heaven, My staff of life, my sustenance, my trust; As fragile as the dawn, love is the Jeaven Of each day, and I like Moses' children must Refresh it often—gladly give, glad-given, Lest hoarded love, like manna, turn to dust. Two Together Agda Gronbech Harlow Two children trudge the meadow path at dusk And reach the hill together, Hand in hand. Two pigeons swoop together to the barn's gray loft, And soar to touch the evening, Wings abreast. Two fleecy clouds sail onward through the night And find the moon, high-riding Still together. Two lives face dawn with eager, upward look, With strength and hope because they're Two together. Notes TO THE FIELD Copies of "Wise Ye Not Shat J Must Be About My Sather s Business?, Again Available Copies of the book Wist Ye Not That I Must Be About My Father's Business? By President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Are again available and may be ordered from the General Board of Relief Society, 40 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah, for $2.00 postpaid. An invaluable reference on the visit of Jesus to the temple at twelve years of age, the book gives details on temple ceremonies and sacrifices in the time of Christ, with illustrations. Ol essons for Spanish-Speaking Relicf Societies in Stakes Stakes which have Spanish-speaking Relief Society organizations may obtain Spanish translations of the courses of study from the General Board of Relief Society, 40 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah, at a cost of 6oc postpaid, available after September 10, 1954. The pamphlet contains the following courses of study for 1954-55: Theology: "Characters and 'Teachings of the Book of Mormon," lessons 17-24 Visiting 'l'eacher Messages: "Book of Mormon Gems of Truth," lessons 17-24 Lessons in Lieu of Literature: "The Restoration of All Things," lessons 1-8 Social Science: "Signs of the Times," lessons 8-14. Jn Sheir Lonely Years Ing Smith They yield no ground to winter, Going forth now, alone, When summer lives are withered And summer words have flown. Brave for one more encounter With eagle or with dove, They glean the fields of friendship For remnant grains of love. Page 522 Bob Bishop MALIGNE LAKE, JASPER NATIONAL PARK, CANADA She Haworth oo mer Lizabeth Wall Down across the meadow where the blue wind lies, A boy goes running, with morning in his eyes. A boy goes searching where the thick fern grows, And a brook sings silver over curled, brown toes. Back across the meadow through the dusking air, A boy comes dreaming, with sunset in his hair, Humming a tune that only children learn From the wind and a brook and the tangled fern, Lad, did you find what you were looking for? An elfin chimney in the grass? A wee, green door? Page 523 New Light Lucile Tournear y heer mild April morning was not one to encourage anyone to go Relief Society teaching. The air was heavily scented with the nose-tingling fragrance of orange blossoms. Mocking birds were threatening to burst their enthusiastic little throats, telling us of the early spring rosebuds, and the fresh green grass. ''he sun was clean and vital in its touch, as it always is after rain has fallen during the night. It was a day to work in the ar or to go on a picnic. Thad one more call to make. My morning had not been a very satisfying one. 'There was illness in two of the families, and since I was rather new in the community, and my companion teacher was out of town, I felt that I had not been of much comfort to them. 'Two other sisters had not been at home, and the other three had been busy with sewing and spring cleaning, so that I felt that I was detaining them. This visit would probably be futile, too, as I had called at the Hurley home three months in succession, and had found no one home. As 1 turned into the yard I noticed the same closed front door, and felt the same rather sad quiet which I always experienced when ringing this doorbell. However, something urged me to make another try. I had never met Sister Hurley. Perhaps she was elderly and perhaps ill, or hard of hearing. I would not be so hasty in going away. If she were at home and well, she would not shut out this lovely April day. Pege 524 I rang three times with quite a wait between each ring and was just turning to go down the steps, when the sound of the door being slowly opened stopped me. A young woman, probably in her early twenties, stood silently waiting for me_ to speak. Sorrow was stamped on the pale, delicate face, and in the listless droop of her shoulders, as she waited there. The long fingers of a graceful, white hand plucked nervously at a soft brown curl on her forehead. "I'm Jane Belle, your Relief Society teacher. May I come in?" She looked bewildered, almost frightened. "here must be some mistake. I don't know any Jane Belle, and what is a Relief Society teacher?" "T guess I have made a mistake," [ said stupidly. "I was looking for Katherine Hurley. Either I have been given a wrong address or she moved from this one." "Mother and I have been living here for nearly three months now. Our name is Bromfield. I am Betty Bromfield." Perhaps I should have excused myself and left, but my _ heart yearned for this sad, nervous-appearing young woman, and I longed to help her if T possibly could. "It's a lovely day," I said tritely. "I thought no one was home because the door was shut." "T suppose I should leave it open, but I'm here alone all day, and I never know who might be prowling around. I keep thinking I hear NEW LIGHT someone on the porch. I've been sort of nervous since I lost my sight." "My dear I didn't realize. Stammered. "Four years ago [ think I was the happiest girl in all the world. I was in my second year at college, majoring in dramatics. I had hopes of going into television. 'Then I woke up one morning and my sight was gone, just as suddenly as turning off a light switch. They call it deterioration of the retina. There was an operation, but it was not successful." She spoke in a weary, expressionless voice, as though she had recited this misfortune many times. Aa | oe €47'M sure you're being very brave about it," I said, striving desperately to keep pity out of my voice. "You are young, and there are many opportunities open to you that the blind didn't have twentyfive years ago." I sounded hard and cold to myself, but I knew that the greatest battle handicapped people have to fight is the unwanted pity that their well-meaning friends pour out to them. For a fleeting moment, a radiant smile touched her face, and her voice was almost happy as she said, ""You're one of the few people I've met who hasn't said 'I'm sorry.' " "Do you manage to keep busy?" I asked. "I have always found work to be the best cure for sorrow. It doesn't matter what you do, so long as it helps keep your mind off yourself" "T keep house for mother and myself," she answered. 'Mother works in an aircraft factory, and she isn't too strong, so I try to make 55 things as easy for her as possible. I'm so thankful I could cook and iron and do things like that before I became blind. I don't think I could have learned otherwise." "T think you're wonderful," I said sincerely. "Lots of girls wouldn't have had your courage. Your Heavenly Father has truly blessed you with spiritual strength." "Do you think God really cares? Won't you come in?" she added. For the first time I noticed bitterness in her voice. "Of course he cares," I answered after we were seated. "I know we are all his children and he watches over all of us." "Then why did he let me lose my sight? I hadn't done anything wrong. I have prayed so often for an answer to this question. If I could just know why." She was close to tears now, and so was I. I knew, too, that her fu- _ture attitude might be influenced by my answer. "My dear," I began, "I don't know the answer; but I feel that our Father has a great work for you to do, a work which you probably could not, or would not have done, had you had your physical eyesight. Maybe his plan has not been made known to you yet, but it will be. If you pray, and really have faith in the power of prayer, you might even see again. If you don't see again, you will have something to compensate for sight. You may be given the power to be an inspiration and help to others. Perhaps you will become so busy giving comfort to others that you will not feel the need for physical help for yourself. God works only for good. If this 526 were not so, he would not have sent the Savior to us." "The Savior," she repeated thoughtfully, "I always think of him as being concerned with the hereafter, rather than with our daily needs." "So many people have that idea, but in my Church we believe that Jesus Christ helps us just as surely today as he helped those who were with him while he was on earth two thousand years ago. If you will pray to your Heavenly Father in the name of Jesus Christ, you will be strengthened and comforted." "T guess I don't have the faith you have," she answered wistfully. "Mother and I have never gone to church very much. For awhile she worked on Sundays, and we sort of got out of the habit." OU could read the Bible," I suggested, "especially the New Testament. Your mother or someone else could read it to you." "IT could get the Bible in braille. I do a lot of reading. My braille and my music have helped me to pass the time away, and the radio, of course." "If you would care to go to Church with me some Sunday I would be happy to take you," I offered. "There is something about worshipping 1 in a group, that is very " inspiring. "What is asked. "T belong to The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints." "Is that a new church?" "Not exactly," I explained. "Most people refer to us as Mormons." "I thought Mormons lived in Utah." your church?" she RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1954 "It's surprising how many people think that," I told her, "but we have many lovely chapels here in California. In fact, the Church is growing so fast out here that we are building a lovely temple in Los Angeles." I told her a little about our temple work, and she seemed to be impressed with the idea of having families sealed for all eternity. She was particularly interested in our temple marriage belief. "Your Church must really give you a feeling of security," she said, "knowing that you will always have your loved ones. You said you were a Relief Society teacher when you introduced yourself, but we got off the subject and I never did find out what you meant." I'm always glad to talk about Relief Society, and I guess I went into a rather long lecture, but I could see she was interested, so I was encouraged to go on. "T'd like to belong to something like that," she commented when I had finished, "but I would probably only be in the way." "No one is ever in the way at Relief Society. If you would care to attend on Tuesday, you would probably be doing the teachers a great favor." "What do you mean?" skeptical. "You might ask interesting questions and stimulate class participation. It is amazing what one new person's viewpoint can do to stimulate better teaching. She was HEN I said goodbye to Betty Bromfield that day, I felt that I had opened a new door in her lonely life where, before, so many NEW LIGHT doors had been closed to her. I had given her something different to think about. She had found a new friend, and she badly needed friends. She had memorized my telephone number, and I had assured her that if I could help her in any way with shopping or errands of any kind, I would be more than glad to assist her. THler gratitude had been pathetic in its sincerity. However, the days passed and 1 heard nothing from her. Soon school was out, and I went to spend a two weeks vacation with my mother in Ogden. T was while I was there, that I was reminded of Betty. 'The Utah School for the Blind is located in Ogden, and I happened to pass it one day while out driving. I felt guilty to think that I was enjoying a vacation, while Betty's days must be so monotonously the same. Perhaps I could send her a little gift. Someone at the school might be able to suggest some braille literature which she could enjoy. 'The teacher I talked to was very kind and helpful. She suggested a braille volume which contained the words and music to fifty of our favorite Latter-day Saint hymns. I was so glad that Betty had told me that she was a musician. 'The hymns would be new to her, and they might stimulate her interest in the gospel. I mailed her the book with a note promising to see her soon. When I saw Betty again I knew that I had hit upon the nght gift. Her sweet smile, and the fact that she recognized my voice as soon as I spoke to her, were all the reward I needed. She invited me into her living room, and said that she had 527 a surprise for me. Then she walked to the piano and played and sang "Sweet Is the Work." Her touch was beautiful, and her sweet soprano voice was rich and lovely. I knew I had never heard "Sweet Is the Work" more beautifully sung. She then explained how the blind learn their braille music by memorizing first a few measures of the right hand, and then a few of the left. When I asked her if this were not a slow, tedious process, she said, "It comes quickly when you get used to it. I find that when I memorize music this way, I never forget it." She added that she had chosen this hymn first, because I had told her how important work was in helping one to forget one's sorrow. I saw Betty quite often the rest of the summer. She would never ask me to do any favors for her, but I formed the habit of phoning her when I saw good bargains at the grocery markets and I would bring her the things she was interested in. It was hard for her mother to do the shopping after working hours. I bought a piece of material that I thought could be made into a lovely dress for Betty. When I had finished it, she was as happy as a child with a new toy. When Relief Society lessons started in the fall, we went to them together. NATURALLY, I expected her to like the literature and_ social science lessons, but I was most anxious to see how she would feel about The Book of Mormon theology lessons. I had mentioned The Book of Mormon, but she had not asked many questions about it. Like so many investigators, she found it dif- 528 ficult to believe Joseph Smith's vision. She believed that there had been no prophets after the resurrection of Christ, and this belief persisted in her mind. Sister Hill was an excellent theology teacher, however, and Betty listened to her very attentively. She asked intelligent questions, and Sister Hill encouraged her to do so. During the Christmas holidays Betty handed me a_ beautifully wrapped package and said, apologetically, "This isn't much, just some table mats I made, but I decided to do something else that I thought would please you." "T don't know what could please me more than something you made for me," I answered truthfully. "T sent to the braille library for The Book of Mormon. I love the book of Third Nephi, where it tells how Jesus came to this continent. I never gave much thought to religion, but I always did wonder why Jesus Christ never gave his teachings to more people. 'Then, too, I hear so many ladies in your testimony meetings say that they know The Book of Mormon is true, that I want to read it for myself and see if I can get some of the feeling that they do." "T am not surprised at your decision to read The Book of Mormon, Betty, and I know that if you pray with faith in your heart and really want to know the truth, the right answer will be given to you." The table mats which Betty had made with such loving care were my most valued Christmas presents -that year, and her news about reading 'The Book of Mormon was better than any Christmas present. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1954 == was a long, damp, rainy month, and Relief Society meetings were not very well attended. One blustery Tuesday I just about decided not to go to meeting. The house was warm and cozy, and there were a lot of things I could do at home. Then I realized how few outings Betty had. Since I had my car, it seemed wrong to make her miss the meeting. I have always been thankful for that change of mind, because that was the day that Sister Hudson, our faithful accompanist, was absent, and I suggested that Betty play for our meeting. 'The sisters were greatly impressed with her playing and singmE, and, at the close of the meeting, she was asked to sing a solo at Mutual the following es evening. I had not encouraged Betty to go to Mutual, because I wasn't sure how the younger people would accept her. She would belong in the Gleaners' group, and since she was not attending Sunday school and sacrament meeting, most of the girls in their early twenties would be strange to her. Of course I could take her to the special interest group, but I did not want her to feel that the young folks might not want her. I knew they would love her once they knew her, but I also knew that young folks are sometimes thoughtless where handicapped persons are concerned. As is so often the case, my worries were needless. The solo Betty chose to sing that evening was one that would have impressed the most hardhearted, or the most thoughtless person anywhere, but there were no such peo- NEW LIGHT ple in our chapel that night. When it was announced that Betty would sing and accompany herself on the piano, a spirit of hushed expectancy filled the room. As I led her to the piano, I knew that every one was co-operating with her. Usually when I am not familiar with a song, I do not take an interest in it until I have heard it several times, but this was diiterent. Betty's keen sense of hearing had taught her to appreciate good diction, and hers was faultless. Her song was called, "You'll Never Walk Alone," and the opening words, "When you walk in the storm hold your head up high, and don't be afraid of the dark," sent a thrill of admiration through every listener in that chapel. Had we been allowed to applaud, Betty would have been asked for an encore, perhaps several encores. I had told her there could be no applause, and the reverent silence in the room was more effective than applause ever could have been. She could not see the tears in the eyes of most of us, and that was just as well. She would not want tears, but she could feel our respect and admiration. I was so moved that I almost forgot to lead her from the piano to our seat. When the program ended and we were dismissed to our classes, someone touched my arm and said eagerly, "Sister Belle, will you please introduce me to this young lady? We need her in the choir." It was Don Westbrook, our new choir leader. Don was a very likable young man whose musical career had been interrupted by two years of active duty in the South Pacific. After returning home, he 529 had started studying again, and was called on a mission from which he had only recently returned. ETTY hesitated about accepting Don's invitation because she was afraid she could not learn the songs quickly enough. "With a memory like yours and the talent you have, you can't miss," he told her. "Anyway," he added, "if you need any private coaching, I can help you and help myself at the same time. The experience is just what I need." "That would be wonderful." Betty was delighted. Then the smile left her face. "Oh, but I'm not a member of your Church. Perhaps I shouldn't." "All the better," laughed Don, "I can work on my music and also go on with my missionary work. If you join the choir you'll have to attend sacrament meeting, and in that way you'll just naturally take an interest in the gospel." Don's prediction came true; Betty did take an interest in the gospel. My friends say I am responsible for this, but I give all the credit to Don. He was young and enthusiastic and his experience in the service and in the mission field, gave him the sympathetic understanding that Betty needed so badly. By the time December came around again, Betty had her twenty-fourth birthday, and on that day, she was baptized into the Church. Don baptized her, and the love that glowed in their faces was beautiful to sce. [XN the year that followed, Betty went around in a dream. Don took her to Sunday School, to Mu- 530 tual, to choir practice, and to sacrament meeting. He persuaded her to go to the Church dances, and she danced beautifully. On Thanksgiving night I had gone to bed early, tired after cooking the usual large Thanksgiving dinner for a large family gathering, but I didn't mind answering the phone at eleven o'clock when I recognized Betty's excited, happy voice. "Jane, I shouldn't call you so late, but I have such a wonderful thing to be thankful for, that I had to tell you before Thanksgiving ended. Don and I are going to the temple next month to be married. Will you go with us as my guide? Oh, Jane, I've never been so happy." — RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1954 I don't remember much about the rest of that phone call, but I do remember that Betty said, "Jane, you don't realize it, but I owe everything to you. You brought new light into my life, the spiritual light of the Church, and the guiding light of Don's true love and devotion." I sat at the phone long after Betty had hung up. All thought of sleep had left me. Tears ran down my face, and I did not bother to dry them. Betty said I had brought new light into her life, but I knew that God had brought the light when he urged me to wait that April day at Betty's door, "Dear Heavenly Father," I whispered, "we both thank thee." —— ——_-— Bod Jackets Elizabeth Williamson | oe Indian of Guatemala weaves a square of material, slits a place in the center for the head to pass through, and tucks this material into the skirt. The method is so simple that it can easily be adapted for our this is called a Huipul. In Guatemala mode of living, fee example, bed jackets can be made in this Way. One yard of material, such as orlon, seersucker, silk, or most any material which is easy to launder, can be made into a comfortable and attractive bed jacket. Embroidery, or lace can be added to the neckline. Braid, There is ample freedom for the arms, and the whole garment is comfortable and easily managed for one who is in bed. Cue center Eleven inches | One yard of malerial Quilts for All the Family Cresta M. Crark, Teton, Inano, Makes QUILTS FOR HER CHILDREN AND GRANDCHILDREN INETY years old in April, mother of thirteen children, grandmother to thirty-one, and great-grandmother to sixty-seven, Mrs. Clark keeps house for one of her sons, and still does beautiful quilting for the Teton Ward Relief Society. At the age of eighteen, two important events happened in Mrs. Clark's life—she was married to Hy rum James Clark, and in that same year she began her long career as a Relief Socicty visiting teacher. She has been a widow for twenty-six years, but her loneliness has been lessened by active interest in hobbies — quiltmaking and rugmaking. She has made and quilted a quilt for every one of her daughters and daughters-in-law, a quilt for every grandson, and a set of blocks for every granddaughter. The double wedding ring pattern is Mrs. Clark's favorite design, but she loves to make her own patterns and to experiment with color combinations and quilting patterns. Mrs. Clark has lived in Teton City, Idaho, since 1889, and in addition to her Relief Society activities and other Church work, she served for many years as a counselor in Primary, and has been a guide and an inspiration to three generations of people in the Teton country. Page 531 The Falling Shackles CHAPTER 3 Margery S. Stewart Synopsis: The Tobler family, who are members of the Church from Europe, arrive in Salt Lake City, and, through the help of Mamma Tobler's cousin Frederick, find a home. Papa Tobler, who has been a doctor, finds employment in a factory. Mamma Tobler quickly makes the old-fashioned house into a home, and Karen, the younger daughter, starts to school, where she finds many problems of adjustment. Phillip, the young son, in exploring the neighborhood, becomes lost, and Maria, the seventeen-year-old daughter, finds her brother in a drugstore. There Maria becomes acquainted with Timothy Allred, whose sick father owns the store. Maria is given work by Timothy in the. Store. With Papa. For three nights now he had refused to eat. For three nights Maria had heard him going downstairs and then the sound of his pacing feet going back and forth in the dining room below. This afternoon Maria heard Mamma ask him what was wrong. Papa laughed. "Wrong? Nothing is wrong. All is well. It is a little new still, the big plant. 'There are so many men." "But the work?" Mamma_persisted. "Do you like it?" Maria saw the tightening of her father's mouth, the sharp lines that sprang suddenly above his eyes. "Is good work... It pays fairly well. I told Karen she could buy her guitar today." So that was why Karen was not yet home from school. Maria hurried through the pressing of her uniform. She liked to keep them Page 532 SS wh Pape. Was very wrong spotless and crisp. She liked the swift approval in Timothy's eyes. Mamma was peeling apples for strudel. She would not leave Papa alone. "But I worry, Chris. 'There is something very wrong with you. How is it you cannot sleep?" Papa winked at Maria. "All this sleeping every night. It gets so monotonous. Now I like my life to have a little flavor." "Oh... Oh...!" Mamma rose in disgust and went to her cupboards. "I wish I did have someone to talk to besides you. You are so unsatisfactory." "The neighbors?" ventured Maria. Her mother shrugged. "They all say 'how do you do.' But not yet do they come in to tell me of themselves." Papa looked over his glasses. "You mean you have only your own problems to worry you? What tragedy!" But Maria saw that for all his teasing he was anxious about Mamma. Maria knew he was remembering all the people who had been in Mamma's life in the old country. All those who had huddled against her in the bitter days, taking coinfort from her undaunted spirit, fire from her deep faith. Maria hurried faster with her ironing. "Walk part way with me, will you, Papa?" "Well, now," said Papa, twinkling in pleasure, "that is a wonderful invitation to be asked to walk with a young pretty girl. Mamma, you won't be jealous?" THE FALLING SHACKLES Mamma looked up from the floured board. Maria squirmed unde: her searching, dark eyes. "No, I will not be jealous. I think you have few times more to walk with Maria. I think, soon, someone else will walk with her." "Mamma!" cried Maria. "Why are you so astonished, Maria? Is like flowers coming out on the trees." Mammia's hands gestured for words.... "Is like Phillip coming down with measles." "Ts inevitable she means," said Papa. He looked at Maria thoughtfully, but the twinkle came back to his eyes. "It will be Henry, the grocer, perhaps. He is a nice, fat, prosperous looking man. Maybe he will give us wholesale on round steak." "Oh, Papa!" But Maria could not help laughing at the thought of the bald, good-natured Mr. Henry coming to walk with her. But when they started the walk to the drugstore, Papa fell into one of the deep silences. Maria, watching him out of the corner of her eye, saw the muscle twitching in his cheek, the tense, narrowing of his eyes. He walked with his head bent and his hands locked behind him. "IT wish you would tell me, Papa, maybe I could help." "No... No." A terrible thought smote Maria. It stopped her short on the street. She felt suffocated. "Papa?" "Yes, Maria?" She touched his sleeve timidly. "You are sick. You are very sick. I know that is it. It is! It is!" She began to cry, like a very small child, sobs that shook her. The salt poured into her mouth. 533 Oh, no, no, no," cried Papa. He put his arms about her. "My dearest child, you must not believe such a thing. Is not a sickness of my body.... Believe me, Maria. It is.... Oh, Maria, Felix Dracken is here... Where I work. He is here in America." "Felix Dracken!" whispered Maria. She looked into her father's eyes. She felt as if they were standing on a far corner, the shattered buildings showing sky through holes gaping like wounds. 'The whispering of terror within her roared up to a great wind of torment. "Papa.... Apa..." Her father nodded. "I work beside him... Every day. I watch his hands. I see his shoes when I look down, so close he is to me. I smell him, and it is to me like the smell of death." "Does he speak? Does he dare to speak to you, Papa?" Her father rubbed his face as though something soft and repulsive had brushed against it. "Yes, he speaks. He tries to speak. He is sick, he says, his heart. I can well believe it. He looks a very sick man. Angina, I think." Anger flamed in Maria. "How dare he speak to you? How dare he, after what he did? It was his lies that sent you to the prison camp. He said you were a traitor to them. He spied on us day and night. He is the one who brought it all about. Remember his wife and his daughter, Katrina? 'They were so proud and safe, not hunted like we were, not afraid. They were in... With the high ups." "T know," he said. His face had gone very white in the darkness. "That is the thing I fight against all 534 day long, the hate, the terrible hate that burns me until I cannot stand myself. But if I go away from ihe plant, he shall have injured me one more time, and that I will not endure." GHE clung to his arin. "How can you help hating him? I do." Her father said slowly, "Yes, I have known hatred, and it may be that I have fostered it these years, because now it is like a beast within me. TI had not thought I could hold such bitterness, such rage." He spoke sadly. "Oh, Papa," Maria held him close.. "I thought it was finished when we left there. I thought here, where there was no boundary line or sentries, or ruined streets, that it would all be over." Papa patted her back. "As did I," he said wearily. "But now I wonder. I have not had such an emotion before. I have seen its eitects in other men. I think day and night of ways to injure him... Get him to go. After all, why should I suffer more?" Maria scrubbed her eyes. She felt weak and ill. "But even in the camp Mamma would not let us_ hate. 'Pity them, pity them,' she always said." He turned away. "Yes, yes, I know. But how does a man cast a lion out of his breast?" He held Maria again in his arms, kissed her. "T go home now. We do not tell Mamma." "No... I will not say a word. Good night." She went wearily on to the store. All the brightness was gone out of her. 'The shadows of the barbed wire seemed to stretch over her again. Timothy Allred looked up anxRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1954 iously from the fountain. "Vhank goodness, you're here. I thought you were never coming. I've been dishing up banana splits until the sight of them makes me green. It looks like every boy in the neighborhood has a new girl." He stopped short. "Hey, what's up? You've been crying." Maria became very brisk. "It was the wind. It blew against my eyes. You know I cry then." Timothy went to the door and opened it. "Hmm." Maria blushed. "It was an eyelash then." "An eyelash?" he clucked his tongue. "They can be fatal. I know many a good man that has been downed by an eyelash. Come, let me look." Maria hastened behind the counter and tied on her pink apron. "All these dishes!" "Gosh, I forgot." He was clumsily contrite. "Peter was away, and I got a hurry call for drugs for Mrs. McKensie, she's very ill, you know. Flu. By the way did you see Skinny Ellis on your way here? I sent for him to deliver the stuff. Jimmy is away." "You mean Mrs. McKensie is ill? The one across the street from my house? 'The one who dislikes cats." "Don't know about the cats. She really has a heart of gold, Mrs. McKensie has, she's just hard to know. Understand she's _ pretty sick." Maria held out her hand. "Would you let me deliver it? It would only take a moment. I have a special reason for asking." "But that isn't your work." "This is special," Maria pleaded, whipping off her apron. "I shall be only a few moments." THE FALLING SHACKLES ARIA hurried back along the lilac-scented streets. She found Mamma sitting disconsolately upon the front porch rocker. "Papa took Phillip for an ice cream cone, Karen is upstairs with her guitar. Nothing for me to do." Maria held out the little blue, wrapped package. "Is for Mrs. MckKensie," she nodded toward the house across the street. "Mr. Allred says she's very sick. I... I hate to deliver this, because I just can't afford to get the flu." Mamma's disapproval was immediate and vocal. "Afraid of a germ! 'Tish! Here, give it to me. I am not afraid of a poor, sick wom- »? An. Maria held her breath while her mother marched across the street, knocked upon the door. It opened almost at once and Mamma went firmly in. Maria laughed softly and sped back to the drugstore. It was a spoon of Mamma's own tonic. "If your troubles are too big," she was fond of saying, "help your neighbor for awhile, when you go back to your own problem it will be half the size.' The drugstore was __ glittering, when Maria returned, with a slim, beautiful girl, who sat at the counter beside the dazzled and desperateeyed Timothy. The girl was dark, with close-cropped hair, Mediterranean blue eyes, and a gray suit whose simple, expensive lines made Maria feel suddenly three inches shorter and twenty pounds heavier. She hesitated. Timothy looked up and saw her and smiled in welcome. "Come over and meet the girl I'm going to marty one of these days." He put his en hands. 535 arm around the girl, "This is Maria Tobler; and this is Lisa Ballantine." "How do you do," murmured Maria, wondering at the sudden grayness of the atmosphere. "How do you do," said Lisa with emphasis. "I've been dying to meet you. In fact, you're the reason I'm here. All Tim talks of these days is your influence on his customers." "Dent tell her' Timothy warned. "She will ask for a raise. He waved his arm. "Does the place bear any resemblance to the dusty emporium of a month ago?" "It does not," Lisa agreed, taking his arm. Timothy nodded his head toward Maria. "Every day since she came she's thought up a new angle for a display, or a new arrangement for stock, or a new angle on the counter. It's kept us all hopping." Maria went behind the counter and began to wash dishes with leadShe had never noticed before how young Timothy Allred was for all his twenty-three years. He needs someone to help him, she thought, and looked at Lisa Ballantine. Could she help him through the fires that forged a personality into character? "When does your father plan to come back?" Lisa was asking. "Another month, the doctor says. Dad insists it will be sooner." Lisa sipped angrily on her straw. "It certainly is taking him forever and a day. Oh, darling," she cried, as 'Timothy drew away, "I don't mean to sound pettish, but here it is, the beginning of the last quarter, and you are no nearer to school than the first. How long will it all drag on?" 536 ARIA saw Timothy's frown. He pushed back the stubborn hair from his forehead. "Oh, come now, Lisa. It hasn't been so long. After all the world isn't going to arrange itself for our benefit. We'll just have to fit into its plans." He pulled her ear. "Unless you'd consent to be married to an old drugstore keeper, in which case...." She pushed his hand away. "No, If I can't have it the way I want it, there won't be any wedding at all." She turned to him. "Darling, we're quarreling." "I know," Timothy said. "We always do when we get on the subject of our future." "But you want to be a lawyer, don't you? Just look at the fields that would be opened to you. What is there here for you, this grimy store on this grimy street?" He put his fingers over her lips. "Just in case you were intending to say, 'these grimy people.' They're wonderful. I like them better every day." Maria saw the muscles ridge along his jaw. Lisa caught his hand. "You big, stubborn goon! If I didn't love you so much... If I didn't see our future so clearly, I'd never see you again. But, darling, I do see it, and there isn't a thing on this street that has a part in it." She stood up. "Come along, darling, take me home." They went away and Maria hurried to straighten the counters before the new crowds should come. She had grown accustomed to the laughter, now, of the young people, to their teasing and their horseplay. But when the young boys asked to take her home, she shrank away, too shy and unsure of herself to risk their company. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1954 They mistook her diffidence for disdain. "I'm not a child," protested one, indignantly. "I'm the same age as you, seventeen. You don't have to put on airs with me." "But I am an old seventeen," Maria said, half in jest, half in earnest. She smiled at his dark, blunt young face. I should be happy, she thought, that they think me pretty. That they want to go out with me. But I do not care at all. She saw the popular girls come in surrounded by their swains and felt no slightest envy. I think I would rather have one that I truly liked and no others at all. She could not understand Karen's obsession with popularity, how she rated girls and boys by how many of the opposite sex grouped around them. Maria thought it seemed much work for little pleasure. "T have Dad's new car," said. "I'll run you home." "Tt is too late," Maria said quickly. "Tt will be ten o'clock." The young man finished his malt gloomily, "And besides everybody knows you're in love with Tim." Maria's hand flew to her mouth. "Oh, no! How could they? He is almost married." Glad that his shot had found so instant and tender a mark, the boy rose. "Look in the mirror, sometime, Maria, when you are looking at him. You'll see." "That will be thirty cents," said Maria briskly. She would not lift her eyes to look at him. Efficiently she set about clearing the little tables in the lull that crept through the store. "In love, indeed!" she kept saying indignantly to herself, "why he is old enough to be my. Uncle..." she finished lamely, the boy THE FALLING SHACKLES finding suddenly how small a space six years covered. HEN Timothy came slamming back, calling to her to get her coat so he could run her home, when he began to turn off the lights and hurry the closing of the store, Maria knew beyond the shadow of a doubt that it was true. She did love him. When he came in, the store became an exciting, important place; when he went away, it was a rather musty funereal place, with no charm at all. How long had she loved him? Maria thought back, ever since the day he had whipped out the pad and written the ice cream prescription for Phillip! Ever since the day he had come over and leaned his elbows on the counter and said, "Td rather talk to you than to Blackstone." Or was it the moment he had stood at the swinging doors and said, "Sometimes I feel that just staying here and making something of this store and neighborhood is the most terrifically important job I could do." Maybe it was none of these things, maybe it was only the way he moved and smiled and the slow quiet mirth that lived in him. Timothy helped her on with her coat. "I am seven kinds of a heel. You look beat, and I've been off playing hooky, leaving you to cope with the mob." Maria bent her head. "Sometimes we have to get away from things for awhile." He helped her into his battered car and went around and slid under the wheel. 'Peace, it's wonderful. Not another problem until tomorrow morning." 537 She was silent, content to be close to him for the moment, pushing away all the obstacles. She felt his eyes searching her. "Flow come, Maria, you never take advantage of the dates the boys press on you?" Maria shrugged. "Ten o'clock is too late to start on a date, Mamma says." "You make me sound like Simon Legree. I'll let you off at seventhirty any night you say." She smoothed her skirt. "I cannot be like they are, so bright and gay and happy. I cannot be a child any more." He put his hand over hers. "Maria, was there ever a chance for you to be a child?" Maria trembled under his touch. "Long, long ago I remember Mamma dressing me so beautifully for a walk in the park and Papa so proud of Karen and me... The puppet shows, the swans on the lake, and cream cakes in a little cafe." She shivered. "But it was over so quickly. Then it was only the planes and the armies and the running here and there away from it all, with Papa gone and Mamma trying to take care of us... Food impossible to find." They turned into the little street. The porch light was on, Maria saw, then Mamma was still away. She looked over to McKensie's house and saw Mamma's broad shadow crossing in an upstairs window. "You just painted your fence, didn't you?" "Yes, Papa painted it yesterday." "And the porch, too?" "It looks nice, yes?" Timothy rubbed his chin. "Can't get over the place. It really 538 looks regal. I never dreamed anybody could do anything with that pile of bricks." "Tt was fun," Maria said. "We do it all together and we enjoy it.'"" She opened the door. "I think pretty soon it looks better than Mrs. McKensie's and we even let cats in our yard, and you know how she is." Timothy threw back his head and roared. "Maria, you're _ terrific! There isn't a girl that can touch you." He was abruptly silent. MéAkA climbed out of the car. "Thank you, Mr. Allred. Don't forget to order more cream for tomorrow for the special." | Timothy looked from her to the house and back again. He leaned his arms on the wheel. "I'll bet you go to church every Sunday, Maria." She looked at him, perplexed. "To church? Of course, we all do." "Tl bet you believe everything." Maria shrank a little from the tone of his voice. It was flat, almost accusing. ""With all my heart." "T thought so." He nodded. "T'll bet you believe that America is the land of hope and freedom and every man can be President?" "But, yes, I know it...." She came closer to the car. "What are you trying to say, Mr. Allred? He bit his thumb, his eyes were still straight ahead, as if he saw something infinitely interesting just beyond. "I'll bet you believe that a person doesn't have to have his eye out for the main chance. I'll bet you believe that if a person does the best he can, right where he's standing, that the chance will come to him." | She put her hands on the car door. "I... Ido believe. Do... RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1954 do you think it is foolish of me to believe?" He looked at her quietly, all mirth gone. "I'm just beginning to realize what believing really is... A sort of ingredient." "I do not understand." "Well, if you believe that America is the finest country in the world, the land of the free, the land of opportunity, all the time-worn phrases, you're going to do something about it. Your believing is a sort of jet propulsion. If you believe in your Church with all your soul, you won't go, as I've been going, like a Zombie, all ears and senses closed. You'll be excited about it. You'll start searching for things. Do you know what I'm trying to explain?" She shook her head. "No... I do not understand at all." He laughed. "I guess I do sound a little mixed up. But it's this, I've been like a man who owned forty acres that his fathers left him. But I've never planted on my acres, or built a factory, or raised beef... I've simply owned them. Now do you see?" He got out and came around to her. "And none of these thoughts had entercd my head until the day you walked into my store and brushed down cobwebs." Maria was shaken by the joy of his nearness and the words he said and the deeper meaning beyond them. "But my coming was such a little thing...." He lifted her chin, "as little as the landing of the Pilgrim fathers... At least to me. Goodnight, little Puritan, don't let my wild probings keep you awake." "Goodnight," she whispered, and moved on clouds to the house. (Tio be concluded) [LEROM THE FIELD _[~ P= Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-T reasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1950, page 278, and the Handbook of Instructions, page 123. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES sept Pate A im Photograph submitted by Marteal W. Hendricks WEST CENTRAL STATES MISSION, GREAT FALLS DISTRICT RELIEF SOCIETY PRESENTS PAGEANT "THE VOICE OF THE PEOPLE" February 13, 1954 Front row, seated, left to right: Marilyn Gerhart, organist Rachel Robinson. Second row, seated, left to right: Evelyn Perkins; Iva Burgess; Vera Nelson; Leah Eddington; Armida Hanberg; Virginia Porter; Peggy Berthelson. Third row, standing, left to nght: Edith George; Virginia Robinson; Donna Jones; Myrle Thurber, District Counselor; Jean Simkins; Pearl Haynes; Lorena Humphrey; Thora Walston; Vilate Stott; Madge Allan; Blanche George. Fourth row, standing, left to right: Rula Adamson; Elexia Denning; Melba Wicks; Nixola Vance, chorister; Marie Vance, pianist; June Lundgren; Ina Gerhart, District Counselor; Pat Croxford, director of the pageant; Mary Hansen, District President. Fifth row, standing. Left to right: Lloyd Croxford as George Washington; Irvin Haws as Thomas Jefferson; Ron Neilsen as James Madison; George Miller as Benjamin Franklin; President Ira Christensen, narrator. Marteal W. Hendricks, President, West Central States Mission Relief Society, reports that cleven branches participated in this pageant, many of the sisters traveling a distance of 120 miles for rehearsals and for the presentation. Three hundred people attended the pageant, including the Mission President Samuel A. Hendricks and Sister Hendricks. The faith and co-operation of all who took part were greatly appreciated. Page 539 540 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1954 Photograph submitted by Mary Isabell Cassity. STAR VALLEY STAKE (WYOMING), AFTON NORTH WARD RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS Left to right: Kathleen Powell Burton, 1939-1943; Laura Hansen Stock, 1943- 1945; Velta Wright Robinson, present President; Sarah Greene Walker, 1947-1950; Margaret Barrus Allred, 1945-1947; Lois Call Hale, 1924-1939. Sister Robinson's counselors are Phyllis Robinson and Enda Linford, with Mavis Weaver as secretary-treasurer. Nellie B. Jensen is president of Star Valley Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Merna E. Marchant BURLEY STAKE (IDAHO) SINGING MOTHERS AND CHORAL READING GROUP WHO PARTICIPATED IN THE PRODUCTION OF "THE VOICE OF THE PEOPLE" Lucile H. Nielson, stake social science leader, stands at the left on the third row, ' NOTES FROM THE FIELD 541 and next to her, left to right, are Blanche Bray, stake chorister, and Edna Wardle, stake organist, who played the piano accompaniment for the production. Merna E. Marchant, President, Burley Stake Relief Society, is seated ninth from the left on the second row, and her first counselor Blanche Dayley is seated sccond from the nght in the first row; Alice Mae Earl, stake literature leader who supervised the choral reading group, is standing third from the right in the fourth row; Vera Norton, who directed the choral reading group, is seated at the right of the rostrum on the first row. The production of "The Voice of the People" was an evening performance to which the public was invited. The women of this group represent the twelve wards of Burley Stake. 'They are ward presidencies and class leaders. Sister Marchant, in commenting upon the success of this occasion, reports: "We were thrilled with the joy of presenting this production in our stake. The educators of our stake commended it highly, acclaiming it to be 'just what we needed.' " Photograph submitted by Emily S. Romish WEST POCATELLO STAKE (IDAHO), POCATELLO FIFTH WARD VISITING TEACHERS ACHIEVE A ONE HUNDRED PER CENT RECORD FOR ONE YEAR Front row, seated, left to night: Jean Henderson; Lucy Evans; Rhoda Reynolds, visiting teacher. Message leader; Maurine Hamberlin, Secretary; Ethel Henderson, First Counselor; Elsbeth Hansen, President; Bernice Bartschi, Second Counselor. Second row, standing, left to right: Velma Williamson; Janice Sheppard; Alice Harwood; Norma Nielsen; Annie Fikstad; Irene Palmer; Eva McCarty; Afton Fullmer. Third row, standing. Left to right: Ruth Tolman; Eleanor Packer; Chloie Curtis Rebecca Howe; Lucille Hancock; Annie Kinney. Fourth row, standing, left to right: Reinilda Herrmann, Luella Lloyd; Eliza Longhurst; Lillian Wilker; Evelyn Sant; Margaret 'Talbot. Back row, left to night: Mary Rupp; Maude Miner; Sarah Stanger; Alease Larsen; Gertrude Hargraves; Lola Carter; Svlvia Wilker; Amelia Bacon; Elma Shelley; June Martineau; Geneve Halpin; Anna Lusk; Melba Johnson; Thelma Foster; Alva Foote; Maude Tubbs; Irene Rust. Emily S. Romish is president of West Pocatello Stake Relief Society. 542 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1954 Photograph submitted by Ona Tuttle EMERY STAKE (UTAIT), CASTLE DALE WARD VISITING TEACHERS MAKE ONE HUNDRED PER CENT RECORD FOR THREE YEARS Front row, left to right: Alice Day, Second Counselor; Angeline Hayward; Leah Jacobs; Ethel Jefts; Ida Snow; Darthella Williams; Emma Dickson; Mildred Moffitt; Lyla Wilberg; Zepha Jensen; Luella Peterson. Second row, left to mght: Ona Tuttle, President; Myrle Albertson; Ruie Jones; Barbara Peterson; Lucille Laron; Hannah Huntington; Venice Jensen; Cora Boleen; Della Jorgenson; Avelia Lake; Einma Guymon; Myrtal Jones; Mary Rasmussen. Third row, left to right: Ione Kofford, First Counselor; Una Jensen; Mary Peterson; Mary Omen; Emeline Cox, visiting teacher message leader; Hidvig Behling; Eliza Wilberg; Anna Laura Miller; Zada Bell; Anna Bell; Naomi Wayman; Sarah Stringham; Stella Jeffs; Bly Gragerson. Surelda C. Ralphs is president of Emery Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Della W. Swensen OAKLAND STAKE (CALIFORNIA) SINGING MOTHERS FURNISH MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE ON MOTHER'S DAY, May 1954 Seated fifth from the left on the first row, guest conductor Estherella Olszowka; sixth from the left, Delia Bates, organist; extreme night in the first row, Myrtle Davidson, stake work meeting leader; second from might, first row, LaPriel Moody, stake chorister; extreme right, second row, Naomi Bodily, stake theology leader; Pearl Meine, eighth from the left, third row, First Counselor, Oakland Stake Relief Society. Della W. Swensen is president of Oakland Stake Relief Society. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 543 Photograph submitted by Gwendolyn T. Robinson AMERICAN FALLS STAKE (IDAHO) PRESENTS PAGEANT "THE VOICE OF THE PEOPLE," April 16, 1954 The pageant, which was very successful, was directed by Marie Whyte, stake social science leader, with Eleanor Thornley as chorister, and Gayle Ralphs and Madge Little at the organ and piano. Gwendolyn T. Robinson, Secretary, reports that very favorable comments were received from non-members as well as Church members, and from prominent educators living in the stake who attended the pageant Vera W. Barkdull is president of American Falls Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Martha C. —— JUAB STAKE (UTAH), NEPHI FIRST WARD VISITING TEACHERS ATTEND CONVENTION, March 16, 1954 Front row, seated, left to right: Vivian Paxman, Secretary-Treasurer; Elva Nielsen, Second Counselor; Anna Ostler, First Counselor; Mavis Hansen, President; Alligee Anderson, former president of Nephi First Ward Relief Society; Mary Scott; Celia Briggs; Sadie Reed; Ellen Jarrett; Naomi Belliston. Second row, standing, left to ght: Neta Park; Marie Butler; Fern Harmon, Ireta Park; Mayme LaVere Haynes; Eleanor Golden, Ada Jarrett; Anna Broadhead; Fae Mellor; Inez Brough. Back row, standing, left to right: Clara Wheelwright; Beth Christensen; Elnora Foote; Wanda Burridge; Deon Paxman; Denee Stephenson; Olive Cowan; Ida Sperry; Margie Steiner; Erma Greenhalgh; Lela Fowkes; Reva Morgan; Helen Mickelson. Martha C. Eagar, President, Juab Stake Relief Society, reports that the visiting teachers of Nephi First Ward Relief Society have achieved one hundred per cent visits for the past four years. 544 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1954 Bias! Submitted — M. Sateen ey EAST PHOENIX STAKE (ARIZONA) RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS Left to right: Mildred Smithson, Work Director Counselor; Verna James, Secretary-Treasurer; Katie Campbell (standing) Education Counselor, Lola M. Shumway, President. The picture was taken in the home of Sister Shumway, at the first meeting of the newly organized board of the East Phoenix Stake, May 22, 1954. =<) Photograph submitted by Della R. Hulme BEAR LAKE STAKE (IDAHO) PRESENTS "THE VOICE OF THE PEOPLE"— A DRAMATIC PRESENTATION OF THE FRAMING OF THE CONSTITUTION April 30, 1954 This pageant was remarkably successful, being presented by choral readers, soloists, readers, speakers, and the Singing Mothers. Four brethren of the stake represented NOTES FROM THE FIELD 545 Thomas Jefferson, George Washington, Benjamin Franklin, and James Madison. Erma Stock was dramatic director; Hortense Rich and Idell Matthews directed the music, and the organists were Ruby Bolton and Leanora Stucki, Millie Sprouse and Elvira Sims were in charge of costuming. Stake Relief Society President Della R. Hulme extended greetings to the audience and all repeated the "Pledge of Allegiance" to the flag. Photograph submitted by Thelma S. Buchanan SOUTHWEST INDIAN MISSION, SAWMILL BRANCH, ARIZONA, RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENCY AT ANNIVERSARY DAY CELEBRATION, March 17, 1954 Left to right: First Counselor Ida C. Carroll; President Nancy Smith; Second Counselor Ruth Bryant. Thelma S. Buchanan, President, Southwest Indian Mission Relief Society, reports that the Sawmill Branch, for the first time, celebrated Anniversary Day in 1954. The chapel was decorated in blue and gold, the Relief Society colors, and the members displayed several lovely quilts, hand-woven rugs, embroidered articles, dresses, skirts, children's clothing, beaded belts, and woven belts. The program, presented by the Lamanite people, was outstanding. President Golden R. Buchanan and Sister Buchanan explained the importance of the gospel to the Lamanites. Prizes were given to the oldest mother, Sister Nanbah Wauneka, eighty-two; to the mother with the largest family, Lydia Tsosie, mother of fifteen children; and Rita Tsosie, the youngest mother. Homemade soap was offered for sale and many beautifully prepared foods also were part of the bazaar. Dancing and games completed the evening's entertainment. 546 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1954 Photograph Courtesy The Deseret News JOHN TAYLOR HOME (AT THE RIGHT) AND "THE TIMES AND SEASONS BUILDING" (LEFT) NAUVOO, ILLINOIS NORTHERN STATES MISSION, ANNIVERSARY DAY OF RELIEF SOCIETY CELEBRATED IN NAUVOO, ILLINOIS, March 16, 1954 Nettie P. Smoot, President, Northern States Mission Relief Society, submits an informative account of a special meeting held in the John Taylor home in Nauvoo, Nlinois. The report, written by Lily Crane Haycock, is presented here in abbreviated form: "... This year, serving with my husband as missionaries in Nauvoo, and living in the home of President John Taylor, who helped to organize the Relief Society, I felt that something should be done to honor that event. There being only two members of Relief Society here, Sister Elizabeth Wood, a missionary at the Bureau of Information, and myself, I began early in January to wonder what we could do. The thought came to me to invite the ladies of the Home Bureau to hold their March meeting here. This they consented to do and the date was set for Tuesday, March 16th. On that day thirty-five fine women, only two of whom were Latter-day Saints, met here and spent a very enjoyable afternoon. Sister Wood and I each gave a short talk, and I gave each woman a pamphlet explaining what our Relief Society is, and a small booklet called Temple Square in Salt Lake City, which contains one paragraph about Relief Society. I also showed them a picture found in A Centenary of Relief Society, of the Prophet Joseph Smith's store. They seemed to enjoy every minute, and I felt to thank our Heavenly Father for helping me. Next morning we were surprised and delighted by a visit from President I. A. Smoot and Sister Smoot, accompanied by Elder Walter A. Chamberlain and wife, of the Northern States Mission, Elder Oscar Wood and wife of the Bureau of Information and Elder Paul Newmyer and wife, guides at the old jail in Carthage, soon arrived, and with President Vernon Flake of the Nauvoo District, we held a wonderful conference in Brother Taylor's old parlor. Sister Smoot expressed the opinion that was the first Relief Society gathering held in Nauvoo in the John 'Taylor home on March 17th by Utah saints. She recalled having been here twenty-one years ago when the Relief Society Monument was unveiled, and was delighted to be here again on the 112th anniversary of the organization...." Sheology—Characters and Teachings of The Book of Mormon Lesson 26—Missionary Activities of Ammon Elder Leland H. Monson (Text: The Book of Mormon: Alma, chapters 17-20; 21:18-23) For Tuesday, November 2, 1954 Objective: To show the change which takes place in the souls of men when the light of the gospel enters. Departure of Sons of Mosiah URING the period when the Church organization was growing strong throughout the land of Zarahemla and in the surrounding territory, the four sons of Mosiah engaged in their great missionary activity among the Lamanites in the land of } Nephi. These four stalwart missionaries, Ammon, Aaron, Omner, and Himni were faithful exponents of the gospel. So great was their interest in the eternal welfare of their brethren, the Lamanites, that each, in turn, had renounced the honor of serving as king over the Nephites in order that he might preach the gospel to the Lamanites. 'They had faith in God, and they wanted to share it with others. The results of their labors reveal that they were men who_ had. Waxed strong in the knowledge of the truth; for they were men of a sound understanding and they had searched the scriptures diligently, that they might know the word of God" (Alma 17:2). They had gained a basic understanding of the Lamanites, and they were submissive to divine guidance as they felt the hand of the Lord directing them. In addition:. They had given themselves to much prayer, and fasting; therefore they had the spirit of prophecy, and the spirit of revelation, and when they taught, they taught with power and authority of God (Alma ie Wi It was not easy to serve as a missionary among the people who had been taught from childhood to hate their neighbors, a people who were idle, idolatrous, greedy, and bloodthirsty. They suffered: Page 547 548. Much, both in body and in mind, such as hunger, thirst and fatigue, and also much labor in the spirit (Alma 17:5). They had left the land of Zarahemla in the first year of the reign of the judges, when Alma the son was serving as high priest and chief judge. They took with them their swords, spears, bows, arrows, and slings, not that they intended to use them in hand to hand combat with the Lamanies, for their mission was one of love, but that they needed them to provide themselves with food in the wilderness. These four sons of Mosiah selected a group to accompany them to the land of Nephi. They traveled many days in the wilderness, during which time:... They fasted much and prayed much that the Lord would grant unto them a portion of his Spirit to go with them, and abide with them, that they might be an instrument in the hands of God to bring, if it were possible, their brethren, the Lamanites, to the knowledge of the truth, to the knowledge of the baseness of the traditions of their fathers, which were not correct (Alma 17:9). The Lord did visit them with his spirit, and said unto them: "Be comforted" (Alma 17:10). Later Ammon tells us: Now when our hearts were depressed, and we were about to turn back, behold, the Lord comforted us, and said: Go amongst thy brethren, the Lamanites, and bear with patience thine afflictions, and I will give unto you success (Alma 26:27). Arriving in the borders of the land of the Lamanites, they separated from one another, each one trusting in the Lord to take him where he should go. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1954 Ammon Serves King Lamoni Ammon went to the land of Ishmael, which was "... Called after the sons of Ishmael, who also became Lamanites" (Alma 17:19). As Ammon entered this land, he was taken by the Lamanites and bound as was their custom with all Nephites who came into their territory. Ammon was then taken before the king, Lamoni. The king asked Ammon if he desired to live among the Lamanites and Ammon said "... Yea, I desire to dwell among this people for a time; yea, and perhaps until the day I die" (Alma 17:23). King Lamoni was pleased with Ammon and suggested to him that he become his son-in-law. But Ammon tactfully refused, suggesting that he be made a servant to the king. This request was granted. Ammon was assigned with other servants to guard the flocks of Lamoni. After three days while he and the other servants were driving the king's flocks to the waters of Sebus, Lamanite troublemakers scattered the flocks. The king's servants were frightened, for they knew that King Lamoni had formerly killed servants when the flocks had been scattered. The servants began to weep; but Ammon rejoiced, for he realized that he would have an opportunity to win favor with the king and his fellow servants by restoring the flocks to the king. By following the directions of Ammon, the servants successfully rounded up the scattered flock; but the wicked Lamanites stood ready to scatter them a second time. Ammon instructed the other servants to encircle the flocks while he contended with the robbers. Standing alone LESSON DEPARTMENT he cast stones at them with his sling. So accurate was Ammon's aim that he slew six of these Laman. Ites. They had returned stone for stone, but God protected his servant against their stones. 'The Lord had promised Mosiah that he would deliver his sons out of the hands of the Lamanites. Finding that they could not hit Ammon with their stones, they rushed upon him with clubs. With his sword, Ammon cut off the arms that were lifted against him, "... But he slew none save it were their leader with his sword,..." They were so astonished that they fled before him. After driving these men away, he returned to the waters of Sebus, and the servants drove the flocks to the pastures of the king. They then carried the arms Ammon had severed from the men unto the king as evidence of Ammon's power. Lamoni Becomes Converted The servants reported to the king all that had happened. He was impressed with Ammon's faithfulness as a servant, but was more deeply affected by his power. King Lamoni and his followers believed in a Great Spirit who had created the world. Lamoni, hearing of the spectacular feats of Ammon, and believing the reports, drew the conclusion that Ammon was the Great Spirit. Fear crept into Lamoni's heart, for he realized that he had done wrong formerly by slaying his servants. The king inquired concerning the whereabouts of Ammon. He was informed that Ammon was preparing the horses and chariots for Lamoni's trip to the land of Nephi. It was then that the king remem- 549 bered that he had given his servants that assignment, for he was planning to attend a feast that was to be given by his father, who was king over all the Lamanites, and who had his headquarters in the land of Nephi. King Lamoni wanted to see this faithful servant, but he was afraid, for he still thought he must be the Great Spirit. After Ammon had made ready the horses and chariots for their journey to the land of Nephi, he went to the king. Quickly observing a change in the king's countenance, "... He was about to return out of his presence" (Alma 18:12). One of the king's servants, knowing the desire of the king, detained Ammon, saying, "... Rabbanah, the king desireth thee to stay' (Alma 18:13). Turning himself "... Unto the king," Ammon asked, "What wilt thou that I should do for thee, O king?" (Alma 18:14). Twice Ammon asked the question and received no answer. Being filled with the Spirit, Ammon perceived the thoughts of the king, and asked:... Is it because thou hast heard that I defended thy servants and thy flocks, and slew seven of their brethren with the sling and with the sword, and smote off the arms of others, in order to defend thy flocks and thy servants; behold, is it this that causeth thy marvelings? (Alma 18:16) Discerning that Ammon had power to read his thoughts, King Lamoni questioned him: "... Who art thou? Art thou that Great Spirit, who knows all things?" (Alma 18:18) Ammon answered "I am not." The king promised Ammon whatsoever he desired. In reply Ammon asked, "... Wilt thou 590 hearken unto my words, if I tell thee by what power I do these things? And this is the thing that I desire of thee' (Alma 18:22). Ammon then identified Lamoni's Great Spirit with God. Lamoni believed in the words of Ammon and asked, "... Art thou sent from God?" (Alma 18-33) Ammon told Lamoni, "... I am called by his Holy Spirit to teach these things unto this people, that they may be brought to a knowledge of that which is just and true" (Alma 18:34). Observing the receptive mind of Lamoni, Ammon then started with the story of the creation and instructed him concerning the fall and the redemption, and the many prophecies which appeared on the brass plates and on the records kept by the Nephites. The king believed the things which Ammon told him, including the account of the rebellion of Laman, Lemuel, and the sons of Ishmael. He prayed to the Lord for mercy, and then "... Fell unto the earth, as if he were dead" (Alma 18:42). His servants carried him to his wife. He lay on the bed for two nights and two days as if he were dead:.. And his wife, and his sons, and his daughters mourned over him, after the manner of the Lamanites, greatly lamenting his loss (Alma 18:43). Before taking his body to the sepulchre, the queen, who had heard of Ammon's power, sent for him. When Ammon came she told him of her husband's condition. Ammon knew that he was not dead:... He knew that king Lamoni was under the power of God; he knew that the dark veil of unbelief was being cast away from his mind, and the light which RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1954 did light up his mind, which was the light of the glory of God... Yea, this light had infused such joy into his soul, the cloud of darkness having been dispelled, and that the light of everlasting life was lit up in his soul, yea, he knew that this had overcome his natural frame, and he was carried away in God (Alma 19:6). The Queen's Great Faith When Ammon saw the body of the king, he told the queen that the king would arise on the following day. The queen expressed complete faith in what Ammon told her, and Ammon said:... Blessed art thou because of thy exceeding faith; I say unto thee, woman, there has not been such great faith among all the people of the Nephites (Alma 19:10). At the appointed time, the king arose. He told those present:... Behold, I have seen my Redeemer; and he shall come forth, and be born of a woman, and he shall redeem all mankind who believe on his name. Now, when he had said these words, his heart was swollen within him, and he sunk again with joy; and the queen also sunk down, being overpowered by the Spirit (Alma 19:13). Ammon "... Fell upon his knees, and began to pour out his soul in prayer and thanksgiving to God... And he was also overpowered with joy..." (Alma 19:14). Astounded by what had happened, the servants also began to pray and all except a Lamanitish woman, Abish, fell down and were overpowered by the Spirit. Abish had been converted previously and knew it was the power of God which had produced this prostration of many people, supposing that if others saw the scene LESSON DEPARTMENT and knew the circumstances that they also would accept the gospel. Abish went from house to house and soon had a multitude assembled. Most of the assemblage, however, took a different attitude, feeling that the king by helping Ammon had brought evil to his people; others felt that the evil resulted from the king's having slain his servants. One of those present tried to kill Ammon with a sword, but he fell dead. 'The people marvelled and were afraid. Many said Ammon was the Great Spirit, and others that he was sent by him, but others said, ".. He was a monster, who had been sent from the Nephites to torment them" (Alma 19:26). When the contention became sharp as they tried to determine the cause of what they had seen, Abish took the queen by the hand and she arose and cried in a loud voice:... O blessed Jesus, who has saved me from an awful hell! O blessed God, have mercy on this people! (Alma 19:29). The queen took the king by the hand, and he stood before her. He, seeing the contention, rebuked the people and taught them the words he had heard from Ammon. "As many as heard his words believed... But there were many... Who would not hear his words; therefore they went their way" (Alma 19:31-32). Soon Ammon arose, and then the others. All bore testimony that their hearts had been changed and said they no longer had any desire to do evil. As a result of these miraculous happenings, Ammon was able to establish a Church among them, for 551 many believed and were baptized. It was in this manner that the work of the Lord began among the Lamanites. Ammon and Lamoni Go to Middoni After the Church had been established in the land of Ishmael, King Lamoni wanted to introduce Ammon to his father, who was king over the land of Nephi. Lamoni asked Ammon to accompany him to that land. Ammon refused, saying that the Lord had commanded him to go to Middoni to secure the release of 'Aaron, Muloki, and Ammah from prison. Ammon invited Lamoni to go to Middoni with him. Lamoni agreed, saying that he could help, for Antiomno, king of that land, was his friend. As Ammon and Lamoni were traveling, they met the father of Lamoni. When he saw his son with a Nephite, he was angry and reproved Lamoni for traveling with the son of a liar, for so he called the Nephites. And when he learned that his son and Ammon were going to secure the release of Nephites from prison, he chided his son saying:... He [Nephi] robbed our fathers; and now his children are also come amongst us that they may, by their cunning and their lyings, deceive us, that they again may rob us of our property (Alma 20:13). The father of Lamoni commanded his son to kill Ammon. This Lamoni refused to do. It angered his father, who unsheathed his own sword to kill his son. Ammon interceded and overpowered him. Knowing that he was in Ammon's power, Lamoni's father agreed to re- 552 lease the missionaries, and to allow Lamoni to continue as king of the land of Ishmael and promised to govern him no more. Ammon and Lamoni then went to Middoni and freed the missionaries. 'I'o see their condition aroused pity in Ammon's heart, for they were naked and their skin was raw from having been bound. They were also emaciated from lack of food and water and from other afflictions, but were patient in their sufferings. Ammon and Lamoni returned from Middoni to the land of Ishmael, where King Lamoni helped Ammon to spread the gospel. 'They RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1954 built synagogues and encouraged the people to meet together often to worship God. Lamoni told them they were a free people, free from the oppressions of his father, the king, and free to worship the Lord. The people were zealous in keeping the commandments. Questions on the Lesson 1. Why was Ammon willing to. Sacrifice so much to build the kingdom of God among the Lamanites? 2. What are some faith-promoting incidents in the life of Ammon? 3. How did the converted Lamanites reveal their faith? Visiting Seacher ITlessages Book of Mormon Gems of Truth Lesson 26—"But If Ye Will Nourish the Word, Yea, Nourish the Tree as It Beginneth to Grow, by Your Faith With Great Diligence, and With Patience, Looking Forward to the Fruit Thereof, It Shall Take Root; and Behold It Shall Be a Tree Springing Up Unto Everlasting Life" (Alma 32:41). Leone O. Jacobs For Tuesday, November 2, 1954 Objective: gain life everlasting. HAT a beautiful parable is here given us — beautiful in language and glorious in context! Truly there is no more important message to be presented to mankind. Alma describes the requirements for growth of the good seed into the tree and shows how the "word" also must be nourished if the rich harvest is to be garnered and enjoyed. It is an apt comparison, as at every point it corresponds to the growing To point out that faith and great diligence are required in order to process of the "word of God" in one's life. Alma urges us to make the experiment by planting the seed in our hearts, to see if it will swell and grow within us. If it does begin to swell and sprout or, in other words, if it begins to enlarge the soul and enlighten the understanding, then: we can be sure that that seed is good, for those are the signs. When the seed is proved to be good, as it grows LESSON DEPARTMENT into a tree it must be nourished with great care, that it may take root and be strong enough to put forth branches and bear fruit. 'laking root is very necessary, for unless a tree is firmly anchored, the winds and the storms may uproot it. When the fruit has finally ripened, it will be all that one could desire. Alma promises that the fruit is most precious, and is sweet above all that is sweet, and one may feast upon it until he is filled and shall never more hunger nor thirst. Likewise, unless the word of God is firmly anchored in one's life, the adversities which beset mankind and the buffetings of Satan may shake it from its moorings. 'The tree, and likewise the "word" must not be neglected for any length of time, for no matter how promising a start is made, it must have continual nourishment and care or it will wither and die. It must be nourished 553 by "faith with great diligence, and with patience." Some people receive the word of God, but do not long continue its care or nourish it to maturity. 'They may be turned aside by criticism or prejudice or by worldly pursuits until their interest wanes. 'There are those who show initial interest in the "word" and then, as time passes, they do not put forth much effort in study and practicing the "word" to give it a fair trial. Finally they say, "It does not impress us. We are no longer interested." The best things do not come to fruition without effort and care. We must nourish the word of God tenderly and continually, with faith, with study, with prayer, and with good works, as long as we shall live. Surely life eternal is worth working for! Life everlasting is the prize— the highest reward that can come to man. WVork I) lecting—Selection, Care, and Use of Household Equipment (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 2—Sewing Machines Rhea H. Gardner For Tuesday, November 9, 1954 LONG with the cookstove and washer, the sewing machine has long been considered an indispensable piece of household equipment. It is a symbol of industry, the independence of women and their desire to create lovely things. Sewing machines of reputable manufacturers, when given proper care, should last for many years. The purchase of one should come only after careful consideration and planning. As with all other kinds of household equipment, the prospective buyer would do well to acquaint herself with the performance of sev- 554 eral different makes of machines before deciding to buy a_ particular model. Compare prices, performance, guarantees, and available repair services. Home _ tests are among the most reliable sources of information regarding the performance of a piece of equipment. One of the first points to decide on is the amount and kind of sewing for which the machine will be used. Often one can find exactly what suits her needs and circumstances best in the used sewing machine market. Before buying an old make, however, one should make sure that parts are available, should they be needed. Yo handle a wider range in stitch styles, and for such specialty sewing as decorative stitching and embroidery work, the more versatile sewing needle or zig-zag machines have quite recently come into use. However, machines that make only a good straight seam are often all that a seamstress, who has little use for machine-made effects, needs. The importance of buying from reputable manufacturers and dealers who will stand back of their sales cannot be overemphasized. The fact that a particular make can be paid for on a long-time payment plan, should be the least excuse for buying it. Credit is expensive, whether or not it is itemized as such. Only if the machine can begin to start paying for itself, should a long-time payment plan ever be given consideration. There is also the choice between a cabinet or a portable machine. A cabinet with well supported leaves and sturdy legs gives good sewing support and is ready for instant use. A simply made but sturdily conRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1954 structed cabinet, without drawers, may actually harmonize better with other room furnishings than would a more costly one with fancy decoration. Storage drawers for sewing supplies can usually be built into the sewing area of your home much less expensively than a cabinet with drawers. Where space is limited, and budget is overtaxed, the portable model will likely serve your needs best. Most companies have a good turn-in plan, if later one decides to purchase a cabinet model. Every machine, regardless of make, model, or age deserves good care. 'Il'wo main causes of machine failure are accumulations of dirt and lint, and lack of oil. Frequent use of a one-inch paint brush around the moving parts of your machine, will do much to ward off trouble later. Use it during your sewing day to remove lint and dust as it accumulates around the working parts. Both are damaging to the fine mechanism of your machine. Moisture from your breath as you attempt to blow away the lint accumulation, may actually damage the parts affected more than would the hnt itself. Sewing machines require high quality oil with a base that evaporates as the oil is used, whereas most other machines about the home require oil with a non-evaporating base. 'The frequency of oiling depends on the kind of materials being sewed, speed of the machine, and hours of actual sewing. 'The general rule is to oil after every eight hours of sewing. Use oil sparingly, but do not neglect a part that needs it. It is not the amount of oil used, but the timeliness of the application that is important. 'The LESSON DEPARTMENT instruction book that comes with the machine contains valuable information regarding its use and care, Refer to it when making all minor adjustments, oiling, and doing general cleaning. It may save you many dollars. 555 Thoughts for Discussion 1. Did you "buy" your sewing machine or was it "'sold" to you? 2. Why did you buy the machine you did? What advice would you give a prospective buyer? 3. Have discussion by class members, Jeraaire— Literature of England Lesson 42—John Ruskin (1819-1900) Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: The Literature of England, I, Woods, Watts, Anderson, pp. 501-527) For Tuesday, November 16, 1954 Objective: To relate Ruskin's artistic and moral opinions to the problems of Victorian England which so aroused him to action. E all remember the charming fairy tale of the "King of the Golden River," with his hair all of spun gold, his twinkling eyes, and his coppery nose, and how he helped the kindhearted Gluck and turned the wicked brothers into black stones. The Englishman who wrote this story, John Ruskin, was not unlike the kind Gluck himself, for when his father had left him a great fortune he gave almost all of it away to found art museums and charitable institutions. The story ends, "And Gluck went and dwelt in the valley, and the poor were never driven from his door; so that his barns became full of corn, and his house of treasure." 'Though Ruskin never got back his treasure, like Gluck, he certainly was never in want, for his writings on art and architecture, and, later, social reform were very profitable to him. In every generation some few men have stood alone to define and defy the dominant evils of their time; but viewed in the perspective of time, how small is the handful of heroes who, regardless of consequence, have fought for principles, devoted their lives to truth, given all their means and life energy in their attempt to improve man's relationship to himself and his fellows. No Victorian talked more or wrote more or did more to bring England from her then disgraceful status more nearly to where she should be than did Ruskin. In that "Age of the Ugly," he zealously preached the gospel of beauty and goodness. Few have hoped more nobly than he, and fought more valiantly against the selfish complacency of "'a diseased society." John Ruskin will always be remembered as one of the most loyal guardians of the English conscience, and in time of wealth and power, one who arose to defend and revitalize the great moral principles which lie securely beneath England as hex great foundation-stone. William J. Long says of him: "We are dealing with a great and good man who is himself 556 Copyright 1908 JOHN RUSKIN 1819 - 1900 A Perry Picture more inspiring than any of his books." Ruskin was born in 1819, the only child of wealthy Scotch parents who maintained a beautiful estate outside London, a home justly famous for its hospitality and culture. Margaret, his handsome mother, was a devout believer in the rigid Calvinistic faith. Unsparing both herself and others, she knew the way her child should go. Because she feared for his moral and physical safety, she never allowed him any toys or playmates; he was educated at home by his parents. Each year, with alternate verses being read by his mother, he read every word in the Bible, his mother:.. Watching, at first, every intonation of my voice, and correcting the false ones, till she made me understand the verse, if within my reach, rightly and energetically.... If a name was hard, the better the exercise in pronunciation—if a chapRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1954 ter was tiresome, the better lesson in patience—if loathsome, the better lesson in faith that there was some use in its being so outspoken. In later years he spoke of his Bible training as "the one essential part of my education." But while his mother was his moral, spiritual disciplinarian, it was his father who was his guide in the realms of beauty and the imagination. Consider what Ruskin later called their "sweetly selfish manner of living," in which young John was completely shielded from grief, strife, ugliness, or pain, with only himself to love: I never heard my father's or mother's voice once raised in any question with each other; nor saw an angry, or even slightly hurt or offended glance in the eyes of either. I had never heard a servant scolded, nor even suddenly, passionately, or im any severe manner, blamed. I had never seen a moment's trouble or disorder in any household matter; nor anything whatever either done in a_ hurry, or undone in due time. I had no conception of such a feeling as anxiety.... I had never done any wrong that I knew om... And how they lived! His father came home promptly at four-thirty, and dined while he discussed affairs with his dutifully attending wife. Promptly at six, young John was admitted into the presence of his parents. 'Then: In summer time we were all in the garden as long as the day lasted; tea under the white-heart cherry tree; or in winter and rough weather, at six o'clock in the drawing-room,—I having my cup of milk, and slice of bread-and-butter; in a little recess, with a table in front of it, wholly sacred to me; and in which I remained in the evenings as an Idol in a niche, while my mother knitted, and my father read to her—and to me, so far as I chose to listen. LESSON DEPARTMENT The authors his father read from stayed with Ruskin throughout his life: Pope and Byron, Cervantes, and particularly Shakespeare and Walter Scott. Young John was most precocious, sufficiently so that both he and his parents came to regard him as a genius. At the age of four he could read and write; at seven he wrote good poetry, a long poem in three books at ten, and his first published article on the geological strata of Mt. Blanc at fifteen. In his business as wine-broker Mr. Ruskin frequently took his wife and son with him on his travels, and at an early age John knew at firsthand all the magnificent castics and cathedrals of England. He came to regard nature as sacred and good, "... It was. Inconsistent with every evil feeling, with spite, anger, covetousness, discontent and every other hateful passion," 'Thus nature came to satisfy in the boy Ruskin a strong heart-hunger, even as it did when he was grown. When he went to Oxford at age seventeen, he was entirely innocent of the imperfections of humanity. To keep him so his mother moved to Oxford to live with hini there, and his father joined them on weekends. He was never allowed to dance, or play physical games. To his keen mind, already whetted and plumbed, classroom lectures were most dull, and the best that can be said of his Oxford years is that they did not interfere as much as they might have with his true education. When he was twenty-nine bis mother contrived for him to marry beautiful, high-spirited Euphemia Gray, ten years his junior, for whom he had written the King of the 557 Golden River seven years earlier. But the marriage was in name only, and after six years it became so painful to both parties that in 1854 it was annulled. Modern Painters Already devoted when twenty-four years of age to art, architecture, and nature, Ruskin wrote his first book (perhaps his best known). Modern Painters is a spirited defense of the paintings of 'Turner against the charge that he could not paint nature. Here Ruskin gives his definition of art and esthetics, but for the most part the book. Is famous for the magnificent rhetorical descriptions of nature, such as his portrait of the sea (text, pp. 503-504). He describes a sea-storm as:.. The complete annihilation of the limit between sca and air. The water, from its prolonged agitation, is beaten, not into mere creaming foam, but into masses of accumulated ve east, which hang in ropes and wreaths from wave to wave, and, where one curls over to break, form a festoon like a drapery, from its edge; these are taken up by the wind, not in dissipating dust, but bodily, in writhing, hanging, coiling masses, which make the air white and thick as with snow, only the flakes are a foot or two long... And their masses... Are torn to pieces by the wind whenever they rise, and carried away in roaring smoke, which chokes and strangles like actual water (page 503, lines 6-18; 20-21; and 22-2 Read also page 504, lines 23-70; and page 511, lines 45- 79:) As we can see in the above description, Ruskin's best poetic, imaginative style, filled with rich colorings and full cadences, has genuine literary value, as well as great sincerity and zeal for whatever he is describing. For here, as throughout his life, Ruskin often became so 558 attached to a theory or conviction that he seems convinced that everything he says is the last, final, and true word on the subject, and this he proceeds to preach powerfully, sometimes in complete disregard of actual facts to the contrary. Bitter satire, garrulity, belligerency, and conceit are blemishes in both his character and his writings. But despite these weaknesses, his nobility and his burning indignation at the ills of England shine forth brilliantly. Theory of Art It is self-evident that, throughout his life, Ruskin was a romantic, but the sources of his romantic artistic values were always idealistic and moral. Inevitably for Ruskin great art produced beauty, but never at the expense of truth or morality. Great art is produced by men who feel acutely and nobly; and it is in some sort an expression of this personal feeling (text, page 506, lines 61-63). But when the artist re-creates the facts of nature, he hopes to capture as many facts as possible; not, however, by reason alone, but by employing a higher power—his creative imagination, Or as Ruskin says: The virtue of the imagination is its reaching, by intuition and intensity of gaze... A more essential truth than is scen at the surface of things. Thus, for Ruskin, art is almost a spiritual experience as defined by him, art in its beauty and truth could never be produced by any man whose character is not beautiful, moral, and good. According to Ruskin:. A rotten society cannot produce pure art. You cannot have a landscape RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1954 by Turner without a country for him to paint; you cannot have a_ portrait by Titian without a man to be portrayed.. The beginning of art is in getting our country clean, and our people beautiful. (Read also page 525, lines 78-88.) Or, in other words, no bad man can produce great art, nor can any bad man or nation provide subjects worthy of great artists. Likewise, in his Seven Lamps of Architecture, written in praise of the Gothic style, Ruskin states his firm conviction that "certain nght states of temper and moral feeling were the magic powers by which all good architecture had been produced." The following excerpt is typical of his high ideals: When we build, let us think that we build forever. Let it not be for present delight nor for present use alone; let it be such work as our descendants will thank us for, and let us think as we lay stone on stone that a time is to come when those stones will be held sacred because our hands have touched them and men will say as they look upon the labor and wrought substance of them, 'See! This 1" our fathers did for us! Sesame and Lilies Three lectures not found in our text "Sesame and Lilies" (1865) deal with the reading, education, and duties of women, and "The Mystery of Life and Its Arts." The following extract is from "Sesame": "Of King's Treasuries," pp. 47-48:. There is a society continually open to us of people who will talk to us as long as we like, whatever our rank or occupation,—talk to us in the best words they can choose, and of the things nearest their hearts. And this society, because it is so numerous and so gentle, and can be kept waiting round us all day long (kings and statesmen lingering patiently, not to grant audience, but to gain it), in those plainly furnished and narrow anterooms, LESSON DEPARTMENT our book-case shelves,—we make no account of that company, perhaps never listen to a word they would say, all day long.... From "Lilies": "Of Queens' Gardens," page 146: This is the true nature of home—it is the place of peace; the shelter not only from all injury, but from all terror, doubt and division. In so far as it is not this, it ls not home; so far as the anxieties of the outer life penetrate into it, and the inconsistenly-minded, unknown, unloved, or hostile society of the outer world is allowed by either husband or wife to cross the threshold, it ceases to be home; it is then only a part of that outer world which you have roofed over and lighted fire in. But so far as it is a sacred place, a vestal temple, a temple of the hearth watched over by household gods, before whose faces none may come but those whom they can receive with love... So far it vindicates the name and fulfils the praise of home.... Ruskin, the Reformer From his earliest writings Ruskin's belief in the moral origins of great art is evident. As the years passed, he became increasingly convinced that before England could know great art, she herself must be cleansed. And looking about him, in the actual slums of London and industrial England, Ruskin was appalled, and sickened. Suddenly he was so shaken by actuality that in 1860 he forsook art criticism for social and economic interests, to the great distress of his father. Always ready to acknowledge his debt to Carlyle, he now surpassed his master, both in a deeper sensitiveness to the problems, and in the depth and breadth of his piercing insight as he probed beneath the surface of England to define her diseased vitals. 559 He hated the greed and love of wealth which reigned supreme; he feared economic indifference for the lot of the poor; he worried because the rising class of middle-class Englishmen worshiped Mammon and the spirit of "Getting-On." But most of all he hated industrialism, and the effect of assembly-line practices in making man himself a machine. Ruskin believed that men who were forced by economic necessity to do monotonous, trivial tasks all day were incapable of knowing beauty. He believed such a man's resentment of his job or his wage pre vented him from doing his_ best. Read text, pp. 515-527. Ruskin would have employers treat employees with affection and understanding; he would inspire merchants and craftsmen to the same heroic, gallant attitude toward their tasks that a soldier feels toward his profession. 'Then, he maintains, the world would be animated by the central faith in good citizenship through service to society. Then we would be preparing ourselves to create and enjoy the beautiful thing that life can be and is not. Then the prevailing attitude toward art and literature would not be superficial and trivial; then people would cease to love money and things more than their fellow men: then, and only then, could the great principles of brotherly love and Christian principles prevail. Ruskin's convictions are summarized in these lines: There is no wealth but life. That country is richest which nourishes the greatest number of noble happy human beings. 560 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1954 Questions on the Lesson 3. Why does Ruskin forsake artistic for social criticism? How are the two intera. What in Ruskin's childhood do you _ related? Feel desirable? Undesirable? 4. Why did Ruskin so violently oppose 2. For Ruskin what is the origin of —industrialism, mass production, and the beauty? Assembly line? A |. A | Constitution of the United States (It is recommended that each Relief Socicty member read the text of the Constitution relating to each lesson as printed before the lesson) Text or Arvicie I (C. Of U. S. Pp. 271-275) Section 1. All legislative Powers herein granted shall be vested in a Congress of the United States, which shall consist of a Senate and House of Representatives. Section 2. 'I'he House of Representatives shall be composed of Members chosen every second Year by the People of the several States and the Electors in cach State shall have the Qualifications requisite for Electors of the most numerous Branch of the State Legislature., No Person shall be a Representative who shall not have attained to the Age of twenty-five Years, and been seven Years a Citizen of the United States, and who shall not, when elected, be an Inhabitant of that State in which he shall be chosen. Representatives and direct Taxes shall be apportioned among the several States which may be included within this Union, according to their respective Numbers, which shall be determined by adding to the whole Number of free Persons, including those bound to Service for a Term of Years, and cxcluding Indians not taxed, three fifths of all other Persons. He actual Enumeration shall be made within three Years after the first Meeting of the Congress of the United States, and within every subsequent 'Term of ten Years, in such Manner as they shall by Law direct. 'The Number of Representatives shall not excced one for every thirty Thousand, but each State shall have at Least one Representative; and until such enumeration shall be made, the State of New Hampshire shall be entitled to chuse three, Massachusetts cight, Rhode-Island and Providence Plantations one, Connecticut five, New-York six, New Jersey four, Pennsylvania cight, Delaware one, Maryland six, Virginia ten, North Carolina five, South Carolina five, and Georgia three. When vacancies happen in the Representation from any State, the Executive Authority thereof shall issue Writs of Election to fill such Vacancies. The Housc of Representatives shall chuse their Speaker and other Officers; and shall have the sole Power of Impeachment. Section 3. 'The Senate of the United States shall be composed of two Senators from each State, chosen by the Legislature thereof, for six Years; and each Senator shall have one Vote. Immediately after they shall be assembled in Consequence of the first Election, they shall be divided as equally as may be into three Classes. 'The Seats of the Senators of the first Class shall be vacated at the Expiration of the second Year, of the second Class at the Expiration of the fourth Year, and of the third Class at the Expiration of the sixth Year, so that one-third may be chosen every second Year; and if Vacancies happen by Resignation, or otherwise, during the Recess of the Legislature of any State, the Executive thereof may make temporary Appointments until the next Mecting of the Legislature, which shall then fill such Vacancies. No Person shall be a Senator who shall not have attained to the Age of thirty Years, and been nine Years a Citizen of the United States, and who shall not, when elected, be an Inhabitant of that State for which he shall be chosen. LESSON DEPARTMENT: 561 The Vice-President of the United States shall be President of the Senate, but shall have no Vote, unless they be equally divided. The Senate shall chuse their other Officers, and also a President pro tempore, in the absence of the Vice-President, or when he shall exercise the Office of President of the United States. The Senate shall have the sole Power to try all Impeachments. When sitting for that Purpose, they shall be on Oath or Affirmation. When the President of the United States is tried, the Chief Justice shall preside: And no Person shall be convicted without the Concurrence of two thirds of the Members present. Judgment in Cases of Impeachment shall not extend further than to removal from office, and disqualification to hold and enjoy any Office of honor, 'Trust, or Profit under the United States: but the Party convicted shall nevertheless be liable and subject to Indictment, Trial, Judgment and Punishment, according to Law. Section 4. The Times, Places, and Manner of holding Elections for Senators and Representatives, shall be prescribed in each State by the Legislature thereof; but the Congress may at any time by Law make or alter such Regulations, except as to the Places of chusing Senators.. The Congress shall assemble at least once in every Year, and such Mecting shall be on the first Monday in December, unless they shall by Law appoint a different Day. Section 5. Each House shall be the Judge of the Elections, Returns and Qualifications of its own Members, and a Majority of each shall constitute a Quorum to do Business; but a smaller Number may adjourn from day to day, and may be authorized to compel the Attendance of absent Members, in such Manner, and under such Penal- - ties as each House may provide. Each House may determine the Rules of its Proceedings, punish its Members for disorderly Behavior and, with the Concurrence of two thirds, expel a Member. Fach House shall keep a Journal of its Proceedings, and from time to time publish the same, excepting such Parts as may in their Judgment require Secrecy; and the Yeas and Nays of the Members of either House on any question shall, at the Desire of one fifth of those Present, be entered on the Journal. Neither House, during the Session of Congress, shall without the Consent of the other, adjourn for more than three days, nor to any other Place than that in which the two Houses shall be sitting. Section 6. 'he Senators and Representatives shall receive a Compensation for their Services, to be ascertained by Law, and paid out of the Treasury of the United States. They shall in all Cases, except Treason, Felony, and Breach of Peace, be privileged from Arrest during their Attendance at the Session of their respective Houses, and in going to and returning from the same; and for any Speech or Debate in either House, they shall not be questioned in any other Place. No Senator or Representative shall, during the Time for which he was clected, be appointed to any civil Office under the Authority of the United States, which shall have been created, or the Emoluments whereof shall have been encreased during such time; and no Person holding any Office under the United States, shall be a Member of either House during his Continuance in Office. Section 7. All bills for raising Revenue shall originate in the House of Representatives; but the Senate may propose or concur with Amendments as on other bills. Every Bill which shall have passed the House of Representatives and the Senate, shall, before it becomes a Law, be presented to the President of the United States; If he approve he shall sign it, but if not he shall return it, with his Objections to that House in which it shall have originated, who shall enter the Objections at large on their Journal, and proceed to reconsider it. If after such Reconsideration two thirds of that ITouse shall agree to pass the Bill, it shall be sent, together with the Objections, to the other House, by which it shall likewise be reconsidcred, and if approved by two thirds of that House, it shall become a Law. But in all such Cases the Votes of both Houses shall be determined by Yeas and Nays and the Names of the Persons voting for and against the Bill shall be entered on the Journal of each House respectively. If any Bill shall not be returned by the President within ten Days (Sundays excepted) 562 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1954 after it shall have been presented to him the Same shall be a Law, in like Manner as if he had signed it, unless the Congress by their Adjournment prevent its Return, in which Case it shall not be a Law. Every Order, Resolution, or Vote to which the Concurrence of the Senate and House of Representatives may be necessary (except on a question of Adjournment) shall be presented to the President of the United States; and, before the Same shall take Effect, shall be approved by him, or, being disapproved by him, shall be repassed by two thirds of the Senate and House of Representatives, according to the Rules and Limitations prescribed in the Case of a Bill. Section 8. The Congress shall have Power to lay and collect Taxes, Duties, Imposts and Excises, to pay the Debts and provide for the common Defence and general Welfare of the United States; but all Duties, Imposts and Excises shall be uniform throughout the United States; To borrow Money on the credit of the United States; To regulate Commerce with foreign Nations, and among the several States, and with the Indian tribes; To establish an uniform Rule of Naturalization, and uniform Laws on the subject of Bankruptcies throughout the United States; To com Money, regulate the Value thereof, and of foreign Coin, and fix the Standard of Weights and Measures; To provide for the Punishment of counterfeiting the Securities and current Coin of the United States; To establish Post Offices and post Roads; To promote the Progress of Science and useful Arts, by securing for limited Times to Authors and Inventors the exclusive Right to their respective Writings and Discoveries; To constitute Tribunals inferior to the supreme Court; To define and punish Piracies and Felonies committed on the high Seas, and Offenses against the Law of Nations; To declare War, grant Lettcrs of Marque and Reprisal and make Rules concerning Captures on Land and Water; To raise and support Armies, but no Appropriation of Money to that Use shall be for a longer Term than two Years; To provide and maintain a Navy; To make Rules for the Government and Regulation of the land and naval Forces; To provide for calling forth the Militia to execute the Laws of the Union, suppress Insurrections and repel Invasions; To provide for organizing, arming, and disciplining the Militia, and for governing such Part of them as may be employed in the Service of the United States, reserving to the States respectively, the Appointment of the Officers, and the Authority of training the Militia according to the discipline prescribed by Congress; To exercise exclusive Legislation in all Cases whatsoever, over such District (not exceeding ten Miles square) as may, by Cession of particular States, and the Acceptance of Congress, become the Seat of the Government of the United States, and to exercise like Authority over all Places purchased by the Consent of the Legislature of the State in which the Same shall be, for the Erection of Forts, Magazines, Arsenals, DockYards, and other needful Buildings;—And To make all Laws which shall be necessary and proper for carrying into Execution the foregoing Powers, and all other Powers vested by this Constitution in the Government of the United States, or in any Department or Office thereof. Section g. The Migration or Importation of such Persons as any of the States now existing shall think proper to admit, shall not be prohibited by the Congress prior to the Year one thousand eight hundred and cight, but a 'Tax or duty. May be imposed on such Importation, not exceeding ten dollars for each Person. The privilege of the Writ of Habeas Corpus shall not be suspended, unless when in Cases of Rebellion or Invasion the public Safety may require it, No Bill of Attainder or ex post facto Law shall be passed. No Capitation, or other direct, Tax shall be laid unless in Proportion to the Census or Enumeration herein before directed to be taken. No Tax or Duty shall be laid on Articles exported from any State. No Preference shall be given by any Regulation of Commerce or Revenue to the Ports of one State over those of another: nor shall Vessels bound to, or from, one State, be obliged to enter, clear, or pay Duties in another. No money shall be drawn from the Treasury, but in Consequence of Appropriations made by Law; and a regular Statement and Account of the Receipts and Expenditures of all public Money shall be published from time to time. No Title of Nobility shall be granted by the United States: And no Person holding any Office of Profit or Trust under them, shall, without the Consent of the Congress, accept of any present, Emolument, Office, or Title, of any kind whatever, from any King, Prince, or foreign State. Section 10. No State shall enter into any Treaty, Alliance, or Confederation; grant Letters of Marque and Reprisal; coin Money; emit Bills of Credit; make any Thing but gold and silver Coin a Tender in Payment of Debts; pass any Bill of Attainder, ex post facto Law, or Law impairing the Obligation of Contracts, or grant any Title of Nobility. No State shall, without the Consent of the Congress, lay any Imposts or Duties on Imports or Exports, except what may be absolutely necessary for executing its inspection Laws: and the net Produce of all Duties and Imposts, laid by any State on Imports or Exports, shall be for the Use of the Treasury of the United States; and all such Laws shall be subject to the Revision and control of the Congress. No State shall, without the Consent of Congress, lay any duty of Tonnage, keep Troops, or Ships of War in time of Peace, enter into any Agreement or Compact with another State, or with a foreign Power, or engage in War, unless actually invaded, or in such imminent Danger as will not admit of delay, Lesson 9—Its Form and Content—The Legislative Department—Article | Elder Albert R. Bowen Text: Your Rugged Constitution, (Y. R. C.), pp. 14-109; The Constitution of the United States, Its Sources and Its Application, (C. Of U. S.), pp. 7-97. For 'Tuesday, November 23, 1954 Objective: To consider the powers, functions, offices, and purposes of the Legisla-. Tive Department and its relation to the other departments of the Government of the United States. N a previous lesson (No. 6 for April 1953), it was pointed out that the Constitution of the United States was drafted in a relatively short period of time—May 25th to September 17, 1787. As a literary document and model of draftsmanship its excellence is of an extraordinarily high order. However, we are much more concerned with its political significance than we are with its literary merit. Time and space must therefore be devoted to consideration of its political principles and the way in which these principles have affected the destiny of this nation. To the framers of the Constitution and to the great judges who, early in its history, firmly established it as the foundation of our national life, must go the credit of building the base upon which was founded the greatest nation the world has ever seen. Preliminary to a study of the principles of the Constitution, it is of importance to consider its arrangeLESSON DEPARTMENT 563 564 ment and content. It is strongly recommended that time be taken by each member of the Relief Society to read it through. Since the Constitution contains only some six thousand words, this can be accomplished in less than one hour of careful reading. Brief though it is, the Constitution has been the subject of countless writings. 'These words fill thousands of volumes and constitute whole libraries. The Constitution as framed in 1787 was composed of seven Articles, divided into sections and clauses: Article I. The Legislative Department ('The Congress) Article II. The Executive Department ('The President) Article III. The Judicial Department ('The Courts) Article lV. Concerning the States and Federal Government Article V. Method of Making Amendments Article VI. Miscellaneous Provisions. Article VII. Ratifying and Establishing the Constitution. The first Congress of the United States under the new Constitution adopted 'Ten Amendments, June 15, 1791. 'These are known as the Bill of Rights "which were written in restraint of National power against the people and the States, in addition to like curbs in the body of the Constitution" (C. Of U. S., page 227). 'Twelve additional Amendments have (1954) been proposed and ratified by the states. 'These are referred to both as Amendments and Articles 1-22. In these lessons we shall refer to them as Amendments. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1954 The Legislative Department Article I of the Constitution makes provision for the Legislative Department of the Government. All legislative (law making) power under the Constitution is lodged in Congress. No other department or division of the Government has any power to enact laws. Following the pattern of the English Parliament, and most of the state governments, the legislative branch was divided into two houses—a House of Representatives and a Senate. Without going too deeply into the details of the respective organizations of each of the houses of Congress, it will suffice to say that the House of Representatives was intended to be more responsive to public opinion than the Senate. 'The members of the House are elected every two years in districts based upon population. For this reason the larger states by population have greater representation than do the smaller, less populated states. On the other hand, each state has two Senators regardless of population. Until the enactment of the Seventeenth Amendment, the state legislatures elected the Senators.: They were not chosen by direct popular will. Now, however, under the Seventeenth Amendment, which became effective May 31, 1913, United States Senators are elected by direct popular vote. To be eligible for membership in the House of Representatives, a member, popularly called a Congressman, must be twenty-five years of age, a citizen of the United States for seven years and a resident or inhabitant of the state wherein he is elected. A Senator must be at least thirty years of age, nine LESSON DEPARTMENT years a citizen of the United States, and shall be a resident of the state from which he is chosen (elected). The House of Representatives is presided over by a chairman or presiding officer called ""The Speaker." The Senate is presided over by ihe Vice-President of the United States. To the House of Representatives is given the power to initiate all revenue bills. That is to say, levying of taxes. The levying of taxes is thus placed in the hands of the representatives of the people. 'he Senate may, and frequently does, propose Amendments to revenue bills. The House of Representatives has the sole power of impeachment. Impeachment is the trial and _tremoval of officers of the United States for misfeasance or malfeasance in office. In impeachment cases the Senate acts as a court and, when the President of the United States is tried, the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court presides at the trial. Each branch of the Legislative Department adopts its own rules of procedure and is the sole judge of the qualification of its members and each keeps a record of its proceedings. The Senators and Representatives receive compensation fixed by law for their services and are privileged from arrest during attendance at sessions of Congress. They have no such privilege in cases involving treason, felony, or breach of the peace. Members of Congress may hold no other civil office under the authority of the United States during their term in office. Section 8 of Article I contains eighteen clauses which confer specific powers upon Congress. Section 965 Sacred THREE PART Chowses. <8 Bless This House—Brahe.....................16 a Eternal Life—Dungan.................-........ 15 |, God Painted a Picture—De Rose.........20 | Grant Me, Dear Lord, Deep Peace of Mind—Stickles —........0000.000-2..2...... 16 oe How Lovely Are Thy Dwellings— SS Ue Cee eee oa-16 = If Ye Love Me, Keep My Commandments—Madsen............0000.....22200eeeeeeeee.20 — Incline Your Ear—Wilkes.....................18...... Jubilate Deo—Mozart................00-.------ 15..... King of Glory—Parks..00000.0..............20 — Lord Is My Shepherd—Smart.............15 —— Open Our Eyes—Macfarlane.............25 as Thanks Be To God—Dickson...............16 — Music Sent on Approval — Use this advertisement as your order blank DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 5-47 South Main alt Lake City 1, Utah | { | | | | Please send the music indicated above. If t I | 1 | nh 1) { 1 i] i ' C) On Approval C Charge ©) Money Enclosed \ \ \ { ( I 1 ' Nam Address City & State FIRST OF ALL — RELIABILITY Daunes 45-47 ay Mluste G. MAIN STREET SALT LAKE CITY 1, UTAH 566 g of Article I enumerates certain powers which are denied to Congress as set forth in eight clauses. The following statements will serve as a basis for discussion: Congress Mav: The followi ing powers are specifically conferred upon Congress by Section 8 of Article 1: (See Y. R. C., pp. 64-93; C. Of U. S., pp. 43-82.) 1. To lay and collect taxes, duties, imposts, and excises; to pay the debts and provide for the common defense and general Welfare of the United States. However, all duties, imposts and excises must be uniform throughout the United States. In addition, Congress has received a grant of power to levy taxes upon incomes under the Sixteenth Amendment. This Amendment became law February 25, 1913 and will be discussed in more detail in a later lesson in this series. 2. To borrow money on the credit of the United States. 3. To regulate commerce with foreign nations and among the several states and with the Indian tribes, 4. To establish a uniform rule of naturalization and uniform laws of banktuptcy throughout the United States. 5: To coin money, regulate the value thereof and of foreign coin, and fix standards of weights and measures. 6. To provide punishments for counterfeiting the securities and com of the United States. 7. To establish post offices and post roads. 8. To promote the progress of science and useful arts by securing for a limited time to authors and inventors the exclusive right to their respective writings and discoveries. G. To establish a system of Federal a inferior to the Supreme Court. To define and punish piracies and ealtrnias committed on the high seas and offenses against the law of nations. 11. To declare war, grant letters of marque and reprisal and make rules governing captures on land and water. (See Y. R. C., page 84; C. Of U. S., page 70.) 12. To raise and support armies. HowRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1954 THE WORLD'S FINEST PIANOS Mason & Hamlin The Stradivari of Pianos EVERETT Finest Toned Spinet Piano Built Cable-Nelson Finest Low Priced Piano Built -—-e All Obtainable At Beesley Music Co. Pioneer Piano People 70 S. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH ever, no appropriation for this purpose may be for more than two years. 13. To provide and maintain a navy. 14. To make rules for the government and regulation of the land and_ naval forces. 15. To provide for calling forth the militia to execute the laws of the Umon, suppress insurrections and repel invasions. 16. To provide for organizing, training, and disciplining the militia. 17. 'To legislate exclusively over any district (The District of Columbia) set aside for the seat of the National Government. 18. To make all laws necessary and proper to carry into execution all of the foregoing powers and all other powers vested by the Constitution in the Government of the United States or in any department or office thereof. Congress May Not: The following clauses (Section 9) enumerate the powers which are specifically denied to the Govern- LESSON DEPARTMENT ment. (See Y. R. C., pp. 94-103; C. Of U. S., pp. 82-90.) They are: 1. Until 1808 Congress was forbidden to prohibit the importation of slaves. 2. The privilege of habeas corpus may not be suspended, unless, when in cases of rebellion or invasion, the public safety may require it ( Y. R. C., page g5; C. Of U. S., page 82). 3. No bill of attainder or ex post facto law shall be passed. A bill of attainder is a law punishing a person for a crime without a trial. An ex post facto law is one which makes an act a crime which, when committed, was not criminal in its consequences. It is also any law which increases the punishment for an existing crime or changes the procedure or evidence to make conviction easier. 4. No capitation (head) or other direct tax may be levied unless in proportion to the "Census or Enumeration." A_ capitation tax is one placed upon individuals and not upon property. As will be later discussed, the Sixteenth Amendment providing for the income tax law changed this provision of the original Constitution. 5. Congress may not levy a tax or duty upon any article exported from any state. 6. No preferences may be given to the ports of one state over those of another by regulation or by revenue and no vessel bound to or from one state shall be obliged to enter clear or pay duties in another. 7. No money may be drawn from the Treasury of the United States except by appropriation made by law, and_ statements and accounts of receipts and expenditures of public money shall be published from time to time. 8. Congress may grant no title of nobility and no person holding office under the United States may, without consent of Congress, accept any present, emolument, office, or title from any king, prince, or foreign state. Article I also imposes some legislative restrictions upon the state governments. Section 10 of Article I defines these limitations. (Y. R. C., page 104; C. Of U. S., page go). 567 No state shall enter into any treaty, alliance, or confederation; grant letters of marque and reprisal; coin money, emit bills of credit; make anything but gold and silver coin as tender in payment of debts; pass any bill of attainder or ex post facto law, or law impairing the obligation of contracts, or grant any title of nobility. Questions on the Lesson 1. Which department of the Government of the United States has power to make laws? 2. What are the divisions of the Legislative Department? 3. Why is the House of Representatives considered "'responsive to the people'? Hlow are members of the House of Representatives chosen and for what term of office? What is the basis for determining the number of representatives? 4. Hlow are members of the Senate chosen and for what term of office? How many Senators is every state entitled to elect? 5. What are the qualifications for membership in each house of Congress? 6. By what title are the presiding officers of each house of Congress called? 7. Which house may initiate revenue (tax) bills in Congress? Vote articles of impeachment? 8. Who determine the qualifications of the members of Congress? G. Enumerate some of the powers conferred upon Congress under Article I. Name some of the powers specifically withheld from Congress. > Herita ge Vesta N. Lukei Just given a cool Blue lake, a pool, Or the wondrous ocean swish Of waves, then, quick As a fin's bright flick, A child is partly fish. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1954 In The Tradition Of The Utah Pioneers AGRICULTURE and HOMEMAKING were basic in the lives of the Utah Pioneers. But along with tilling their land and keeping their homes, they developed their cultural and intellectual interests. Music, art, literature, the sciences, all played important roles in the typical pioneer home. And so, UTAH STATE, which began by emphasizing agriculture, mechanic arts and homemaking, has grown to meet the varied needs of today's complex life. A symphony orchestra, annual production of significant drama and opera, other cultural offerings, and a broad curriculum in basic sciences and the humanities, enable USAC to meet its challenge of service to a pioneer State. UTAH STATE AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE Fall Registration, 1954-55, September 23-25 te S2UUINUVLIUUVUOLINUNEOOGSGULERUTEU CDA OE FOR A Real Vacation TAKE A VIDA FOX CLAWSON TOUR Remember... The Best in the West Travel With Us Historic Train leaves AUGUST 6th for the HILL CUMORAH, etc. Next year it's EUROPE Better put your name on our mailing list. Address: Vida Fox Clawson 966 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah Telephone: 4-2017 PUTT ETTLLITTTTLALZCLL UL LULL LLL LL ULL ULLAL PTOUUILIUTHLULLLLLLELLLULLCLLLLLULLAEELLPPLLLLULLLLLLLUEECULLCUOUUOCLU COL UULCECUUEDULPCeeUCCLE CCL WANTON || AVLAUEVVOETURTONSOQDEoUECCUTUEUUOGOENEEETUETOTEUOQUO GEENA UUON THOUS OEO STEREOS ASANTE The Pride of Your Library! Your Relief Society Magazines when handsomely bound into permanent yearly volumes acquire new value as excellent reference books, Just $2.50 (Cloth Binding) $3.50 (Leather Binding) Per Volume If necessary to mail them to you, the followe ing postage rates will apply. Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles.... 35 150 to 300 miles Be) 300 to 600 miles 45 600 to 1000 miles 54 1000 to 1400 miles. -64 1400 to 1800 miles.......... 76 Over 1800 miles 2. Cece ccscetecnteeenecenee.87 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office, Deseret News Press 31 Richards St. Salt Lake City, Utah Phone 4-2581 @ Good Reading 1. GOSPEL IDEALS DAVID 0. McKAY From the inspiring sermons and discourses of our Ninth President have come these rich gleanings of truth... Of a life abundantly rich in faith, devotion, and satisfying human experiences and relationships... A book to turn to for guidance in times of perplexity and spiritual need. $4.00 2. ON THE WAY TO IMMORTALITY AND ETERNAL LIFE J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. A lifetime of scholarly investigation reveals the sources of various discrepancies that have crept into Christian worship and obscured the teachings of Christ. This book gives vital evidence of the need for a ''Restored Gospel."' $3.50 3. PROPHECY AND MODERN TIMES W. CLEON SKOUSEN This book is invaluable in its compilation of prophesies from seriptural writings. Of special interest are those prophecies concerning the final war before the millennium and the second coming of Christ, with commentary and footnotes. $1.75 4. OUR BIBLE J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. Pamphlet. For those who wish to know the Church's position with reference to various translated Bible versions, here is an authoritative and scholarly answer. Be sure to get this valuable reprint of President Clark's April Conference address. 35c 5. THE FIRST 2000 YEARS W. CLEON SKOUSEN The sweeping drama of the Old Testament story from Adam to Abraham becomes fascinating reading in this popular new book. It's not only a retelling of the Bible stories, but a com prehensive, readable account of doctrines of the gospel as revealed from generation to generation. Including helpful charts $3.25 Gentlemen: Enclosed you will books: 1 DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 3 money order { ( ) charge to my account for the following encircled (numbered) 8. 4 | | | | | | | | | | | | | Again Available | "WIST YE NOT THAT 1 mUST BE _ ABOUT my FATHER'S BUSINESS?" By President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. An invaluable reference book on temple ceremonies and sacrifices in the time of Christ. With illustrations. Postpaid $2.00. All rights and royalties assigned to Relief Society. On Sale Only At | GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY & 40 North Main Street Salt Lake City, Utah TOOTS SSO TOSS O OTS TUTTO UU UNS UU US SUNT SSIES STITT Trane LSZVOSVE Ci TAT HX "made with MILK Wary Lee Jaylor's Husband "Tested Recipe Evaporated Milk into a bowl and dip each piece of chicken into it. Save the milk that's left for gravy. There should be 1 cup; if not, add more milk. Roll each piece of chicken in a mixture of %4 cup flour, 114 teaspoons salt, and Vg teaspoon pepper. Drumstick is tender when pierced with a fork. Back into skillet. Mix in 2 tablespoons flour, 34 teaspoon salt, few grains pepper. Stir in 1 cup water. Boil and stir for two minutes. The hot gravy with the fried chicken, mashed potatoes, and whole kernel corn for a real American chicken dinner. Meal That Makes Lips Smack! Crisp, golden-brown chicken that's tender clear through... When you dip it in Sego Milk before frying. The gravy's always rich and EVapoRAT creamy smooth because Sego Milk. Is twice as K rich as ordinary bottled milk. Mary L ts visi', INCREASED TO 490, s iggy wie et an "avons. Quo meee Ho ) MOGENIZE Pay 7: = ¢: SYou'll need a 214 Ib. Chicken, cut into pieces, to serve four. Pour 114 cups Sego Brown chicken slowly in a skillet in 14 inch hot fat about 30 minutes, or until Remove chicken (keep hot). Drain fat from skillet, then put 2 tablespoons fat Stir in the 1 cup of saved milk and heat till steaming hot, but do not boil. Serve THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - First Counselor Velma N. Simonsen - - - - - Second Counselor Margaret C. Pickering - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Mary G. Judd Evon W. Peterson Christine H. Robinson Charlotte A. Larsen Anna B. Hart Leone O. Jacobs Alberta H. Christensen Edith P. Backman Edith S. Elliott Mary J. Wilson Mildred B. Eyring Winniefred S. Florence J. Madsen Louise W. Madsen Helen W. Anderson Manwaring Leone G. Layton Aleine M. Young Gladys S. Boyer Elna P. Haymond Blanche B. Stoddard Josie B. Bay RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - # Marianne C. Sharp Associate Edito - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager = - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Vol. 41. SEPTEMBER 1954 NO. 9 SPECIAL FEATURES Identification Key for the Signers of the Constitution 573 The Constitution of the United States—'A Heavenly Banner' 2... EeeHugh B. Brown 574 "But Where Are the Nine?' oc eececcececsnsescesecseccecscsceacsececececeseceeneenencessssatenseceseeesSylvia Probst Young 580 Ralph Dorothy A. Johnson 587 We Don't Do It All Ourselves Margaret Allen 611 When You Reach Bottom 1 aEvelyn Dorio 612 FICTION One to Tell.. Frances C. Yost 582 The Long Night Maurine B. Hansen 593 No Secrets Between Them 20....... Ccccecccccsceceeeeeoee -... Dorothy Boys Kilian 600 The Falling Shackles—Chapter 4—Conclusion..... Sstserertseeeseeeeeee--Margery S. Stewart 604 GENERAL FEATURES — From Near and Far 570 Sixty Years Ago: a = 588 Woman's Sphere....... Ae anno snRamona W. Cannon 589 Editorial: Congratulations to President David O. McKay on His Eighty-First Birthday............ 590 "Be Ye Kind" = - 2Marianne C. Sharp 590 New Serial ''Contentment Is a Lovely Thing'' to Begin in October 615 Notes to the Field: Annual General Relief Society Conference. 592 Buying Textbooks and Visual Aids for Relief Society Lessons 992 Relief ota h Handbook Available 20.00.0000... = $92 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities 200..0...0.00cccoccccceccteeeeeeaeeeeeeesMargaret C. Pickering 616 FEATURES FOR THE HOME Sitomiriey i Wh ccatiae arrancones te cceennnccdlsueensne _ 598 Wood Carving, Oil Painting, and Needlecraft (Ella Call Cook) -- 599 A Letter From Mother. Clara Horne Park 602 French Toasted Ham Sandwiches a csss sansonson cescenee 603 "Gramaw"'....... Kathryn Forbes Clyde 610 Recipe for Homemade Soap...... Eva Carter 613 Collect and Classify Items of Interest -......... Ececsesscsceceseseseseeeeese Thalia Black 613 Kitchens for Living............ Re ee nooo cscs it tuacqeccsccecccescarsnaecocscsaascesittseesearsaceesCelia Luce 614 Anise—An Old-Fashioned Herb for Modern Cookery -0.......... C: sssscsssseseeeseeeeessElizabeth Williamson 638 LESSON DEPARTMENT Theology: Missions of Other Sons of Mosiah 0.0 Leland H. Monson 624 Visiting Teacher Messages: "For Behold, This Life Is the Time for Men to Prepare to Meet God'' Leone O. Jacobs 628 Work Meeting: Washers and Dryers coe. Rhea H. Gardner 629 Literature: Dante Gabriel and Christina Rossetti..... Briant S. Jacobs 631 Social Science: No Lesson for December.....: 636 POETRY "Fruits of Freedom''—Frontispiece, by Alberta H. Christensen, 571; ''Unspoken Words," by Emily Carey Alleman, 578; 'Red Hills in Utah,'' by Lydia Hall, 579; ''New Loss,'' by Mary Gustafson, 581; "'For an Artist,'" by Vesta N. Lukei, 586; 'End of Summer,'' by Beatrice Knowlton Ekman, 586; ''Wind Fingers,"' by Grace Barker Wilson, 587; ''Traditional,"" by Beulah Huish Sadleir, 597; ''Faithful Farmer,'' by Mabel Law Atkinson, 598; 'On Guard,'' by Pansye H. Powell, 599; "'Colorful Secret," by Maryhale Woolsey, 603; ''Provident,'' by Lael W. Hill, 609; Spendthrift Artistry, by Renie H. Littlewood, 612; 'To a Cat, Being Put Out,"' by Lizabeth Wall, 613; ''Exaltation,'' by Lydia Bennet Egbert, 636; "'Schoolboy,'' by Eva Willes Wangsgaard, 637; "Each Year I Vow," by Bernice T. Clayton, 637. PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 40 North Main, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15e. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. From Tlear and Sar Like so many others, I. Too. Read the Magazine from cover to cover. For one year now, the length of time that I have been a member of the Church, I have anxiously scanned the pages hoping to find a familiar name, Elsie Mae Sturkie Strong. 'Twelve years ago she showed me how a Latter-day Saint girl lives and thinks. She made it possible for my oldest boy to be blessed as an infant. 'The years have passed, and our paths have not crossed again, but I've never forgotten her or the example she set for me. I think she would be happy to know that we are now members ourselves and that blessed baby is a, faithful member of the Priesthood. The stories in. The Relief Society Magazine are the most moving I have ever read. Seldom do I complete one without a lump in my throat and a thankfulness in my heart for this type of inspiring literature. "The Way," by Ruth Moody Ostegar (July 1954) is particularly moving and inspiring for all mothers trying to rear their children worthy enough to be called on missions. 'The lesson department is excellent and, as a social science teacher, I spend hours studying each lesson. 'The selections for the cover and the frontispiece are always worthy of the contents inside. —Elizabeth G. Towner Warrington, Florida Even though we are so far away here on this tiny island, The Relief Society Magazine helps to keep us in touch with home. We have a very active Relief Society group in this wonderful branch. We average ten to fourteen women to our meetings. Even though transportation and a family of little ones make a problem in attending meeting, the wonderful spirit that dwells in our meetings compensates for our efforts. May the Lord bless you dear sisters in your work that reaches the hearts of so many women in all parts of the world. —Jean H. Hall President, Guam Branch Relief Society Page 570 We are continually receiving testimonies of the great worth of the wonderful Magazine, which is not only a guide to our Relief Society lessons, but is also a spiritual guide to us as mothers in our homes rearing our families. —Vera Hales Great Neck, New York I love The Relief Society Magazine and have subscribed for it for thirty years, with the exception of one year. —Dora Toone Brough Tremonton, Utah We here think that The Relief Society Magazine is one of the most interesting and wonderful magazines that can be had. We are all servicemen's wives, and the Magazine always brings a little bit of home to us. —Mrs. Gaylene A. Glaefke Kindley Air Force Base Bermuda I have enjoyed the Magazine very much, and I can see where it does much good in our missionary work. 'There are a few of the English-speaking sisters here in Finland who take the Magazine, and they have received a great deal therefrom. It is a wonderful thing to see light and truth come into the world. —Elder James D. Martin Jakobstad, Finland We enjoy The Relief Society Magazine and look forward to the next copy each month. I have never enjoyed a_ story more than Sister Alice Morrey Bailey's "The Deeper Melody.'"' All my friends were sorry when it was concluded. Do you think it would be possible to get this lovely talented writer to go on and give us another chapter or two, a sequel? Seems like everyone would just love to hear more about this happy little family and those adorable little children. Tell Sister Bailey we will all take the Magazine forever. —Mrs. Hattie Gibby Roy, Utah Fruits of Freedom To THE FRAMERS OF THE CONSTITUTION Alberta H. Christensen The land prepared, you placed the priceless seed Of liberty in worded furrows, deep And straight, for steady growth of root and limb; Guided the springs of agency and will, With implements of phrase not used before, Into a channeled flow to quench the thirst Of seedlings growing sunward uncoerced. You paragraphed an arbor of defense Tc stay destroying winds of tyranny, And thwart encroaching weeds of avarice, Shielding the uncurled leaf until the bloom Of scattered petals, blown to many lands, Lifts to new courage hearts that are bowed and torn, Minds that are will-less, bondaged, and forlorn. How full of faith and, oh, how wise you were, To guard the golden fruitage of the trees For children and their children not yet born, To hold inherent rights inviolate, To keep man sovereign, humble and yet free, That he might stand within the cooling shade And eat the fruits of freedom—unafraid! The Cover: Navajo Tower, on the South Rim of Grand Canyon, Arizona Photograph by Willard Luce Cover Design by Evan Jensen Finda isSSEr aS Washington, George 22.22. Va. Madison, James o.......... CccecccccecsesceeeeecceecceeeeeeeeeHamilton, Alexander Morris, Gouverneur Morris, Robert a, Wilson, James...................0.-.. Cccssseessssasmresmeccoores Pinekney, Charles C Pinckney, Charles..... Rutledge, John Butler, Pierce..... Sherman, Roger........... Johnson, Wm. Samuel McHenry, James Read, George. Bassett, Richard............00....... Spaight, Richard D...............~ Blount, William........02.. Williamson, Hugh Jenifer, Daniel 0.000.000.0000. King, Rutfuse.............0:.--- a... Gorham, Nathaniel —_ Dayton, Jonathan —....02.0...02..... Carroll, Daniel] 2.0.22... Lee tteeeeeeeneeeeeenee eee Few, William...... Baldwin, Abraham Langdon, John Gilman, Nicholas...... Livingston, William Paterson, William Mifflin, Thomas = Clymer, George....0....... Eeeeccccsecesececcecceccccceeemeneeee Fitzsimons, Thomas................ Ingersoll, Jared........—. Bedford, Gunning, Jr. Brearley, David Dickinson, John Blair, John......... Broom, Jacob......... Jackson, William The photograph on the opposite page is from a painting, "The Signing of the Constitution," by The original of this painting hangs above the main staircase on the House Howard Chandler Christy. Side of the Capitol in Washington, D. C. Authorized by a joint resolution of Congress, April 20, 1939. It is public property of the United States of America and was Franklin, Benjamin.......... _ a The Constitution of the United States—""A Heavenly Banner" Elder Hugh B. Brown Assistant to the Council of the Twelve Therefore, it is not right that any man should be in bondage one to another. And for this purpose have I established the Constitution of this land, by the hands of wise men whom I raised up unto this very purpose, and redeemed the land by the shedding of blood (D. & C. 101:79-80). O item of inspiration is held N more sacred by the Latterday Saints than the Constitution of the United States. Our statement that the Lord inspired the authors of the Constitution does not mean to imply that this document came as a direct revelation from God. It is an inspired Charter of Liberty, written after a long series of events and centuries of struggle by freedom-loving men. We believe the Lord overruled events in the affairs of nations down through the ages, that he inspired the hardy men who, in 1215, forced King John to give them the Magna Charta, the "great charter" of personal liberty. And, again, in 1628 when members of the British Parliament forced Charles I to sign the Petition of Right which was approved, in 1869, by William and Mary. We believe that he was at the controls when, in 1787, the delegates to the Constitutional Convention sensed the importance of their task and determined the form of government under which they and their posterity should live; "... A standard," as Washington said, "to which the wise and the honest can repair'; that Gouverneur Morris was inspired when he said, "The whole human race will be affected Page 574 by the proceedings of this Convention." When ascribing, then, to our Heavenly Father the inspiration which led the founding fathers to formulate and adopt the Constitution, we mean to include the solid foundation upon which this Constitution was built. This foundation was laid by courageous men, block by block through the centuries, as they fought and died for liberty. Inasmuch as The Relief Society Magazine is published for the benefit of members of the Church in all countries, it should be pointed out that the Constitution of the United States advocates nothing which would preclude a Latter-day Saint living outside the United States from being loyal to the laws and standards of his own land, nor does our belief that the Constitution was inspired of God imply that other freedom-loving people have not had his help in securing in their own countries such liberties as they enjoy. Church members who live in other free countries join us in thanking him for freedom: in England, although they have no written constitution, there is great respect for law and dogged insistence on liberty; in Canada, the people are grate- ful to God for their freedom and confederation under the British North-American Act of 1867. We are grateful, then, not only for the Constitution of the United States as it is, but for the series of blessings from our Heavenly Father which led up to it, for the countless sacrifices which were made in preparation for it. We venerate the memories of the signers of the Declaration of Independence and the authors of the Constitution. We think of them as great patriots and inspired statesmen, but let us not forget the price they were prepared to pay for the action they were taking. 'This took courage of the highest order. They were revolutionaries. What they did was treason and they knew the penalty. Franklin was not jesting when he said, "We must all hang together, or assuredly we shall all hang separately." Benjamin Franklin drew the attention of the members of the Con- - stitutional Convention, who seemingly could not agree, to the need for divine guidance. He said on the floor of the convention, June 28, 1787, among other things: I have lived, Sir, a long time, and the longer I live, the more convincing proofs I see of this truth that God governs the affairs of man, and if a sparrow cannot fall to the ground without his notice is it probable that an empire can rise without his aid? We have been assured, Sir, in sacred writings, that except the Lord build the house they labour in vain that build it. Let us be reminded that all blessings which come from God carry with them responsibilities and obligations. If we are to enjoy the blessings vouchsafed by the Constitution, we must preserve it. It has been and it will continue to be attacked by foes, both foreign and domestic. Freedom is not a thing that can be won and secured at a given time and be thereby guaranteed to all future generations. We have a responsibility to protect and safeguard the Constitution, a responsibility not only to one another and to our posterity, but also to God. HE Constitution may be weakened and eventually destroyed by: (1) Approving laws which place in the hands of elected or appointed officials the powers which, under the Constitution, belong to the people. (2) By such entangling alliances with other nations as will limit or curtail our own power of self-government. If by treaty or covenant or by the adoption of national policies we place in the hands of foreign countries the power to impose upon us unwise commitments or heavy obligations or to plunge us into war; if by entangling alliances, against which Washington warned so eloquently, we lose the right and the ability to make our own decisions, to formulate our own policies, and map our own national course, we thereby and to that extent vitiate the Constitution. One sentence from Washingon's farewell address indicates how clearly he saw this danger. Against the insidious wiles of foreign influence (I conjure you to believe me, fellow citizens) the jealousy of a free people ought to be constantly awake, since history and experience prove that THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES 575 foreign influence is one of the most baneful foes of republican government. (3) The founding fathers wisely established three divisions of government and set bounds to the authority of each. If we permit either of these divisions to infringe upon or usurp the powers properly belonging to another, or if the officers responsible for the exercise of the rights of these divisions of government should abdicate or surrender their powers to others, then indeed will the Constitution be in danger. President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., in a radio address over KSL, September 17, 1946, outlined the two basic judicial systems in the so-called civilized world today, the common law system and the Roman or civil law system, and in that address he warned us in the following words: Now, in the last years, we in America have gone a long distance towards the adoption of the Roman concepts, and the abuses against property rights and human freedom and liberties which are possible under that system. And let me say here and now, that in the whole history of the human race, from Adam until now, Tyranny has never come to live with any people with a placard on his breast bearing his name. He always comes in deep disguise, sometimes proclaiming an endowment of freedom, sometimes promising help to the unfortunate and downtrodden, not by creating something for. Those who do not have, but by robbing those who have. But Tyranny is always a wolf in sheep's clothing, and he always ends by devouring the whole flock, saving none. Not only were the founding fathers wise in the various provisions they made for a federal system of government, but they seemed to have a vision of the nation's future greatness, the vastness of its area, and the complex problems which would arise between the states and the federal government, as well as among the states themselves. 'To forestall the awful consequences of competition, antagonism, and rival loyalties among citizens of various states, the founding fathers established distinct divisions of powers between the state and federal governments. In this complex structure it was necessary that bounds be set to authority and that the written Constitution, perfectly definite as it is, be preserved by "formidable difficulties of amendment against inconsiderate change." It became the written fundamental law of the land. BVERY American owes allegiance to both the state and the national government, pays taxes to both, is granted certain rights and privileges under each, is subject to two sets of laws, under dual legislative, executive, and judicial departments, state and federal. The preamble to the Constitution says it was ordained and established by the people of the United States. In order to form a more perfect union, establish justice, insure domestic tranquility, provide for the common defence, promote the general welfare, and secure the blessings of liberty to ourselves and our posterity.... It is obvious, therefore, that anything which tends to destroy this perfect union, or to rob the people of their "domestic tranquility," or to interfere with "the general welfare," anything, in other words, 576 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1954 which tends to weaken or to tear down or to vitiate this greatest of all charters of liberty, should be guarded against, and be vigorously opposed by all who love and value liberty. The attitude of the Church with respect to the Constitution has been set forth by each of the Presidents of the Church in turn. Some quotations will indicate the unwavering tenor of our faith in and our unflagging determination to support what Gladstone called "The most wonderful work ever struck off at a given time by the brain and purpose of man." It is, in fact, the greatest charter of religious liberty ever written, but it must be supported by freedom-loving people who, by their actions, prove their worthiness to live under this '"'heavenly banner." The Prophet Joseph Smith In the dedicatory prayer of the Kirtland Temple, March 27, 1536, the Prophet said: May those principles, which were so honorably and nobly defended, namely, the Constitution of our land, by our fathers, be established forever. And again in a letter written in Liberty Jail, he said: The Constitution of the United States is a glorious standard; it is founded in the wisdom of God. It is a heavenly banner. President Brigham Young Quoting Joseph Smith, President Young said: The time will come when the destiny of the nation will hang upon a single thread; and in that critical juncture, this people will step forth and save it from the threatened destruction. It will be so. He further said: To accuse us of being unfriendly to the government is to accuse us of hostility to our religion, for no item of inspiration is held more sacred with us than the Constitution under which she acts. President John Taylor It was through and by the power of God that the fathers of this country framed the Declaration of Independence, and also that great palladium of human rights, the Constitution of the United States. President Wilford Woodruff The Lord inspired the men who framed the Constitution of our country, and have guarded the nation from its foundation. President Lorenzo Snow We trace the hand of the Almighty in framing the Constitution of our land and believe that the Lord raised up men purposely for the accomplishment of this object—raised them up and inspired them to frame the Constitution of the United States. President Joseph F. Smith I hope with all my soul that the members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints will be loyal in their very hearts and souls to the principles of the Constitution of our country. From them we have derived the liberty that we enjoy. I believe that the Constitution of the United States was and still is an inspired instrument. The Lord God Almighty inspired the minds that framed it, and I believe it ought to be most sacredly preserved. President Heber ]. Grant From my childhood days I have understood that we believe absolutely that the Constitution of our country is an inspired instrument, and that God directed those who created it and those who defended THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES 577 the independence of this nation. Allow me to announce further that we are patriotic Americans to the core, and that we have learned it, many of us, at our mother's - knees, where we said our prayers. We believe absolutely in the inspiration of God to the men who framed our Constitution. President George Albert Smith When our Father in Heaven inspired men to write the Constitution and give unto us the great charter that vouchsafed to us the liberty we enjoy, he did it in order that men might develop and be free, as the Gospel of Jesus Christ intends that all men shall be. President David O. McKay Without freedom of thought, freedom of choice, freedom of action, within lawful bounds, men cannot progress. The Lord recognized this, and also the fact that it would take men thousands of years to make the earth habitable for selfgoverning individuals. 'Throughout the ages, advanced souls have yearned for a society in which liberty and justice prevailed. Men have sought for it, fought for it, and died for it. Ancient freemen prized it, slaves longed for it, the Magna Charta demanded it, and the Constitution of the United States declared it. In April conference, 1950, President David O. McKay said: I repeat that no greater immediate responsibility rests upon members of the Church, upon all citizens of this Republic and of neighboring Republics than to protect the freedom vouchsafed by the Constitution of the United States... To sum up this whole question: In these days of uncertainty and unrest, libertyloving people's greatest responsibility and paramount duty is to preserve and proclaim the freedom of the individual, his relationship to Deity, and... The necessity of obedience to the principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ—only thus will mankind find peace and happiness. The Constitution, then, is: (a) The world's greatest Charter of Liberty. (b) It is our basic law. (c) Its framers were inspired of God. (d) The principles set out in the Constitution form a part of the overall gospel plan for the freedom cand salvation of men. (e) It must be defended, protected, and preserved for future generations. (f) It imposes obligations and responsibilities. Let us humbly thank the Lord for our country, for her laws and institutions. Let us pray for the men who have been chosen to guide her destinies in these crucial times. Let us strive to be worthy of our glorious heritage—to live under the banner of the Constitution of the United States of America. Unspoken Words Emily Carey Alleman Curbing one's tongue Is a twofold virtue— Unspoken words Cannot return and hurt you. 578 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1954 Victor J. Nelson FISHER TOWERS, UTAH Red Hills in Utah Lydia Hall I must go unto these vermilion hills Often these days, and mark how bright they are When winter's sunset points their painted sills, I must note how the first pale summer star Makes silver magic here. And walk in spring Where sun-drenched dunes and rocks and knolls are gay With paintbrush; where white sego lilies cling And desert mallow marks a lovely way. I must look to these hills, for well I know The scenes of life may change relentlessly For me, that on some morrow I may go To where there are no cliffs that call to me; No well-loved place where I can walk apart And borrow sunshine for my hands and heart. Page 579 "But Where Are the Nine?" Sylvia Probst Young N the outskirts of a certain village, once long ago, ten lepers waited for a certain Nazarene to come by. And when they saw the Master, they begged him to make them whole again. He bade them to go show themselves unto the priests, and as they went they were cleansed. All ten of them were cleansed, but one—only one, turned back to thank the Lord. Then Jesus said to him, "Were there not ten cleansed? But where are the nine? There are not found that returned to give glory to God, save this stranger" (Luke 17:12-19). And where were the other nine? Oh, they were hurrying to the village, back to their loved ones. 'They were free of their sorrow now, free to mingle again in society. 'They had no time to go back to find the One who had healed them. But, surely, he would know that they were grateful. Are we not like these nine, many of us? One of the greatest needs in this wonderful land of ours is the need of gratitude. We have come to accept and expect so much —too much. "I wish I had been born rich," said a young man recently, "then I would be happy." But material wealth is by no means the key to happiness. 'The happy person is happy because he has learned to be happy with the good things that are his and has not let greed or envy become the controlling factors of his living. For, surely, no physical disease is more Page 580 destructive to the body than is envy or greed to the soul. It takes constant effort to keep them from spoiling our lives. One of the happiest people I know is a little lady who lives in a very modest home. All around, beautiful modern homes are being constructed, but she has long since ceased trying to "keep up with the Joneses." "They may have bigger and finer houses," she says, "but they can never own any more of the sunlight or the stars that shine in the sky than I do." Robert Louis Stevenson once said, "The world is so full of a number of things, I'm sure we should all be as happy as kings." Do we remember, when we look up into a summer sky or look upon a mountain painted in all the burning colors of autumn, to say, "Thank you, Father, for eyes?" Eyes to see all the lovely things in the world—the stately beauty of a tree, the delicate daintiness of a flower, the sweetness of a little child's face. When you hear the strains of a great organ, or the whisper of a little wave against a shore; or when the soft voice of a loved one speaks to you, do you remember to say: "Thank you, Father, for letting me hear all these wonderful things around me?" Do we voice our gratitude for the fragrance of a rose, the clean smell of rain, the racy scent of pines? How many of us remember to "BUT WHERE ARE THE NINE?" thank our Maker for the sense of smell? "The most miraculous thing in all the world is a pair of feet," said a woman who had learned to walk again after spending long months in a wheel chair. Never before had the ability to walk seemed such a miracle. "I took it for granted before," she said. OW much we take for granted —because we have so much here in this wonderful land of ours. Nowhere else is there such an abundance of food and clothing, so many modern conveniences in every home—so many luxuries. And nowhere else in all the world do people enjoy the freedom that is ours. Yet, all too often, we forget to be grateful for something until it is gone. "Thank you" is such a_ little phrase, but so powerful it can open the door of a human heart. As soon as a child is able to understand he should be taught the meaning of "thank you." He should be taught to give thanks to all who contribute to his well-being—parents, teachers, community helpers, friends, and to God—first and always to God. Gratitude is a flower of careful cultivation. Plant it in a child's heart and help him keep it growing, and what an asset it will be to him all of his life! Ours is such a busy world. We mean to write a thank-you note, 581 but we don't get around to it. We mean to call a friend who has done us a favor, but the days go by, and it isn't done. "But Aunt Mary knows I appreciate her gift," said a young bride a little impatiently when she was reminded that she hadn't sent a thank-you note. But could her aunt really know? How can anyone know that we appreciate what he has done or is doing for us if we, in our thoughtlessness, do not take time to express so small a phrase as "thank you"? "Why should I thank him?" asked a woman regarding an electrician who had worked inher house all day. "Tle's being paid plenty." A "thank you" would have cost her nothing, and perhaps it would have paid dividends had she ever needed that man again. "Where are the nine?" Jesus asked the one who returned to thank him. Was he surprised that only one of the ten who were cleansed returned to express his appreciation? Perhaps not. It is quite possible that he expected their indifference and ingratitude. Are we like the nine, you and I? How much do we forget to be thankful for? "If I were rich [ would be happy, said the young man. We barter for happiness, but not with gold. If we have the attributes of love, charity, humility, and gratitude to give, then we can make happiness our own. Lew Loss Mary Gustafson The cedars bend low to the rush of wind, Bend low to the sleeping child, But never she knows of the rustled wind Or the grief, unreconciled, One to Tell Frances C. Yost like a beehive as Marian Clegg entered. She looked around for a familiar face. Cora Meads, the president of the Relief Society, was sitting at the quilt with her back to the door and hadn't noticed Marian come in. In one corner a half dozen ladies were embroidering a set of dish towels. Another group was making little dishcloth dolls for the bazaar. Close to the door, a group was tearing rags for carpets. 'They needed more help there, and Marian slipped out of her coat, dropped it on one of the chairs in the circle, and joined the rugmaking group. Marian's job was to roll the nice long strips into balls, after they were torn and sewed together. Les, her husband, was right, it was fun to be with the ladies, and nice to be away from the children for awhile. Marian relaxed and listened to the conversation of the sisters. Perhaps she should join the Relief Society. Marian had always thought it was for just the older women, but there were quite a few young mothers here, in fact enough to merit a nursery. Marian had no - ticed children playing in the adjoining room, when she came. She had let little things like children's naps keep her away. The children could easily take their naps a_ little earlier, and they, too, would enjoy playing in the nursery. Marian looked up to see President Meads getting up from her quilting. She came over and welcomed Marian warmly. 'Then she Page 582 Tw Relief Society room was walked around the room, visiting with each group of workers. Finally, she took her place again at the quilt. It was much later when Marian noticed the strips of soft, thick black wool. 'They are almost too nice for a rug, Marian thought. She herself, would have made a pair of pants for one of the boys, or maybe a coat for Sherry. The cloth looked so familiar. It looked just like her own coat! Frantically, Marian looked over to the chair where she had carelessly laid her coat. It was gone! Her coat must have slipped from the chair and been milled around with the discarded clothing in the pile on the floor, and later torn to shreds. Marian felt hot tears scalding her eyes. What would she do now? No coat to her name and in the dead of winter! After the sheer terror of it wore off, Marian felt a deep anger burning within her, as she looked down at the strips of her own coat which she was wrapping into balls for rugs. Imagine, her own coat torn into carpet rags! This would be one to tell. She would tell everyone what had happened to her on her first day at Relief Society. She would start telling these ladies right now. Marian heard herself speak. Her voice was surprisingly calm, and even a bit hilarious. "Ladies, have you ever thought what a story there is to the coat you wear? Why, I remember the first ready-made coat I ever had. I was not more than three. I went with my father to town. Perhaps he was ashamed of the homemade coat I was wearing." ONE TO TELL Marian chuckled, "Anyway he took me into a store, and bought the loveliest blue velvet coat. It had three capes. One cape which came about to my waist, and another about half as long, and the third made a little collar around the neck. How I loved that coat! Father liked it, too, I'm sure, because he often lifted the cape up over my head and said, 'peek-a-boo.' "' Marian stopped. All the women in the rug group were listening. They were enjoying her story. "I remember another coat I had," Marian continued. "This one was made for me by my older sister. It was made of nice brown wool, and it had the prettiest tan fox collar. I was thrilled each time she fitted it on me. Sis did a real good job of it, too, except for one thing, she didn't make any lapels. 'The silk lining went might to the edges of the coat. Buttoned up, the coat looked really ready-made, but I was deeply mortified when it was opened at the front and the silk lining showed. So," Marian laughed softly, "even on hot days, I wore the coat buttoned right up to my chin." ARIAN looked around. The women in the dishcloth doll group had moved their chairs closer so that they could hear her coat stories. "There was another coat," Marian began. "I remember the day Mother and I went to buy it. I fell deeply in love with a royal blue coat. 'But blue fades so much,' Mother said to me. 'Why not this red, or this durable tweed?' I insisted on the blue. The first year it looked lovely, but the second year it faded 583 on the shoulders. A new coat that year was out of the question. One day I noticed how bright the inside of the coat was and I decided to turn the coat wrong side out! I was in the seventh grade, and hadn't done much sewing, but Mother said, 'Well, if you are determined, you may try, but if you spoil it, I don't know what you will wear!' " "T can always sew it back up the same way," I replied. "I started ripping one seam at a time. Then I would sew it up on the other side. I knew if I had many pieces of the coat before me at once, I would become confused. It was on a Saturday that I started working on the coat. By Saturday night, it was pressed and once more a beautiful royal blue. 'The coat fitted perfectly, and I loved it again." The women who were embroidering the dish towels had leaned closer to hear every word. Those who were quilting had stopped their conversation and were listening, though their needles continued to keep up their in-and-out movement. Marian continued, "I always had a ready-made coat after that. Once I was fortunate enough to have two coats at one time. A pretty red coat, and a nice black one my older sister had handed down. 'The styles were short, really conspicuously short, at that time. Then suddenly Paris dropped the skirt length, some twelve inches, and there was poor little me, with two good coats and neither one came to my knees! But I solved that one," Marian said with a smile. "How?" It was as if every lady in the room had breathed the word at the same time. "T looked through a mail-order catalogue," Marian continued. "Oh, not to buy a new one. No such luck as that, for those were depression years. I was looking to see if there was such a thing as a twotoned coat. I figured if I could find even one in the catalogue, a twotoned coat would be. Stylish. I found two coats of this nature, so I started working. "The red coat, I left as it was through the shoulders, sleeves, and waist. By dropping the armholes of the black coat to the waist, it reached the proper length. So, with the red as the top, and the black as the bottom, I contrived a new coat. I used a sort of square link effect to match them together, both in the back and on the sleeves, where the black and red met. 'The collar was a muffler effect, with black on one side and red on the other. 'Vhe finished coat was really trim, neat, and professional looking. I wore it for years, even after I had other coats." ARIAN stopped for breath. She looked around the room. She had an audience, all mght. You could hear a pin drop, the room was so quiet, except for her voice, and the steady movement of embroidery needles, crochet hooks, and quilting needles. "A coat should mean a great deal to a person," Marian continued. "So many things happen to a person during the lifetime of a coat. Why a coat becomes even closer to you than a friend. A coat sort of takes on personality and becomes a part of you." "Why, how interesting," one sister spoke up. "I never thought of coats in that light, as personalities, before. 'l'o me a coat has been just something that served me, sort of like a servant. When one was too old, I'd get a new one." "Another coat with clinging memories,' Marian continued, "was a light blue one I bought in Salt Lake City once. Tfow I loved that coat! I wore it and wore it, and because I loved it so much, and it wasn't out of style, or threadbare, I had it dyed a navy blue. People complimented me on my new coat. I always felt that coat knew that it was nearer and dearer to me than any new one could ever be." Marian paused a few moments for dramatic effect. She knew the ladies were thinking about their own coats hanging in the hallway, and feeling that they would appreciate the coat that kept them warm just a little more. 'lhey were in the mood now for her final word! Marian knew just what she would say, and continued. "Sometimes, too, a person doesn't really appreciate a coat, while one wears it. It is after something happens to it, that it becomes like a dead friend, and you wish that you could call it back. Perhaps if you could have the chance again, you would hang it up properly, take better care of it, really treasure it, as a good coat should be treasured." Marian felt tears coming, but she blinked them back. She would see this story to the finish. She was almost to the climax. She had the many balls of black cloth on her lap ready to display. She was ready to tell these women just what they had done to her coat. 584 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1954 ONE TO TELL But Marian couldn't go on. She looked about at the women in the room. 'They were all such sweet, kind-hearted women. Why if... If they knew what had happened to her coat, they would open their purses and make up the loss among them. It would be beggarly to tell the climax of the story. No one must ever know what had happened to her coat this day. Of course, she would have to tell her husband, Les. But she would put the blame squarely on her own shoulders, where it belonged. Should have hung her coat in the cloakroom as all the other women had done. A new coat right now would mean doing without the lovely platform rocker that she and Les had been saving to buy. [t would be a real sacrifice for both of them, to have to buy a new coat right now. After she told Les what had happened to the coat, she would never tell another soul. MARIAN heard herself speaking. "Well, sisters, that's all the coat stories." She managed a smile when she spoke, then turned slightly and looked out of the window. 'The day, which had looked so lovely when she came to the work mecting, had changed. Snow was falling now in large flakes. Marian felt the harsh cold that would meet her at the door and engulf her all the way home. Perhaps it would be best to go to the bishop's office, and call Les on the phone. He would be glad to come around for her in the car. It would be best to tell him to bring her summer jacket. No use running a risk of pneumonia in the dead of winter. She: 585 Marian started to rise, when she heard the president, Sister Cora Meads, say, "I believe we've been together long enough today, sisters. Sister Clegg, will you stay for a few minutes and help me set the room in order?" Marian was glad to stay. It would help to keep the secret of her coat, if the sisters had all left before she did. She hardly recognized her own high-pitched voice, "Why, yes, I can stay for a few minutes. I would be delighted to help straighten the Relief Society room. It was while they were carrying the balls of carpet rags into the Relief Society closet that President Meads put her arm around Marian's waist. "Sister Clegg, I want you to try on this lovely green coat." Why... W hy.. How did President Meads know what had happened to her coat? None of the other women, not even the ones in _ the circle of rag cutters, had missed the coat. Did a Relief Society president have a given intuition, a sort of heavenly guiding knowledge of where things were needed? Marian had scoffed at such things, but it must be so. If not, how did Sister Meads know of her need now? President Meads went on, "A friend of mine who lives in another town was passing through in a car and gave me this coat to give to the Deseret Industries. She said she was too loaded and wanted someone else to have the use of it. 'Take it, Sister Clegg, and wear it proudly." Sister Meads was holding the coat open for her to try on. Marian slipped into the coat, and buttoned it around her throat. It felt good. It was warm and well made and in style. She turned to look at herself in the mirror. Why, it was a perfect fit, as if it had been made especially for her. Marian liked the green wool in the coat. It was lovely and really more expensive looking than she could have bought herself. But, if she took it, and if the word got around... She and Les had never accepted chara "Wear it proudly,' President Meads repeated. "But... But..." Marian hardly knew how to express herself tactfully. "You mean, you couldn't wear it, if people knew?" Sister Meads looked at her kindly. "Sister Clegg, a Relief Society president isn't even allowed to let her right hand know what her left hand does." Marian felt a warm protecting hand on her shoulder. She felt some- | thing else! It was a certain something burning within her bosom. Suddenly Marian wanted to become a member of Relief Society. She wanted to become one with the other sisters of the Church in this organization of loving service. —<_- — Sor an Artist Vesta N. Lukei The berries are red on the eastern bough, And sunlight shadows the leaves below With pebbled patterns from higher green. Oh, catch, if you will, the vagrant scene With paint or pencil, skillfully— But keep your love for the living tree And always know that no word or brush Can hold the song of the morning thrush, a = End of Summer Beatrice Knowlton Ekman The year has turned to the summer's ending And harvested fields are bared to the sky. Low, mountain mists, with the tall clouds blending, Veil the granite cliffs above timberline. Across the valley, vapors are creeping, Unfettered tumbleweeds roll lightly by; Red apples are ripe for winter's keeping, And the grapes hang purple upon the vine. Near canyon streams bright maples are glowing, The yellow-gold aspens quiver and sigh; Through towering pines, cool wind is blowing A requiem song for the summertime, 586 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1954 Ralph Dorothy A. Johnson [ was the sight of his two worn little working gloves that really touched off the tears, or maybe it was his boy-sized irrigation shovel placed just so in the corner of the garage the way he always stored it. I recalled his last words as he hurried away to his first morning at school. "Don't you go to the farm, Mother, till I come home. Then I'll put on my workin' gloves and get my shovel and we'll sure have fun." The whole family had become attached to that little shovel, and it had somehow become a symbol of Ralph. We had watched breathlessly the morning of his sixth birthday as Grandfather and Grandmother had handed him his bulky present. "Oh, boy! A shovel.... Now I can reaily irrigate your garden, Mother."' How his eyes had danced as Grandfather had showed him his name printed on the handle!.. "Just so the kids will know that Ralph is going to really help run the farm this summer.' And how he had helped! The whole farm personnel had smiled at his enthusiasm. A familiar sight it had been to see him patrol the water ditches, his shovel over his shoulder, tightly gripped by a hand in his working glove, patched blue jeans, scuffed up red Indian boots, determination in his stride, a proud swing to his shoulders, his eyes alight with the feeling of usefulness and achievement. "You don't need to worry about your strawberries, Mother, I have it all figured out just how I'm going to run the water." No urigation engineer could have had more thrill from his blue prints of a new dam than Ralph did from making his water behave. Such an claborate system of dams and ditches! And then the glow of satisfaction when his job had been done. "Well, I bet that water subbed through every row. You sure ought to get a good fall crop of berries. I bet we even have enough for the magpies.' My little pal, what a joy he has always been! And how thankful I am that I have not wasted a single moment of my love in the disappointment many pcople thought I should have felt in the arrival of my third boy. Perhaps that was the secret of our palship, a reciprocation for the fierce loyalty and extra tender love I had shown at his birth. After all, we usually get out of anything the sum total of what we put into it. In this case the bread I had cast on the water had returned as cake. The time is here for horizons beyond the bounds of irrigation ditches, and I'll be watching for the same swing of his shoulders, the same determined stride. And as my heart swells with pride at each new accomplishment, I know I'll think of his first world he conquered, the world of irrigation ditches, with the aid of two blue working gloves and a little shovel with a red handle. Wind Singers Grace Barker Wilson The shutters all are fastened tight, My house, my hearth are weather-proof; But still I hear throughout the night Wind fingers tapping on my roof. Page 587 Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, September 1, and September 15, 1894 "For THE Ricnts or THE WomMEN or ZION AND THE Ricirs OF THE Women or ALL Narions" A CONSTITUTION FOR UTATI: The men who frame the Constitution for the State of Utah are expected to build a structure that will be permanent, that will have a sure foundation and will not need continually patching up because it is not equally well poised and properly balanced in all its parts; the strangers who visit beautiful Utah will agree that it has the advantage of almost any other section of country in our broad land in natural facilities and in beauty of location, and therefore it should have the best, the wisest and the strongest Constitution, to correspond with its belongings. —Kditorial RELIEF SOCIETY MEETING IN THE FOURTEENTH WARD, SALT LAKE CITY:... Sister L. D. Alder: "I have worked at the straw work years ago, we had hats for sale also rag carpets, in the Relief Society. I am anxious these home industries should succeed."... Sister Susan Grant of Davis County said: "I take great interest in Home Industry. Always trade at the Woman's Store. Also advise the sisters in our stake to do so.... The Lord tells us to adorn ourselves with the workmanship of our own hands..... In years past I always felt like getting in a corner and staying there; since taking an active part in public duties, have experienced great joy in my labors." —V. R. Young, Sec. HARVEST TIME Harvest time, and a bright gold sun, Sends its beams o'er the yellowing fields; The heavy grain, and sweet-scented meadows, All tell of bounteous yields; The clang of mower, and clash of scythe Are gathering the yield of the soil; Every where is fruitfulness To gladden the sons of toil.... M. R. 'T. Griffith VERSATILE WOMEN: Charlotte Carmichael Stopes in British Free-W/omen— Their Historical Privilege, finds that women have been Queens Consort; Queens Regnant; and Queens Regent. That as noble women they have received homage, held courts.... Could and did inherit public offices... That as peeresses they could be, and were summoned to Parliament in person or by proxy. NOT A PARADISE: 'The historian tells us that it was no garden of the Hesperides upon which the pioneers gazed that memorable July morning. Aside from its scenic splendor, which was indeed magnificent, there was little to invite, and much to repel in the prospect presented to their view... On all sides a seemingly endless waste of sage brush bespangled with sunflowers—the paradise of the lizard, the cricket, and the rattlesnake... A silence unbroken, save by the cricket's ceaseless chirp, the roar of the mountain torrent, or the whirr and twitter of the passing bird... A desolation of centuries.... —Selected Page 588 DOROTHY CANFIELD FISHER, one of America's most beloved writers, has recently published Vermont Tradition. It celebrates the worth of a free people who have stamped the American nation as a Whole with somcthing of their character. EEVAII M. ROSENTTIAL, leader in social work education. Conceived and is largely responsible for a program for aiding epileptics. It is the first plan in the United States to combine medical treatment, research, vocational traming, and social adjustments for sufferers from epilepsy. ANNA ELLA CARROLL and ABRAHAM LINCOLN (Falmouth and Company, Manchester, Maine) is a new book by Sydney Greenbie and his wife, Marjorie Barstow Greenbie. It tells the authentic story of Anne, more abolitionist than Lincoln himsclf, though a Maryland aristocrat from a family of slaveholders. Her keen political insight, talent for writing, and military genius were ever at the command of President Lincoln. IVE Latter-day Saint students from Utah, Idaho, and California, are winning special recogniWoman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon tion for their musical accomplishments in New York City. Lucretia Ferre was soprano soloist in "The Messiah" oratorio in 'Town Hall and has had roles in operas and musicales with the Arundel Opera Company in Maine. Lila Dickson has sung the alto roles in four oratorios. Renee Sheranian has appeared both as harp and as soprano soloist in important events. Bery] Jensen, contralto, is one of the few Utahns ever to appear as a soloist with the New York Oratorio Society. Naomi Nokes has appeared as soloist in concerts in New York City. For the first time in history, women's ownership of life insurance has reached the fifty billion dollar mark, according to a survey issued by the Institute of Life Insurance. IRTIIDAY congratulations are extended to Mrs. Amanda Hartman, Los Angeles, California, ninetythree; Mrs. Emily S$. Crandall and Mrs. Emma_ S. Cranmer, twins, Springville, Utah, ninety-one; Mrs. Lucy Robertson, Springville, ninety; Mrs. Lucinda Pace Redd, Monticello, Utah, ninety; Mrs. Margaret Honeycombe — LeBriton, Tooele, Utah, ninety. Page 589 CD EDITORIAL © SEPTEMBER 1 1954 VOL. 41 Congratulations to President David ©. McRHay on Fis bighty-Sirst Birthday September 8, 1954 THE general board and members of Relief Society throughout the stakes and missions of the Church extend birthday congratulations to our beloved President, David O. McKay. We rejoice in the inspiration of his leadership and in his deep and abiding spirituality. It is with special gratitude that we express our appreciation for President McKay's travels abroad to the far stakes and missions of the Church, and we rejoice with the European Saints that our Prophet, Seer, and Revelator has stood upon the English and the Swiss temple sites and dedicated these sacred premises for the erection of temples to the Most High. And we feel, with the saints "Be Ye N striving continually to grow better, there are three words which, if followed, steadily advance one along the path of progression. Paul demanded of the Ephesians, "And be ye kind one to another." If everyone would follow this advice, the worst would become better; the better, good; and good would turn into joy. Everyone's day is filled with small actions, which, with one's innermost thoughts, total up that day's character. Kind thoughts rePage 590 in Africa, in South America, Central America, Mexico, and the islands of the sea, a participation with them in the joy of seeing President McKay and hearing his voice lifted in wisdom and in reverence, and in praise to the Heavenly Father for the restored gospel and the opportunity of taking its message to the far corners of the earth. We are grateful that the days and the years of President McKay's life have been lengthened, and it is our prayer that he may enjoy continued health and strength to perform his labors on the earth, and to instruct and bless and inspire all who seek to know the will of our Father in Heaven. Kind" flected in kind words and deeds strengthen character development. And after the evening is past, reflection on that day's happenings brings satisfaction and contentment. But if kindliness has not been the wellspring of the day, then night reflections turn bitter. That clipped sentence, which seemed so apropos and smart at the time it was uttered, loses its cleverness at the remembrance of the flush and hurt look on the face of the one to whom the remark was directed. The quick- EDITORIAL ness of the wit, tinged with a little malice, no longer seems justified. Some people seem to feel called upon to pluck the mote out of their brother's. Eye while overlooking their own beam. And still, harsh criticism and unkind words do not have as much effect in awakening in a wrongdoer a desire to improve himself as do kindly words of understanding. "A soft answer turneth away wrath" is as true today as when first expressed. The mainspring to nobler living wells up from the inner soul as a result of repentance. The wife and mother has much to do with setting the tone of the home, and the exercise of kindness is an essential ingredient for establishing a tone of love. By studying critically her own conduct and acknowledging that there are two sides to any question, the homemaker inclines her heart to kindness rather than criticism. By stating to herself the two sides of an occurrence which has brought hurt to her, she comes to appreciate the feeling of the other party to a misunderstanding. Her heart then can begin to purge itself of selfishness and take a kindly, understanding view. Having gained this perspective, she looks with a proper attitude upon weaknesses of her husband known to her. In addressing the Relief Society members, the Prophet Joseph admonished them, "When you go home, never give a cross or unkind 591 word to your husbands, but Iet kindness, charity and love crown your works henceforward" (D. H. C. IV, page 607). Through this consideration and kindness, the marriage relationship, to last throughout eternity, becomes ever closer and dearer. While a mother's teen-age children may exasperate and provoke her sorely, and bring a stinging retort to her lips, yet a recollection of the command to be kind, will modify her manner of correction and result in a better understanding and future co-operation with her children. Younger children nuced to be firmly and particularly corrected and trained steadfastly. 'Vhe spirit of rebellion and bitterness which may result is usually dissolved before it hardens and leads to serious misunderstandings, if children are corrected in a spirit of kindliness. The aged stand in great need of kindly words of appreciation and encouragement. 'They can go without material largess better than spiritual compassion. Kindness arises from a deep-seated characteristic of benevolence; and the heart as well as the lips must speak kindness to earn the approbation of the Savior: "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me." "Be ye kind," are three words with vital significance to every Latter-day Saint woman. —M. C. S. No TO THE FIELD Mera General Reliof Society Conference HE annual general Relief Socicty conference will be held Wednesday and 'Thursday, September 29 and 30, 1954. On 'Thursday afternoon in the 'Vabernacle, a meeting will be held to which the general membership of Relicf Socicty and the public are invited. 'Vhe attendance at the meetings on W ednesday and on 'Uhursday morning is limited to stake and mission officers. A feature of the conference will be the cornerstone laying ceremony for the Rehet Society Building at Main and North 'Temple Streets, Wednesday afternoon at 4:15. Buying Texthooks and Usual Aids for Relief Society Lessons ROM inquirics which come to the general board, it would seem that some Relief Society officers and class leaders are not acquainted with the recommended procedure for acquiring necessary textbooks for lessons. The education counselor in both the stake and ward should present to the president of the respective organization a list of the textbooks and visual aids which will be needed to teach the Relief Society lessons during the coming season. She should then be authorized to purchase these supplies with funds from the Relief Society general fund. 'he education counselor should sce that the name of the Relief Society organization is written in each book before giving it to the respective stake or ward class leader for her use. At the end of the course the education counselor is responsible for collecting the books and visual aids and placing them in the Relief Society library. Where a teacher wishes to purchase her own textbook in order to be able to mark it and keep it after the conclusion of the course, it is recommended that the Relief Society organization should also purchase a textbook: 1. In order that the book may become a part of the Relief Society library; 2. To be available for use by those given special assignments; 3. Because a change of teachers might be necessary during the course, and at that time it might be impossible for the Relicf Society organization to purchase a copy of the desired textbook or visual aid.. Education counsclors are urged to safeguard Relief Society libraries and to be alcrt to opportunitics "of adding to them gifts of Church and other worthwhile books. 'Relicf Society Handbook * Available The Handbook of Instructions of the Relief Society, 1949 edition, is available at the office of the Gencral Board, 4o North Main Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, price 60 cents each, postpaid. 'This handbook contains official instructions on Rehef Society policies and procedure. Page 592 The Long Night Maurine B. Hansen the window, looking down at the city below; out of the sea of smoky twilight the early lights came floating, seemed to be riding the waves directly up to the base of the huge gray building where she was. This place is just like an island, she thought pensively, or a mountaintop. All the noise and confusion of the city, all the cares and troubles of living wash around it, but up here nothing touches us. We're like castaways from the time we enter till the time we go home and have to face our responsibilities JK tresindom stood silently at again. Well. I don't want to go home! Every other time I could hardly wait to get home with the new baby, but not this time. I'm sick of being somebody's wife, somebody's mother. I want to be myself! And it seems I have to come to the hospital and have a baby to do it! Katherine pushed the window curtain aside impatiently and stared again into the gathering darkness. So quiet. You couldn't even hear the traffic clearly from here. Only a sound like the wind on an autumn night. At home now, there would be no peace and quiet. 'This was the worst time of day when you had children. Joe coming home tired, asking if supper was ready, the baby (well, she'd been the baby until now) crying sleepily in her high chair, the two little girls wrangling endlessly over their toys, while Kathy, the eight-year old, sat with her ear glued to the blaring radio. And, finally, when the nightmarish meal was prepared and eaten, when the last child had been coaxed into eating her vegetables, when the inevitable glass of milk had been spilled and wiped up, and Joe had been waited on and filled up and sent in to read his paper, then could Katherine sit down, eat her own supper, and relax? No, then the work began again, or perhaps it merely continued—at a more hectic pace. The bath, with the usual chaos in the bathroom, the tedious, childishly drawn-out routine of getting into night clothes, curling Kathy's hair for school, the story, the pravers, the drinks of water, and the goodnight kisses. At this point Katherine always felt more like bestowing an exasperated spank than a kiss—and the final, exhausted relicf of turning off the light. Oh, if only she could rest then! But there were still the kitchen with the sinkful of unwashed dishes, the dining room with the uncleared table, the floor to sweep—and after: ward, the basket of ironing (did Kathy have a clean dress for school? ), Kathy's shoes to polish, Joe's socks to darn, his torn work pants to mend and nothing, nothing, nothing to look forward to but bed and the blessed relief of sleep, until the baby cried, or one of the children had a bad dream, or wanted another drink. And then, almost instantly, it seemed, came the maddening jangle of the alarm and another day's beginning. Oh, no, thought Katherine franPage 593 tically, safe on the fifth floor of the hospital, I won't go home tomorrow! I can't face that again, so soon! Other women can manage gracious, leisurely meals, a pleasant, quiet evening with their children— and a little time to be a companion to their husbands. If only I were more efficient, a better manager. But I'm not, and I must have a little more time to myself! Mother is there, she planned feverishly in her mind. She'll take good care of Joe and the girls. I'll tell Dr. Miller I don't feel strong enough to leave yet. [I'm sure he'll let me stay another day or two. He must! I can't face the bedlam at home yet, especially not with the new baby to take care of, too! She sank into a soft chair and looked around her, her eyes bitter and stormy, her usually pretty mouth a sullen line. She was in the waiting room at the end of the hall on the maternity floor. It was a comfortable, pleasant room. Easy chairs, an end table with a casual clutter of magazines and papers, flowered drapes at the wide windows, a golden pool of light on tht floor beneath the graceful floor lamp. Down the hall beyond the nursery was her room. It was pleasant too, and quietly peaceful. What was more important, she was alone there. No one to make demands upon her, no responsibilities. Her meals were brought to her regularly — in good time. Good meals, tastefully arranged on the tray— meals she did not have to cook, nor clean up after. She slept undisturbed throughout the night; when she awoke, she washed and listened to the radio, read, or rested until her breakfast came. After that she could see her baby, play with him, feed him, rejoice in the fact that she and Joe had a boy at last after the four little girls. But she did not have to bathe him, nor change him, nor wash. His clothes. She did not even hear him cry. And all the long afternoon was hers to read, or nap, to visit in case anyone came to see her, to rediscover her self as a person, an individual, not a mother, nor a wife, not a housekeeper, nor a cook, nor a laundress. Katherine did not want to go home. She felt well enough and had very little weakness, but she had a bitter determination to stay in the hospital somehow—to refuse to go home tomorrow. She sat there a long time, reveling in the stillness, the complete absence of things she should be doing. Finally, she rose, sighing, still bitter about having to leave this hayen, but realizing, too, that there was nothing she could do about it. She was well—they couldn't afford for her to stay even one day longer than was necessary. HE went back along the darkened hall, past the closed doors of others like hers, till she came to the nursery. Peering between the slats of the blinds she could see her baby in his crib, on his stomach, asleep, the blue blanket covering him except for his round black head. What a darling he was! So like Joe. Everything she had wanted her son to be. Of course you wanted your girls to be pretty, but it didn't matter, especially, whether or not they looked like their father. But a boy, when they had waited 594 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1954 THE LONG NIGHT so long for one, why, how wonderful that he should look so much like his father. She feasted her eyes on him a moment more—how peacefully he slept! How safe he was here. He got the best of care, she needn't worry about him a minute, as she might at home. 'Then, noticing by the clock on the nursery wall that it was a quarter to six —almost time for them to bring the baby in—she went back along the quiet hall to her own room. The efficient, masked nurse brought the baby in promptly at six, relinquished him to Katherine's waiting arms, and silently departed, closing the door softly behind her. A moment later she reopened the door long enough to say, "Oh, Mrs. Harper, your baby was quite unhappy earlier this evening. He seems to have a tummyache, poor little boy. But don't worry—he'll get over it with no trouble, I'm sure." And she was gone again. "Have you been sick, honey?" Katherine murmured, cuddling her son. "Well, after your supper everything will be better." And so it was. 'The baby soon lay drowsing and content in her arms. The omnipresent nurse appeared again, like a genie, and whisked the baby back to the nursery. She brought him in again at ten, after Katherine had spent a thoroughly enjoyable evening visiting with the patient in the next room, discussing their respective children (strange how charming they became when you did not have to be with them every minute). "How's my baby been?" she asked the nurse. 595 "Oh, a little fussy, Mrs. Harper, but nothing to be concerned about," the nurse replied. After her visit with the baby, Katherine went to bed. The room was cool, blessedly quiet and_ remote, the bed linen was hospitalimmaculate. With nothing to disturb her, Katherine slept. HE awoke suddenly sometime later. For a moment she lay still, holding her breath, listening. 'Then it came again, the high, incessant wailing of a baby. She often heard the babies in the nursery cry, but this was different. It was. Familiar. It was her baby. Suddenly, she was sure of it. She hadn't heard him cry often, but he had cried that evening and she remembered. She listened again. 'The crying went on, desperate, persistent. Don't be silly, she told herself, he's only hungry—they'll feed him, and he'll. Go right back to sleep. But the crying went on, unabated, in- - creasing in volume and desperation, until as suddenly as it had begun, it stopped. Katherine listened fearfully. They must have picked him up, she breathed. But the sound began again, seconds later, fretful, appealing, as if the child had only stopped for breath. Katherine sat up in bed, her hands clutching the sheet, staring into the darkness. She had never heard a new baby cry quite like that before. So insistently, as if... As if he were in ain. Could it be that he was sick? After all, the nurse had said he'd been fussy—had had a stomachache. What if it were something serious? You read all the time of epidemics among newborn babies in hospitals. You never thought it could happen to one of yours, but... Suppose it did? Suppose it were her baby, her son? Sick at heart, desperately Katherine fumbled her way out of the high hospital bed, groped for her slippers, her housecoat. She slipped out the door, down the hall, her feet noiseless on the polished floor. Halfway to the nursery a nurse stepped out of the office. "Why, Mrs. Harper, what are you doing up at this hour?" "T—I heard a baby crying," Katherine stammered. "I came to see if it was my baby. He sounded so ill, and he cried so long... Listen, you can still hear him!" "Now, Mrs. Harper, I'm sure everything is all right. He's probably only hungry. And it most likely isn't your baby anyway. You need your rest. Now you go right back to bed." She turned Katherine's resisting form, propelled her gently down the hall. "You climb back into bed, Mrs. Harper, and I'll go down to the nursery and check on that baby," she said soothingly. "There is no need for you to worry." Alone again, Katherine did not get back into bed. She turned instead to the window, stared unseeing into the blackness. 'The nurse had not reassured her. After all, it was her job to keep the patients from becoming upset. What else could she have said to Katherine? And they certainly would not tell her if there were something wrong with her baby. Not until it was too late. Those epidemics struck like lightning, Katherine remembered. Only a few hours before the baby. Died. A sob stuck in her throat. 'Back in the nursery the baby still cried, the sound rising and falling, growing weak and tired, then loud and anguished. ATHERINE could bear it no longer. She shut her door tightly against the sound, telling herself over and over, furiously, it's not my baby, it's not my baby! And _ anyway, they'll take good care of him. They know just what to do. If they have to, they can get a doctor in a minute. And I'm sure it isn't my baby. All this is just my imagination. But the sound crept into the room, under the door, through the transom, filling it with dread and the terrible noise of the baby's crying. Katherine knelt by the bed. "Dear Lord, take care of my baby. Don't let it be my baby! Please, Father, let me take him home tomorrow, let me help him grow up. Please, don't let it be my baby!" Dear God, she thought, if only I could see him, hold him, know just how sick he is! All night the terrible sound continued. She waited breathlessly, hopelessly, praying for the crying to stop, fearing that it would, and she would no longer know if the child still existed. At last the sky began to grow light, the first pink fingers of dawn crept over the mountains. And the crying of the baby stopped. Down the hall, the hushed footsteps of the nurse were approaching. The door opened. "Why, Mrs. Harper, are you up 596 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1954 THE LONG NIGHT already? Here's your baby, all ready for his breakfast. And is he hungry!" Katherine raised her haggard face to the nurse. "My baby, is he.. Is he all right?" "He surely is—slept through his two-o'clock feeding, almost. I think he would have, but one of the babies cried most of the night—his formula doesn't agree with him, I guess. I hope he didn't disturb you. He has a mighty pair of lungs." "No," Katherine murmured faintly. "He didn't disturb me." 597 "That's good," said the nurse, placing the baby in Katherine's arms. "I hear you're going home today. Good luck to you... Don't work too hard right away now." And she was gone. "Yes," said Katherine, holding her baby tightly, "we're going home today, home to Daddy and the little sisters—and we can hardly wait.' Suddenly the hospital lost its magic for her... It was quiet, peaceful... But ome iain was where the safety lay and everything she held dear.! Sraditional Beulah Huish Sadleir It bears no mark of Chippendale— Of Sheraton or Adam. It never held a princess Nor a smart Parisian madam; It boasts of no handcarving, Wears no ancient tapestry— 'This chair made in my grandpa's mill Held just my doll and me. LYNDA SUE SNOW Standing beside the chair which was made by her third great-grandfather, Walter Huish of Payson, Utah. Storin g Wheat N response to requests which have come to the Magazine for information on inethods of storing wheat, we are printing the following information contained in a bulletin issued by the General Church Welfare Committee: 1. Variety: Dark Hard Winter Wheat (Turkey) Dark Hard Spring or Marquis Wheat 2. Grade should be No. 2 or better (not less than 58 Ibs. Per bushel). Protein should be from 11.50 or 12.50 per cent. Wheat should be cleaned for human consumption and free from smut and foreign material. 3. Moisture content is most important. It is recommended that the moisture content be less than 10 per cent. Insects are unable to reproduce in clean grain with a moisture of 9 per cent or below. 4. Containers should be suitable to hold weight of grain, protect it from rodents and insects, and should be non-conductors of moisture (metal containers have been most satisfactory ). 5- Quantity will vary according to individual needs. An active person will require more than an inactive one. As a guide, from past experience, one year's requirement will vary from 70 Ibs. Per year for children to 300 Ibs. For an adult per capita. (This refers only to bread, cereal, and other normal requirements. If circumstances cause wheat and wheat products to become the principal diet, the amount required per individual would be proportionally increased. ) 6. Storage. Wheat will keep indefinitely if properly stored in a cool dry place with moisture under 10 per cent. It should be free from any foreign materials, especially those which have odors (kerosene, onions, petroleum products, etc.). If wheat is stored for more than one year it should be turned and aerated at least twice a year. Wheat can be cleaned by screening it over a hand sieve made of screen similar to wire door screen. The most successful storage has resulted from stock rotation, using old wheat first, and replacing it with new wheat at harvest season. SK aithful Farmer Mabel Law Atkinson When working for a harvest, he would sow The seed with care in fertile, waiting soil, And ask the Father to reward his toil— 'Then would continue on to use the hoe. Page 598 Wood Carving. O;/ Painting. And Needlecraft Ella Call Cook, Afton, Wyoming. Keeps Herself Busy and Makes Other People Happy With Her Multiple Hobbies Qeerek COOK, sixty-nine years old, is seen holding a scroll wood carving, "Queen Anne's Sleigh." Also in the photograph are a hand-carved shelf in scroll design and five pieces of toy furniture. Sister Cook also carved the graceful balustrade seen at the right of the picture. Other items illustrated are: a pompom bedspread, a knitted bed jacket, crocheted tidy, netted doily (on Sister Cook's lap); crocheted tablecloth; eyelet embroidered pillowcases; embroidered doily; tatted doily; cluny lace-trimmed curtains; hand-painted china plate; syrup pitcher, plate, and candlestick; punchwork panel, crocheted bag, crocheted bedspread, nylon crocheted scarf, beaded handbag; 'Broken Star" quilt, "Turkey Tracks" quilt, "Tumbling Blocks" quilt; hooked rug; oil painting of roses. Sister Cook, mother of eight children, has served in the stake Relief Society presidency and is now a visiting teacher in her ward. <—- Ge Cuard Pansye H. Powell When summer nights hold clover sweets, Beset by insect vandals, Then firefly watchmen light their beats With dashing neon-candles! Page 599 No Secrets Between Them Dorothy Boys Kilian in her favorite rocker by the back parlor window and adjusted across her slender shoulders the beautiful shawl her daughter had recently sent her from India. "A lovely thing," she said softly for the hundredth time. "But, ch, if it could only have been Julie herself that came across the water instead...." She stopped abruptly and jiooked apprehensively across at her whitehaired, kind-faced husband who was reading in his big leather chair. Mad she said too much? Would he realize that she was thinking she might never see their child again, at Icast in this world? Mr. Thatcher looked up from his paper and said soothingly, "Only a year now, Mary, until it's time for her to come home again." "Yes, only a year," Mrs. Thatcher repeated slowly. I have succeeded in keeping it from him, she thought Min THATCHER sat down to herself. He doesn't have the faintest idea. Far from feeling triumphant, however, the taste of her success was a great bitterness in her mouth. She had never before, in all their forty-seven years of married _ life, tried to keep anything important from her husband. But when the doctor had told her—apparently he had seen that she was determined to know the truth—that she might go any time now, her first instinct had been to protect Jonathan from all unnecessary sorrow. She had had a long, full, rich life, there should be Page 600 no real sadness over the fact that her course was almost run. But he might not be able to see it that way. The anguish of uncertainty might be much harder for him to bear than for her. Why not spare him? So she had brav ely reasoned. But day by day the unaccustomed burden of the secret had grown heavier on her heart. She had come to feel that she was cheapening their last days together by refusing to share everything with him, that, in effect, she had been doing him the injustice of believing him to be more cowardly than she. She longed to tell him the truth, but the longer she waited, the more difficult it became to broach the subject. Mrs. 'Vhatcher looked out the window toward her beloved garden, as if hoping to find strength in its awakening beauty. Her eyes focused on its newest addition, a shiny green camellia plant, now bursting with buds. I knew that one would bear bountifully, she thought warmly, the minute [ saw it. In a few weeks it will be a riot of color. HE new plant in full bloom! How fast time was passing. She must not allow another day to go by with this shadow of deception between her and her husband. "Jonathan," she said quickly, feeling the blood drain from her face. "IT must tell you something." "Yes, Mary?" Mr. Thatcher put down his paper with startling suddenness. NO SECRETS BETWEEN THEM Mrs. Thatcher cleared her throat. "It's hard,' she half whispered. "The telling of it is almost harder than the thing itself." She forced herself to continue. "Jon, remember when you took me to the doctor's about two months ago?" Mr. Thatcher leaned forward and laid his wrinkled brown hand on hers. "You don't have io tell me, my dear—I know," he said softly. There was a moment of deep, searching silence between them. "You know, Jonathan?" Mrs. Thatcher asked incredulously, even as a great wave of relief swept over her. "But how? I thought I had been so careful not to...." Her husband smiled tenderly. "You have been careful, Mary. At what cost I will never know. And since you seemed to want it that way, I have kept silent." "What made you realize, Jon? Did that doctor say anything to you? If he did," Mrs. Thatcher's gentle voice rose to an unnatural crescendo, "I'll never trust his word. Again!" "No, no, it wasn't Dr. Jolby, Mary," Mr. Thatcher said hastily. "It—it was the camellias." "The camellias?" his wife echoed blankly. "Yes," he said. "You remember how we stopped at the nursery on the way home from the doctor's office that day, to buy a new camellia plant for the back garden?" "T remember," Mrs. Thatcher answered. "It was that lovely fullbodied one that's bursting with promise right this minute." She looked out the window as if to verify her statement. "They're going to have multicolored blossoms, too, just as the 601 man said," she added enthusiastically. "This morning I saw some slivers of deep pink and white peeping out from the swirls of the green buds." She seemed almost to have forgotten the burden of their conversation. "How you love camellias!" Mr. Thatcher said. "They quite take you out of yourself, don't they?" "Yes, Jonathan, they're very dear to my heart." She paused, and her husband saw the solemn shadow of reality come back into her eyes. "That's why I..." she began impulsively, then stopped in confusion. "Exactly so." Mr. Thatcher's voice was deep with emotion. "That's how I knew, Mary, what you've been trying to tell me this afternoon." RS. Thatcher raised her eyebrows questioningly. "You love flowers so much, Mary," her husband explained slowly, "that you've always wanted to watch them grow from the very beginning. If it was a choice between seeds and plants, as with zinnias, you always took seeds. Maybe you felt your eye on them would make them grow straighter and fuller than they would have in a nursery," he added teasingly. "Oh, come now, Jon," Mrs. Thatcher chuckled. "But you see, don't you?" she added seriously. "It's kind of like wanting to adopt a tiny baby from a foundling home instead of a half-grown child, if you had the choice, so you could have the joy of watching and shaping its development from the first." Mr. Thatcher nodded understandingly. "And by the same token," 602 he said, "when it came to shrubs or trees, whereas most folks wanted ones that would bear blossoms or fruit right away, you'd always buy the tiniest bush, the smallest tree." "Patience costs nothing, Jon, and I've always had plenty." "Always, until this time," her husband said softly. "On that last trip to the nursery, when I confiRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1954 dently pointed out to you the smallest, puniest plant in the place.: +." Mr. Thatcher smiled with infinite Jove and compassion as he reached over once more and put her hand in his. "This time," he went on, "you said quietly, "No, Jonathan, let's take a large one, one that will be sure to bloom well this very season.' __ And then I knew." _-~<-+ A Letter From Mother My Dear Children: Our wonderful chapel is now completed, and our dedication of it to God's work is over. But the spiritual fecling of the are still a vital part of the whole building. Ing and thrilling experience with me. Dedicatory prayer and the services held then I wish you could all have had this inspirThere is one thing I have noticed when any of the General Authorities of the Church offers a prayer, he is always careful to speak the name of Deity with reverence and in plainness. Reverence and humility. Prayers when we speak in the name of Jesus Christ, our Savior? Sometimes. It seems we become too hurried to think of the sacredness of his name. You noticed how children are often in the habit of saying I think we do appeal to our Heavenly Father with careful But how many of us give full meaning to the closing of our That bothers me Have "In the name of Jesus Christ" indistinctly, with their words tun together, at the conclusion of a blessing or a prayer. Do your little ones speak like that? When I was a small girl, one day in Sunday School our stake superintendent was visiting us, and when he spoke to us he remarked about the reverence with which the blessings on the sacrament had been said. One brother was mentioned especially, and when we came to think of it, he did pronounce the prayer beautifully, with utmost faith and reverence right to the end. Upon one occasion special respect w Mary came to Jesus and used her precio Some criticized her for being so extravagan ment should have been sold and the money as paid to Jesus. Us ointment to anoint his head and feet? T, but Jesus did not. Given to the poor, but Jesus said the poor Do you remember when Some said the ointwere always with them, but they would not always have him with them. He declared that whenever the gospel was preached this incident would be told as a memorial to her. Perhaps, if we explain to the little folks how sacred the name of Jesus is, and how he loves us, they will speak his name reverently. The fruit season is at hand, and our Relief Society bazaar is not too far away, so I am as busy. As a mother with twins. I love you, darlings. Mother Clara Horne Park Courtesy National Cotton Council French Toasted Ham Sandwiches 12 slices day-old bread 1% c. Milk shortening for spreading 3 tbsp. Flour baked or boiled ham. ¥%, tbsp. Salt mustard shortening for frying 3 ees Make sandwiches by spreading slices of bread lightly with shortening. Spread every other slice with ham and mustard to taste. Cover with plain slices. Cut sandwiches in halves diagonally, making triangles. Make batter for dipping as follows: in shallow pan, such as cake pan, beat eggs with fork. Mix flour into thin paste with a little of the milk. Add to eggs, with rest of milk and salt. Mix well. Dip sandwiches, first one side then the other, in batter. Be careful not to let them soak. Fry in hot skillet or on hot griddle, turning sandwiches once to brown both sides. Serve hot. Makes six servings. Or Color ul Secret Maryhale Woolsey "Don't let those gray clouds scare you!" Exclaimed the merry sun. "The makings of a rainbow Are wrapped in every one!" Page 603 The Falling Shackles CwapTer 4 (Conclusion) Margery S. Stewart Synopsis: The Tobler family, members of the Church from Europe, arrive in Salt Lake City, and, through the help of Mamma Tobler's cousin Frederick, find a home. Papa Tobler, who had been a doctor, finds employment in a factory. Mamma Tobler quickly makes the oldfashioned house into a home, and Karen, the younger daughter, finds many problems of adjustment in her school work. Maria, the seventeen-year-old daughter, finds work assisting young Timothy Allted in his father's drugstore. Phillip, the young son, makes many friends. Papa Tobler is greatly disturbed to find that Felix Dracken, who had been his enemy in a concentration camp, is a fellow employee at the factory. Maria is introduced to Timothy's fiancee, Lisa Ballentine, but Maria realizes she is in love with Timothy and has been in love with him ever since the day she found Philip in his store. O one was downstairs. Maria N found Karen sitting by the window in their room practicing the guitar. She was singing an American song, one familiar to Maria because of the radio the pharmacist kept on. "Has Mamma been over at all?" She sat on the bed. Karen looked up and laughed. "She is truly happy, Maria. She and Mrs. McKensie have so much in common. Mamma told me about it when she came over to get the mustard. I guess all the loneliness is over for her." "T am a stranger in paradise...' Karen sang. Maria listened critically. "You make it sound like you are a stranger in a department store. There is no feeling." Page 604? Karen stopped. "You show me, since you know so much." "T can't sing," said Maria, "I only know the person who wrote those words knew what he was talking about." Karen whistled. "Since this morning yet, Maria can give me lessons on love. What happened?" "Nothing at all...." Maria denied. "I just suddenly know how a love song should be sung." Karen became humble. "Tell me then, Maria, because they have asked me to sing for the school assembly, and if I do it right, everything will be wonderful for me." Maria sat up straight. "For the school assembly? How did they know you sang?" Karen had the grace to blush. "Mrs. McKensie's daughter Linda, the one I said hated me... Well, she has been listening to me sing, and she told the class president, and they had me try out. They said... Maria, they said I was cool." "You were what?" "Cool, Maria, means more than wonderful." Maria sat back and looked at her sister. She saw how she _ had changed... Not only in the way she wore her lovely hair, in the sweater that was her pride, the American shoes... But inside herself Karen was changed. In another year, Maria thought, there will be no difference at all, except the slightest of accents... All her think- THE FALL} NG SHAC KLES hesitate urn, and sixteen steps again. Maria Put the pillow Over her ears But in her mind she 1 important then. His wife and it over the others, The Pacing continued, swung out of bed and reached for her robe and slippers, er father He nodded Wearily, "Yes, I think so." He Came out in the kitchen and sat down heavily at the big aria Prepared the milk and cyt 8€nerous slices of amma's apple Strudel. "T have been thinking about Fe]. LX Dracken," 605 Maria 'put her hand on his arm, 'T hate him," Her father shook his head. I Wish I had not told you. WEMytoor It ig strange about par- é never know want nor fear nor sor. RoW, nothing that lS unpleasant." € laughed Without mirth, "How helpless we are to keep it from em." thinning hair. It was Very quiet In the big louse, the shadows k in the teat kitchen Papa, but I have te. Membered always how you were, the think of that when things 80 badly with TRG. Eal try to be like yOu were that day." atia started UP in protest. "Tt isn't fair! Why should you go? She shook her fa- ther's arm. "If you tell the other men, they will make Felix Dracken go. They will hate him. Cousin Frederick tells us all the time how much the men admire and respect you. They will drive Felix Dracken out." Her voice rose harshly. "Hush!" Her father put his finger on her hp. "You will awaken the whole house." He took a sip of his milk. "No," he said, "that is what Felix fears I will do. But I cannot bring myself to such a thing. Then I should be one with all the forces rising up against us in those days." She looked at him questioningly. "The destroying forces," he said, "that would enter into us all, if they could, that would crush out every decent kindly feeling, that would make us like the... The beasts we have known." Maria shuddered. "But they could not enter into you, or me." Papa took her hand. "Remember Frosgren... No, no, you were too young. You didn't know him when he was like others, kindly, laughing, full of fun. He listened to... To those others, and he believed them. He began to change." Maria watched the whiten on his hands. "Tt was strange, the difference in him. Their words flowing into his ears and filling him up like poison in a glass, and then the poison beginning to pour out... First in words, arguments with us, who had known him so long." Papa stared before him sadly. "Then in acts of violence... Shameful _ things." Papa's fingers tightened on her hand. "That is why I say... Keep the citadel of your heart, Maria. Knuckles Keep it safe from the whispers of the evil one, from dark suggestions. Throw them out... For the whispers will grow into beliefs and the beliefs into acts. If you guard against the first, you cannot be overcome by the second." HE doorbell rang. Maria jumped to her feet. "It is Mamma." But a young boy waited on the front porch when she opened the door. His bicycle lay against the steps. "This the 'obler's _ residence?" "Wigs?" "Is Christopher 'Tobler here?" "Yes." Maria stood aside as her father came to the door, frowning in perplexity. "Mr. Dracken sent you this note. He wants you to come right away. He needs a doctor bad." Papa reached reluctantly for the note the boy held out. He tore open the envelope and scanned the sprawled sentences on the page. He handed it to Maria. He said to the boy, "Tell Mr. Dracken to get another doctor. I cannot come." "He won't get another doctor," the boy protested. "We've been trying to get him to, but he told my Dad he'd die before he would have anyone but you." "Tell him," said Chris Tobler, "that I will not come. He will consent to another doctor, goodnight." He closed the door. Maria's eyes dropped to the page she was holding. "Dear Doctor Tobler: Please come. 'There is something I must tell you. Please come. Felix Dracken." She tore the note into little fragments. 606 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1954 THE FALLING SHACKLES Her father watched her. Suddenly he opened the door. He called to the boy, who was half way down the street, ""Come back." "Papa!" Maria cried. "You won't go to him.... Don't go." "What is the address?" he asked the returning boy. When he had been told, he nodded. "I will be there in a little while." "But, Papa... You cannot practice medicine here." "T know." He hurried toward the stairs. "But I can visit a man and talk to him and perhaps call a doctor for him if he has need of one." Maria turned towards the stairs. "Then I will go with you. You shall not go alone to his house. | will not let him trick you into some new evil." Felix Dracken's apartment was the basement of a very old house. It was reached by an outside stairway that led to the cluttered bedkitchen-living room. Felix Dracken lay, breathing heavily, in a rumpled heap of bedclothes on a couch. Maria started when she saw the man. He was only a shadow of what he had been. The only familiar thing about him was the continual rubbing motion of his dry, curled hands. Papa took his pulse and laid his ear against Felix Dracken's chest. "Not even a stethescope did I bring." After a time Papa sat straight, asked questions. He chewed his lower lip for a time, his eyes narrowed in thought. "I think tonight it is mostly nervousness. You are afraid, Felix." Felix Dracken cried out. He 607 struggled to sit up. "What is it you plan to do, Christopher 'Tobler? 'To go to the men? Are you going to tell them about me?" ARIA turned away from the sight of his thin hand clawing at her father's lapels. "Please... Please don't!" he stammered. "I have nothing but my job. Nothing. I have suffered always for what I did to you, Chris Tobler. But it was not for myself I did it. It was for them... For Mathilda and Carol. I did everything for them. I thought that it would all be over soon and then I meant to tell the truth... I meant to tell the truth when the danger was over... You believe that?" "Yes," said Chris Tobler, "I believe that." Felix began to weep, a dry, dreadful sound. "I thought, if I took their part for a little while, we should all come through without harm." Papa said gently, "It is all over now, Felix. It is over. They were bad times for us all. Many of us did things we would never have done in times of peace...." Felix Dracken turned away. "No," he whispered, "many did not. I saw them standing fast... Fast to all they believed. All but those like myself... Who were afraid," There was a great silence in the little room. Maria bent to pick up fallen clothes. She folded them neatly and put them on the table. "In the end," Felix Dracken said suddenly and clearly, "they were killed. You knew that." "Who was killed?" Papa asked. Maria drew closer. "Mathilda and Carol... In the last great raid... The last bombing of all." Felix sat up. "All that I had given up... All that I did that was terrible to do... Was in vain. In a moment they were taken from me." Maria met her father's eyes. They exchanged a long glance of understanding and compassion. "I will call a doctor for you" said Chris Tobler. "In a few days you will be all right. I think it was worry of what I would do that brought your sickness. I shall do nothing, Felix Dracken. Nothing." Maria and her father walked home. It was good to walk slowly, taking deep breaths of the sweet, chill air, to listen to the sounds of the night, cars hurrying past, a baby crying in a house they passed by, a party being ended at the doorway of another. They came at last to the corner where the drugstore stood. Maria started and pulled at her father's arm. "He is still there... Timothy Allred. Is something wrong with his father do you suppose?" She knocked on the door. Timothy Allred opened it and stood back in surprise. "Maria? I was just thinking of you." "Your father?" Maria asked. "Is he well? Is something wrong?" "Come in, I'll make you a malt. There's not a thing in the world wrong. In fact, the world never looked better." Papa gently disengaged his arm. "Ts late for talk for me, besides I must make a telephone call. But for Maria, there is plenty of time." "Papa!" She drew close to him in confusion. Timothy gently held her back. "You heard what he said. We can't have any disobedient children around here. Come on in, I want to ask your advice." HRIS Tobler chuckled. "The words have a warm, familiar ting," he said, "as if I might have spoken them myself, once, a long time ago." The two men exchanged glances of friendly understanding. Timothy Allred led Maria to the fountain. "Now you sit here, like a queen, and I'll fix you the fanciest malt you ever tasted. You like ice cream, Maria?" She blushed. "You know I do. Too well, perhaps." He considered her. "No. I would say you liked it just exactly enough." He placed the glass before her, made one for himself, and came around to sit beside her. "You like this drugstore, Marie?" She took a spoonful of the malt. "Very much." "T'll bet if it were your store ou'd make things hum." She nodded vigorously. He leaned on his elbow and studied her. "I'll bet you'd think it a fine idea to build more stores on either side, a food market for instance, and a cleaning shop, a barber shop and a beauty salon." Maria put down her spoon. "Are you going to do all those things, Timothy?" He took her hand. "I thought I'd start planting my forty acres." "Your father will be so happy," she paused, "but what about Miss Ballantine... She has plans also?" He pushed the hair back from his forehead. "Maria, Lisa and I haven't been in love with each other for 608 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1954 THE FALLING SHACKLES months and months. We _ have both been in love with a handsome, dashing corporation lawyer... Who didn't exist." He took a deep drink of his malt. "Would I sound fickle if I said I'd been falling in love hour by hour, day by day, with a beautiful, mysterious, dazzling stranger?" "On, you 2 Suddenly, the laughter was fled from his eyes and a curious humbleness took its place. "It is truc, Maria. I think I loved vou from the moment you came here... But I didn't know until tonight." Maria closed her eyes. What a beautiful world it was, splashed with stars, garlanded with flowers, shot 609 through with splendor. She sat very still. "You might at least tell me what you think... If you hate me... Or something like that." Maria opencd her eves and looked into his. The room rocked gently around her. ""Ihere never was such love as I feel for you, 'Timothy... Like stars bursting all around me." "It is like that with me," said Timothy, "or like a passport to heaven." Maria sipped her malt. Because Timothy had made it, it was like ambrosia and nectar. She marveled at the gladness within her and the lightness of her being... As if chains had broken and she was free. Provident Lael WW. Mill You saved from summer wealth your hands could hold; From gardens, while the sun bloomed heaven-warm, You gathered treasure—alms for days of cold, That none need hunger through the months of storm, Amber and jade in jars of corn and peas, Garnet and amethyst of cherries, plums, Gold coined from apricots and peaches—these You would find invaluable "... When winter comes," And I? I gathered wind from grief-dark pines, The scent of yellow roses fresh from rain, Blue twilight hours bird-called from secret vines. No empty heart shall ask of me in vain, And these are good: your labor season long— Mine, that preserved all summer in a song, 66 99 Gramaw Kathryn Forbes Clyde skipping home from school and saw Gramaw sitting in the low chair rocking back and forth, back and forth. Sometimes Gramaw started rocking by the window and rocked way over to the machine, and then she would pick up her chair and start all over again. Gramaw always made me feel all warm inside, just like a little light was turned on. On Saturdays when I went to visit Gramaw she would say, "Eh, an "eres my gurtl," just like I was special. Pa had a joke with Gramaw about putting "'atches'" where there weren't any and leaving them off when she ought to have said them. He would say, "Well, Gramaw dear, will you 'ave an 'erring or a hegg today?" Once I asked my father what made Gramaw talk so funny, and he said, "Hush, child, she'll hear you." Whenever Gramaw came to visit, we always had something very good for supper. Ma would go outside to the cellar under the granary and take me with her to help carry the things. I liked to go into the cool, dark places, which smelled of whitewash and apples and carrots and potatoes.. Ma kept the milk in a little cupboard with screen wire all around it, to keep out the bugs, and on the days when Gramaw came, she would take a pitcher and a big spoon down cellar and skim off the Page 610 | was always glad when I came thick cream for our strawberries. Other days, when we didn't have company, she would pour the cream in a big crock jar for churning. Once when I was only six, I caught the scarlet fever from Jimmie. ~The Marshal came and nailed a yellow sign up on our front porch and he told Ma that nobody could come in or go out of our house for three whole weeks because we were quarantined in. When people would come past our place, they would walk out in the street until they passed by. Ma said it was because they were afraid they would catch it. But Gramaw, she wasn't frightened, no sir, she just got herself quarantined in with us, so she could tell me stories and play games. When all the scales had dropped off me, Ma washed my hair and gave me a bath in the tin tub, and then Gramaw and I had to go sit under the apple tree all afternoon while Ma stuffed up all the doors and windows and fumigated the whole house. The only thing I didn't like was that Ma had to burn my best doll. Scarlet fever was fun, though, and I told Ma I wished I could have it all over again, so Gramaw would come and stay with us. Whenever Gramaw had supper at our place, it meant we would have thick, juicy pieces of ham, and buttermilk biscuits so light that Pa said we'd have to close all the doors and windows or they would float right outside. Then there were good milk gravy and new potatoes and green peas, fresh out of our garden. Ma "GRAMAW"" would scold Gramaw because she just "pecked at her food like a little bird," but Grimaw always said, "T've enough, and you've enough, and very good it's been." After supper I hated to hear the Seth Thomas clock make the little buzzing noise that meant it was getting ready to strike, for when that happened, Gramaw would reach for the little black lace bonnet, with 611 strings that tied under her chin. She would kiss everybody goodbye but me, because Ma always let me walk clear down to Plummer's corner with her. 'There Gramaw would feel in her big pocket and say, "'Ere child, 'ave a_peppermint." Then she would kiss me and tell me to run back home, but I couldn't run because my feet felt heavy like flatirons at leaving Gramaw. (Lr Dont Do St All Ourselves Margaret Allen RED Ellis has a wonderful velvet lawn. I stopped to admire it one day as he was out watering, telling him I thought it was a major triumph. Came his modest reply, "All you have to do is to make the conditions right, and it'll grow." Men like to put in that little joker— "All you have to do...." But I realized that Fred had implied a profound truth— we don't do it all ourselves. We just make the conditions right, the properly prepared soil, the food, the water, and cultivation, freedom from weeds and_ pests. Then the wonderful laws of nature, the divine assembly line, the miracle of growth, take over. Our part is necessary and often difficult, but we don't write the whole book, we only collaborate. Most parents know that this also applies to human nature. Making the conditions right is never easy, maybe because normal people have wills of their own— which lawn grass hasn't. But even with wills of their own, normal people usually respond to the right conditions. Love, first of all, and opportunity for disciplined self-expression, provision for basic material needs, human fellowship—an_ understanding of the meaning of life, a reason for being, an ideal to work toward, the assurance of God's love. 'These are ~some of the conditions a parent can provide for a child, but beyond this, other forces take over. Sometimes other people help—a good friend, a teacher, or a scout leader, or the girl or boy your child falls in love with as he grows older. Sometimes an absorbing interest helps—stamp _ collecting, working for badges or rewards, or even athletics can be a means of personal development. These supplement _ the conditions we provide, but beyond these, the wonderful laws of human and spiritual growth take over, bringing to fruition, at last, the budding personality of which we sometimes despaired. So with children, as with gardens, all we are allowed to do is to make the conditions right—a humbling fact—but how encouraging to know that we don't need to do it all ourselves, that our Eternal Father will help. 612 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1954 When You Reach (Bottom Evelyn Dorio id always happens suddenly. Onc minute your world is beautiful and the next... A black mood of depression begins to envelop you. What has gone wrong? It is the very same world of a moment ago, yet here you are. We have often been told to fight depression. To me there is a better way. At the beginning of this gloomy mood, I decide that it must be necessary for me to have it, at least temporarily. 'There is something I must learn from it. Instead of fighting it, I go with it—nothing will happen to me—down, down to the very bottom. I feel as though I were descending into a dark whirlpool, helpless, hopeless, and alone. When I reach bottom I find a thought. It is always the same thought: Now I am one with all suffering humanity. It is my soul speaking.: Perhaps I had grown too self-centered, too complacent, and needed this momentary darkness to bring me back. Now, in my heart, there is tolerance and healing kindness toward others. 'The woman who was impatient with me yesterday—perhaps she was at the bottom of her whirlpool at that moment. The man who was unkind—perhaps he was there. Whom can J blame or be angry with, when I know how difficult this moment is? When the thought is absorbed, I begin to rise from the whirlpool, up and up, to the top. There the sun is still bright, and the air is fragrant, and the voices of people are reassuring. My world is together again. But I am more firmly tied to it, for, from the depths, I have brought with me a little love. And I am grateful for that moment of despair. Perhaps we must touch bottom occasionally in order to acquire momentum to tise ta the top. > Spendthri t Artistry Renie H. Littlewood She wields her brushes with a fine disdain For timid souls who dare not share her zest; Her strokes transform a monochrome terrain To forms of splendor, brilliantly expressed. Each scarlet splash reflects her festive mood With gay abandon, spendthrift artistry, No thought of coming gloom must now intrude Upon this transient burst of revelry. Too brief the burnished interlude, too soon The swiftly falling twilight steals the day; In scattered heaps her empty tubes are strewn, And all her canvased glory piled away. Yet ever there shall live within the heart The vagrant sorcery of autumn's art. Collect and Classify Ttems of Interest Thalia Black EEP a large box handy, containing a loosc-leaf notebook, art paper, type paper, and lined paper, scissors, paste, and a pencil or pen, and carbon paper. In different sections of the loose-leaf notebook collect pictures, poems, stories, jokes, games. Use only one side of each page, so that when a picture or article is used something else of interest will not be destroyed. A scrapbook of this kind is invaluable as a reference for visual aids in lesson giving, for helping children find suitable talks, and poems and pictures for Sundav School, Primary, and school, for helping with parties, and for the joy it brings to collect and save the best from each day's activities. ——o—- - - Recipe for Homemade Soap Eva Carter Place in a large enamel vessel: 11~~—sc.: fat, heated till warm, and strained % c. Borax 5c. Cold water "A ¢c. Sugar Y c. Ammonia Boil sugar in one cup water and add to rest of water. Mix lye, borax, and ammonia, stir (while adding the water) until cool and creamy. Because the fumes may be injurious, the mixture should be stirred outdoors. Add this mixture to the warm melted fat, stirring constantly until it begins to thicken. Add oil of sassafras, and pour into cnamel pan to cool. Cut into bars. ——— o<—- Jo a Cat. Being Put Out Lizabeth Wall Be glad to be abroad, small furry friend; The spangled world is magic to explore, The darkened alley reaches without end; The silent roadway is a foreign shore. Tonight is not a night for housebound souls. Behind the neighbors' porches there are new And hitherto-unguessed-at cubbyholes For you to poke your questing nose into. Go run lke wind across the greening lawn, Go chase elusive balls of shadow-silk, And with a bib of yellow stardust on, Drink moonlight from your cup instead of milk, Page 613 1 can of Ive 4 _ tsp. Oil of sassafras Kitchens for Living Celia Luce OST present-day kitchens are too small for gracious living. True, they have some advantages over grandma's huge, inconvenient kitchen, but they have lost the advantages of grandma's kitchen. The trend today, however, is toward a larger kitchen with a compact food preparing area and plenty of space for other activities. This combines the best of the new and the old. A large kitchen area can be more convenient than a small one. It has room for traffic lanes away from the work areas, which is more important than most home planners realize. The further traffic is from the cooking and dishwashing areas, the more the homemaker can relax at her work. A large kitchen has room for plenty of large windows. 'There would be no need to decide whether to put the sink or the breakfast table under the window. 'There would be windows for both. In many families it is the custom for everyone to join in doing the dishes after a family dinner. A kitchen large enough to accommodate a group is an appreciated luxury. A large kitchen can accommodate more than the cooking and dishwashing. 'There is room for the family to enter without being underfoot. There is room for the baby's play pen and for Susie to spread out her blocks. There is room for a large blackboard where the small fry can draw pictures and mother can see them immediately. Page 614 No picture is satisfactory unless mother has seen it and given her approval. Many new homes have playrooms planned as part of the kitchen. When children are tiny this keeps them happily close to mother, yet out of the way. As they grow older the space may be used to suit the changing needs of the family. When Mother starts supper, the family members, home from the day's activities, are drawn to the kitchen. 'Tommy wants to tell about the home run he made at recess. Mary must tell Mother about Norma's new dress. 'Tiny Susie is tired out and needs the assurance of being close to Mother. Father wanders in to join in the conversation and peek into the kettles. If the kitchen is one of these tiny affairs made just for cooking, the result is bedlam. Every time Mother moves from cupboard to stove she must run an obstacle course. Susie is in front of the refrigerator and Mary in front of the sink, while father moves here and there trying to keep out of the way. By the time supper is ready, nerves are badly frayed. A_ little extra space changes the whole picture into one of happy contentment. ATING in the kitchen is coming into its own again. With the stress on small, easily kept homes, people are discovering that the friendly kitchen atmosphere brings a happy relaxation to meals. Mother KITCHEN FOR LIVING can join the conversation better when she is not continually dashing out of the room to wait on table, and is a mere step away from the stove and the refrigerator for second helpings and dessert. If you are planing on family meals in the kitchen, allow space for a table and chairs where the famliy can sit comfortably. Room for a kitchen table pays other dividends, too. 'The table is a handy place for homework, away from the distracting evening sounds of the radio, television, and family talk in the living room. It's a good place for the crowd to gather and settle the problems of the whole world while the fudge cooks or the popcorn pops. Being relatively easy to clean, the kitchen provides a good place for working on hobbies. A hobby space in the basement is better, but if you have no basement or special hobby room, a corner of the kitchen does very well. It is especially good for Mother since she can work at many of her interests and watch the roast at the same time. 615 The kitchen is a good place to spread out sewing. Scraps and threads can be easily swept up, and the kitchen table may double as a cutting table and to hold the portable sewing machine. A utility room is often planned as part of the kitchen or adjoining it. With automatic washing and drying there is no water spilled on the floor, and the kitchen becomes a better place for the laundry than the basement. Consider the problem of the farmer's wife who thought she had planned a perfect farm kitchen. Every space was well used, with no lost steps. Then the deep freeze unit was invented. On the farm it is one of her most used appliances, but the only place she could find to put it was on the south side of an open screen porch. Her planning had not taken into account any needed expansion. One final great advantage of the larger kitchen is that it leaves room for the inventions of the future. Nlew Serial "Contentment Js a Lovely Shing ' to Begin in October 66(SONTENTMENT Is a Lovely Thing," a new serial by Dorothy Spande Romney, Stockton, California, will begin in the October issue of The Relief Society Magazine. The story recounts the problems of a young couple living on a farm and their devotion to country life in spite of the opposition of the husband's father, a famous surgeon, and his wife, who believe that their son should have been a surgeon also. The author was born in Logan, Utah, and attended Utah. State Agricultural College. She is the widow of Elmer Romney and the mother of a ten-year-old son. Her stories and plays have appeared in many juvenile publications. ae ae ———————e Margaret C. Pickcring, Gencral Secrctary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1950, page 278, and the Handbook of Instructions, page 123. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Mary E. Warnick ALPINE STAKE (UTAH), AMERICAN FORK SEVENTH WARD HONORS FOREIGN-BORN WOMEN, November 1, 1953 Front row, seated, left to right: Lupe Burciaga, Spanish-American; Dolores Johnson, Brazilian; Helena Faria Paes, Brazilian; Grace Charleston, Lamanite. Back row, seated, left to right: Bertha Loeffler, German; Martha Leonhardt, German; Marie Reimchussel, German; Helen Schmul, German; Mary Kawakami, Japanese; Susi Waki, Japanese. This picture was taken just before the annual Relief Society conference. The theme of the meeting was "Relief Society, a World-Wide Sisterhood." President Mary E. Warnick reports the happy occasion: "We are proud to have ten foreign-born members residing in our ward. Each sister bore a short testimony, making our conference a wonderful experience." Alice W. Carlisle is former president of Alpine Stake Relief Society, and Edna S. Walker is the new president. Page 616 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 617 Photograph submitted by Merle Nelson BEAVER STAKE (UTAH), BEAVER FIRST WARD RELIEF SOCIETY VISITING TEACHERS ACIUEVE A ONE HUNDRED PER CENT RECORD, 1953-4 Front row, seated, left to right: Jane Gale; Marie Willisen; Alice White: Counsclor Hester Harris; President Larue Bnggs; Counsclor Maud Lewis; Mmma_ Baldwin; Nettie Stoney Second row, scated, left to right: Amelia Dean; Rose Bradshaw; Ruth Muir; Ruth Paice; Naomi Baker; Zcelma Muir; Edythe Harris; Annie Bradshaw; Hilma Sly. Third row, standing, left to right: Margery Mackerell; Vheda Gale; Mary Robinson; Louise Willden; Veda DeMai; Irene Green: Josic Pi iffer: Stella Merchant, organist; Ida Riley. Fourth row, standing, left to right: Merle Nelson; Emma Limb; Mary Miller: Zona Meyers; Martha Paice; Lydia Smith; Leola Limb, Secretary Bernice 'Thompson is president of Beaver Stake Relief Socicty. Photograph submitted by Mary L. Henrie DESERET SUAKE (UTATT), OASIS WARD VISITING 'TEFACHERS WHO HAVE ACHIEVED A ONE HUNDRED PER CENT RECORD FOR FIVE AND ONE HALF YEARS Front row, seated, left to right: Helen Skecm; Ethel Skeem; Rose Nichols; Lillian Roundy, President; Alverta Stanworth; Hilda Gillen; Inga Peterson. Back row, standing, left to right: Erma Skeem; LaVean Gillen; Fontella Skeem; Hilda Gillen; Lelhe Memmott; Fhva Cahoon; Clair Peterson; Jennic Styler; Stella Hawley; Ruby Skeem; LaVeda Bi hop Mary L. Henrie is president of Deseret Stake Relief Society. 618 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1954 Photograph submitted by Lona C. Hepworth RAFT RIVER STAKE, MALTA (IDAHO) VISITING TEACHERS ACHIEVE A ONE HUNDRED PER CENT RECORD FOR THREE AND A HALF YEARS Front row, seated, left to right, beginning second from the left: Velda Barrett, Secretary, Raft River Stake Relicf Society; 'Thera Harper, Second Counselor; Myrtle Miller, First Counselor; Lona C. Hepworth, President; Mary Elison (center), Malta Ward visiting teacher message leader and district supervisor; Lois Elison, President, Malta Ward Relief Society; Ann Nye, Second Counselor; Josephine Neddo, Secretary. The members of this stake Relief Society presidency are regular visiting teachers of Malta Ward. President Lona C. Hepworth reports: "We live in a widely scattered community and travel long distances to do our teaching." Photograph submitted by Pearl O. Clement RICHLAND STAKE (WASHINGTON) PRESENTS "THE VOICE OF THE PEOPLE" AT UNION MEETING, January 24, 1954 Pearl O. Clement, former President, Richland Stake Relief Society, reports an inspirational presentation of this pageant: "The Voice of the people," by Alberta H. Christensen, was presented at a Priesthood and Relief Society Union meeting.... There were five hundred people present.... It was so successful that we were asked to present it again at the stake youth conference at the Sunday evening sessions of our regular stake conference, at which time we were privileged to have in attendance Elder Marion D. Hanks and Elder Walter Stover. We were very highly complimented by these visiting brethren.... We were very proud of the Singing Mothers and choral readers.... We had prayed earnestly that we might be able to recapture the spirit of this wonderful pro- 5 5, Second Counselor; B hapin, First Coun; [ ident,: | [ anized last November With a ne member lives in the - The Visiting teachers call on another member Who is bedfast,"" etty NOTES FROM THE FIELD 619 | 620 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1954 Photograph submitted by Fern Brockbank PALMYRA STAKE (UTAIT) HONORS VISITING TEACITERS WHO ACIHTEVED A ONE HUNDRED PER CENT RECORD FOR 1953-54 Front row, Icft to right, seated, beginning cighth from the left: Vilate Halliday, visiting teacher message leader; First Counsclor Sue Andrus; Anna B. IIart, membcr, gencral board of Rchef Socicty; l'ern Brockbank, President, Palmyra Stake Relicf Society; Mary Alice Rosenbaum, Second Counselor; Mayme Johnson, Secretary. The photograph represents part of the 163 visiting teachers of Palmyra Stake, and also thirty-one visiting teachers who had achieved one hundred per cent attendance at visiting teacher meetings. At this closing social which honored the visiting teachers, there was also an excellent display of handwork from every ward and branch in the stake. Genevieve Poulson, stake work mecting leader, is not in the picture. Photograph submitted by Gladys R. Winter SAN FRANCISCO STAKE (CALIFORNIA) ENTERTAINMENT COMMEMORATES RELIEF SOCIETY CULTURE February 1954 Gladys R. Winter, President, San Francisco Stake Relicf Socicty, reports an interesting and instructive entertaimment: "The women of San Francisco Stake are very grateful for the devclopment of the arts that the Rclicf Soeicty has sponsored since its organization, so the stake board gave a party for the women of the stake to emphasize this culture. Following a program, refreshments were served at small tables that harmonized in color and design with a large, exquisite table that Jackctta M. Quealy of the stake board had decorated with an array of Dresden china that had been brought from Europe many years ago, and which would be impossible to replace now. There were also long tables where handwork was on display, both beautiful articles long kept as heirlooms, and many especially fine articles made by Relief Society members of today." NOTES FROM THE FIELD 621 Photograph submitted by Vera H. Mayhew BERKELEY STAKE (CALIFORNIA) SINGING MOTTIERS Mildred Gibbs, stake chorister, stands second from the left in the front row; Grace Boyack, organist, stands at the left in the front row; stake organist Grace C. Summerhays stands at the right in the front row. Vera 1. Mavhew is former president of Berkeley Stake Relicf Society, and Irene Thorley Ranker is the new president. Photograph submitted by Emeline W. Marley PORTNEUF STAKE (IDAHO), McCAMMON WARD VISITING TEACHERS ACIHEVE A ONE HUNDRED PER CENT RECORD FOR TWO AND ONE HALI YEARS Front row, left to right: Velma L. Green, President; Afton Gibbs, Second Counselor; Margaret Bishoff, lirst Counselor; Gwendolyn Marlev, Secretary; Manan Romreill; Emeline W. Marley, President, Portneuf Stake Relief Society; Dorothy Martin, Pearl Harris. Second row, left to right: LaVene Pilgrim; Zina Orgill; Lizzie Hale; Elizabeth Olsen; Mary Davis; Mary Thornley; Virga Cammack, Second Counselor, Portneuf Stake Relief Society; Esther Bishoff. Third row, left to right: Inez Romreill; Edna Green; Lula Morris; Grace Lish; Sarah Cammack; Ethel Bowman; Mabel Harris; Bessie Hall. _ Fourth row, left to right: Ardella Bullock; Alda Anderson, Secretary, Portneuf Stake Relief Society; Edith Shumway; Helen Harris; Margaret Martin; Beulah Romreill; LaVon Hansen; Etta Mellor. Some of these teachers travel twenty-five miles over gravel roads to make their visits. 622 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1954 Photograph submitted by Gladys K. Wagner JUAREZ STAKE (MEXICO), COLONIA DUBLAN SECOND WARD MEXICAN RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERS Front row, standing, left to right: Maria de la Cruz; Teresa Tarin; Eustaquia Ontiveros; Adelina Garcia, Second Counselor; Genoveva Flores; Victoria Aquiliar,; Antonia de la Cruz; Natalia Solano; Ruperta Madeiro. Back row, standing, left to right: Eva Sanchez; Margarita Flores; Amanda Flores; Eva Flores, Secretary-Treasurer, Febe Ontiveros; Ramona Flores, President; Elvira Avena; Elena Ontiveros, First Counselor; Emma Brown; Delfina Ontiveros; Regina Gonzales; Maria Luz Todd. Other members not present when the picture was taken are: Emilia Duran, Sabina Duran, Leonila Duran, Carmen Flores, Natalia Garcia, Juana Lara, Marcelina Madrid, Guadalupe Macias, Adelina Ontiveros, Fortunata Ontiveros, Josefa Ramirez, and Rinda Robinson. Gladys K. Wagner is former president of Juarez Stake Relief Society, and Nilus S. Memmott is the new president. NEW ZEALAND MISSION CONDUCTS HUI TAU (GENERAL CONFERENCE ) Alice W. Ottley, President, New Zealand Mission Relief Society, in reporting various phases of the work in her mission, comments upon activities in connection with the educational program and emphasis given the lesson work at the Hui 'lau: "Our Hui Tau is over now, so perhaps this is a good time to report. We are in the third year of the Book of Mormon lessons, except that we are four months behind you, because of the seasons 'being different. We are taking the home management lessons and think they are very timely.... We gave a demonstration at Hui Tau that I think will help to put them over.... The lessons on English literature are becoming more popular.... These lessons appeal to the younger women more than to the older women. For our social science lessons we are using the "Signs of the Times." Thank you for sending us the lessons and outline. We make copies and staple them together in the Magazine before they go out. I believe the sisters are enjoying these lessons very much. Here in the Auckland District, which comprises two branches, we have been holding union meetings once a month... With the mission board acting as class leaders. We have been able to help the branch class leaders with visual aids and helps, such as the flannel board, blackboard, pictures, poems, and songs to correlate with the lessons, and these aids have awakened new interest and increased the attendance. When I speak of the mission board, I am happy to tell you that President Ottley and I felt it was a good thing to have some help, so we selected six young women who are very capable and anxious to learn and take responsibility. It is a fine experience for them and a great help to me.... We have a president, two counselors, a secre- NOTES FROM THE FIELD 623 tary, a Magazine representative, and one aid who helps wherever she is needed. We were very proud of these women at Hui Tau, for they took charge of the Relief Society meeting and demonstrated the home management and social science lessons by interspersing them with songs and choruses from the districts." Photograph submitted by Mabel H. Pond BENSON STAKE (UTAH), A MOTHER AND SEVEN DAUGHTERS WHO HAVE ALL SERVED AS RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS Front row, left to right: Elizabeth (Mrs. Walter I'. Hogan, South Davis Stake), stake and ward president eleven years; Estelle (Mrs. Walter F. Ririe, Lander, Wyoming), president five years; Sarah (Mrs. A. L. Baer, Providence Ward, Mount Logan Stake), president eight years. Back row, left to right: Lovell (Mrs. Elmo Steffensen, Boise, Idaho, formerly served in Helena, Montana), president five vears; Seneth (Mrs. Asa Thomson, Lewiston Fourth Ward, Benson Stake), president three years; heen (Mrs. John H. Kemp, North Logan, Cache Stake), president three years; Zethel (Mrs. 'Boyd H. Ririe, Fifth Ward, East Long Beach Stake, California), president two years. Insert: Ellen Gilbert Hyer, mother (Mrs, Andrew L. Hyer, Lewiston First Ward, Benson Stake, mother of fourteen children), who served as ward president eight years, counselor in ward Relief Society, seven years, and visiting teacher over twenty years. She died in 1924. Mabel H. Pond, President, Benson Stake Relief Society, in reporting the outstanding service of this family, pays tribute to them: "Their total combined service in Relief Society represents thirty-seven years as ward presidents; seventeen years as counselor to ward presidents; six years as stake presidents; ninety-six years as visiting teachers; as class leaders, twenty-six years; making a total of 182 years of Relief Society service for this family." LESSON DEPARTMENT Sheology—Characters and Teachings of The Book of Mormon Lesson 27—Missions of Other Sons of Mosiah Elder Leland H. Monson (Text: The Book of Mormon: Alma, chapter 21:1-8; chapters 22-28) For 'Tuesday, December 7, 1954 Objective: To show the results of excercising faith in one's self, faith in a people, and faith in one's God. Aaron Preaches in Jerusalem and Middoni URING the period of time when Ammon was actively engaged in his missionary work in the lands of Ishmael and Middoni, Aaron, Omner, and Himni had been equally as active in other lands belonging to the Lamanites. When we view the achievements of these missionaries over the short span of fourteen years, we begin to realize what diligent missionaries laboring in the vineyard of God can accomplish. When these missionaries departed from each other, near the borders of Lamanite territory, each one followed the promptings of the Spirit. Aaron went to the land of Jerusalem. In this land of Jerusalem the Amulonites, descendants of the leadcr Amulon of the wicked priests of King Noah, the Amalckites, and the Lamanites had united in building the city of Jerusalem. These Amalckites and Amulonites, Nephite apostates from the 624 Church and kingdom of God, were more wicked towards the Nephites than were the Lamanites. When Aaron first entered Jerusalem it was his misfortune to preach first to the Amalekites in their synagogues. Most of the Amalekites and Amulonites belonged to the order of Nehor. 'The members believed that God would save all mankind. In Jerusalem, they had built many synagogues in which to worship. As Aaron was addressing a group of Amalekites in one of these synagogues, one of their number began to contend with him:... Hast thou seen an angel? Why do not angels appear unto us? Behold are not this people as good as thy people?.. How knowest thou that we are not a rightcous people? (Alma 21:5-6). ".. Believest thou," asked Aaron, "that the Son of God shall come to redeem mankind from their sins?" (Alma 21:7). The Amalckite denied any such belief. 'Then it was that Aaron be- LESSON DEPARTMENT gan to explain the scriptures to him. He told him of the future appearance of Christ to mankind, of the resurrection of all mankind, and of the impossibility of the redemption of mankind except through the atoning blood of Jesus Christ. But Aaron's exposition of these precious truths served only to arouse anger. The people began to mock him. He, therefore, departed from their synagogue and traveled to the village of Ani-Anti. There, Aaron met Muloki and Ammah 'and his brethren actively engaged in spreading the gospel. Few people, however, would listen to them. The group, therefore, determined to go to the land of Middoni to sec if the people there would respond more readily to their message. But few believed the words which thev taught. The people expressed their bitterness towards the missionaries by casting "... Aaron and a certain number of his brethren..." (Alma 21:13) into prison. 'The other missionaries fled to regions roundabout. After suffering many indignities, much pain from being bound, and much anxiety from lack of food and water, they were delivered by Lamoni and Ammon. 'They went forth from the prison to preach in all the synagogues of the Amalekites and of the Lamamites where thev could gain admittance. It was at this time that success began to crown their efforts. Many accepted the truth, were convinced of their sins, and became fully aware of the incorrectness of the tradition of the Lamanites. Aaron in the Land of Nephi After Lamoni and Ammon departed from Middoni for the land of 625 Ishmael, Aaron was directed by the spirit to go to the land of Nephi. In this land of Nephi lived Lamoni's father, who was king over all the Lamanites in the regions roundabout. Under the inspiration of the Lord, Aaron and his brethren went directly to the king. Bowing before him, Aaron said, "... Behold, O king, we are the brethren of Ammon, whom thou hast delivered out of prison" (Alma 22:2). To their surprise, the king welcomed them. He said that he had been "... Somewhat troubled in mind because of the generosity and the greatness of the words..." (Alma 22:3) of Ammon and wanted to hear more of his message. (We recall the meeting of Ammon and Lamoni and Lamoni's father as given in the former lesson. See Alma 20:8-26. ) In response to the king's request to hear more of the truth, Aaron instructed him further, asking if he believed in God. 'The king responded favorably, saying: I believe that the Great Spirit created all things, and I desire that ye should tell me concerning all these things, and I will believe thy words (Alma 22:11). Conversion of King and Lamanites After Aaron had explained the fundamentals of the gospel, the king asked what he might do to merit eternal life. "... Behold, said he, I will give up all that I possess, yea, I will forsake my kingdom, that I may receive this great joy" (Alma 22:15). He was told that he must repent of his sins and have faith in the Redeemer of the world. Overpowered by the Spirit as he prayed for a remission of sins, "... He was struck as if he were dead" (Alma 22:18), When the queen was called, she thought Aaron and his brethren were the cause of the king's fall, so she commanded her servants to slay the missionaries, but the servants were afraid. She then told them to call the people to kill Aaron and his brethren. Fearing what might happen, Aaron: " put forth his hand and raised the king from the earth, and said unto him: Stand. And he stood upon his feet, receiving his strength" (Alma 22:22). As a result of this miracle the king ministered unto his household, "... Insomuch that his whole household were converted unto the Lord" (AlMa 22:23). The king asked Aaron and _ his brethren to teach the gospel to his people. He sent a_ proclamation throughout all the land, among all his people, commanding them not to lay their hands on Ammon, Aaron, Omner, or Himni, or any of their brethren in their missionary labors. (See Alma 23:1.) The king was anxious that:... His people might be convinced concerning the wicked traditions of their fathers, and that they might be convinced that they were all brethren, and that they ought not to murder, nor to plunder, nor to steal, nor to commit adultery, nor to commit any number of wickedness.... As many of the Lamanites as believed in their preaching, and were converted unto the Lord, never did fall away (Alma 3, De The missionaries now met with great success. 'Thousands accepted the truth and made their lives correspond with it. Many Lamanites in the lands of Ishmael, Middoni, Shilom, Shemlon, and in the cities of Nephi, Lemuel, and Shimnilon were converted, but only one Amalekite and no Amulonites were converted. Converted Lamanites Called Anti-Nephi-Lehies The king and his converted people were desirous of adopting a new name to distinguish them from those who had not received the gospel. 'They decided to call themselves Anti-Nephi-Lehies. From that time forward they were known by their new name and not as Lamanites. The Amalekites, Amulonites, and unconverted Lamanites no longer would accept the converted king as their ruler. 'The king conferred the kingdom upon his son, who was called Anti-Nephi-Lehi. In the meantime, while the unconverted were making preparation for war, the converted king died. The missionaries and the people of Anti-Nephi-Lehi were greatly disturbed over the preparations of war against them. 'The missionaries held a council with Lamoni and his brother Anti-Nephi-Lehi to determine how they should defend themselves against the Lamanites. 'The king, deeply grieved over his and his people's sins, resulting from their false traditions, recommended to his people that since it was all they had been able to do to repent sufficiently before God so that he would take away their stains and inasmuch as their swords had become bright, that they should never again stain them with the blood of their brethren. 'They, therefore, refused to take up arms against the Lamanites. Instead of preparing for war, they buried their swords and _ all weapons "... Used for the shedding of man's blood..." (Alma 24:17) 626 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1954 LESSON DEPARTMENT deep in the earth. They covenanted with God:... That rather than shed the blood of their brethren they would give up their own lives; and rather than take away from a brother they would give unto him; and rather than spend their days in idleness they would labor abundantly with their hands (Alma 24:18). Having accepted the truth, they were steadfast in keeping this covenant and would suffer death rather than commit sin. Wars With Lamanites When the Lamanites came against them, well armed and disciplined for battle, the people of Anti-Nephi-Lehi prostrated themselves before them. "And thus without meeting any resistance, they did slay a thousand and five of them..." (Alma 24:22). When the Lamanites saw the people of Anti-NephiLehi would lie down and _ perish, "... They did forbear from slaying them..." (Alma 24:24) and tepented of that which they had done. Many Lamanites joined with the people of Anti-Nephi-Lehi and became faithful members in the Church. They were joined by more people than those who were slain. All who joined were actual descendants of Laman and Lemuel. The Lamanites were angry at having slain their brethren the AntiNephi-Lehies, so they went over into the borders of the land of Zarahemla, and it was then that they destroyed Ammonihah. In the battles those who were slain by the Nephites were nearly all descendants of the priests of Noah, the Araulonites. The Amulonites had those Lamanites put to death by burning, 627 who, remembering the words of Aaron and his brethren, began to disbelieve the false traditions of their fathers and to become converted This martyrdom stirred up contention in the wilderness, "... And the Lamanites began to hunt the seed of Amulon and his brethren and began to slay them..." (Alma 25:8). And thus was the prophecy of Abinadi fulfilled. (See Alma 25:8-12. ) The Missionaries Rejoice Ammon, Aaron, Omner, and Himni rejoiced exceedingly. Ammon gloried in the Lord. Aaron felt that Ammon was boasting about the achievements and rebuked him. Ammon, however, said:... 1 do not boast in my own strength, nor in my own wisdom; but behold, my joy is full, yea, my heart is brim with joy, and I will rejoice in my God (Alma 26:11). Ammon recalled to his brethren 'an incident which occurred fourteen years earlier in Zarahemla when they first announced their intentions to labor to convert the Lamanites, as to how they were laughed to scorn. However, because of their faith in their God, they had been successful. Under the leadership of Ammon, the converted Lamanites were taken from their lands to Zarahemla, where they were given the privilege of settling in the land of Jershon. They were protected by the Nephites against Lamanite invasions so that they would not have to break their covenant with God. After they were settled in Jershon, the greatest battle was fought since Lehi left Jerusalem. And in the fif- teenth year of Judges the people mourned for their dead. Alma concluded chapter twentyeight: And thus we see how great the inequality of man is because of sin and transgression, and the power of the devil, which comes by the cunning plans which he hath devised to ensnare the hearts of men. And thus we see the great call of diligence of men to labor in the vineyards of the Lord; and thus we see the great reason of sorrow, and also of rejoicing—sorrow because of death and destruction among men, and joy because of the light of Christ unto life (Alma 28:13-14). Questions on the Lesson 1. Why did these missionaries achieve such signal success? 2. What does faith in our ability under God's direction do, to help us achieve success? 3. How did the converted Lamanites show their allegiance to the truth? 4. How can we, as mothers, help to strengthen missionary work in our Church? Visiting Seacher ITlessages Book of Mormon Gems of Truth Lesson 27—"For Behold, This Life Is the Time for Men to Prepare to Meet God; Yea, Behold the Day of This Life Is the Day for Men to Perform Their Labors" (Alma 34:32). Leone O. Jacobs For Tuesday, December 7, 1954. Objective: To stress the necessity of working out our salvation here and now, in mortality. THE more we read and ponder Amulek's instructions, the more we are impressed with the fact that every moment of this life is extremely valuable to us. This earth life is of such great importance that it determines the status of our entire future existence. 'Though it is a relatively brief period, we shall be judged by the performance we render here. This life is a time of preparation, the plowing and the sowing time. The harvest comes later — eternal life in the presence of our Heavenly Father, if we prove worthy. In The Pearl of Great Price we read: And we will prove them herewith, to see if they will do all things whatsoever the Lord their God shall command them (Abraham 3:25). From The Discourses of Brigham Young: It has also been decreed by the Almighty that spirits, upon taking bodies, shall forget all they had known previously, or they could not have a day of trial— could not have an opportunity — for proving themselves in darkness and temptation, in unbelief and wickedness, to prove themselves worthy of eternal existence (Chapter IV, Pre-Existence, The Plan of Salvation, 1925 Edition, page 60). The purpose of this life is to gain knowledge and experience with the body and spirit combined, and, through this experience, to prove our worthiness. 'The labors of this life cannot be postponed until some 628 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1954 LESSON DEPARTMENT later date. Since preparing to meet God is the assignment for this life, it is only logical to presume that there is no other time in which to do*so. Some may suppose that in the life after death there will be sufficient opportunity to rectify errors and deficiencies. But Amulek tells us that this is the time, now, today to repent, "... If we do not improve our time while in this life, then cometh the night of darkness wherein there can be no labor performed" (Alma 34:33). We cannot expect to have the same opportunity again. Certainly, it will be 629 to our advantage to perform the necessary labors here and now. Someone has said: Oh, how I wish I might right my blunders by living one life for practice and then one more to count. But were this so, mortality would not be a probationary period as it was intended. "Every day," said President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., "should be so lived that we could meet our Maker with safety." Let us not be misled. This life is the time to repent, to mend our ways, and prepare to meet our God. WVork I lecting—Selection, Care, and Use of Household Equipment (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 3—Washers and Dryers Rhea H. Gardner For Tuesday, December 14, 1954 OME laundering is both an art and a science. It is an art because appreciation and_ skill are necessary in the buying and upkeep of the family clothing and household textiles. It is a science because much chemistry and mechanics are involved in the process. Laundry is closely related to child care, home management, consumer buying, clothing construction, home furnishings, and personal grooming. 'The selection of equipment and supplies needed to do the job well is, therefore, an important responsibility of every homemaker. While the use of a good washer 'does not of itself guarantee a snowy white wash, it is today considered essential in making such a wash possible. There are on the market many good washers in both the automatic and conventional types, but there is no one "best washer" for all families. The automatic washer will no doubt be preferred by the homemaker who: 1. Wants to be free to do other things while the laundry process is going on. 2. Does 'not have a definite laundry room nor space for one. 3. Is seriously disturbed by the muss that accompanies the use of a conventional washer. 4. Is more concerned with saving time than money. (Automatic washers, in general, are more costly to purchase, install, operate, and service than conventional washers ). 5. Has small children who constantly require a change of clothing. 6. Has some physical disability that is aggravated when washing is done the conventional way. The conventional washer will likely better suit the needs of one who: 1. Has an inadequate hot water supply essential for automatic washers. 2. Is perfectly satisfied with her present washing habits and sees no advantage in changing them. 3. Is more conscious of cost in dollars than in time. 4. Has a conveniently located and arranged laundry room adapted to the use of a conventional washer. Regardless of the make of washer you choose, the importance of buying one made by a reliable manufacturer and distributed by a local dealer, whose integrity and fair play have been proved, should not be underestimated. The assurance that when and if repairs are needed, the local dealer will be able to take care of them for you, is more important than getting any one certain make. If you choose a conventional washer, you will have the choice of a spinner or wringer type. 'The spinner leaves clothes less wrinkled than the wringer. Otherwise, the mechanics are similar. Safety is an important feature to consider when selecting a washer with a power wringer. The release should work at a touch and be within easy reach from any position at the machine. Washing. Action in automatic washers is of either the agitator or tumbler type. Both should permit the user to adjust the washing cycle to special needs, such as repeating some steps, skipping or shortening others, and adding only slightly soiled articles during the washing cycle. The agitator type generally is more effective in removing deep soil than the tumbler. Regardless of the type of washer you use, certain practices are important for good results: 1. Never overload. Clothes should move freely about in the water during each step of the washing process. Studies have proved that soil is removed from clothes best when washer loads are neither too large nor too small. 2. Spot-clean excessively soiled areas, such as shirt collars and cuffs. It is wise not to let clothing become so soiled that it is difficult to restore the normal brightness of color. If water is hard and soap is to be used, a water softening agent is both economical and essential for continued snowy white washes. 4. Use plenty of hot water. Most of the new materials on the market can stand hot water. Rinsing of clothes is also more successful if warm water is used. Facts one should consider when buying an automatic clothes dryer: 1. What method is used to control lint and moisture so that they will not be bothersome while the dryer is in use? 2. Can temperature and drying time be controlled for articles that would be damaged if left in a high temperature for the full length of the drying cycle? 3. What voltage will be needed? Some dryers operate on 110 voltage, others require 220 volts. The latter produce more heat and cut down the drying time considerably, but require special wiring. The best source of information concerning the care of equipment is the instruction book which comes with each piece of equipment. It contains suggestions for using it economically, effectively, and safely. Use the instruction book often as a 630 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1954 LESSON DEPARTMENT reference and guide for efficient use and a long period of service. Thoughts for Discussion 1. In what way has new, improved 631 laundry equipment contributed toward better home life for you and your family? 2. From your experience, what advice would you give a bride regarding the purchase of laundry equipment? OF eet — literate of England Lesson 43—Dante Gabriel and Christina Rossetti (1828-1882) (1830-1894) Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: The Literature of England, HI, Woods, Watt, Anderson, pp. 748-760; 783-797) For Tuesday, December 21, 1954 Objective: To understand the nature of the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood's reaction to Victorianism, and to enjoy the poetic art of the Rossettis. THe LIVES of Thomas Carlyle, John Ruskin, and Dante Gabriel Rossetti largely overlapped and in these three we see some similarity in style and belief, and many differences. Carlyle's torch of social-political reform burned even brighter when he passed it on to Ruskin, his rightful heir. In turn, Ruskin lit anew the torch of art and beauty which, when passed on to Rossetti, flared with greater brilliance than that of any other mid-century Victorian. But in Rossetti's hands the Carlyle-Ruskin torch of social-political reform became burned out. Dante and his circle believed that poetry and art should be natural, warm, beautiful and mysterious — flaming alive with details and joy of simple, everyday living. Rossetti, the Italian Rossetti was an Italian born in England who never subdued his Mediterranean, fiery nature to northern bleakness. He never visited Italy, the home of his parents. Yet his first and life-long love was medieval Italy. Dante Alighieri (1265-1321), the greatest of Italian poets, for whom he was named, was so well known and so deeply loved by Rossetti's parents that in their London home he was a "sacred and benign, though mysteriously invisible visit- > Or. From his early promise of genius (he wrote a drama at the age of four, and did myriad childhood drawings) young Rossetti acknowledged the immortal Dante as the great influence on his imagination. While an art student in his teens at the Royal Academy, he translated Dante's poetry into English, and also discovered the poetry of Keats, Browning, and Blake, but his love of the medieval temperament and subject-matter still dominated, though it absorbed, all these other literary influences. Rossetti's father was an Italian whose love of liberty so overpowered all his other loyalties that he left his native land rather than be de- DANTE Self-Portrait, 1855 GABRIEL ROSSETTI nied his liberty by kings and popes. Yet, strangely enough, though his hatred for Catholicism approached fierceness, his greatest love was the medieval Catholic, Dante. The Young Art Student While the boy Dante Rossetti had always known and loved poetry, he considered himself primarily a painter, and studied art at the Royal Academy. "If any man has any poetry in him he should paint it," he once said. Dante himself did precisely this. The poems which he wrote to illustrate paintings are word-pictures. We feel in his poems warm colors, natural, minute detail, sharp, beautiful images, strong symbols, and a unified, melodious tone throughout. The young painterpoet found much to criticize in contemporary Victorian art and literature. Painters of the day, he felt, worshiped a colorless, dull traditionalism, while poets and painters alike were gloomy, choosing subjects which they were expected to treat, and writing in a plodding, artificial manner. It is not surprising, then, to find young Rossetti, with his great talent, keen intellect, and dynamic personality, forming a new society of artisis with himself as a nucleus of the group. Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood The Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood was formed in 1849 with three members. Within a year it included seven artists, poets, and sculptors who believed that the only way for English art to save itself was to return to the subjects and_techniques of those Italian artists who lived before Raphael (1483-1520) and painted only subjects that appealed to their hearts. The "P. R. B." strove, with almost religious fervor, to catch in their paintings the deep, sweet truths of everyday reality. No one could be more sincere than they, but their sincerity was artistic rather than religious; sometimes their work was affected and naive. From Keats, they brought a sensuous richness; from Browning they brought an intellectual intensity. It was by combining both these that they made their greatest contribution to English poetry: the use of symbolism. Rossetti's Poems In Rossetti's most famous poem, "The Blessed Damozel" (text, pp. 784-786), we find the best illustration of Pre-Raphaelite principles: We must protest against the intellectual emptiness of our so-called painters.. It is for us to bring dignity and sincerity back to art; for us to strip art of conyentionality and go to Nature.... 632 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1954 LESSON DEPARTMENT We must be sincere in our invention, truthful in our representation. The Damozel is not only an earthly woman, she is also the intellectual, spiritualized symbol of woman's divine, mystical beauty, conceived in much the same sense as Dante Alighieri had contemplated his Beatrice. Rossetti's Damozel is dignified and exalted, and described accurately, but in warm detail as a beautiful woman should be. Surely for Rossetti nothing could be more true than "The Blessed Damozel," unless it be the living model from whom the poem was drawn: Elizabeth Siddall, who became his wife. The texture of the poem is serene and controlled. While the imagery is lovely, even luxurious, it is never allowed to become excessive.. Her eves were deeper than the depth Of waters stilled at even; She had three lilies in her hand, And the stars in her hair were seven... Her hair that lay along her back Was yellow like mpe comm.... Her voice was like the voice the stars Had when they sang together. Each attribute adds to the total image, and is immediately available to the natural senses, yet none is allowed to run riot. And still she bowed herself and stooped Out of the circling charm; Until her bosom must have made The bar she leaned on warm, And the lilies lay as if asleep Along her bended arm. For having written this stanza Rossetti became the subject of one of the most vicious literary attacks in the history of English, literature. Robert Buchanan, a critic, ill-used 633 him in a piece entitled "The Fleshly School of Poetry," claiming that Rossetti was obscene and lewd. 'To most modern readers his damozel is not spiritual only, true enough, but she is, for most, a symbol of beautiful womanhood and feminine love at its best. The damozel dreams of her ideal lover with whom she asks to be united in heaven before God, even as they were upon earth. There will I ask of Christ the Lord Thus much for him and me— Only to live as once on earth With Love, only to be, As then awhile, forever now, Together, I and he. Truly one of the loveliest of poems, "The Blessed Damozel" eternally symbolizes the blending of earthly and heavenly love. No wonder it has known universal popularity for more than one hundred years. Rossetti's Other Poems In "My Sister's Sleep" (text, pp. 786-787) Rossetti caught the mystery of death and the unknown realities of life. Several sonnets from "The House of Life" (pp. 794- 797) are excellent: "Silent Noon," "Autumn Idleness," and "Lost Days" are skillfully, and exquisitely done, "Autumn Song" (page 794) is another choice selection. Elizabeth Siddall In 1850, Rossetti first saw Elizabeth Siddall, this most beautiful of women. "I knew from the moment I met her my destiny was defined," he wrote. Most delicately featured, graceful in walk and body, with flaming red hair, she was the favorite model, not only of Rossetti but of the other P. R. B. Artists. Not long after they met they were engaged, but they were not married until 1860, ten years later, because of lack of money. Mrs. Rossetti was an invalid; her husband had no illusions as to the sadness in store for him; but, in 1862, when she died, Rossetti was almost crazy with remorse for the pains he believed his Bohemian life had caused her. He insisted on having the manuscript of his unpublished poems placed in her coffin. (These were recovered seven years later.) When Buchanan attacked his poetry, he felt it to be retribution for the neglect of his beautiful wife. Soon he was suffering frequent delusions of persecution, and took to drugs and drink to cloud over his feelings of self-torture, but to no avail, though in these later years he found some pleasure in poetic creation. The year before his death, in 1882, he published two volumes of poetry which gave him some comfort, but he died largely as he had lived in later years, an unhappy man. Christina Rossetti (1830-1894) The youngest of the four Rossetti children, Christina worshiped her brother Dante Gabriel, and when her own strong desires for love and earthly happiness were thwarted, she found much comfort in the exciting conversations she had with the literary and artistic personages who came to their home. Her real and lasting solace, however, was in the Anglican church. Her religious lyrics are some of the purest in the language. Throughout her life she was torn between opposing desires for earthly love of man and_ heavenly love of God. And in much of her poetry her purpose seems to be to conceal, rather than to reveal, her constant, inward struggle. Christina led a life of self-sacrifice. She refused two offers of marriage because of religious differences. The first of these caused her real grief as some of her poems show. After devoting much of her life to the care of her mother and two elderly aunts, she herself became almost an invalid for the last twentyfive years of her life. Throughout her secluded life Christina wrote more than goo English poems and sixty Italian ones. While her impassioned, romantic self constantly found outlet in poems about human love, perhaps her most constant theme is the peace to be found in death. She wrote many religious poems; devoutly she yearned to receive a spiritual visitation, but she never did, and was too honest to attempt to counterfeit what she had actually never possessed. Christina's Poetry Although never a member of the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood, Christina knew and absorbed their ideas; she, in turn, was highly respected by them. Her close-knit poems -achieve a simplicity and charm surpassing any written by the members of the Brotherhood: My life is like a faded leaf, My harvest dwindled to a husk; Truly my life is void and brief And tedious in the barren dusk; My life is like a frozen thing, No bud nor greenness can I see; Yet rise it shall—the sap of Spring; O Jesus, rise in me. "A Better Resurrection," (page 751). 634 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1954 LESSON DEPARTMENT | 635 CHRISTINA ROSSETTI AND HER MOTHER From a Crayon Drawing by Dante Gabriel Rossetti, 1877 Herein are no waste strokes. 'lhe tone is one; the imagery is direct and clean. Beneath both this stanza and most of her poetry runs a taut suffering not to be expressed directly, an undertone found everywhere save in her delightful nonsense thymes (see page 759). 'The following is not in our text: The Lowest Place Give me the lowest place: not that I dare Ask for that lowest place, but Thou hast died That I might live and share Thy glory by Thy side. Give me the lowest place: or if for me That lowest place too high, make one more low Where I may sit and see My God and love Thee so. Here is the strength that blends from devotion, humility, and love, for many the three great virtues, and most rare in humankind. After reading this poem we can well hear her say, as she actually did, "I cannot possibly use the word happy without meaning something beyond this present life." Christina wrote three types of poetry: whimsical, religious, and eerie. 'The first two are acknowledged above; her "Goblin Market" exemplifies the latter (see text pp. 753-759). On the surface a fantasy, and containing some _ playfulness, filled with lush images and great verbal and technical dexterity, this poem has that fresh spontaneity which, according to her brother, William, characterized her entire creative process: according to him she never labored over a line. But, in addition, this poem is sinister and horrible; the goblins are evil and monstrous, despite the loveliness of the fruits which they peddle to innocent youth who would fall into their cunning trap. Fundamen- tally the poem is a symbolic struggle between Christina's desire for love, and yet her fear of it. But she also wrote happier poems, works which reveal her maturity and resigned balance in the face of her life's conflicts. Majestic, yet restrained, rich both in inner power and eternal hope is her "Uphill," (page 752) one of her best poems, and on the same high level as almost all her work—so high that some would place her above Mrs. Browning as the greatest of English woman poets. Be that as it may, let us leave her remembering some of her happier work. She loved nobly and fully throughout her life both man and God. She loved words and beauty and joy as well. Should you doubt these assertions, live with her for a moment in her lovely: A Birthday My heart is like a singing bird Whose nest is in a watered shoot; My heart is like an apple-tree Whose boughs are bent with thickest fruit; My heart is like a rainbow shell That paddles in a halcyon sea; My heart is gladder than all these Because my love is come to me, Raise me a dais of silk and down Hang it with vair and purple dyes; Carve it in doves and pomegranates, And peacocks with a hundred eyes; Work it in gold and silver grapes, In leaves and silver fleurs-de-lys; Because the birthday of my life Is come, my love is come to me. Note to Class Leaders: A few of the poems of the Rossettis have been set to music. One might be used as a song or in records. Questions on the Lesson 1. Discuss Dante Alighieri as an influence on Rossetti. 2. Discuss Rossetti as a poet-painter. 3. Why did Rossetti organize the PreRaphaelite Brotherhood? What did it believe? 4. How did Christina differ from her brother: in her life? In her beliefs? In her poetry? 5- How does the philosophy of these writers compare with our belief concerning life after death? Eee Se ence— ie Constitution of the United States No lesson is planned for December in this department, due to the holiday season. In atid 6xaltation Lydia Bennett Egbert Oh, what could be sweeter Than one little lass, Unless it were six in a row? From God's own selection, And each is perfection— They're mine—and I should know. 636 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1954 Schoolboy Eva Willes Wangsgaard He tries to read imprisoned words With eyes still set to gauge The message left by winging birds Across the sky's blue page. He tries to fit the curbing desk, But still his back recalls The feel of sun and waves—how good!— With only sky for walls. He tries to hold his shuffling feet, But they rebel from Jeather Confining muscles brown and fleet That cry for summer weather, For dusty roads and pebbled crecks, For grassy hills to climb, And scouting hikes on mountain peaks— But all he needs is time. When icy needles sharpen wind And earth is winter-pearled, He'll take the path of books and find A fascinating world. Each Year AC Vow Bernice T. Clayton Pale gold is late September's sun, The wind is edged with chill And I, like other vagabonds, Would climb the highest hill To watch the golden autumn spread For all the world to view; I'd snatch enough of beauty now To last the winter through. Although my heart's a vagabond And cries to have its way, I know I am a farmer's wife And I must "can" today. [ll capture autumn's pungent fruits In jams and jellies, too, Imprison them in crystal jars To last the winter through. And when they'te spread on fresh hot bread Some snowy winter day, To still my restless heart [ll vow— "Next year, you'll have your way." ORGAN BOOKS for Ward Organists _ At the Console—Felton._.....-1.50 _ Chancel Echoes—Felton......1.50. Devotional Organ Album— i a2.50 _ Organ Voluntaries—Vols. 1 and 2—Schreiner _..... Ea. 3.50. Organ Melodies—Landon....1.50. Twenty-five Pieces for Small Organ—Schreiner....2.50. The Organist—Orem..........2.75. Sacred Hour at the Organ— AA) --<xc.---..-..------- -nenen--nn8d2.00 — Music Sent on Approval — Use this advertisement as your order blank | DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY | 45-47 South Main Salt Lake City 1, Utah t 1 1! -} On Approval (| Charge C] Money Enclosed t HONG TAG CCC) ee | i | City & Stote 0.0... H ' FIRST OF ALL — RELIABILITY aunes. 45-47 SOUTH MAIN STREET Ke o Page 637 SALT LAKE CITY 1, UTAH Please send the music indicated above. H Anise An Old-Fashioned Herb for Modern Cookery Elizabeth Williamson aE belongs to the parsley family. It is a very old herb originating in the Far East. It was mentioned in the Bible, "... For ye pay tithes of mint and anise and cummin..." (Matthew 23:23). The herb is a pretty annual, with white (often yellow) clusters of tiny flowers, growing two feet high. It should be planted after danger of frost is past. ' Use As a Medicine: The Romans used the seeds of anise as an aid to digestion; the Greeks thought anise cured headaches, During medieval times anise was used as a horse medicine, Use in Cookery: In cookery, anise seeds are used in a great many ways. The most well known, of course, is as a flavoring for cookies. (See recipe.) The seeds are used in breads, cakes, stews, soups, cottage cheese, cream, applesauce, and salads. Concentrated oil of anise is used to flavor punch and fruit-juice beverages. Recrepe ror Anise SEED COOKIES Mix: % c. Butter or other shortening and I c. Sugar. Add: 4 egg yolks and 1% c. Enriched flour, sifted with 2 tsp. Baking powder; Vy tsp. Salt; 1 tsp. Anise seed; I tsp. Vanilla. Roll out dough on floured board. Cut in diamond or square shapes, or, if you have a springerle mold, this is the original way in which the cookies were made. Brush with beaten egg yolk and bake at 250° for fifteen minutes, Page 638 At L. D. S. You get ATTENTION Instructors give you personal attention and you learn faster when you attend L. D. S. You'll be able to earn more in a better job. Fall Quarter begins September 7 You can register right now. New classes in both Day and Evening School. When you are qualified, outstanding placement service assures you of the finest employment. Write or call in person.. School. LDS 70 North Main. At your Church Salt Lake City # Business College A INDIVIDUAL BUSINESS COLLEGE of Brigham Young University VIDA FOX CLAWSON qdvisedStart saving your money now with a personal savings account for that longawaited tour to Europe next year. Send your name in right now for your complete itinerary of this wonderful European tour with VIDA FOX CLAWSON 966 East South Temple SALT LAKE CITY 1, UTAH Phone: 4-2017 Better Light Means ° Better Sight Be Modern Live Electrically UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. The Pride of Your Library! Your Relief Society Magazines when handsomely bound into permanent yearly volumes acquire new value as excellent reference books. Just $2.50 (Cloth Binding) $3.50 (Leather Binding) Per Volume If necessary to mail them to you, the following postage rates will apply. Distance from Up to 150 miles... Eect eee eee.35 150 to 300 miles 220 eee eee BY 300 to 600 miles wo 600 to 1000 miles 1000 to 1400 miles 1400 to 1800 miles Over 1800 miles............. Ee them at our Sarneaenely laamiedd —e | oltce Deseret News Press 31 Richards St, Salt Lake City, Utah Phone 4-258].%@) Page 639 Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Artist Banker Doctor Merchant Nurse Airman Teacher Farmer Writer Secretary Engineer Diplomat Chemist Biologist Architect Dentist Musician It's yours if you prepare for it Plan NOW to attend Fall Quarter, September 24 Write Registrar for information Brigham Young University Provo — Utah Page 640 Sheted Reading FOR RELIEF SOCIETY WOMEN 1. Your Rugged Constitution Bruce Allyn Findlay and Esther Blair Findlay This outstanding study book gives a pageby-page analysis of our Constitution, complete with clever illustrations that will help you grasp many of the principles contained in this great Document. $1.50 Add 10c postage 2. Literature of England— Volume Il Woods, Watt, and Anderson This book contains the best in English literature, from the Romantic poets and the Victorian era down to World War II. It has a wealth of knowledge, wonderful descriptive passages and detailed character analysis by some of the world's greatest writers, $5.50 Add 25c postage Order with the 8. Adam Bede George Eliot Here is a book filled with marvellous characterizations, vivid descriptions, and a rich philosophy of life... Even greater than Silas Marner and Mill on the Floss. $.95 Add 12e postage 4. Wuthering Heights Emily Bronte (Pocket edition.) This is one of the greatest romantic tragedies of all times... A story of love and hatred, class distinction, pride and selfishness... The action taking place in the wild desolate moors of England. $ 335 Add 8c postage 5. Book of Mormon (a) Missionary Edition—plastic $.50 (b) Cloth Edition $1.25 (c) Library Edition $2.00 Deseret ili Book (0. Ft, 44 East South Temple -- Salt Lake City. Utah | convenient coupon | Ni, eel i at right. | DESERET BOOK COMPANY | | 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah | | Gentlemen: Note all L. D. S. Church Enclosed you will find ( ) check ( ) money order ( ) charge l books will be mailed | to my account the following amount $000.0... For the! Postage free. | encircled (numbered) books: 1 2 3 4 5(a) 5(b) 5(c). | | INERT) 8 Ion... Ccccccccsnsesorenncosensesensnsnrasecesessseceranscccunsscsseaccsscesnsccasnsnccosncce | ] City cece ceteeceeerenee serene LOMO SHAG ec eeeeee | j Residents of Utah include 2% sales tax.! AddreSS o2........-cceeccceecceecccenceecoceessceecscceneecescesccceceacnacecsoeecaneeeusaceecceeceeneceenerooeses® | Got your peaches? Got your pears? Get your sugar It's the time for home canning. Fall fruit is ready and in plentiful supply. Order your canning sugar today. Sugar not only acts as a sweetening agent, but helps to preserve the natural flavor, shape, and texture of fruit. Make sure you buy pure U and I Sugar.... For your home canning, you can't buy a finer, purer, whiter sugar anywhere. Its performance has been tested in tens of thousands of homes and found perfect for every sugar use. When at your grocer's, always buy U and I Sugar. VOL. 41. NO. 10 OCTOBER 1954 FL Will Lift Ubp line &yes. (Psalms 121:1) Christie Lund Coles The crags are hewn against the autumn sky, Their color heightened by each baring tree; The quivering aspens which have reached the high Place of the pine, despite their frailty, Accent the lonely skyline, and the hawk Swoops and cries, sensing the wind and snows, The winter that will come to leaf and rock Beyond the beauty the beholder knows. Yet, leaves that fall, making a brittle sound, Rocks that rise in _ and flaming fire, Challenge the spirit that was summer bound, Elate the mind, urging it to aspire; The wide sky, where few blandishments intrude, Invites the soul to fearless solitude. The Cover: "Cattails," Photograph by Willard Luce Frontispiece: The Grand Canyon of the Snake River, Wyoming Photograph by Willard Luce Cover Design by Evan Jensen From Near and Sar I enjoy every issue of The Relief Society Magazine from the beautiful cover pictures to the very last page. The articles, editorials, stories, poetry, and the lesson work are all so worthwhile and of such high quality. —Mrs. John Gardner Sacramento, California I wish to express the gratitude and the satisfaction I obtain from reading The Relief Society Magazine. It has always been in our home. 'The Magazine has been an inspiration to us in this foreign land, and the only contact with the Church until two missionaries arrived here in Managua November 21, 1953 to open a Latter-day Saint mission in Nicaragua. We were again blessed with another contact with our Church when our beloved President David O. And Sister McKay paused for a brief thirty minutes in Managua on their extensive journey to visit the missions in faraway places. —Allie R. Barlow c/o United States Embassy Managua, Nicaragua May we tell how much we enjoy the Magazine? It is the only contact which some of our ladies have with the Church. Thank you for the splendid work you do. —Merza Norlund President, Sonoma Relief Society Sonoma, California I was eighty-one August 27th, not as active since I came from the hospital, but still enjoying writing and phoning to those who are ill or homebound to cheer them. I have worked in our Church organizations ever since I was old enough —a labor of love. For nine years I was on the Cache Stake Relief Society board and during that time I compiled a history of the ward Relief Society from its organization and also a history of the Cache Stake Relief Society from its organization. Success to the wonderful Magazine. It is doing so much good for our women. —Lettie B. H. Rich Logan, Utah Page 642 I love the Magazine, but I don't take it now, as conditions and circumstances have changed and I live with my daughters and they are subscribers to it... My eyes are not too good, but I guess one cannot always be young. After one reaches eighty and over, one doesn't do quite so well. —Sarah Carlisle Ogden, Utah I don't know if children are to write to you, but I'm trying to surprise my mother.... My mother made a poem for my sister to recite.... I have decided to send it to you to put in our Magazine, which Mother enjoys very much. My body is a tabernacle Our Father gave to me. He asks me to keep it shiny clean And neat as it can be.... He promises me a place with him If I'll be real good and kind, And if Vl spread the gospel So others the truth will find. I hope all of us children will grow up to be good and kind.... My mother's name is Mrs. Paul Treiber, or Linnea Treiber. Thank you sincerely, —Marilyn Treiber Marshalltown, Iowa At present I am summering in Yorkshire, but the weather is more like January than July.... Our Relief Society is engaged in its summer program and plans a salad supper as a prelude to the return of regular Relief Society meetings. Thanks again for publishing my poem. It still seems a little unreal to me. —Marjorie G. Foote Bellshill Lanarkshire, Scotland I like the Magazine very much and want to compliment the whole staff for the fine balance with which it is made up each month, the inspiring pictures, the poems, stories, and all the departments, also the workmanship is beyond compare and makes a pleasing combination. —Mtrs. Arlene Morris Rocky Mount, North Carolina THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - - - - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - First Counselor Velma N. Simonsen - - - - - _ Second Counselor Margaret C. Pickering - - Secretary-Treasurer Mary G. Judd Evon W. Peterson Cian: H. Robinson Charlotte A. Larsen Anna B. Hart Leone O. Jacobs Alberta H. Christensen Edith P. Backman Edith S. Elliott Louise W. Madsen Mildred B. Eyring Winniefred S. Florence J. Madsen Aleine M. Young Helen W. Anderson Manwaring Leone G. Layton Josie B. Bay Gladys S. Boyer Elna P. Haymond Blanche B. Stoddard RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Vol. 41 OCTOBER 1954 NO. 10 SPECIAL FEATURES... Caroline C. Lewis 682 Relief Society Responsibilities Joseph Fielding Smith 644 The International Council of Women Conference at Helsinki, Finland, i ies ed) es enaaagsecnsanceseeessedBelle S. Spation oe Skimping on Spirituality SR oe. Helen A. Nielsen 647 A Small Trouble......... AR conan cocectestetsteeeeeeaseaseeseeseeeseeeeeeseeseeeee lia Luce 664 "FICTION | Contentment Is a Lovely Sinai —Chayater Vl....... Cccr-eccammraasenssens eS Dorothy S. Romney 695 "To Be or Not to Be' or Cats in the Home oon.. O..2. Ececccceccccceeceeeeeeeseseneeeee-- Mary C. Martineau 669 A Pair of Pants for Benj sia oreo lessustsessustseeeeeeee..-Pansye H. Powell 676 The Young and the Ol ~ GENERAL FEATURES © From Near and Far -... 642 Sixty Years Ago........ Re er ee (615i0) Woman' s Sphere..... A =.. Ramona W. Cannon 661... Vesta P. Crawford Re Notes to the Field Perry Pies Catalogue Available. _. Seterescecetviecse--0s OG4 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities..... Margaret C. Pickering 685 sinner FOR THE HOME ROMS Ate Ricimeyl a. Oo tecsccccecceceeesceescetse-+-aseausqases-ssige+-onecncesseesoreascsssesseseeezazestlve eeWinnifred C. Jardine 665 A Letter From = — - Ss —_ Clara Horne Park 668 Helen S. Williams 671 o— — Ida M. Pardue 680. Elizabeth Williamson 712 "LESSONS FOR JANUARY — Let's Get Ready for Christmas............... Tomato-Frankfurter Rarebit............ Artist at Seventy-Five (Mae Olmstead d Crowley) - Have an Apple Party.. The Golden Cage........ Theology: Further Teachings of Alma and Amulek..... SescsseeeeeeeeeeLeland H. Monson 691 Visiting Teacher Messages: "For sani ain aero S Which Doth Possess Your Bodies"......... A. Setssesteeeeeseee-Leone O. Jacobs 696 Work Meeting: Irons and TPOMETS on eocsvvvevcsvvevsseseeeeererseereeeeseenenenn ww.--Rhea H. Gardner 697 Social Science: The Constitution of the United 'States, Articles I] amd (0D cc cccccceceseceesessnceeenene 704 The Constitution of the United States: Executive and Judicial Departments: The Doctrine of Judicial Review..... A & Albert R. Bowen 706 POETRY — "T Will Lift Up Mine Eyes''—Frontispiece..........: Pc Christie Lund Coles 641 Unconsumed Harvest —E——————————.. Mabel Jones Gabbott 647 nd of Summer ea re. Nell B. Brenchley 658 The Rainbow Ending --.....-Bertha A. Kleinman 659 Farm Shopping oc.. Eescescccececscecsccscceeeceseetesssesesseeese I Must Choose | —. A... Nn Ing Smith 675 Nigh aoa SIE -oscencenee Sylvia "Probst Young 681 Last Gali IODA 5 CELS aS) ope a _——-.__ aryhale Woolsey 684 Farewell to the Autumn Leaves 2... Secs cnececeneeeceneeeeeeneeeeveeseeeeenessseeeaveceeecevenesesLettie B. H. Rich 690 Bounty ann on vocce tran osecorasece ttiatessseasDorothy O. Rea 695 Fulfillment 00.0000..... Catherine E. Berry 703 AGC) a ne ieGenevieve Groen 711 Movie Grows FOr eae ance nnn eeaneeneennesenteconsscnsenasonscnnscunesneccustuassussceEthel Jacobson 711 Night of Magic =. Eunice J. Miles 712 DOVCOT TTP N anon scree cere nen cnn cance saatesac nes osonenenenecesepececscesecseaceesnecsensaveversonsneceneeieonee: Fanny G. Brunt 712 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 40 North Main, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of 'October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Literature: Emily Bromte o2........ Cc.. Cccccc ceccceccceeeee ee eeeeseeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee.. Briant S. Jacobs 698 Relief Society Responsibilities President Joseph Fielding Smith President of the Council of the Twelve N the seventeenth day of () March, 1842, the "Female Relief Society of Nauvoo," was organized by the Prophet Joseph Smith assisted by Elder John 'Taylor. The Lord had revealed that the women of the Church should be organized into a society, for there was important work for them to do in aiding to "bring forth and establish the cause of Zion." 'This labor of the sisters was primarily to be for the benefit, encouragement, and advancement of the women of the Church that they might be prepared in all things for a place in the celestial kingdom. 'The responsibility was also given them to aid in the work of mercy and relief from distress and suffering of the poor, the sick, and afflicted throughout the Church. All through the years since that organization, the sisters of this society have been true to their calling and have magnified themselves in their faithfulness in that work. No task assigned has been too hard; no responsibility neglected, and through their ministrations thousands have been blessed. Among these responsibilities was the duty of preparing the women through study and faith to obtain an understanding of the fundamental principles of the gospel; for the Lord requires of the women, as well as of the men in the Church, that they know his divine will and have an abiding testimony in their hearts of the revealed truth pertaining to Page 644 salvation in the kingdom of God. The Lord did not reveal The Book of Mormon for the benefit of those who hold the Priesthood only, but for every soul who seeks the truth, male and female alike; and every member of the Church should be familiar with its contents. When he said, in speaking of the commandments in the Doctrine and Covenants, "Search these commandments, for they are true and faithful, and the prophecies and promises which are in them shall all be fulfilled," it was not a command which concerned the male members of the Church alone, but it was intended for all. 'Therefore, the sisters who are placed in charge of the Relief Society, and likewise the Mutual Improvement and Primary organizations are under the necessity of giving instruction to all the women and children who come under their direction. Every woman baptized into the Church has the hands of the elders laid on her head for the gift of the Holy Ghost that she may have the guidance of that Spirit in all truth. It is the will of the Lord that none may be without divine guidance which will reveal to them the truth and enable them to discern the light from the darkness and, thus, be fortified and given power to resist all false doctrines, theories, and notions, which are so prevalent in the world today. When the Lord said to the Church by revelation, RELIEF SOCIETY RESPONSIBILITIES March 7, 1831, "For they that are wise and have received the truth, and have taken the Holy Spirit for their guide, and have not been deceived—verily I say unto you, they shall not be hewn down and cast into the fire, but shall abide the day," he meant it to be counsel to every member of the Church. Again, in speaking to the Church in a revelation given the following day, this timely counsel was proclaimed. But ye are commanded in all things to ask of God, who giveth liberally; and that which the Spirit testifies unto you even so I would that ye should do in all holiness of heart, walking uprightly before me, considering the end of your salvation, doing all things with prayer and thanksgiving, that ye may not be seduced by evil spirits, or doctrines of devils, or the commandments of men; for some are of men, and others of devils. Wherefore, beware lest ye are deceived; and that ye may not be deceived seek ye earnestly the best gifts, always remembering for what they are given: For verily I say unto you, they are given for the benefit of those who love meand keep all my commandments, and him that seeketh so to do; that all may be benefited that seek or that ask of me, that ask and not for a sign that they may consume it upon their lusts. And again, verily I say unto you, I would that ye should always remember, and always retain in your minds what those gifts are, that are given unto the church (D. & C. 46:7-10). HIS is good counsel and it is not intended just for the men who hold the Priesthood, but is given for the benefit and guidance of man, woman, and child capable of understanding. It is true that there are many false spirits abroad and many false doctrines of devils, as well as teachings of men, that are destructive of faith which are found in all 645 parts of the world. The Lord revealed to Nephi the conditions which would exist on the face of the earth in these last days and we are seeing them fulfilled. Among other things in which he predicted the evil tendencies of the inhabitants of the earth are the following: But, behold, in the last days, or in the days of the Gentiles—yea, behold all the nations of the Gentiles and also the Jews, both those who shall come upon this land and those who shall be upon other lands, yea, even upon all the lands of the earth, behold, they will be drunken with iniquity and all manner of abominations. And when that day shall come they shall be visited of the Lord of Hosts, with thunder and with earthquake, and with a great noise, and with storm, and with tempest, and with the flame of devouring fire (2 Nephi 27:1-2). For the kingdom of the devil must shake, and they which belong to it must needs be stirred up unto repentance, or the devil will grasp them with his everlasting chains, and they be stirred up to anger, and perish; For behold, at that day shall he rage in the hearts of the children of men, and stir them up to anger against that which is good. And others will he pacify, and lull them away into carnal security, that they will say: 'All is well in Zion; yea, Zion prospereth, all is well—and thus the devil cheateth their souls, and leadeth them away carefully down to hell (2 Nephi 28:19-21). There are some cults or factions which have broken away from the Church which are now trying to destroy it by their lying and evil doctrines. 'There are many false philosophies and theories prevalent in the world, and those who are not guided by the Spirit of the Lord and who have not prepared themselves by study and by faith, are in 646 danger of being deceived. It requires faithfulness, prayer, humility, and a proper understanding of the gospel, to counteract the influences of these evils and aid us to steer a clear course so that we may not be deceived. In this great work the various branches of the Relief Society are called on to lend their aid that there may be no _ iniquity among us. It is the privilege of every member of the Church to know the truth, and by faithful obedience the Spirit of the Lord will protect us and give us the inspiration by which we may, one and all, discern these evils and detect the spirit that prompts those who advocate these false doctrines. Ris is a day of testing. Never before in the history of the world has Satan been more active and determined to destroy all that is good. He has always had great hatred for the truth. It was made known to John, in the great revelation at Patmos, the condition which would exist upon the earth in these last days. The Lord said to him: "Woe to the inhabiters of the earth and of the sea! For the devil is come down unto you, having great wrath, because he knoweth that he hath but a short time" (Rev. 12:12). Every day draws us near to the end of the world, a term which is greatly misunderstood by many. 'The end of the world and the end of the earth, when it will have finished its mortal course and shall die, be resurrected, and become a celestial globe, are two different events. The end of the world is the end of wickedness when the earth will be cleansed for the reign of Jesus RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1954 Christ upon its face for a thousand years. 'That day is drawing near. The wars, commotions, troubles among the nations, their peoples fearing and their hearts failing them, the earthquakes and calamities in diverse places, are all taking place upon the earth. Men and nations are crying for peace and there is no peace on this earth from this time on, until the Prince of Peace comes to establish it by cleansing the earth of its wickedness. When in his ministry, the Savior said, speaking of these days: ""The Son of man shall send forth his angels, and they shall gather out of his kingdom all things that offend, and them which do iniquity" (Matt. 13:41). I wish to commend the sisters of this great organization for their integrity and faithfulness which have been manifest constantly since the days of Nauvoo. 'The instructions given by the Prophet Joseph Smith, were that it should be a select society composed of those who were chaste and virtuous, who would assist in purging out iniquity. "The Saints should be a select people, separate from all the evils of the world—choice, virtuous, and holy." (See Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, pages 201-202.) In May 1842, the Prophet gave the following instruction to the Relief Society: There is now a day of salvation to such as repent and reform;—and they who repent not should be cast out from this society; yet we should woo them to return to God, lest they escape not the damnation of hell! Where there is a mountain top, there is also a valley—we should act in all things on a proper medium to every immortal spirit. Notwithstanding the unworthy are among us, the virtuous should not, from a_ self-import- RELIEF SOCIETY RESPONSIBILITIES 647 ance, grieve and oppress needlessly, those make those not so good reform and _ reunfortunate ones—even these should be turn to the path of virtue that they may encouraged to hereafter live to be honbe numbered with the good, and even ored by this society, who are the best hold the keys of power, which will portions of the community. Said he had influence to virtue and goodness—should two things to recommend to the mem-_ chasten and reprove and keep it all in bers of this society, to put a double watch silence, not even mention them again; over the tongue: no organized body can then you will be established in power, virexist without this at all. All organized tue, and holiness, and the wrath of God bodies have their peculiar evils, weakwill be turned away (Teachings of the nesses and difficulties, the object is to Prophet Joseph Smith, pages 238-239). —_< Unconsumed Harvest Mabel Jones Gabbott The acrid pungency of burning brush Had found me in the field; across the wide Valley the lazy smoke floated in the hush Of Indian summer in the countryside; My work was ending, houred by the rays Of the earth-bronzed sun; distantly I heard The homing note a clanging cowbell plays In the evening hum of insect, frog, and bird. I looked up from my task to yellow fields, Pastures new-plowed, a tufted hilltop red With autumn, and the waiting abundant yields Of thick ripe stalks of buckwheat; I was fed From crops tomorrow would not measure. Though rains And drifting snows will bring the long white night, A harvest unconsumed always temains— This garnering of smell and sound and sight. > Shimping on Spirituality Helen A. Nielsen AN old adage says: ""Wear it out, use it up, make it do." The adage referred to material things. Frugality and thrift have been a part of Latter-day Saint ways. Economy is considered a virtue. And so it is, if it pertains to things of the world and not of the spint. It may be necessary to make a dress from less material than would be desirable. It may be necessary to use top milk when cream would be better. But it is never necessary to skimp on things of the spirit. We only have to ask, and it shall be given to us, we can ask for the Lord's Spirit and expect it. Peace and joyousness can be ours. Prayer, scripture reading, partaking of the sacrament, keeping good company, and Church activity, all help to insure an abun- 'dance of the Holy Spirit. Let's not skimp on spirituality. The International Council of Women Conference at Helsinki, Finland, June 1954 President Belle S. Spafford T is with pleasure that I bring to Relief Society members a report of the recent International Council of Women Conference with a brief mention of my other very delightful experiences in Europe. Finland, far to the north, with its limitless forests, blue inland lakes, long, bright summer nights, and modest, hospitable people, is an interesting land. Helsinki, Finland's beautiful capital city, with a population of 400,000 people, has preserved much of its old character, yet amazes one with much that is new and modern. Its fruit, fish, flower, and vegetable markets, swarming with people, capture the interest of the visitor who may also shop in its modern department stores, visit its new and up-to-date educational and social institutions, and be housed in as modern and beautiful a hotel as is to be found in any country. This unique and attractive city was the setting for the International Council of Women Conference, June 7213, og, which brought together approximately five hundred women representing thirty-four free nations. The International Council of Women is made up of National Councils of Women of many lands, and brings together, _ triennially, Page 648 women of all races, many nations, creeds, and classes, in the belief that the good of humanity and the wellbeing of the home and the family will be advanced by a greater unity of thought, purpose, and action on the part of organized women. The Council aims to present factual data in its efforts to focus the attention of organized women on matters related to family and community life, and to encourage efforts to correct unfavorable conditions, as well as to chart courses that will promote the well-being of the home and society. Resolutions designed to aid in the accomplishment of the aims of the Council are drawn up and voted upon at the triennial meetings. However, no member National Council can be committed, in any case, to any cause or project by International Council action, except by its own vote. Each participating National Council is allowed a number of voting delegates according to the size of its membership. The National Council of Women of the United States, the oldest member of the International Council, was allowed ten voting delegates and six alternates at the Helsinki conference. Recognition was accorded Relief Society by the National Council of CHAIRMEN OF THE RESPECTIVE DELEGATIONS SEATED IN FRONT OF THEIR COUNTRIES' FLAGS AT THE OFFICIAL OPENING OF THE INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN CONFERENCE Note Chairman Belle S. Spafford seated in front of the flag of the United States. Women of the United States in my appointment as chairman of the United States delegation in the absence of Mrs. Charlotte Leyden, the United States National Council President, who was unable to attend the conference. The Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association was also honored in the appointment of Mrs. Marba Josephson as an alternate delegate. Both the Relief Society and the Y. W. M. LA. Are charter members of the National Council of Women of the United States. The meetings of the Helsinki conference were held in the new and modern buildings of the University of Helsinki and the University of Commerce. As one approached the University of Commerce, — there came into view a colorful row of huge flags waving in the breeze and representing the many member nations and proclaiming the international character of the gathering. The official languages of the conference were English and French and excellent translators were provided for both languages. THE INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN CONFERENCE 649 HE official opening of the conference, on Wednesday, June 9, was a brilliant and impressive affair. In addition to the conference participants, many public officials and other prominent persons were in attendance, including Madame Alli Paasikivi, wife of the President of Finland, and patron of the conference. 'The speakers at the opening session included Minister Virolainen, who presented the Finnish government's greetings; Alderman Lauri Aho, chairman of the city council, who bade the conference visitors welcome on behalf of the city of Helsinki; Mrs. Margit Borg-Sundman, President of the National Council of Finland, the hostess council, whose masterful management of affairs was evidence of her great leadership; and Dr. Jeanne Eder of Switzerland, President of the International Council of WomGh, A very effective part of this meeting was the formal introduction of the chairmen of the respective delegations. Finnish girls dressed in national costumes carried the flags of the different nations to the dais of the festival hall where they stood in front of a row of white pillars. It was a stirring experience for me to lead the chairmen of all the nations and to stand in front of Old Glory as the United States. Was introduced. The theme of the conferet: ce was '"Woman's Responsibility to the Opportunities and Dangers cf the LEADERS AT THE INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN CONFERENCE Left to right: Dr. Helen Gmur, Executive Secretary of the International Council of Women; Mrs. Margit Borg-Sundman, President, National Council of Women of Finland, the Hostess Council; Dr. Jeanne Eder of Switzerland, President, International Council of Women 650 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1954 GROUP ASSEMBLED FOR OFFICIAL OPENING OF THE CONFERENCE AT THE UNIVERSITY OF HELSINKI, FINLAND Atomic Age." In referring to the theme, Dr. Jeanne Eder, International Council President, said, ""Today's generations are fated to stand on the frontiers of this development [atomic energy| gazing with awe into a future destined to be very different from the past into which the atom will bring enormous new good or evil, unpredictable today and depending upon the use humanity will make of its powers.' She pointed out that woman must continue to carry her worldold duties of mother, householder, educator, and the living conscience of her contemporaries; but she asked if they would also accept new interests and duties in community, working world, native land, and international relations. She referred to. The present as a day "needing our — work, our meditation, and our choice of values." She urged the women in meeting together to work in friendship and mutual support, led by sound reason, for the preservation of the home as a vital cornerstone of society and for the strengthening of moral and spiritual values in community life. She said women have always been the "creators and preservers of life" and "a source of strength and calmness to their neighbors"; and she appealed to them to continue in these roles, unsusceptible to the influences of propaganda that create fears and hysteria. The forepart of the conference was devoted to sectional meetings where matters and resolutions related to the respective sections, and previously submitted by the member councils, were carefully considered. In some instances resoluTHE INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN CONFERENCE 651 652 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1954 DELEGATES OF THE NATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN OF THE UNITED STATES Front row, left to right: Alice Stetten (seated); Belle S. Spafford, Chairman (seated); Madam Dreyfuss Barney (standing); Eunice Carter (seated); Elizabeth McAllport (standing). Second row, left to right: Mrs. Henry G. Fowler; Grace Spofford; Mrs. Fredric Beggs; Mrs. John Sprague Bauman; Mrs. Henry Rafter; Marba Josephson. Back row, left to right: Helen Lototsky; Rose Parsons, I. C. W. Vice-President; Lady Russell; Frances Sawyer; Dr. Arania Mallory; Emestine Bellamy. Tions were revised and new resolutions were drawn up. The following sections were held: arts-lettersmusic; child welfare; cinema; education; finance; health; home economics; housing; laws and suffrage; migration; moral welfare; peace and international relations; press and public relations; radio and television; trades and professions. Sister Marba Josephson was assigned to the section on radio and television. I was assigned to the section on moral welfare. In these sections we were both given ample opportunity to express our opinions and viewpoints and to have voice in decisions. Some of the more serious moral problems brought to the attention of the group were: drug addiction, prostitution, extensiveness of sexual immorality, illegitimacy with its many attending problems, alcoholism, and practices which are destructive to the dignity of women, such as "'bride price," and the question of "the right of a widow to the custody of her children," which exist in some countries, and the common practice, which exists in most countries, of holding "beauty contests in which women appear in scanty bathing suits and are judged very much the same as are prize cattle."" 'These matters were regarded as demanding the attention, the condemnation, and the action of organized women. The latter part of the conference was devoted to executive and general sessions. All matters to go before the general sessions were reviewed in the executive sessions, and resolutions and other matters requiring vote were presented at the general sessions to the body of delegates. Total of twenty-four resolutions was adopted by the Council having to do with matters of concern to women and in harmony with the purposes and aims of the Council. Examples of the type of resolutions adopted are: one on cinema, urging the importance of providing good family entertainment—films portraying sound moral standards and no undue violence; a resolution urging that measures be taken to do away with illiteracy, particularly in countries where this is prevalent; a resolution on moral — standards, wherein the International Council "reaffirmed its belief in the necessity of applying high moral standards to men and women equally." Drawing forth, perhaps, the greatest interest was a resolution having to do with the use of atomic energy. This resolution was designed to unite organized women to work toward the prevention of the destructive and aggressive use of atomic energy and to promote its pacific uses. Two new councils were admitted to membership—Nigeria and Pakistan. The introduction of the chairmen was a very colorful and impressive part of the conference procedures. The entire conference had excellent official recognition. 'The American Minister to Finland, Mr. Jack McFall, invited the United States delegation to the legation for brief- ' ing on the history and ptesent political situation in Finland, and honored us by being in attendance with Mrs. McFall at the official opening of the conference. Mrs. McFall gave a delightful luncheon for the delegation. Included among the guests was Sister Mae Matis, President of the Finnish Mission Relief Society, who was seated with me at the head table. The wife of the legation counselor, Mrs. Morgan, also extended us an invitation to a reception, however time was so fully programmed we had to forego this invitation. The Finnish Council arranged many delightful social functions for the delegates, foremost of which was the reception at the Finnish palace given by Madame Alli Paasikivi and the tea given by the Minister of Education and his wife at their spacious and attractive residence. Interesting and enjoyable were the social functions given in private homes. Considerable recognition was accorded the United States delegation at the conference and in the election of officers. Mrs. Rose Parsons, a member of the United States Council, was re-elected as a vicepresident of the International Council. Mrs. Eunice Carter was elected a convener, and Mrs. Alice Stetten and Miss Grace Spofford were elected as vice-conveners for the next triennial meeting. In my opinion, the United States Council made an effective contribution to the conference. Dr. Jeanne Eder of Switzerland was re-elected president of the International Council for the next triennial period. Undoubtedly good was accomplished by the conference by way of greater understanding and apTHE INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN CONFERENCE 653 preciation of the problems of the different nations and by the friendships established. Good will grow out of the conference because the attention of organized women was brought into focus on_ problems which should be of concern to women. I was impressed with the sweep of the conference, the willingness of the women to work together for common goals, and with the power inherent in the conference through its connection with so many important organizations of women in the world. Participation in the conference was a great experience. HE experience was made more pleasant and profitable through the association with President and Sister Henry A. Matis of the Finnish Mission. 'These capable and highly respected Latter-day Saint leaders were ever ready to help Sister Josephson and me in meeting the many demands of the International Council of Women Conference, and they contributed to the enjoyment of our visit to Finland. It was an impressive experience to meet the missionaries who are so earnestly fulfilling their callings and to note the growth of this young mission of the Church. I felt greatly blessed in having opportunity to meet with some of the Relief Society sisters of Finland and to observe the capable leadership, the many talents of the sisters, and their devotion to the work of Relief Society. The meaning of Relief Society in the lives of the women is very evident. Just as these choice opportunities were afforded us in Finland, so were similar ones afforded us in other cities of Europe which we visited The many courtesies of the mission presidents and their wives and their kindness in arranging meetings where we might meet the sisters living near were sincerely appreciated. We found the same substantial women in the foreign Relief Societies as at home. 'They are women who love the gospel and who are willing to work for the building up of the branches and for the advancement of the work of the Church. I was delighted with the capable local leadership and with the way the Relief Society program is being conducted. I was particularly impressed with the appeal the work meetings seem to have, as judged by the very beautiful and high standard of the sewing and handwork on display. There is a tremendous interest in the temple under construction on a beautiful site in Switzerland and also in the proposed temple for England. The trip to Europe of President and Sister David O. McKay was a great blessing to the Latter-day Saints in Europe, and it continues to be a highlight in the missions of Europe. Personally, I feel greatly blessed in having had the. Privilege of meeting so many devoted, stalwart Relief Society sisters in faraway missions of the Church, and of mingling with representative women from so many nations of the world who were attending the International Conference of Women. 654 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1954 Contentment Is a Lovely Thing Dorothy S. Romney CHAPTER 1 5 hc heat in the valley was oppressive this morning, and it would be much worse by midday. Margaret already felt weary. She pushed some of the breakfast dishes out of the way so that she could prop her elbows on the kitchen table and rest her forehead against the palms of her hands. It eased her dizziness and shut out the sight of the disorderly kitchen, but it didn't make her forget that she had only four hours to get the house, herself, and the baby presentable for the arrival of her husband's father and mother. I wonder if it's just that I'm scared? She thought wildly. After all, he is Jed's father—even if he is a successful brain surgeon; and she's Jed's mother—even if she has money and social position. Margaret had never met her "'inlaws." It seemed that Dr. Lansing was always too busy at the hospital to get away for the trip, and her baby's coming had provided her with just as good a reason for not accompanying Jed on his infrequent trips to the city where his parents lived. Although they had never come right out and said so, Margaret felt instinctively that they held her responsible for Jed's discontinuing his medical training. In any case she was sure that they considered a country girl an unsuitable wife.. Well, she'd prove to them that it had been Jed's idea, not hers, for him to become a farmer, and that being a farmer didn't necessarily mean giving up the finer things of life—that is if she could get over this feeling of listlessness and get enough strength in her knees to stand up and start working. Jed had eaten his usual hearty breakfast a couple of hours ago and gone off to the barn with a promise to be back in plenty of time to mect his parents' train. 'The ticking of the clock sounded loud in the still!- ness of the unusually hot morning, and she noticed that it was nearly ten o'clock. Mrs. Jackson, a widow and their nearest neighbor, had promised to be here by nine to help with the last-minute preparations. Margaret simply couldn't manage all she had to do alone. She peeked at Kimmy who looked like an angel asleep, and hurried through the kitchen door. She went past the orchard that separated the two places, under the trees that were already bursting with swollen pink buds, and cautiously climbed through the barbed wire fence Jed had put up to keep stray cattle out. As soon as she straightened up she could see that there was a note on the door of the Jackson cottage. It was pinned up with a safety pin, and characteristecally brief: "My sister sent for me. She is sick. Emma Jackson." Margaret walked slowly back to her own house. 'There were so many things that needed doing, but Page 655 she would just have to get busy and do them herself in double quick time, in spite of her increasing ill feeling. As she bent to pick up the clothesbasket a sharp pain stabbed at her back. She shrugged it off and finished hanging out the clothes just as Kimmy's first morning shouts of glee were heard. As she lifted the sturdy little boy, the pain she had felt when she picked up the basket of clothes seared through her again. She would simply ignore it. 'This was no time to indulge herself, she felt. She had planned one pleasant surprise after another for every minute of Jed's parents' seven-day visit. She forced herself to begin washing the breakfast dishes, keeping a wary eye on Kimmy through the nursery door adjoining the kitchen. Perhaps she was just unduly excited over meeting Jed's parents for the first time. Still, she reasoned, excitement didn't give you pains in the back. Y the time she had finished the dishes Margaret felt that her legs wouldn't hold her another minute. She sank down in the old-fashioned rocking chair—the same chair her mother had sat in to rock her as a baby. She closed her eves and longed to hear Jed's firm step outside the kitchen door. Just to have him near, she felt, would give her strength to get up and get started again. Kimmy was beginning to get fretful, and once she started to rise to go to him, then reconsidered. If she had some contagious disease she wouldn't want to expose him to it. By this time Kimmy was really making himself heard, and she thought she couldn't bear not to take him up another minute when the screen door to the kitchen opened and Jed came in. "Hi," he greeted, aad then stopped short. "Margaret, what on earth is the matter with you? You look ill," he said. "I feel fine," she replied, trying to put strength and cheer into her voice and failing. Jed gave her a sharp look. "Say, you're not letting Mother's and Dad's visit bother you, are you?" he asked, with sudden inspiration. "No, of course not," she denied. "You'd better get Kimmy, he thinks we ve deserted him," she added with an effort. He went into the nursery and came back with Kimmy, who quieted down as soon as his father picked him up. Jed strapped him in his high chair and gave him a zwieback, then walked over and picked Margaret up bodily. "Tl just tuck you in bed and go over and get Mrs. Jackson," he said. "You're not fooling me one bit. My girl never gives up like this unless she's ill." Margaret sank gratefully onto the comfortable bed. 'There was no strength left in her to protest that she should change from her neat gingham house dress into a gown or robe. "Mrs. Jackson isn't home. Her sister is ill," she managed to tell Jed. "We'll get along," he answered cheerfully. Kimmy had begun to cry again as soon as his parents left the kitchen, and his shrieks had reached a new crescendo, but even these 656 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1954 CONTENTMENT IS A LOVELY THING seemed far away and remote. Margaret pulled the sheet up over her. It felt cool and in the few minutes she slept. When she awoke again she could hear Jed in the kitchen. It always amazed her how anyone as large as he was could be so deft and efficient with his hands. He would have made a wonderful surgeon she found herself thinking. After a few moments he appeared in the doorway to the bedroom. "T have to meet the train in an hour," Jed told her. "Kimmy is strapped in his high chair. Keep an eye on him while I go down to the barn and get the station wagon. I'll just be a minute." He was gone before she could answer. No sound reached her ears until the screen door burst open and Jed rushed in. "Can't get the motor started," he said excitedly. "I'd better call the Hawkins' place and see if I can borrow Jim's car. He's plowing this morning and won't be using it." Being a realist, Margaret knew that it was high time the station wagon did a little balking. It had been the good old standby of almost the entire community for the past three years, ever since Jed had bought it secondhand when they first were married. It had carned loads of people on picnics, Jed's entire troop of Boy Scouts on numerous outings, and had served as a delivery truck whenever any of the neighbors had run short of supplies that were needed in a hurry. HESE thoughts all flashed "through her mind as she caught snatches of Jed's telephone conver- 657 sation with Liza Hawkins. "Fine, Liza, Tl be right over to pick it up... You sure Jim won't need it?.... No, thanks, Margaret will be all right... I won't be gone long." A second later Jed appeared in the doorway. "It's all arranged," he said, his usual happy smile back on his face. "Jim won't be using his car today, and don't worry, honey, while I'm gone. I won't be more than forty-five minutes at the most. Dad will be able to fix you up in a hurry when he gets here. 'There's no need to bring Dr. Miller out. Dad hasn't always been a_ brain surgeon, you know. He started out the hard way as a general practitioner. It was just a few years ago that he began specializing." Margaret hadn't known this, and thought it strange that Jed hadn't mentioned it before. She must ask him how his father came to change from general practice to brain surgery, but there wasn't time now to do anything but take care of the present crisis. "Try to get some sleep while Kimmy and I are gone, honey, and don't worry," he called back cheerfully, and the last she could see of them was Kimmy struggling to turn around and wave his chubby pink fist at her, excitement and the sheer joy of living manifested by the rapid kicking of his short legs. The window was open and the sweet scent of the first lilacs floated in as a slight breeze fanned the snowy white ruffled curtains that had been painstakingly ironed and hung up only yesterday. As Margaret watched the gently moving curtains her eyes grew weary, and she finally fell into a fitful sleep. Sometime later when Margaret awakened, she walked over to the large window which gave a clear view of the road for miles. Margaret scanned it for an approaching car, but there was none. A south wind had sprung up, and that meant rain. Her eyes turned to the great red barn, and she saw that Jed had left the doors wide open in his hurry to get away. They were swinging in the wind. She should go down and close them, instead she hurried, still shivering, for the warmth of the bed. The bright, hot day was gone, and it was gloomy and chill. Just as she pulled the covers that she kept folded on the end of the bed up over her, she heard the first clap of thunder, and the rain spattering down hard on the roof. Jed had taken Kimmy away in his sunsuit, and hadn't taken a sweater along. He would be simply frozen. The storm was at its height when she finally heard the Hawkins' car stop at the kitchen door. It wouldn't enter Jed's head to bring his parents in through the front door. Margaret dreaded having to meet them in her present state. She felt like pulling the coverlet up over her head, as she had done when she was a little girl and wanted to get away from anything unpleasant or terrifying.; (To be continued ) End of Summer Nell B. Brenchley Before me lies the garden, desolate; On every side are withered leaf and vine, And yellowed cornstalks, ghosts of summer days, Stir noisily as autumn winds entwine. Across my lawn a coverlet of leaves Is spread, and ash and scarlet maple blend, Where trees flaunt naked limbs, quite unashamed, And bare their souls to all at summer's end. The flowers, brown and withered, row on row, Remind of frost through autumn's golden haze; Only a rose blooms on, despite chill air, A monument to lovely summer days. = The birds whose summer symphonies I loved Have long since flown away, I know not where! The willows lone and silent now, until The raucous cry of magpie rends the air. A sadness fills my heart at summer's end, Nor do I mourn that the days grow colder, Autumn I love—but this do I lament, Time too swiftly wanes... And I grow older. 658 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1954 Grant M. Haist SYLVAN LAKE, NEAR EAST ENTRANCE TO YELLOWSTONE NATIONAL PARK, WYOMING She Rainbo W Ending Bertha A. Kleinman If the rainbow spanned a primsie arch, When I was young and bolder, It spans a golden super-arch Today when I am older If skies were blue when I was young With cloud-dust intertwining, Today their blue with gold is spun And clouds have turned their lining. If friends were allies in my youth To joy-dreams of the morrow, Today in tested ranks of truth - They steady me in sorrow. And so I cull from out the past A fuller, deeper blending, And in the things that live and last, I find my trainbow's ending. Page 659 Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, October 1, and October 15, 1954 "Tor THE RIGHTS OF THE WoMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomeEN oF Att NATIONS" FEMININE HINTS: The house wife has been employed all the summer long with her arduous but satisfying labor of preparing fruit for the winter months and now with what a pleasure she points to her shelves filled with bottles of fresh berries and fruits, her jars of rich preserves, her glasses of clear, delicious jelly.... —Selected THE POLITICAL QUESTION: 'The great fundamental principles of government... Should be carefully studied and those who anticipate having the franchise should arm themselves well with this knowledge and not come ignorantly into possession of the boon.... There will be many important and serious questions to be discussed that concern women as well as men... Education, public charities... Sanitation and public health, moral and other great reforms. —Kditorial AUTUMNAL DREAMS Through the rustling woods I wander Through the jewels of the year, From the yellow uplands calling, Seeking her that still is dear; She is near me in the autumn, She, the beautiful, is near. —Bayard Taylor ARTISTS: Rosa Bonheur is no longer the only woman artist who is entitled to wear upon her breast the Cross of the Legion of Honor, for a like distinction has just been bestowed upon Mme. Virginia Demont Breton, the daughter of Jules Breton and the wife of Adrian Demont, both of them masters of the brush. Mme. Demont-Breton has for the last dozen years been a successful exhibitor, in the Paris Salon, of marine pictures. —Selected REPORT ON A VISIT TO THE CANADIAN RELIEF SOCIETIES: My dear sisters, I greet all most heartily, consider all hands shaken. 'The sisters meetings in Alberta and Mountain View were well attended, the saints are filled with the spirit of the Lord, I never attended better meetings in my life.... At the Fair a straw hat was given to my daughter, and with the exception of a little piece of velvet, it was entirely home made; they have made many articles of clothing.... If I had means I would send for a knitting machine and teach a class of girls to knit. I feel the Lord is well pleased with the labors of his handmaids. —Zina D. H. Young MUSIC: A man once said that nature had given less to music than any of the arts. I wonder if he ever wandered through a forest in the autumn time when the leaves whispered their goodbyes as they swung and swayed through the mellow air in their falling to the ground; if he ever heard the birds as they bade farewell to their summer nests and flocking together by the hundreds gave their glorious final chorus before migrating to the south.... —Editorial Page 660 PRESIDENT BELLE S. SPAFFORD of the general board of Relief Society recently received a special citation from the American Heritage Foundation for her outstanding performance as co-chairman for the State of Utah in the 1954 Crusade for Freedom in support of Radio Free Europe. ENEVIEVE DE GALARDTERRAUBE, French Air Force nurse, the "Angel of Dien Bien Phu," who, under siege, refused to be evacuated and leave the wounded without care, received a royal welcome in New York and Washington in July. She is said to be the first citizen of France to come to the United States as the guest of Congress since the Marquis of Lafayette was so honored in 1824. In a dank underground shelter which served as a hospital, she tended the wounded for fifty-nine days, the only woman in the fortress. She received the United States' Medal of Freedom, and later, a citation from the Medical Association in Chicago. She was treceived at the White House by President and Mrs. Eisenhower. N August, seventeen-year-old Lor- -~ na Young, daughter of Mr. And Mrs. Lowell Young of Salt Lake City, won the title "America's pretWoman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon tiest schoolgirl" in a national competition. She was awarded the trip to New York with her mother, a one-thousand-dollar wardrobe, and a cash prize of one thousand dollars, which will help with her education. Miss Young is the great-great granddaughter of Lorenzo Dow Young, brother of Brigham Young. VELYN MARGARET AY, from Ephrata, Pennsylvania, a town of 7,859 population, received the title "Miss America' in this year's contest. Miss Ay is of German parentage and was a medical student. BPrmta CAROW ROOSEVELT, wife of President Theodore Roosevelt, is vividly portrayed in "The Roosevelt Family of Sagamore Hill," by Herman Hagedorn, "primarily a story of a man and his wife, the house they loved, and the six children they brought up in it." IRTHDAY congratulations are extended to Mrs. Susan Davis, Wallsburg, Utah, ninety-six; Mrs. Anna Karilla Taylor Goddard, Bill Williams Ranch, near Benson, Arizona, ninety-five; Mrs. Lydia Ann Butterfield Middleton Terry Cole, Salt Lake City, ninety-three; Mrs. Alice Norris Sears, Salt Lake City, ninety; Mrs. Elizabeth Solomon Beesley, Salt Lake City, ninety. Page 66] Q-—> EDITORIAL ~©O VOL. 41 OCTOBER 1954 NO. 10 She Heritage of Relief Society OW that the autumn season has brought back regular weekly Relief Society meetings, it is worthwhile to remember the record of the past, to survey the present, and to look forward to the future of Relief Society. In these gold and amber days, we think of Relief Society as a harvest of the precious seeds planted long ago in Nauvoo, and as we prepare for our meetings and follow the path to the chapel, and on to the Relief Society room, it seems a blessed privilege to meet again with our sisters. And even as the notes of singing rise and the prayer is heard, in our hearts we rejoice in the future of Relief Society, for it is a world-wide sisterhood designed to bless our Father's daughters in the years to come. It is for the older women to bequeath to the younger ones the priceless heritage of Relief Society. Let all of our young women be told the precious history—of the sisters who saw the Prophet Joseph Smith and heard his voice, of how they were joined together in love and service by authority of the Priesthood, and a pattern for their meetings and for their charitable activities given in that time of rejoicing when the Prophet was upon the earth. Let us give to our daughters some vision. Of the great courage and tender compassion of the women who traveled westward to the Page 662 far frontier, taking with them the teachings and the hopes of Relief Society women, for there were many who had attended meetings in Nauvoo who took with them to the western mountains the traditions and the heritage of the sisterhood. It should be made known to our young women that benevolence, solicitude, unselfish sharing, were attributes of the westward women as they established their homes in the wilderness—as they built their boweries and their humble Relief Society halls—as they comforted each other and lifted their voices in thanksgiving for Relief Society and for the gospel. Our young women should be given a vivid picture of pioneer Relief Society officers and visiting teachers traveling the rough roads and the narrow trails—by horseback, in wagons, and even on foot to visit the scattered members and the farseparated organizations and take to them the words of inspiration and instruction to bind the sisters together in unity of purpose and practice: Let it be known that Relief Society is not for this day alone, nor for this time in the swift passage of the years. It is a heritage from the past, a beautiful and satisfying pattern for the present, and a continued way of life for the future. Let it be known that Relief Society meetings are being held in vil- EDITORIAL lages and cities over the earth—in all the states of the Union, in countries beyond the sea, in the northern lands, and in the south, and in the islands of the far oceans. Relief Society is a world-wide sisterhood, growing in beauty and strength and influence, ever increasing its membership and its field of service, ever appealing to women young or old who love their homes, their families, and their Church; calling through the years to women who wish to develop themselves in the wide and lovely fields of home and_handicrafts, theology, literature, and _ social science. 663 There is no narrow way for Relief Society women to follow—their road is broad and shining. They return, these radiant autumn days, not to their particular societies alone, for going with them are the hopes and the aspirations, the guidance and direction of women, who, for more than a hundred years, have sought the companionship of their sisters in gaining greater joy and giving greater service, working together to build for themselves and for others that life of glorious fulfillment which no woman can build alone. —V. P. C. Mary G Wilson Resigns from General Board T is with regret that the gencral board announces the resignation of Mary J. Wilson, as of September 1, 1954, due to the appointment of her husband, David J. Wilson, as a judge of the Federal Customs Court in New York City. Sister Wilson was appointed to the board in January 1947, and has served for almost eight years. During those years she has won the love of the sisters of Relief Society who have been privileged to y irtake of her sweet spirit of humility and love for her fellow man. No little attention which she could give to an individual seeking understanding has been withheld because of personal duties or her diversity of interests. As a member of the general board, Sister Wilson has served with zeal and faithfulness in all her many and varied committee assignments. She is a granddaughter of Zina D. H. Young, who was general president of Relief Society from 1888 to 1901. Attributes which characterized the noble life of Zina Young are also found in Sister Wilson and appreciated by her fellow board members. The general board is happy in the honor that has come to Sister Wilson's husband, and extends to Sister Wilson its love and best wishes in the new responsibility which will be hers. Woteds. 10 THE FIELD Perry Pictures Catalogue Available for Swenty-SFive Cents IIE catalogue of the Perry Pictures Company, Malden, Massachusetts, is available at a cost of 25c. 'The catalogue lists many pictures at small cost, and in various sizes, which are useful as visual aids in the social science and literature lessons, as well as other pictures valuable to mothers in their homes and to school children. Sarm Shopping Iris W. Schow When we were little, on the first cool night, Our father sat beside a table spread With order blanks and pens, ink at his right; He was the scribe. Our mother clearly read Descriptions from the catalogue aloud: "Side pockets," "Placket closing in the back," "All of new wool," "The wearer can be proud," "Drawers ankle length, in choice of cream or black." Were these for me? Oh, joy—my brother's size! "Wide-collared sweater, worsted, in deep rose." The lamp was rubbed. Next week before our eyes The genie (Postman Jones) brought all they chose Straight to our farm. Outpourings of delight Held sway: "How pretty!" "Mine?" 'Look, what finds!" And the desire to learn to read and write Stirred wistfully in our unfolding minds. <> A Small Srouble Celia Luce A small trouble is like a pebble. Hold it too close to your eye, and it fills the whole world and puts everything out of focus. Hold it at proper viewing distance, and it can be examined and properly classified. 'Throw it at your feet, and it can be seen in its true setting, just one more tiny bump on the pathway to eternity. Page 664 Rolls Are Rising! Winnifred C. Jardine Food Editor, Deseret News and Telegram hace nothing so wonderful as the aroma of freshly baked rolls. And there's nothing can add such a nice touch to a meal. In fact, it is said that plain meals become fancy when hot rolls are served—and that is true! Making good rolls is as much an art as sculpturing or singing or sewing. And there's an exhilarating sense of accomplishment when rolls are taken from the oven— golden-brown, light, tantalizing, perfect! In spite of mixes on the market, many women still enjoy seeing their rolls mixed from the beginning. Refrigerator rolls are perfect for crowded days—mixed in leisure, baked in busyness. On the other hand, for stay-at-home days, perfect rolls can be mixed, left to rise, and baked within a few hours. The memory of hot rolls fresh from the oven is too precious to be missed by anyone. See that this homey memory is one your family will be able to cherish! To help you, here are some tips on making hot rolls, along with three of the best roll recipes we've ever tried—a light, white refrigerator roll, a half-'n-half sweet yeast roll, and an all-wholewheat that's tender and luscious. And finally, there are descriptions of all the interesting ways rolls can be shaped. In Making Rolls, Remember! For excellent cating and keeping quality, doughs should be kept as soft as possible, almost sticky, just so they can be handled. Rolls will be crusty if placed an inch apart on baking sheet. All muffin tins, baking sheets, and pans should be greased with an unsalted fat. Rolls brushed with salad oil or melted fat before baking will have tender crusts. Those brushed with milk or with one beaten egg diluted with one tablespoon milk will have crisp crusts. Rolls should be served at once or turned out of pans to cool. The best way to reheat rolls is to place them in a plain paper bag, sprinkle bag lightly with watery, and place in hot oven three to five minutes before serving. To glaze buns, take them from the oven a minute or two before they are done, brush with milk or slightly beaten egg white and sprinkle with sugar. Then return to uven a minute to glaze. For a simple powdered sugar icing, sift a little sugar into a small mixing bowl, moisten with cream or milk to spreading consistency, add flavoring, if desired, and spread over slightly warm breads. Almost any dough except plain bread dough can be kept in the refrigerator. Dough made with at least '% cup sugar and milk will keep about 3 days. Dough made with water will keep in the refrigerator for 5 days. Put dough into refrigerator immediately after mixing; kneading can be done before or after refrigeration period. Grease top of dough well and cover with waxed paper, then with snug refrigerator cover or aluminum foil. When dough is taken from refrigerator, allow to stand at room temperature for 30 minutes, then knead, if desired, and shape into rolls; allow to rise until doubled in bulk. Soften active dry yeast in warm water (110°F.); soften compressed yeast in lukewarm water (85°F.), or compressed yeast may be softened in milk mixture. Page 665 666 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1954 Licut RerricERATOR ROoLts 1 c. Shortening "2 ¢. Lukewarm water % c. Sugar eggs 2 tsp. Salt 7'2 ¢. Sifted all-purpose flour 1 c. Boiling water lc. Cold water 2 cakes compressed or active dry yeast In a very large mixing bowl, cream together shortening, sugar, and salt. Add boiling water and stir until mixture is smooth. Soften yeast in lukewarm water, then add to shortening mixture which has cooled to lukewarm. Beat eggs and add to yeast-shortening mixture. Add flour alternately with cold water and stir until dough is well combined and smooth. Lightly grease top of dough and cover bowl tightly with waxed paper. Then put a piece of aluminum foil over waxed paper and fasten tightly with rubber band. Place dough in refrigerator overnight. When ready to make rolls, knead desired amount of dough and shape into rolls. Let rise until double in bulk—z or 3 hours. Bake at 400°F. For 12 minutes or until brown. Makes about five dozen rolls. Sweet YeAst DouGcu (Part Wholewheat) 1 yeast cake, compressed or 1 to % ec. Shortening active dry 1 or 2 eggs, beaten % c. Lukewarm water 1 'tsp. Grated lemon rind, if desired 1 c. Milk 4% c. Sifted flour, about (use 14 to % 1% tsp. Salt wholewheat ) 4, "% to 2 c. Sugar Soften yeast in lukewarm water. Scald milk, cool to lukewarm. Add salt, sugar, and shortening. Add flour to make thick batter. Add yeast, eggs, and lemon rind. Beat well. Add enough more flour to make soft dough. Cover and let rest 10 to 15 minutes. 'Turn out on lightly floured kneading board. Knead until surface is smooth and satiny. Place in greased bowl. Cover tightly and let rise till slightly more than doubled in bulk. Punch down and let rise 30 minutes. 'This second rising makes rolls with finer texture. Punch down and let rest 10 minutes. Shape into desired rolls. Cover and let rise in warm place until doubled in bulk. Bake at 375°F. For 20 to 25 minutes. Makes about three and a half dozen rolls, WHOLEWHEAT ROLLS 2 yeast cakes, compressed or active dry 2 eggs, well beaten Y% c. Lukewarm water lc. Milk, scalded and cooled to luke- 1 tsp. Brown sugar warm 1', c. Melted shortening 2 tsp. Salt lf, c. Brown sugar 4% to 5 c. Unsifted wholewheat flour Combine yeast, % c. Lukewarm water, and 1 tsp. Brown sugar, and allow to stand until yeast is softened. Combine shortening, 1/4 c. Sugar, eggs, milk, and salt. Add yeast mixture and stir thoroughly. Add flour and mix well. Turn out onto well-floured board and knead until smooth and satiny. Place in greased bowl. Cover tightly and let rise till slightly less than double in bulk—1 % to 2 hours. Shape into desired rolls and place on greased tins. Let rise in warm place until slightly less than double in bulk—about 1 hour, Bake at 4o0°F. For 15 to 20 minutes. How To SHApeE RO. LLts Pan Rolls: Shape dough into smooth, round balls about 2 inches in diameter and place on greased pans. Brush with melted butter or margarine. ROLLS ARE RISING! 667 Courtesy National Dairy Council CINNAMON ROLLS Parker House Rolls: Roll dough %. To % inch thick. Cut into rounds with biscuit cutter. Brush with melted butter or margarine. Make crease across center of each. Fold so top half slightly overlaps. Press edges together. Place close together in pan. Fan Tans: Roll dough % inch thick into a long ome 9 inches wide. Spread with melted butter or margarine. Cut into 6 long strips 1' inches wide. Stack 6 strips evenly, one on top of another. Cut into 1-inch pieces. 'iwe cut-side-down in greased muffin pans. Hamburger Buns: Roll dough % inch thick. Cut into 6-inch rounds with cutter ved place on greased baking sheets, or use a piece of dough about 2% inches in dtameter and shape it with your hands, flattening it slightly. Hot Dog Buns: Roll dough % inch thick. Cut into rectangles 5 by 2 inches and place on greased baking sheets, or use a piece of dough about 2% inches in diameter and roll between palms of hands into the shape of a frankfurt and flatten slightly. Cloverleaf Rolls: Form bits of dough into balls about 1 inch in diameter. Place 3 balls in each greased muffin cup. Brush with melted butter or margarine. Crescents (Butterhorns): Roll dough into a 12-inch circle about % inch thick, Spread with melted butter or margarine. Cut into 16 pie-shaped pieces. _ Beginning at wide end, roll up very loosely. Place on greased pan, point underneath. Cinnamon Rolls: Roll '% recipe of wholewheat or part wholewheat dough and VY, recipe of light refrigerator dough into rectangle 4 inch thick. Brush each rectangle with 2 tsp. Melted butter or margarine; sprinkle with mixture of 4 c. Sugar, 2 tsp. Cinnamon, and % c. Raisins. Roll 'loosely as for jelly roll; seal edge; cut in 1-inch slices. Place cut side down in greased muffin tins. After baking, remove from pans, cool, and frost with confectioner's icing: Add sufficient top milk or cream to 2 c. Sifted con- 668. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1954 fectioner's sugar to make of spreading consistency. Add dash of salt and 1 tsp. Vanilla. Orange Rolls: Roll out dough as for cinnamon rolls. Spread with 2 tbsp. Melted butter or margarine which has been mixed with 2 tsp. Orange juice. Sprinkle with % c. Granulated sugar and 1 tbsp. Grated orange rind. Roll loosely as for jelly roll; seal edge; cut in 1-inch slices. Place cut side down in greased muffin tins. Pecan Rolls: Roll out dough as for cinnamon rolls. Spread with melted butter or margarine and sprinkle with 4 c. Brown sugar and % c. Chopped pecans. Combine 2 c. Brown sugar, % c. Light corn syrup, 1 tbsp. Butter or margarine and beat slowly until blended. Place mixture into bottom of greased individual muffin tins or greased shallow pans along with pecan halves. Place rolls, cut side down, over mixture. A Letter From Mlother My Dear CHILDREN: Greetings and love to you. I hope this day finds you and the children well and happy, for happiness is essential to our enjoyment of all God's blessings. Autumn flowers and soft winds and beautiful sunsets fill our hearts with warmth and love for all mankind, and for our Creator who made our world with supreme care and the Master's skill. Last night I read the first chapter of Genesis. It is a wonderful story, how our Heavenly Father, with infinite care and understanding, created this earth. At the close of the chapter we read: "And God saw every thing that he had made, and, behold, it was very good" (Genesis 1:31). What satisfaction God must have felt when, after all his labor of creation, he found that his work was good. Isn't that a wonderful example to be set before us? Our Father in heaven sct us the example of work. Work was the thing that brought a reward. Work. Good work. Perhaps we cannot perform work that is good according to God's specification, for we know that we are imperfect ourselves. But he sent his Son here to the earth with all his glorious teachings which comprise our gospel, which word in itself means, good news; so that we can go as far as this world's limitations will let us toward perfection, if we will. Well, there's one thing about it, we can try! We can begin now by remembering what Jesus said to his disciples, ''love one another; as I have loved you" (John 13:34). Say it over. Repeat it a few times. Tender, inspiring, isn't it? And if we add faith and prayer to our daily schedule, we will probably feel a great satisfaction coming from our hard work and noble desires. I sincerely hope, dear ones, that when we have reached the end of our work here upon the earth we will find that it has been good, according to our possibilities. Can you arrange your affairs so that we will see you and have another fine visit at conference time, if not before? Please be safe and happy, and write soon. Lovingly, MOorTuHER Ciara Horne Park "To Be or Not to Be' or Cats in the Home Mary C. Martineau HOULD cats be in the home, S sisters? Who shall say whether or not cats shall be in the home? Shall it be the head of the house, the father, or shall it be the mother, or shall it be the oldest son, the middle child, or the baby, or shall it be a matter of legislation debated on the floor of the House and Senate and then referred to the Governor of the State? I shall give you a few reasons against cats in the home, and [ appeal to you to say who shall be the judge. Cats sometimes cause hay fever. Cats sometimes carry tapeworms. Cats sometimes scratch furniture. Cats tear curtains, break dishes and flower pots, scratch the baby, and yowl at night, to say nothing of the killing of songbirds. Out upon the cats, I say! One winter day all three children were in the house enjoying their books and the cozy warmth of the fireplace and the song and twitter vf Dick and Dilly in their green and gold cage by the window. The wind howled around the house and seeped in a little around the door, when above it all we heard "Me-ew... Mew" on the front porch. Joanne, middle child, ran to the door and tore it open, and there on the porch stood a darling long-haired kitten, lifting its little feet and shaking off the snow. "Don't touch that cat," I said firmly but gently, coming to the door for the express purpose of drawing Joanne in and closing it. Mary Florence, youngest, however, was already aware of my purpose. She would have had the cat in her arms in a jiffy, but Joanne grasped it first, and, when the door closed, the cat was not out of the house. How they begged to keep it! My husband looked up from his paper and, seeing my belligerent attitude, said soothingly, "Well, if it would catch mice that would be different, wouldn't it, Mother?" "Yes," I said, "but I just won't have it. So, that is that." Then to Mary and Joanne I said, "You can take it down in the basement until the blizzard is over." The oldest boy grinned knowingly. Down into the basement went the two little girls, the dear little kitten hugged closely, and all was peace and quiet again. Then "shriek, shriek" came up the basement stairs, and we were all on our feet, and down the basement we flew. Then on a door, a little way up, was a splash of red. "She's killed a mouse, Papa, she's killed a mouse! Now she can stay, can't she?" asked Joanne. I inspected the red. Paint, I thought. Papa inspected mousé," he said. And I accepted defeat, for the little faces looking up at me were Page 669 the red. "A 670 so full of pleading, and Mary's eyes were full of tears. In my own arms then, I held the little cat and sat on the stairsteps while they all gathered round it. It was such a pretty, pretty cat of silvery gray, with the bluest eyes and the longest fur. Perry reminded me that I let him keep Kitty Lewis when he was little. I thought of the birds upstairs in their cage. I thought of the tapeworms, the scratches on the furniture, the curtains, and the dishes, and the scratch on Mary's little hand already. UT I also saw a little girl watching a kitten drinking milk from a pan by the kitchen stove on a winter morning, and remembered so well the love that welled up in her heart for the dear mother who had let the kitten in out of the cold. Memory does strange things to all of us, and I held the little cat while Joanne shyly stroked it and said, "Her name is Silver Fluff, Mama." For over a year I kept that cat from killing the birds. I never let a chair be placed anywhere near the cage which my husband had now taken from its stand and placed high on a hook above the window. I was getting weary. It was nerveracking. Then Christmas came. After the children had taken their toys out of their stockings, and all was joy and mirth and candy, the neighbors' children came in to show their dolls. Joanne put the cat down and got her own doll and went visiting all the neighbors. Little Mary was left alone. She was too little to go out in the snow. She RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1954 put her doll down in its bed and gathered Silver Fluff in her arms and sat down in the little rocking chair. Back and forth, back and forth, went the little rocking chair, and Mary's voice rang out, "Joy to the world, the tat is mine... Joy to the world the tat is mine." How everyone laughed, and I laughed, too. But I recognized that it was Mary holding the cat for once, and she was lonely. It belonged to Joanne all the time. Then came the crises. One day when the children came home from school and ran down to get Silver Fluff from the basement, Silver Fluff was a mother! There she lay in a little bed I had made for her, and she had three helpless baby kittens snuggled close to her. She mewed softly, and a new tone was in her voice. Oh, such joy for the children and such dismay for me, and such amusement for my husband. He stood looking, his gray eyes twinkling, as he said, "Mother, there won't be a mouse in the country when this cat family gets through with them." "Nonsense," I said, "we aren't going to keep all those cats." But Joanne said, "Well, one is for Perry, one is for Mary, and Ill keep the other one. I will name mine Pavlowa." Perry said, "Mine is Einstein." "Mine," said Mary, "is Jennie Lind." I said nothing. I was thinking of little Mary on Christmas morning rocking and singing, "Joy to the world, the tat is mine." Sisters, can parents judge? I ask you. The question is now in your hands! Lets Get Ready for Christmas Helen S. '\0iiiiians ".,. It is more blessed to give than to receive" (Acts 20:35). Hal Rumel CHRISTMAS GIFTS THAT ARE DIFFERENT Gifts and Arrangement by Florence C. Williams FTEN one thinks of sharing in a material sense only—but the person who creates ideas and shares them freely for the enjoyment and benefit of others will receive blessings of happiness and satisfaction quite bevond description, for it is in sharing that one receives, and it is in giving that one gains. One of the choicest characteristics of Florence Williams is the rare quality of generosity of spirit, of sincerely wanting to share ideas for the benefit and joy of others. It is not surprising, then, that in early autumn she begins to think about ideas for Christmas, so that she may share them with you. Let's get ready for Christmas! We were never more serious. The real joy of Christmas comes when we can create with our own hands and heads just the right present for each friend and relative and loved one. If we put something of ourselves into the making of a gift, a bit of our heart goes into that gift also, and it becomes not just an article, but a bond, an expression of love and friendship. It takes time and love and thought to make gifts for Christmas, and October isn't too soon to begin thinking about that season which now seems so far away. Page 67] 672 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1954 Remember last year and that push and rush the week before Christmas? You probably went around mumbling under your breath, ""l'oo, too much to do, never will be ready in time," and silently wondering if Christmas was worth all the work and fuss. Well, try to recall those hectic days now and take a good look at the above picture, then perhaps you'll find inspiration from Florence who plans months ahead for the Christmas season giving. Perhaps, if you can catch the spirit of Christmas early, when the Christmas season rolls around you will have time to visit the lonely, the sick, and the unfortunate, and carry the spirit of peace and love into their homes, for, after all, that is what the true spirit of Christmas means. Let's start by describing the cunning red felt skirt and white blouse that hang in the upper left-hand corner in the above picture. Florence has made six of these skirts, one for each of her little granddaughters. 'The skirt is a perfect circle of bright red felt cut with pinking shears—so it needs no finishing. Each skirt is figured just the right length from the waist to the edge of the circle. Take the waist measurement and cut a perfect circle in the center, then make the placket down the side, finished with a fine red zipper. The band is a piece of pinked felt, as are the straps over the shoulders. Red and white peppermints wrapped in cellophane and tied with tiny ribbons are pinned here and there all over the skirt. Then, just to make it really festive, a gay red and white candy-striped, ruffled taffeta petticoat swishes underneath. Can't you just picture six little girls, hand in hand, dancing around the Christmas tree, each of them in her adorable red felt skirt and rustling red and white petticoat? Now look at the picture, and you will see right underneath the skirt near the white basket, a red felt peasant bonnet. It is easy and fun to make, and a little face beneath it looks like a cherub. You can make your own pattern from this drawing. The binding is a strip of one-inch white felt, and the fringe is made of six strands of very fine white wool and is pulled through with a crochet hook or a large darning needle. This bonnet is as becoming to teenagers as to the small fry. The one in the picture is made of red felt trimmed and embroidered in white, but, of course, it can be made in any combination of colors. Who wouldn't love to receive a big, roomy picnic basket? The summer months are the ideal time to find baskets in the stores. This one has been sprayed and painted white, and is lined with red and white checked gingham. On the lid, little wooden birds have been fastened with wire. Florence has made this gift for a family present. She has outfitted it with red and white plastic plates, cups, knives and forks, bottle opener, can opener, and other gadgets needed for a picnic. What a wonderful gift for a family, and so easy to make! The three small boxes you see on the table were once just ordinary matchboxes fit for the kitchen or furnace room only. Now they are glorified! They have been covered with a piece of tin, purchased at any sheet metal works, then covered with felt which has been glued on with rubber cement. When thoroughly dried, the covered tin was bent to fit the match box perfectly. They are adorned with pine cones, artificial holly, cherries, or with bright sequins and jewels. You can choose your own decorations to make these once ordinary matchboxes attractive enough to grace the fireplace or take their place proudly among the special Christmas decorations and gifts. Perhaps. You're wondering about the two small decorated loops which lie at one side of the lunch basket. These are felt neckties which teenagers love to wear with sweaters or blouses. In the stores they cost from one to three dollars. Florence made these from scraps left from the skirts and aprons, and they cost her about twenty-five LET'S GET READY FOR CHRISTMAS 673 BONNET PATTERN Measurements for the bonnet may be altered to suit various head sizes. The pattern measurements given here are 13% inches from the point of the triangle to the edge of the brim; 13% inches from point to point of the triangle; and from side to side of the brim (widest part) 15% inches. >< cents. They are a little less than an inch wide and just long enough to cross at the front of the neck. They are not to be tied. Shells, sequins, or little tinkling bells have been stitched on them. Make them in white, blue, or any color. They will delight any young gitl because they are so smart and so different and are an attractive accessory for sweaters or most any outfit. At either side of the gift table, you will see half circles of felt. These are aprons. Again, they have been cut with pinking shears, so they need no finishing. The appliqued figures are cut from contrasting colored felt, and the patterns for these cunning figures were taken from a child's coloring book. The felt cutouts may either be stitched or glued on to the apron in any design desired. The bands are of grosgrain ribbon. These felt aprons are useful and different, yet easily made. What little one wouldn't "Oh," and "Ah," to be the recipient of a glazed chintz crayon apron? Of course, the measurements depend upon the size of the little one for whom it is made. The material should be at least twenty-one inches wide and about sixteen inches long. The felt waistband and crayon holder is two inches wide. Be 674 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1954 sure to leave plenty of felt to tie a perky bow at the back. Stitch the spaces that are to hold the large size crayons on the machine. The crayons must fit snuggly into the spaces so they won't slip. Of course, with each apron must go a big, big coloring book with beautiful pictures to color. There are two small jewel boxes that are made of plastic. Do you find them in the picture near the centerpiece? The pearls which made them so luxurious are bought by the yard at the five and dime store. Each row is cut separately and applied with Amco glue. Then, right in the center, is set a large artificial gem which has been saved from the one earring that didn't get lost. These little jewel boxes are jewels in and of themselves and they will add glamor and beauty to any dressing table or chest of drawers. Florence made enough of these to use as guest gifts for a party she plans to give at Christmas time. The big white candle is adorned with artificial fruits for decoration. It is not too soon to begin saving old candles to melt for these big Christmas candles that can be made Christmassy with fruit, pine cones, jewels, or holly. The box in front of Mr. Snowman is filled with note paper. It, too, is covered with felt and trimmed with sequins or felt cutouts which certainly make it a more unusual gift than just an ordinary box of writing paper. Mr. Snowman is perfect for mantle, window, or table. He is made of plastic foam and rests on a collar of Christmas tinsel. His jaunty hat is a cornucopia of bright, shiny, red cardboard with a perky cherry and bow on top. The Snowman can be used in the center of a cookie plate. And those aren't just ordinary old clothespins at the side of the table. They are painted and bejewelled in lovely colors. "What are they used for?" you ask. Why they are "hose hangers" or "letter clips" and very fancy ones, too. Last, but not least, hangs the mailbox with its decoration of pine boughs and cones. The reason Florence put this in the picture of Christmas decorations and ideas, was only to remind you that when you go picnicking in the woods this fall, gather pine cones for Christmas use. They make beautiful decorations for inside and outside the house. Perhaps these ideas that Florence has shared with you will start you thinking about Christmas, and perhaps you, too, will have wonderful ideas to share with others, your own ideas of originality! For sharing is the key to contentment and happiness. There's an old Persian proverb that says, "Everyman goes down to his death bearing in his hands only that which he has given away." Yes, it's time to think about Christmas, for "Not what we give, but what we share, for the gift without the giver is bare." J Mast Choose Mabel Law Atkinson I cannot mend the heart that I have broken By thoughtless, cruel words my lips have spoken; Retrace the path my errant feet have taken Leaving me wounded and my spirit shaken— Before I start, not when the trek is ended, I must choose roadways that are broad and splendid. TOMATO-FRANKFURTER RAREBIT (makes 6 servings) Courtesy National Cotton Council 8 frankfurters % cup shredded cheese 6 tablespoons shortening % teaspoon salt % cup flour % teaspoon pepper 1 cup milk 6 frankfurter rolls 1% cups (1 No. 2 can) tomatoes shortening for spreading Slice frankfurters % inch thick. Melt shortening in saucepan. Add flour, stirring smooth. Add milk gradually, stirring until thickened. Add tomatoes, stirring, then cheese. Stir until sauce is thickened and cheese is melted. Add salt and pepper. Fold in frankfurter slices. Heat thoroughly, then keep hot over gentle heat while toasting tolls. Split frankfurter rolls and spread with shortening. Toast under broiler until golden brown. Pour Frankfurter Rarebit over rolls and serve at once. Crisp radishes and celery and extra rolls are good with this. > Gndications Ing Smith Fall's first warning: Crows on a wire, Atmosphere cool— Wild geese in flight— Mist in the morning, (Oh, let's have a fire Leaves in the pool— And pop corn tonight! ) Page 675 A Pair of Pants for Benjy Pansye H. Powell went to schoo] that last day with my mind almost made up. I hadn't yet signed my contract for the next year, and I was in the enviable position of having two jobs open to me—my present one as a teacher in the Central Junior High and a new offer from a publishing firm downtown that wanted me to become its representative, traveling with expenses paid—no more paper checking, no more disciplinary problems, no more worrying over other people's children.... To me, jaded and worn by a difficult year of crowded classrooms and worrisome problems, the chance to remove myself from it all and go into a different experience seemed almost providential. But I had waited, accepting neither offer, until now the final day of school had come with its last classes and, in the afternoon, promotion exercises for the ninth graders who would be going into senior high in the fall. I'l] mail my contract back unsigned tonight, I thought, as I walked to school. In this state of mind I entered the building and went to my room —and there was Benjy! Benjy was an odd child, not too bright, but not the kind to cause any particular trouble in a room. He was tall and very thin; he was out of school quite a bit, too, with some ailment or other, but, when it came time to graduate the ninth graders, Benjy's name was on the list. He was so quiet that I hadn't givPage 676 en much thought to him—it's always the ones who cause us trouble that we notice, of course; but today I had to notice him, for, as I looked over my room at the start of the day, I realized that Benjy had come to school on this all-important day wearing one of the same patched shirts and _ faded ragged levis that he had worn all year. We had told all the boys and gitls who were to graduate that they should wear their nicer clothes; there would be an audience, and each one would walk across the stage in the auditorium to receive his certificate of promotion. They were not to dress in fancy clothes, but each was to be neat and clean and make a good appearance. And there was Benjy—same levis, too tight for him now, and a checkered blue-and-white shirt. I looked at him and thought, I'll bet if I sent him home to change, he wouldn't have anything to change into. It's not my job to see that he looks right to graduate. That's his mother's business. I'm not going to worry about him. But I noticed the pathetic effort he had made to spruce himself up for the day. His hair had been combed at some time during the past two hours, and his face and hands looked as though he had scrubbed them. I tried to steel myself against taking pity on him. LL the time I was trying to argue myself out of helping A PAIR OF PANTS FOR BENJY Benjy, I knew very well what was going to happen. I was going somehow or other to find Benjy some decent clothes to graduate in. I just couldn't let him go up on that stage looking like a scarecrow. On this one day of his life, at least, he must look as he deserved to look. I set the class to finishing a last assignment in their literature books and hurried up to the principal's office. Mr. Bascom was busy at his desk, but he looked up as I entered and waited for me to tell him my errand. "I've come about Benjy Martin, Mr. Bascom," I hastily explained; "he has come today in the same old clothes he has worn all year. I know it's no use to send him home for something different. Can we do something for him? Could we somehow get him some better-looking things?" He didn't seem surprised that I should have come to him with such a request. Instead he - said, "Hmmmmm," and pulled thoughtfully at his lower lip, the way he does when he is trying to work out a problem. "What size is he?" "Well, he's tall for fifteen and thin as a beanpole." Mr. Bascom was tall, too, taller than Benjy, and thin, but not so thin as he. He came up with a suggestion, "T have a pair of pants and a shirt at home that I was going to give away. I'll bet they'd just about fit him. You go on back to your class, and I'll dash up home and get them and be right back." With real relief, I welcomed this shifting of the responsibility for Benjy's sartorial effect to reliable 677 shoulders and hurried back to my room. Satisfied that all was being taken care of, I plunged into a brisk discussion of the story the class had been reading in my absence. Half an hour later I looked up to see Mr. Bascom standing outside my door. I went to meet him. He looked at me with a crestfallen air. I could see that he was holding in his hand one freshly ironed very white shirt—and_ that was all. "My wife gave the trousers and shirt to the Deseret Industries this morning," he explained. "I brought this good shirt, thinking maybe he could wear it, and that would help out some on his appearance." "Tll get Benjy," I said, "and you try the shirt on him." FEW minutes later Benjy returned to the room, face beaming proudly above a very white shirt; but, below the belt, his old levis looked all the dingier in contrast to the immaculateness of his upper half. Mr. Bascom looked at me anxiously. "What can we do about those pants?" he muttered, so no one of the interested observers of our rather unusual behavior could hear. "Maybe we could borrow a pair of pants from one of the other students who won't be graduating," | ventured. "Couldn't we have one of the other teachers inquire in his classes for a student who would be willing to lend a pair of pants just for the graduation exercises?" "Sounds likely," he smiled again. "Tl have John Dimmick ask in his mathematics classes of eighth grad- 678 ers. No one need know who's going to wear the pants." That was the way it stood when the bell rang for the first period to be over. I watched Benjy walk out of my class and saw how proud he was of the white shirt he was wearing. He gave me a shy grin as he went past. 'That, I remembered, was the first time he had ever seemed to note my existence as a person. The morning wore on. The exercises were to be at two o'clock in the afternoon. At twelve o'clock, between classes, John Dimmick came to report to me that he hadn't had any luck in finding a suitable pair of pants for Benjy. He had asked in two classes. "I wouldn't worry any more about it," he comforted; "you've done your best." But I wouldn't give up. Suddenly I thought of something. Gym class! Boys' gym class! 'That was our last hope! 'There would be a class at one o'clock. Surely in a big bunch of boys—even if they were seventh graders—there would be someone who would let Benjy wear his pants for an hour. I asked John to watch my class for a few minutes, since he didn't have a class at this hour, and dashed over to the boys' gym. Mr. Hales was, of course, surprised to see me coming in, all out of breath. The boys were lined up in their street clothes for roll call, the last one of the year. I glanced hastily down the rows—some of the boys looked as tall as Benjy and certainly several were as skinny. I told Mr. Hales my errand and he turned to the boys: "Attention, fellows! Miss Carter has something to say to you." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1954 HEY were quiet, looking at me. I hoped I'd be able to find at least one pair of possible pants for Benjy. Desperation made me eloquent, I guess, for they listened without a snicker. But they did not offer to lend anything. I stood waiting, and the silence became embarrassing. Finally, a voice spoke up from the rear row. "Would mine do?" It was Henry Bishop who spoke. Henry was the tallest boy and the skinniest one in the room and was shunned by the other boys because he was considered a sissy. "Suppose we give you boys a chance to see," Mr. Hales suggested. Benjy was sent for, and he and Henry and Mr. Hales retired to the boys' dressing rooms. 'There the exchange was made. Henry's clean, dark slacks gave Benjy a dressed-up air that fitted with the dignity of the part he was to take during the afternoon. On the other hand, Benjy's shabby levis were a very tight fit for Henry, who retreated to the janitor's room and spent the next three hours in solitary communion with a magazine most of the time, while Benjy was happily receiving his promotion from junior high. Later, the janitor, who shared Henry's seclusion at various times during the three hours, repeated Henry's comment on the occasion: "Well," he said, grinning broadly, "if I don't make it out of here, I can always say that my pants graduated, whether I do or not." Meanwhile, up in the auditorium the graduation exercises were proceeding. When the time came for the graduates to march across the A PAIR OF PANTS FOR BENJY auditorium stage in single file to receive their diplomas, I watched anxiously for Benjy. Then I saw him standing at the side of the stage, waiting until the girl just ahead of him had taken the prescribed four steps before he should start. He straightened his collar, hitched up his pants at the belt, and he stepped out proudly. 679 It was then I made up my mind to stay with schoolteaching. Never again would I say that schoolteachers work without adequate compensation when they do extra things to help their students, for when I saw Benjy Martin step across that stage with his head high and his white shirt gleaming, I was paid, you bet I was paid! Artist at Seventy-Five Mae OLMsTEAD CrowLey, ONTARIO, CALIFORNIA, Finps ARTISTIC EXPRESSION IN OIL PAINTING, CHINA PAINTING, CERAMICS, AND NEEDLEWORK MB: Crowley, wife of a lawyer and mother of nine children, grandmother of thirtysix, and great-grandmother of sixteen, painted a picture of the Salt Lake Temple on her fiftieth wedding anniversary three years ago. She has painted many other subjects, including mountain vistas in summer and some striking winter landscapes. In addition to her principal hobby of oil painting, Mrs. Crowley has painted five hundred pieces of china, has completed 367 pieces of porcelain and ceramics, and has knitted, crocheted, and embroidered hundreds of articles. She has also made many wedding dresses and other articles requiring the deft touch of an expert seamstress. Mrs. Crowley also has musical talent and raises flowers. Active in Relief Society and other Church activities, Mrs. Crowley is a member of the Ontario Ward in Mt. Rubidoux Stake. Have an Apple Party Ida M. Pardue TF you like to give parties that are different — October offers a fine opportunity. October 23d to November ist is Apple Week—so why not have an Apple Party? Cut invitations in the form of an apple, play apple games, and wind up a pleasant time with apple pie and cool cider served buffet style. Use yellow, light green, or red construction paper for the invitations. This information goes across the front of each one: Ir's APPLE WEEK AND 'TIME:.....22---2-2000-2-202---2 == For Fun Wuo's INviTrEpD? WELL—-YOU RE ONE! DaTE: PLACE: HostEss: Lots of apples—real and paper cutouts, make effective decorations. Tie a real apple underneath a light fixture—or to a floor lamp chain. Edge a mantle with a row of apples. Substitute paper apples for curtain pulls. A chain of paper apples can stretch across a wall. One or two bowls of apples can be placed on an end table or radio. Just one thing, be sure you know exactly how many apples—paper and otherwise, are in view. 'This is necessary, for the first game, a mixer, is called Harvest. Players are to count the exact number of apples in the room. The player calling out the correct number first wins an apple corer. For an Apple Roll game, trace three times around a saucer, with a dark crayon, on a single square of newspaper. The circles may be anywhere you choose. Number them 1, 5, and 10 respectively. 'To play, place the paper on the floor. Players take turns tolling an apple onto the paper from behind a yardstick whose end is three inches from the edge of the paper. Each player rolls three times, scoring the number written in any circle in which the apple comes to rest. The player scoring the most points wins the game. You won't need any knives for Apple Pairing—only pencils and copies of the following lists. The purpose is to unite the letters in the first column with the proper ones in the second column to form a name of a variety of apple. Page 680 HAVE AN APPLE PARTY 681 ANSWERS: 1. Pip stein 1. Pippin 2. Bald ton 2. Baldwin 3. Fame sap 3. Fameuse 4. Graven win 4. Gravenstein 5. New pin 5. Newton 6. Pleas flower 6. Pleasant 7. Wine thy 7. Winesap 8. Stay ant 8. Stayman 9. Weal man 9. Wealthy 10. Bell use 10. Bellflower The player re-pairing all of the apples first, wins the game. HALF AN APPLE For each person, make a paper apple and write a guest's name on each one. Put the apples in a paper sack on a table. Provide two pairs of scissors. Make up two teams and line them up six feet away from the table. At the word go, a player from each team races to find the apple bearing his or her own name, and then cuts it in half with the scissors. Only one apple at a time may be removed from the bag. If it isn't the right one, it goes back and the player tries again. Halved apples also go back into the bag. When a player finds and cuts his apple, he races back to touch the next player for his turn. The team to finish first, wins. APPLE TAG Mark off a playing area. This might be the rug on the floor, or a wide circle of chairs. Players stay inside this zone. Give one player an apple. While music is played, the player with the apple tries to get rid of it. Any person tagged with the apple must take it immediately. When the music stops suddenly, the player holding the apple drops out of the game. The apple is handed to anyone to get started again. The player staying in the game the longest, wins APPLE TEARING Give everyone a large piece of blank paper. The idea is to tear the paper into an apple. The finished fruits are initialed and passed around for judging. After deciding on the best or funniest, the apples can be autographed to serve as party souvenirs. There is no e ier way to serve refreshments than buffet style. Cover the table with a runner of light green crepe paper. For a centerpiece, what could be prettier than a bowl of polished apples? Apple pie slices and cider are then served buffet style. > Night Sylvia Probst Young Night comes unnoticed on a city street With lights aglow before the dusk comes down, But on a quiet road where crickets sing Beneath the stat-lamps—in a little town 'Night comes on silver feet across the sky To hear a mother croon a lullaby. The Young and the Old Carolyn C. Lewis T was one of those spring morn- | ings that seem to have been all scrubbed and shined by some special servant during the night and set before the world with the words, "Here is a perfect day without a flaw." That's what it seemed to me—a perfect day—warm, bright, beautiful. And I was young and thrilled with being alive. Only yesterday my mother—a sentimentalist, if you've ever met one—had said to me, "I wish I were your age again." Half-seriously I had answered, "] am glad I'm not your age.' She had merely said, "Well," and smiled, but her eyes hadn't looked at me exactly. They had had worried shadows in them for the last few weeks because Grandpa was in the hospital quite ill. Of course, I kept telling her, he was old. She couldn't expect him to live forever, but she only told me I didn't understand and that that didn't make any difference in how she felt about him. Today, Saturday, Grandma and my aunt had come to dinner and then they were going to the hospital. June, my cousin, who is just about my age, was there, too, and she was all excited because she had a date that afternoon and I was to go along with her date's friend, Jack. I had met him and he seemed nice, but nothing to get excited about. When June and I had finished the dishes and she was flushed from hurrying and excitement, she said, Page 682 "T can hardly wait. A convertible." "And not too many days around here are," I replied, adding, "but I wish Grandpa was better. I haven't even been down to see him yet." Just then mother came in, "And he's been asking for you. I thought you might drop in today for a little while—both of you." "But, Aunt Kate," June protested, "we've got a date; we can see him next week." "He's quite sick.. 2" Mother said, her words hanging in the air like the limp dish towel hanging upon the rack. Then she added, "Well, we'll get ready. If you can stop in, do." "We will," I said. But the convertible was there before we knew it, and we got in, waving goodbye to the folks, who all looked pretty solemn. Like thousands of others, we headed our car for one of the canyons where leaves were green and the air cool across the mountains rising above our heads. Jack was a lot more fun than I remembered him. And a lot better looking, especially when he smiled, which he did most of the time, except once when he said to me, "You seem to have something on your mind?" "Well..." I hesitated, "my grandfather is quite sick—in the hospital. Mother wanted me to go see him." "Maybe you'd rather do that," he said. It's the day for THE YOUNG AND THE OLD I couldn't be sure how he meant it, but I assured him that, of course, I wouldn't. GTILL, after awhile, the subject came up again. It was almost as though he were teasing me to see if I'd rather stay with him or go back to town. His eyes looked at me rather strangely, and somehow I knew that I could like him very, very much. We stopped in a small restaurant on the way to the canyon to have a sandwich and a malt. While we were eating, Jack put nickels in the juke box and played the latest hit tunes. "How about dancing with me?" Jack questioned. "Sounds like fun," was my reply. While dancing with him, I realized that not only could I like him very much, but I already did. And, somehow, I got the feeling that he liked me a little bit, too. Maybe it was the way he was holding me while dancing, or maybe it was my imagination. When we reached a park we walked around for awhile. Then we spied some empty swings and, I guess still being little girls and boys at heart, we decided to swing for awhile.... I was going up in the air with the wind taking my breath, when I saw an old man walking near the stream. His shoulders were a little stooped, like Grandpa's, and he held his hands in his pockets just the same way, with only the thumbs showing. My breath caught in my throat again—only this time with a difference. I thought of his waiting for us to come—hoping. I slowed the swing down, dragging my foot, not 683 even caring if I scuffed my new sandals.. "T've got to go back," I said in one short breath. "Why?" June asked. "T want to see Grandpa—today." "So do I—but not this minute." I knew she hadn't been as close to him as I had. We'd lived with him when I was born and for several years after. Jack said, "If she wants to go, let's take her. It won't be any fun for her here, even if she stays." Nor for him, I thought. Still, it didn't matter at the moment that I had to spoil something that might have been so nice.... E helped me into the car, and we were soon hurrying back to town, down the hill to the big hospital, which made my heart beat faster just to look at it. We found the floor, the room. Mother saw us and came out so that we could go in. Grandpa was lying with his eyes closed; and, oh, he looked so old and so tired, the veins showing in his face and in his hands folded across the white sheet. I stared at him, almost in unbelief. He seemed to know we were staring at him, for after a moment he opened his eyes. When he saw me, he smiled and lifted his hand. I took it and held it in mine. June came over and asked, "How are you, Grandpa?" He smiled at her, too, then closed his eyes without speaking. In just that moment that I stood there, so many memories went through my mind of all the happy times we had had together—how he had peeled an apple and shared it with me every winter night; how he had held me on his lap and had given me my first love and knowledge of books; how he had found me, that day when I was lost, and carried me home against his shoulder that had been so big and strong then. I bent and kissed his forehead. Then a nurse came and told us there were too many in the room. June and [ went out. The boys were waiting for us downstairs. Jack came over to me. "Tm proud of you for coming. I was afraid you wouldn't." "You were really?" I asked in unbelief. So he was testing me, and I thought that he didn't want me to come! He nodded, and we were about to go over to the car when we saw Mother and June's mother coming out of the hospital. 'There were tears coming down their cheeks, and without having to be told, both June and I realized we had come to see Grandpa not any too soon. I went over to Mother and put my arm around her and tried to imagine what it would be like to lose her or Daddy—tried to imagine life without Grandpa and his peppermints and his kindness—his wonderful kindness. Mother and my aunt went back upstairs. June was crying, but it seemed that no tears would come to me—just an empty all-gone feeling in the pit of my stomach which made my knees feel very weak. I felt Jack near me. "I'm sorry," he whispered. In spite of the pain in me, I felt happy at seeing him look at me like that, having him so near. For the first time, I suppose, I understood a little of what life is. The old, the tired, the dying, and the young going on—loving, living, making the pattern all over again. Last Call to Vacation Maryhale Woolsey Having stayed close to duty all year long— Closing my ears to spring's enticing call, To summer's gentle whispers, to the song Of woodland birds and mountain waterfall.... Now I respond to lures that tax believing— This earth all raimented in cloth of gold, With jewels threaded in, which time was weaving While I was blind to how the year grew old. I would be truant now, I would discover Where blue-domed noons permit a tardy sunning And gleaning of the bright playtime too near over, - Before I knew how fast the days were running. 684 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1954 Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1950, page 278, and the Handbook of Instructions, page 123 RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Ida H. West TIMPANOGOS STAKE (UTAH), GROVE WARD VISITING TEACHERS HONORED AT SOCIAL, May 1954 Front row, seated, left to right: Emily Evans, who has served as a visiting teacher for forty years, and has also been a counselor and a secretary-treasurer in Relief Society, and a member of the quilting committee for many years; Alvira Olpin (mother of President A. Ray Olpin of the University of Utah) eighty years old, who has served twenty years as a visiting teacher and seventeen years as theology class leader; Minnie Oscarson, eighty years old, who has served as a visiting teacher for forty-five years and has also held many other positions in Relief Society. Back row, standing, left to right: Sarah Anderson, a visiting teacher for twentynine years; Emily Ray, a visiting teacher for twenty-five years, who has helped on most of the quilts completed in Relief Society during that time; Susie Church, a visiting teacher for twenty years, and a member of the quilting committee for many years; Caroline Adams, a visiting teacher for thirty years, and a quilter for many years. Florence O. Gillman is president of Timpanogos Stake Relief Society. Page 685 686 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1954 Photograph submitted by Sylvia Johnson NEVADA STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY VISITING TEACHERS HONORED AT CONVENTION Left to right: Mae Probert; Mona Ellis; Susan Mulliner; Julia Smith; Luella Whip: ple; Sabra Peacock; Louisa Johnson. These sisters were especially honored for having served many years as visiting teachers. Five wards are represented. Each sister was presented with a lovely corsage, and each spoke a few minutes on the program, relating her experiences and her blessings as a visiting teacher. These teachers represent one hundred forty years of service. Sylvia Johnson is president of Nevada Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Justine J. Lytle UVADA STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY HONORS CALIENTE WARD (NEVADA) VISITING TEACHERS AT CONVENTION AND ANNIVERSARY SOCIAL March 18, 1954 Left to right: Bell Price, visiting teacher of Panaca Ward; Hertha Kroencke, visiting teacher of Pioche Ward; Marian Fernley, President, Caliente Ward Relief Society; Vera Calvert, First Counselor; Myrtle Peterson; Hulda Webster; Nora Wadsworth. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 687 Justine Lytle, Secretary-Treasurer of Uvada Stake Relief Society, reports: "The picture was taken at our visiting teachers convention, held in connection with our birthday social.... There were corsages for all the visiting teachers, and gifts were presented to the honored sisters. Sister Phylis Lee of Panaca Ward made the beautiful birthday cake.... Sister Kroencke has served for forty-seven years as a visiting teacher, and Sister Bell Price has seryed for forty-five years. Illness prevented Sister Lillian Fackrell of Enterprise Ward from attending the social. Her recent death is a great loss to all who knew her. She served for forty-five years as a visiting teacher. The Caliente Ward visiting teachers were especially honored for having a one-hundred per cent attendance at visiting teachers meetings for the year 1952-53." Martha H. Bleak is president of Uvada Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Zina P. Dunford EAST PROVO STAKE (UTAH), NORTH CAMPUS BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY HOLDS DINNER DANCE, March 12, 1954 Front row, left to right: Cherrill Curtis; Collette Green; Lois Lockhead, SecretaryTreasurer; Deslyn Edling; Helen Erickson. Back row, left to mght: Claudia Sedgwick; Karen Sedgwick, Second Counselor; Dixie Robison, First Counselor; Anne Boucher, President. Zina P. Dunford, President, East Provo Stake Relief Society, reports that this branch is composed entirely of college girls. 'The dance was semi-formal, and 208 couples were served a delicious ham dinner. The decorations were based upon an oriental theme, with cherry blossoms as a motif. 688 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1954 Photograph submitted by Adriana Zappey EAST CENTRAL STATES MISSION, KENTUCKY WEST DISTRICT, MADISONVILLE RELIEF SOCIETY Left to right: Minnie Gunn; Betty Emery; Lettie Brashears; Emma Crouse; Magdalene Wiles; Nora B. Ray; Dorothy Wiles; May Rickard, President; Edna Bell Cummings; Annie Wiles; Bonnie Wiles; Lillie Pearl Young; Cleda Ray, First Counselor; Corene Rickard, Second Counselor; Tillie Daniels. Adriana Zappey, President, East Central States Mission Relief Society, reports that this Relief Society was organized November 20, 1952. "Since that time they have made forty-seven quilts.... Elder and Sister Guy Chamberlain, missionaries, have done much to make this branch and Relief Society a success." Photograph submitted by Mona H. Kirkham COLUMBIA RIVER STAKE (OREGON) WORK MEETING May 19, 1954 Seated, in front: Della Davis (left) stake Magazine representative. Standing, left, at back: Marion Wood, Work Director Counselor; Mona H. Kirkham, President; Leah Weber, Education Counselor. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 689 Concerning this happy occasion, President Kirkham reports: ""Two hundred twentyfive women gleaned homemaking and handicraft skills at the very successful Columbia River Stake Relief Society work meeting.... Each ward and branch in the stake sponsored an exhibit of handwork completed by the sisters, and demonstrated a valuable and popular skill or handicraft. Included were rugmaking, ceramics, place mats, oil painting, invisible mending, Swedish embroidery, paper mache figures and_ plaques, jewelry, quilted pictures, cake decorating, hairpin lace, novelty corsages, stoles, and lamp shades. The enthusiastic crowd was divided into ten groups, and each group viewed an initial demonstration. At ten-minute intervals, a whistle invited the groups to rotate around the hall, thus giving everyone an opportunity to view the various demonstrations at close range. At 12:30 a lovely buffet luncheon was served. Each ward was responsible for a portion of the lunch, with the education counselors of the wards heading the committees. The climax of the day came immediately following the luncheon when "Family Money Management" was discussed... And the sisters received information and advice on this timely subject.. Marion H. Wood was in charge of this event, assisted by Joan Staley, stake work 'mecting leader, President Mona H. Kirkham, and Counselor Leah Weber." \ Photograph submitted by Betsy MacNey EAST LONG BEACH STAKE (CALIFORNIA) NEW RELIEF SOCIETY BOARD Front row, left to right: Nina Riley, First Counselor; Betsy MacNey, President; Almira W oodland, Second Counselor. Second row, left to right: Pearly Hyer, visiting teacher sess leader; Minnie Prescott, social science class leader; ern Francom, literature class leader; Clara R. Snow, Secretary-Treasurer; Margaret Bryan, Magazine representative; Mabel Perkins, work meeting leader. Back row, left to right: Marjorie Hetrick, organist; LaPrele Mertz, chorister; Afton Davis, theology class leader. Photograph submitted by Verna L. Dewsnup ST. GEORGE STAKE (UTAH), WASHINGTON WARD "SEW IT WITH COTTON BAGS" EXHIBIT, September 3-5, 1953 Left to right: Myrtle Adams, President, Washington Ward Relief Society; Rose Waters, First Counselor; Grace Cooper, work director Counselor. Verna L. Dewsnup, President, St. George Stake Relief Society, reports the large number of articles displayed at this exhibit: "There were 135 articles made from cotton bags, including wearing apparel, hats, and household articles. Every woman in the ward participated. 'he exhibit took first prize at the Washington County Fair, and second prize at the Utah State Fair, at which these sisters won a portable Singer sewing machine as their award," Sarewell to the Tvs Leaves Lettie B. H. Rich All day the autumn leaves drop down By silent breezes stirred; A hush as if someone. Passing— Scarcely a sound is heard, Then twilight stars shine bright; The moon is lost behind the cloud. The earth grows dark as if in mourning Wrapped in a somber shroud. The raindrops softly kiss the leaves, The wind sighs a tender last farewell As the dead leaves fall on the walk. 690 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1954 —_— SON DEPARTMENT Sheology—Characters and Teachings of The Book of Mormon Lesson 28—Further Teachings of Alma and Amulek Elder Leland H, Monson (Text: The Book of Mormon: Alma, chapters 29-35) For Tuesday, January 4, 1955 Objective: To show the great influence of prayer and repentance in changing the lives of people. Alma Rejoices LMA rejoiced over the success of his brethren and the fact that the sons of Mosiah and their companions had been able to touch the hearts of the Lamanites and bring many. Of them into the Church. Filled with love, he exclaimed: O that I were an angel, and could have the wish of mine heart, that I might go forth and speak with the trump of God, with a voice to shake the earth, and cry repentance unto every people! (Alma 29:1). When he saw repentant souls coming into the Church, his whole being was filled with joy and with a desire to continue in the service of the Master. The entire twenty- _ ninth chapter beautifully expresses Alma's feelings, and might be read aloud in the class. Rise of Korihor the Anti-Christ During his period of rejoicing, Alma was confronted with a difficult problem. In the seventeenth year of the reign of the judges, Korihor, an Anti-Christ, came into Zarahemla and began to deny what the prophets had said concerning the coming of Christ. The laws of the land were such that a man was entitled to freedom of speech and freedom of belief. For the scripture said, "... Choose ye this day, whom ye will serve" (Alma 30:8). If they did not believe in Christ, there was no law to punish them. Page 69} Korihor taught the people that no man knows anything concerning the future. Prophecies, he said, were only the foolish traditions of the fathers. He also said there would be no atonement made for the sins of mankind, and implied that none was necessary, for he taught that: _.. Every man fared in this life according to the management of the creature; therefore every man prospered according to his genius, and that every man conquered according to his strength; and whatsoever a man did was no crime (Alma 30:17). Obviously, such doctrines were pernicious and led away the hearts of many. He won converts, and many men and women began to commit whoredoms. Korihor went to the land of Jershon and preached to the people; "... They were more wise than many of the Nephites..." (Alma 30:20) for they bound him and carried him before their high priest, Ammon. Ammon had him carried out of the land of Jershon. | Korihor then went to the land of Gideon, where he was bound and delivered to the high priest and to the chief judge over that land. The high priest, Giddonah, reproved him, and asked why he taught that the Christ should not come. Korihor told Giddonah that such teachings were designed to establish power and authority over the people and to keep them in ignorance. He further denied that Christ should come. When Giddonah and the chief judge saw his hard heart and his bravado in reviling against God, they refused to talk to him. They authorized the officers to bind him and take him to Zarahemla to Alma and to the chief judge who was governor over all the land. When Korihor appeared before Alma, he reviled the priests and teachers for leading the people astray, and complained that they profited from the labors of the people. Alma denied that the priests and teachers lived upon the labors of the people and said, "... I have never received so much as even one senine for my labor..." (Alma 30:33). To Alma's question, "... Believest thou that there is a God?" Korihor answered, "Nay" (Alma 30: 37-38). Alma then bore his personal testimony that God lives and that Jesus Christ should come and redeem mankind. He referred to the scriptures as containing evidence and bearing witness that there is a God, then he referred to the evidence of design in nature. He declared:... Even the earth, and all things that are upon the face of it, yea, and its motion, yea, and also all the planets which move in their regular form do witness that there is a Supreme Creator (Alma 30:44). Korihor Becomes Dumb After listening to the argument from Alma, Korihor still denied the existence of God and said he would not believe without a sign. Alma said:... It is better that thy soul should be lost than that thou shouldst be the means of bringing many souls down to destruction, by thy lying and by thy flattering words (Alma 30:47). Alma warned him that if he should deny God again, God would smite him dumb. Korihor persisted 692 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1954 LESSON DEPARTMENT in his denial and Alma said, "... In the name of God, ye shall be struck dumb..." (Alma 30:49), and from that moment Korihor could not speak. Seeing what had happened, the chief judge wrote to Korihor,... Art thou convinced of the power of God?..." (Alma 30:51) Korihor wrote in answer:. | know that I am dumb, for I cannot speak; and I know that nothing save it were the power of God could bring this upon me; yea, and I also knew that there was a God (Alma 30:52). Korihor besought Alma to pray to God that the curse might be taken from him, but Alma said if the curse were taken from him he would again lead away the hearts of the people. So Korihor "... Was cast out, and went about from house to house begging for his food" (Alma 31:56). He went about among a group who had separated themselves from the Nephites known as the Zoramites. While going forth among them "... He was run upon and trodden down, even until he was dead" (Alma 30:59). Alma Among the Zoramites Having settled this trouble with Korihor, and learning that the Zoramites were perverting the ways of the Lord and bowing down to dumb idols, Alma's heart "... Again began to sicken because of the iniquity of the people" (Alma 31:1). He took a group of missionaries with him to go to the land of Antionum and seek to reclaim these apostate Zoramites. He took with him three of the four sons of Mosiah, Ammon, Aaron, and Omner; Amulek and Zeezrom, and two of his sons, Shib- 693 lon and Corianton. Alma feared that the Zoramites would enter into correspondence with the Lamanites, and he had found that preaching the word was more potent in getting people to do right than the sword or anything else. Alma discovered a peculiar form of worship among these dissenting Nephites. In the center of their synagogue they had built a high stand, which they called a Rameumptom, or "holy stand." One by one the people who desired to worship ascended this stand, stretched forth their hands towards heaven, and cried with a loud voice a common prayer. 'This prayer explicitly declared their belief that God had elected them to be his holy children, and that he had made it known to them that there should be no Christ. Alma grieved because of this wicked and perverse people who idolized wealth and pride, and he prayed fervently that the missionaries might be endowed with power and wisdom enough to bring them to repentance: Now it came to pass that when Alma had said these words, that he clapped his hands upon all them who were with him. And behold, as he clapped his hands upon them, they were filled with the Holy Spirit (Alma 31:36). Then the missionaries separated themselves and went forth to preach the word of God unto the people again. The missionaries entered into their synagogues and houses, they even preached the word in their streets, and the poor hearkened to the words of Alma. They said that the Zoramite priests had cast them out of their synagogues and implied 694 that they had no place to worship. Alma, realizing that their affliction had humbled them, began teaching them the wonderful discourse on faith. (See Alma, chapter 32.) Alma's Discourse on Faith Alma defined faith as:... Faith is not to have a perfect knowledge of things; therefore if ye have faith ye hope for things which are not seen, which are true (Alma 32:21). He asked them to apply faith to the words which he gave them. He suggested that perhaps they could do no more at present than to desire to believe his words. He then compared the idea of developing faith in his words to a seed which is planted. He advised them that if the seed sown in their hearts germinated, enlarged the soul, and enlightened the understanding, then they would recognize it as good and desirable. He then asked the people to plant the word, that Christ should come and redeem the world, in their hearts, and when it would begin to germinate and to grow, to nourish it by their faith. Under such conditions, he told them, "... It will become a tree, springing up in you unto everlasting life..." (Alma 33:23). Alma also cited the words of Zenos, Zenoch, and Moses to prove that the people did not need to be in a synagogue to worship God and that prophets of old had foretold the mission of Christ. Amulek Explains the Atonement After Alma had taught them how to develop faith in the future appearance of Christ and in his atonement for the sins of mankind, Amulek arose and said that their great problem seemed to be RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1954 "whether the word be in the Son of God, or whether there shall be no Christ" (Alma 34:5). He called to their attention that Alma had referred to Zenos, Zenoch, and Moses in the scriptures as teaching the atonement of Christ. Amulek then said, "... I will testify unto you of myself that these things are true..." (Alma 34:8). He taught that:. It is expedient that there should be a great and last sacrifice; yea, not a sacrifice of man, neither of beast, neither of any manner of fowl; for it shall not be a human sacrifice; but it must be an infinite and eternal sacrifice (Alma 34:10). This infinite and eternal sacrifice would fulfill the law of Moses, and its ordinances would no longer be required. (See Alma 34:13.) Only those who repented and believed in the Son of God would receive a remission of sins. 'The intent of this last sacrifice was "... To bring about the bowels of mercy, which overpowereth justice, and bringeth about means unto men that they may have faith unto repentance" (Alma 34:15). Amulek Cries Repentance Recognizing this truth, Amulek asked the people to repent and to pray for things at all times—things regarded by man as both spiritual and temporal (Alma 34:18-27), always remembering that prayers were vain except the individual gave of his substance to the needy and the naked and visited the sick and the afflicted. Amulek exhorted the people to repent immediately, for, he said:. Now is the time and the day of your salvation... The day of this life is the day for men to perform their labors. Therefore, I beseech of you that ye LESSON DEPARTMENT do not procrastinate the day of your repentance until the end; for after this day of life, which is given us to prepare for eternity, behold, if we do not improve our time while in this life, then cometh the night of darkness wherein there can be no labor performed. Ye cannot say, when ye are brought to that awful crisis, that I will repent, that I will return to my God. Nay, ye cannot say this; for that same spirit which doth possess your bodies at the time that ye go out of this life, that same spirit will have power to possess your body in that eternal world (Alma 34:31°34)- Amulek admonished and_ pled with the people, before he left them, to work out their salvation with fear before God, to deny no more the coming of Christ, to contend no more against the Holy Ghost, to be humble, and to pray continually. After finishing his address, Amulek returned to the land of Jershon where he met with the other missionaries. 'The Zoramites cast out of the land all those who had accepted the truth. These people also went to the land of Jershon, where the people of Ammon lived, and Alma and his brethren ministered unto them. Alma and his brothers soon returned to Zarahemla, for they had 695 completed their missionary activities among the Zoramites. The Zoramites began to mix with the Lamanites and to stir them up to war against the people of Ammon and the Nephites. The people of Ammon left Jershon and came to the land of Melek so that the Nephite armies could move in; and war began in the eighteenth year of the judges. The heart of Alma became exceedingly sorrowful because of the hardness of heart which was coming over many of the Nephites who began to be offended because of the strictness of the word he had preached among all the people in every city. 'Therefore, Alma caused his sons to come together so "... That he might give unto them every one his charge, separately, concerning the things pertaining unto righteousness..." (Alma 35:16). Questions on the Lesson 1. Compare the growth of faith to planting a seed. 2. What did Amulek sav about prayer? (Alma 34:18-27) 3. Why must we prepare in this life to meet God? -—_ Bounty Dorothy O. Rea Autumn brings the fruit of vine and orchard; Eden's flavors are ripe upon the land. Apples, sweet as childhood dreams remembered, Hang at tiptoe reach above my hand. Clustered grapes wrapped in purple goodness, Gathered summer nectar while they grew. The crystal pears distilled deep within them Sugared drops of early morning dew. Golden peaches now turn flanneled cheeks To autumn sun, warm upon the bough. The bending tree, weary of her burden, Sings to us who listen—harvest now. Visiting Seacher ITlessages Book of Mormon Gems of Truth Lesson 28—"... For That Same Spirit Which Doth Possess Your Bodies at the Time That Ye Go Out of This Life, That Same Spirit Will Have Power to Possess Your Body in That Eternal World" (Alma 34:34). Leone O. Jacobs For Tuesday, January 4, 1955 Objective: will be with us after death. FTER ALMA had urged the people to plant the word of God in their hearts, so that they would believe in Christ, Amulek, his companion, expressed deep concern for the welfare of others as is shown by the fervor with which he pleaded with his brethren to rid themselves of sin while they were yet im mortality. We often hear people say, "Oh, when I get on the other side I will find out what is really true, and then I will do something about it."" Somehow they surmise that they will see things differently after death, be able more readily to discern the truth, and have a better opportunity to prove and weigh matters. 'Then, when they are convinced, they believe they can easily and quickly remedy their habits to-conform to the right pattern. Nothing could be farther from the truth! Amulck tells us that after death we will possess the same spirit, which would infer that we will have the same attitudes and outlook as we had here in mortality. Men won't know any more when they are dead than when they are living.... Page 696 To point out that whatever spirit possesses our bodies in this life They will not understand the truths of the Gospel only by the same process as they understand and comprehend them here (Melvin J. Ballard: Three Degrees of Glory, page 25). If we have been skeptical or indifferent here, those qualities will still be with us in that eternal world. We will retain the same habits and dispositions which comprised our natures here. We shall not miraculously shed any traits of character, any faults or weaknesses by virtue of passing through the portals of death. Elder Melvin J. Ballard gives us his opinion on this subject in the Three Degrees of Glory: Do not let any of us imagine that we can go down to the grave not having overcome the corruptions of the flesh and then lose in the grave all our sins and evil tendencies.... It is much easier to overcome and serve the Lord when both flesh and spirit are combined as one.. (pp. 14, 25). This urgent appeal to improve our lives while the opportunity is available and most productive should stir us to action. Work IT leeting—Sclection, Care, and Use of ~ Household Equipment (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 4—Irons and Ironers Rhea H. Gardner For Tuesday, January 11, 1955 RONING has frequently been classed as the most tiring of all homemaking tasks. It is, therefore, of utmost importance that ironing equipment be selected that will reduce fatigue. An iron should be comfortable to use whether it is for short time pressing or for the whole week's ironing. Medium weight irons seem to do better work with less effort than do either the feather weight or very heavy ones. Your choice will depend some upon whether you will have just a general purpose iron, or both a regular and a steam iron. Many growing children have never learned to like to iron because selection of ironing equipment suitable to their needs was never considered. Regular irons require little special care other than protecting them from falling, being scratched, or otherwise marred. The cord must be kept away from the hot iron and should never be wrapped tightly about it. 'This wears it out and the wires inside the cord are shorted, often causing a fire or serious accident. Steam irons do require certain care for long life and top performance. Distilled water is recommended for use in them. If regular water must be used, occasionally fill the iron with distilled vinegar, let it steam for about fifteen minutes, then let it remain in the iron over night. Drain and rinse thoroughly with tap water. Dry before storing it. Ordinarily, steam irons are emptied after each use, preferably while the iron is still hot, so that the iron heat will evaporate the few drops of moisture that may be left. Overheating shortens the life of all irons. Every piece of electrical equipment should carry an underwriter's laboratory's seal of safety. The manner in which different temperatures are indicated and the way they are regulated may help to make an iron a safe or unsafe piece of equipment to use. Lack of sufficient safety features has disqualified more irons from the acceptable list than any other single feature. An ironer can be a real time and labor saver. Some women are afraid they could not use an ironer safely and efficiently, while others have never developed skill in using their ironers. Learning new skills and abandonment of old habits require time, patience, and perseverance. Begin by ironing only flat pieces until you understand the mechanics of your machine, then do the more intricate pieces a few at a time. Soon you will find that you can do almost your entire lroning on your ironer without becomPage 697 698 ing fatigued, and in only a fraction of the time it previously required. Ironers are of two general types, rotary and flat plate. All ironers have thermostats to regulate the temperature to suit the fabric on which you are working. Some have two thermostats, so you need heat only half the ironer when doing small things. Before buying an ironer, sit down to it, see if you can operate the various controls, and reach all the parts without undue strain. Special features, such as small folding end shelves, clothes bars, special work lights, and certain automatic features, add materially to the cost of an ironer, yet are of no great significance to the user. Select the kind of equipment that RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1954 will permit and encourage all family members to use and enjoy it, that will safeguard the health, and that will aid in the development of good work habits among the family members. Thoughts for Discussion 1. What are the contributing factors in making ironing enjoyable? 2. Discuss the importance of teaching your daughters good ironing techniques, such as: sorting clothes before ironing, placing articles requiring about the same amount of heat together; doing flimsy, quickly dried things first; sitting on a comfortable chair with feet flat on the floor, and back supported; keeping damp sponge near; hangers; clothes rack, etc. 3. What suggestions can you make to increase the efficiency of your ironing? Odieaiene Literature of England Lesson 44—Emily Bronte (1818-1848) Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: The Literature of England, II, Woods, Watt, Anderson, pp. 716-720) For Tuesday, January 18, 1955 - Objective: To gain an insight into the inner life of Emily Bronte and to appreciate her suffering, courage, and power. God will not make himself manifest to cowards. No coward soul is mine, —Ralph Waldo Emerson No trembler in the world's storm-troubled sphere; I see Heaven's glories shine, And faith shines equal, arming me from fear. The Book of Psalms asks of God, "What is man, that thou art mindful of him?" With profit we might well address to ourselves—to each other — the same piercing query. Who will meet the question just after having met Emily Bronte, this —Emily Bronte (text, page 720) fearless soul who raises more questions about life than she answers, and provokes us to do likewise? Few would fail to agree that Emily Bronte is one of the two greatest women poets in English literature, and her Wuthering Heights is con- LESSON DEPARTMENT ceded to be one of the most powerful novels of all time. Her only life is the inner one, a life deep and entangled and dominant within her. Most of us have such an inner life, but few of us can define ourselves for what we are, and express our inner findings in communicable and artistic form. Once drinking deep of that divinest anguish, How could I seek the empty world again? (text, page 718, lines 31-32). So ends the poem "Remembrance," in which she states truth so innocently and purely that here, as in her other poems, and in her novel, her truth becomes a tie common to all mankind. Yes, indeed, her outward world was empty; her physical existence was the most barren and monotonous of all modern writers of stature. Yet ironically it was in this grim, gray straitjacket of sterile isolation that her human anguish grew during her twenty years of writing to such power and depth, that her own phrase "divine anguish" may be fairly applied. As will be recalled from our study of Charlotte Bronte, last year, Emily's sociable, friendly sister, the Bronte children spent their lives in complete isolation at Haworth Parsonage, miles from any other house on the bleak moors of Yorkshire. They were well fed and clothed, but their father—embittered possibly, by having his own hopes for eminence in literature and in church politics wither, possibly embittered also by being left a young widower with six children—removed himself to his study where he took his meals, read, and wrote, while all his children, particularly the strong, im- 699 passioned Emily, became so starved for affection and human security that they became desperate. When Emily was eleven, Charlotte led the children in creating the imaginary kingdom of Angria, luxurious, romantic, florid with knights and ladies, adventure, and love. When Charlotte left for school, her brother Branwell claimed leadership. In rebellion, Emily withdrew with Anne, her younger sister, and together they created the imaginary world of Gondal, a bleak island in the North Pacific, counterpart to their own beloved Yorkshire moors. Many of her best poems first appeared in the Gondal cycle, and her great achievement, Wuthering Heights, is but an imaginative continuation of her Gondal writings, all of which are lost save the few poems. For us moderns who have the happenings of the world at our door each morning — nay, each quarter hour—who as a commonplace drive a thousand miles for a vacation or a holiday visit, and fly across a continent overnight, the isolation of our pioneer fathers in time and space seems almost deadly. Yet Emily knew no social comforts: no group affiliation other than attending church, no childhood friends outside the home, no newspaper, no magazines, no liberation through travel, save for eight months in Brussels in her teens. From age seven to sixteen Emily never left Haworth; when she did it almost killed her, so lonesome was she for her pattern of complete freedom within her inner life. During the last seven years of her life she left Haworth only for a few days. Emily was not timid (far from it, THE FOUR BRONTES—EMILY, CHARLOTTE, BRANWELL, AND ANNE From a Painting by Branwell as her writings prove), nor was she afraid, for one day she subdued a savage bulldog with her bare hands. It was just that, for Emily, who most wanted and needed love and human companionship, living in a vacuum came to be the unbearable cruelty. And in her concealed, stoic pride, she refused to beg life for bread, only to receive the familiar stone of being neglected, unloved, cut off from any chance of realizing in this life the identity only loved people know. In her poem "I Am the Only Being," she tells how she suffered, and fought with her pride: I am the only being whose doom No tongue would ask, no eye would mourn; I've never caused a thought of gloom, A smile of joy, since I was born, In secret pleasure, secret tears, This changeful life has slipped away As friendless after eighteen years As lone as on my natal day. There have been times I cannot hide, There have been times when this was drear, When my sad soul forgot its pride And longed for one to love me here.... In "A Little While" (text, page 719) she tells how her "harassed heart" longs for her dreary, barren home: The house is old, the trees are bare, Moonless above bends _ twilight's dome; But what on earth is half so dear— So longed for—as the hearth of home? (lines 12-16) Thus cut off from her own true nature, Emily found escape and reality in the rugged moors about her, and in her imagination. Here was a realm:. Where guile, and hate, and doubt, And cold suspicion never rise; Where thou [Imagination], and I, and Liberty, Have undisputed sovereignty. "To Imagination" (page 718, lines 8-12) 700 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1954 LESSON DEPARTMENT Early in her life, and throughout, Emily was terrifyingly aware of the price she paid each hour for daring to be aware of what life could be, and then comparing it to what her life was. But though the calloused world of self-interest and indifference did nothing to give her a sense of belonging, leaving her to eat out her heart in cold, empty rooms, she could not contain herself, just as she could not complain in. Bitterness. In her stark, magnificent "The Old Stoic," (text, page 720) she asks for her heart's desire: In life and death a chainless soul, With courage to endure. (lines 11-12) Because the institutions of society —stern home, exclusive school, entrenched, self-justifying government, expedient, belligerent church—had never given her substance, she felt it necessary to escape from them— HAWORTH PARSONAGE 701 escape not above or beyond, but more deeply within. Though she promised to walk "where my own nature would be leading," ignoring the. Visions rising, legion after legion, [which] Bring the unreal world too strangely near. "Often Rebuked, Yet Always Back Returning," (page 720, lines 7-8) She increasingly finds sustenance in other-worldly communications of the spirit. In "The Visionary" she defies all restraints to prevent her finding spiritual peace: The little lamp burns straight, its rays shoot strong and far: I trim it well, to be the wanderer's guidingstar. Frown, my haughty sire; chide, my angry dame! Set your slaves to spy; threaten me with shame: As It Was in the Time of the Brontes But neither sire nor dame, nor prying serf shall know What angel nightly tracks that waste of frozen snow. In "The Prisoner," also unfortunately not in our text, she tells of a beautiful woman prisoner:... Her face... Soft and mild As sculptured marble saint, or slumbering unweaned child.... Who defies the jailor and his bolts and irons to "hold her long": Still, let my tyrants know, I am_ not doomed to wear Year after year in gloom, and desolate despair; A messenger of Hope comes every night to me, And offers for short life, eternal liberty. She then tells how the messenger comes: But, first, a hush of peace—a soundless calm descends; The struggle of distress and fierce impatience ends; Mute music soothes my breast—unuttered harmony, That I could never dream, till Earth was lost to me. Then dawns the Invisible; the Unseen its truth reveals; My outward sense is gone, my inward essence feels: Its wings are almost free—its home, its harbor found, Measuring the gulf, its stoops—and dares the final bound. Oh! Dreadful is the check—intense the agony— When the ear begins to hear, and the eye begins to see; When the pulse begins to throb, the brain to think again; The soul to feel the flesh, and the flesh to feel the chain. Yet I would lose no sting, would wish no torture less, The more that anguish racks, the earlier it will bless; And robed in fires of hell, or bright with heavenly shine, If it but herald death, the vision is divine! Her earthly sentence thus "overruled by Heaven," the "prisoner," like Emily Bronte, escapes the bonds of earthly reality by finding within herself and the mystical, superior realms of the spirit, her strength and her hope. In discussing Emily Bronte, some writers have used the word happy. After careful study of her bestknown poems, and such references to death as in the poem above, it would seem that, for her, death is "a consummation devoutly to be wished," hardly the hope of a happy person. In her poems, as in Wuthering Heights, she writes often of two "escapes": a return to the innocent and mild peace of childhood, or a premature flight forward into death. Nor is death really an escape, so much as a spiritual consummation, a fulfillment desired both long and intensely, and a majestic affirmation of a great and living faith. Two years before her death from tuberculosis, she also wrote of her own death, then both near and inevitable, because of the universal love of life, something to be postponed as long as possible. In her poem, "Ihe Night Is Darkening" (text, page 719) how much more is spoken than the words on the page; how universal is her struggle with "a tyrant spell" which so unreasonably causes her to draw back from death in a fear never expressed in the poem, but dominating it nonetheless. Two years later, when death is 702 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1954 LESSON DEPARTMENT upon her, she welcomes it with a fierce, defiant confidence, proclaiming the failures of all false creeds: To waken doubt in one Holding so fast by Thine [God's] infinity; So surely anchored on The steadfast rock of immortality. With wide-embracing love Thy spirit animates eternal years, Pervades and broods above, Changes, sustains, dissolves, creates, and rears. Though earth and man were gone, And suns and universes ceased to be, And Thou were left alone, Every existence would exist in Thee. There is not room for Death, Not atom that his might could render void; Thou—Thou art Being and Breath, And what Thou art may never be destroyed. "No Coward Soul Is Mine" (page 720, lines 13-28) Here are the final proclamations of a soul far larger and stronger than the words she left us. Simple, unadorned, but saturated with a profound sincerity and a great lifephilosophy, her poems reveal to us the unshaken integrity of a great companion-spirit. If her poems be accepted as evidence, Emily Bronte well deserved the judgment of her sister Charlotte who wrote of her, in 1850, in the preface to Wuthering Heights: "I have never seen her parallel in anything. Stronger than a man, simpler than a child, her nature stood alone." It was so to the very end. Unwell 703 for years, Emily became chilled as she stood at the graveside of her dissolute brother, Branwell. Even though she knew in the following weeks that she was dying, she pushed her body relentlessly and demanded even more of her mind. When finally she yielded to her family's pleadings and consented to have a doctor, she arose from her deathbed and dressed herself completely before he arrived. In a way her death was fittingly timed—December 19, 1848 — for onlv in winter were the moors at their bleakest. And yet for the author of such poems as hers — author even more significantly of Wuthering Heights — the bonds of time and place are contributory but incidental. "Liberty was the breath of Emily's nostrils: without it she perished," wrote Charlotte. Yes, we might well remark, and with it she lived — and lives, as few mortals, and fewer women, have ever done, in her poetry and in Wuthering Heights. Questions for Discussion 1. How do Emily Bronte's surroundings and home environment relate to her poetry? 2. For Emily, what is reality? Universal in her poetry? 3. Is her courage real or fancied? Do you consider it rather foolish or demonstrative? Why or why not? 4. Prove liberty to be the very breath of Emily's existence. 5. As far as you can see, is Emily Bronte inspired by faith? If so, faith in what? What is Fulfillment Catherine E. Berry The boundless eagerness with which He greets the turning tide Of spring's green wakening, is spent When road and countryside Lie bronze and golden in the sun Where autumn shadows rim, But barn and pantry shelf reveal The earth's response to him. Segue Seienico—The Constitution of the United States (It is recommended that each Relief Socicty member read the text of the Constitution telating to each lesson as printed before the lesson) ArTIcLe II Section 1. The executive Power shall be vested in a President of the United States of America. He shall hold his Office during the Term of four Years, and, together with the Vice President, chosen for the same Term, be elected, as follows: Each State shall appoint, in such Manner as the Legislature thereof may direct, a Number of Electors, equal to the whole Number of Senators and Representatives to which the State may be entitled in the Congress: but no Senator or Representative, or Person holding an Office of 'Trust or Profit under the United States, shall be appointed an Elector. [The Electors shall meet in their respective States, and vote by Ballot for two persons, of whom one at least shall not be an inhabitant of the same State with themselves. And they shall make a List of all the Persons voted for, and of the Number of Votes for cach; which List they shall sign and certify, and transmit sealed to the Seat of the Government of the United States, directed to the President of the Senate. The President of the Senate shall, in the Presence of the Senate and House of Representatives, open all the Certificates, and the Votes shall then be counted. The Person having the greatest Number of Votes shall be the President, if such Number be a Majority of the whole Number of Electors appointed; and if there be more than one who have such Majority, and have an equal Number of Votes, then the House of Representatives shall immediately chuse by Ballot one of them for President; and if no Person have a Majority, then from the five highest on the List the said House shall in like manner chuse the President. But in chusing the President, the Votes shall be taken by States, the Representation from each State having one Vote; A quorum for this Purpose shall consist of a Member or Members from two-thirds of the States, and a Majority of all the States shall be necessary to a Choice. In every Case, after the Choice of the President, the Person having the greatest Number of Votes of the Electors shall be the Vice President. But if there should remain two or more who have equal Votes, the Senate shall chuse from them by Ballot the Vice President.] This paragraph in brackets was superseded on September 25, 1804. The Congress may determine the Time of chusing the Electors, and the Day on which they shall give their Votes; which Day shall be the same throughout the United States. No person except a natural born Citizen, or a Citizen of the United States, at the time of the Adoption of this Constitution, shall be eligible to the Office of President; neither shall any Person be eligible to that Office who shall not have attained to the Age of thirty-five Years, and been fourteen Years a Resident within the United States. In Case of the Removal of the President from Office, or of his Death, Resignation, or Inability to discharge the Powers and Duties of the said Office, the same shall devolve on the Vice President, and the Congress may by Law provide for the Case of Removal, Death, Resignation or Inability, both of the President and Vice President, declaring what Officer shall then act as President, and such Officer shall act accordingly, until the Disability be removed, or a President shall be elected. The President shall, at stated Times, receive for his Services, a Compensation, which shall neither be encreased nor diminished during the Period for which he shall have been clected, and he shall not receive within that Period any other Emolument from the United States, or any of them. Page 704 LESSON DEPARTMENT 705 Before he enter on the Execution of his Office, he shall take the following Oath or Affirmation:—"I do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will faithfully execute the Office of President of the United States, and will to the best of my Ability, preserve, protect, and defend the Constitution of the United States." Section 2. The President shall be Commander in Chief of the Army and Navy of the United States, and of the Militia of the several States, when called into the actual Service of the United States; he may require the Opinion, in writing of the principal Officer in each of the executive Departments, upon any subject relating to the Duties of their respective Offices, and he shall have Power to grant Reprieves and Pardons for Offences against the United States, except in Cases of Impeachment. He shall have Power, by and with the Advice and Consent of the Senate, to make Treaties, provided two-thirds of the Senators present concur; and he shall nominate, and by and with the Advice and Consent of the Senate, shall appoint Ambassadors, other public Ministers and Consuls, Judges of the supreme Court, and all other Officers of the United States, whose Appointments are not herein otherwise provided for, and which shall be established by Law: but the Congress may by Law vest the Appointment of such inferior Officers, as they think proper, in the President alone, in the Courts of Law, or in the Heads of Departments. The President shall have the Power to fill up all Vacancies that may happen during the Recess of the Senate, by granting Commissions which shall expire at the End of their next Session. Section 3. He shall from time to time give to the Congress Information of the State of the Union, and recommend to their Consideration such Measures as he shall judge necessary and expedient; he may, on extraordinary Occasions, convene both Houses, or either of them, and in Case of Disagreement between them, with Respect to the Time of Adjournment, he may adjourn them to such Time as he shall think proper; he shall receive Ambassadors and other public Ministers; he shall take Care that the Laws be faithfully executed, and shall Commission all the Officers of the United States. Section 4. The President, Vice President and all civil Officers of the United States, shall be removed from Office on Impeachment for, and Conviction of, Treason, Bribery, or other high Crimes and Misdemeanors. Soe III Section 1. The Judicial Power of the United States, shall be vested in one supreme Court, and in such inferior Courts as the Congress may from time to time ordain and establish. The Judges, both of the supreme and inferior Courts, shall hold their Offices during good Behaviour, and shall, at stated Times, receive for their Services a Compensation which shall not be diminished during their Continuance in Office. Section 2. 'The judicial Power shall extend to all Cases, in Law and Equity, arising under this Constitution, the Laws of the United States, and Treaties made, or which shall be made, under their Authority;—to all cases Affecting Ambassadors, other public Ministers, and Consuls;—to all Cases of admiralty and maritime Jurisdiction;— to Controversies to which the United States shall be a Party;—to Controversies between two or more States;—between a State and Citizens of another State;—between Citizens of different States,—between Citizens of the same State claiming Lands under Grants of different States, and between a State, or the Citizens thereof, and foreign States, Citizens or Subjects. In all Cases affecting Ambassadors, other public Ministers and Consuls, and those in which a State shall be Party, the supreme Court shall have original Jurisdiction. In all the other Cases before mentioned, the supreme Court shall have appellate Jurisdiction, both as to Law and Fact, with such Exceptions, and under such Regulations as the Congress shall make. The Trial of all Crimes, except in Cases of Impeachment, shall be by Jury; and such Trial shall be held in the State where the said Crimes shall have been committed; but when not committed within any State, the Trial shall be at such Place or Places as the Congress may by Law have directed. Section 3. Treason against the United States shall consist only in levying War against them, or in adhering to their Enemies, giving them Aid and Comfort. No Person shall be convicted of Treason unless on the Testimony of two Witnesses to the same overt Act, or on Confession in open Court. The Congress shall have Power to declare the Punishment of Treason, but no Attainder of Treason shall work Corruption of Blood, or Forfeiture except during the Life of the Person attainted. Lesson 10. Its Form and Content—The Executive (Article 11) and Judicial (Article Ill) Departments; The Doctrine of Judicial Review Elder Albert R. Bowen Text: Your Rugged Constitution ( Y. R. C.) pp. 112-155; The Constitution of the United States, Its Sources and Its Application (C. Of U. S.), pp. 99-153 For Tuesday, January 25, 1955 Objective: To consider the powers, functions, offices and purposese of the Executive and Judicial Departments and their relation to the Legislative Department and to each other. Also to consider the great doctrine of "Judicial Review." The Executive Department (Y. R. C., pp. 112-141; C. Of U. S., pp. 99- 129) RTICLE II of the Constitution provides for the Executive Department of the Government. These provisions were the subject of much debate. At the beginning of the Constitutional Convention — there was no clear-cut plan formulated. However, it was agreed by all the framers that there was imperative need for a national executive authority. Lack of a national executive under the Articles of Confederation was one of the fundamental weaknesses of the Confederation. Section I of Article II vests the executive authority of the Government in the President of the United States of America. His term of office is fixed at four years, as is the term of the Vice-President. The offices of President and VicePresident were made elective, not by direct ballot, but by electors. The Presidential electors are appointed or elected by a method determined by the legislatures of each state, and they equal the number of members of Congress, both Senators and_ Representatives, to which such state is entitled. Originally, the Constitution provided that the electors (see Y. R. C., pp. 114-115) of each state should vote for two persons, the one having the highest number of votes of the total Electoral College was to be designated as President; and the one having the lesser number should be the Vice-President. (Y. R. C., pp. 114-117; C. Of U. S., pp. 103- 105). In case of a tie vote, the House of Representatives chose which of the two should be President. The Constitution provided for this method of electing the President and Vice-President until the adoption of the Twelfth Amendment in 1804. The reasons for the adoption of the Twelfth Amendment will be considered in a later lesson. Congress fixes by law the time of choosing the electors and the 706 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1954 LESSON DEPARTMENT day on which they shall vote, which must be the same day throughout the United States. To hold the office of President, the candidate must be a naturalborn citizen and must be at least thirty-five years of age and be a resident of the United States for at least fourteen years. In case of his removal, death, resignation, or inability to discharge the office of President, the VicePresident shall be President, and Congress by law has power to designate the succession to the office of President, when also the VicePresident is no longer able to fill the Presidency. The President receives compensation for his services and the compensation he receives may not be increased or diminished during his term of office. He is also prohibited from receiving any other salary or emoluments from the United States or any of them during his term of office. Article II, reads: Before he enter on the Execution of his Office, he shall take the following Oath or Affirmation:—'"TI do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will faithfully execute the Office of President of the United States, and will to the best of my Ability, preserve, protect and defend the Constitution of the United States (C. Of U. S., page 110). The Presidential office carries great power and prestige. In fact it is probably the most powerful political office in the world today. This is, of course, due in part to the fact this nation is the most powerful on earth. Powers and Duties of the President (C. Of U. S., pp. 110-129; Y. R. C., pp. 126-139). Section I, clause § 707 The President is Commander-inChief of the Army and Navy, and of the militia of the several states, when called into service of the United States. The President has power to grant reprieves and pardons for offenses against the United States, except in impeachment cases. The President has power to grant make treaties with foreign nations provided two-thirds of the Senators present concur. He appoints the ambassadors, ministers, and consuls of the United States, the judges of the Supreme Court, and all other officers of the United States. Congress, however, may, by law, vest the appointment of inferior officers, as it shall think proper, in the President, in the courts of law, or in the heads of departments. In case of vacancies during recess of the Senate, the President has power to fill such vacancies by commissions which expire at the end of the next session of the Senate. The President is given the duty from time to time of reporting to Congress on the State of the Union and to recommend laws and measures for its consideration; on extraordinary occasions he may call Congress into session and may adjourn both houses if they are unable to agree upon adjournment (Y. R. C., page 136; C. Of U. S., page 121). He receives ambassadors and ministers of foreign states, and has the duty to see that the laws of the United States are faithfully executed. In addition he appoints all officers of the United States. The concluding section of Article II states the reasons for removal of office of the President, Vice President, and all civil officers of the United States, "on Impeachment for, and Conviction of, 'Treason, Bribery, or other high Crimes and Misdemeanors" (Y. R. C. Pp. 140- 141; C. Of U. S., page 129). The Judicial Department (Y. R. C., pp. 144-155; C. Of U. S., PP. 131-153). In the minds of most students of government, the crowning achievement of the framers was the provision made in the Constitution for the Judicial Department of the Government. This is provided for by Article IIT. Judicial Review A feature of our Constitutional system, which is not known in any other governmental system, at least to the same degree, is that of judicial review. This means that the actions and functions of the Legislative and Executive Departments are subject to review in the courts. In no other single illustration was the genius of the founding fathers so clearly manifest as in the provision made for the courts to nullify the acts of the other two departments which are contrary to the fundamental law of the Constitution. In one stroke arbitrary and tyrannical government was literally made impossible in America. 'The rights of individual citizens to life, liberty, and pursuit of happiness were made secure and placed beyond the power of government. The Constitution does not, in words, provide for judicial review. This power was first asserted by the Supreme Court of the United States in the famous case of Marbury vs. Madison. Chief Justice Marshall, the great judge who laid the foundations of Constitutional law under the Constitution, enunciated the great principle that the Constitution is the supreme law of the land, and gave utterance to the doctrine that the Legislative and Executive Departments were bound by its provisions. Anything done or enacted contrary to the Constitution has been declared to be of no force or effect since that decision was rendered. By contrast, in England, the courts have no such power to control laws passed by Parliament or to prevent their enforcement. If Parliament should pass a law, no matter how unjust or unwise, the Crown may carry it out and the English courts are powerless to prevent its enforcement. The principle of judicial review is extended to the state legislatures and executives and all state constitutions are construed to give the courts of both the state and Federal Government this power of review. By Article III, section 1, the judicial power of the United States is vested in the Supreme Court and such inferior courts as Congress may establish. Judges are appointed to hold office during good behavior, and the compensation they receive may not be diminished during their continuance in office. The Judiciary was created as an independent and co-ordinate department of the Government. 'The independence of the Judiciary insures that Congress and the Executive shall not exceed the powers conferred upon them by the Constitution. For example, in all cases, including those in which the Government is a party, the decision shall be according to law without interference from any department of 708 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1954 LESSON DEPARTMENT the Government which might have an interest in the outcome. Under Article III, Congress has established a complete system of Federal courts having jurisdiction in all parts of the United States (Y. R. C., page 83). Article III, section 2, prescribes the jurisdiction of the Federal courts. The judicial power of these courts extends to all cases in law and equity arising under the Constitution; the laws of the United States and treaties made with foreign governments; to all cases aflecting ambassadors and ministers; cases of admirality and maritime jurisdiction; to controversies to which the United States shall be a party; controversies between two or morc states; between a state and citizens of another state, and between citizens of different states. Originally the Constitution provided that the ~~ judicial power should extend to controversies between citizens of the same state claiming lands under grants of different states and be tween a state or the citizens thereof and foreign states, citizens or sub- | jects (Y. R. C., page 147; C. Of U. S., Pp. 136-144). This latter clause was amended by the Eleventh Amendment on June 8, 1798, to provide expressly that the judicial power of the United States should not extend to any suit in law or equity commenced or prosecuted against one of the United States by citizens of another state or by citizens or subjects of any foreign state. The reasons for this Amendment will be discussed in a later lesson in this series. Under the provisions of Article III, section 2, clause 2, in all cases which affect ambassadors, ministers, 709 ORGAN BOOKS for Ward Organists. At the Console—Felton........ 1.50. Chancel Echoes—Felton...... 1.50. Devotional Organ Album— ae2.50. Organ Voluntaries—Vols. 1 and 2—Schreiner...... Ea. 3.50. Organ Melodies—Landon....1.50. Twenty-Five Pieces for Small Organ—Schreiner....2.50. The Organist—Orem.........-2.75. Sacred Hour at the Organ— Arno................2.00 — Music Sent on Approval — Use this advertisement as your order blank DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 5-47 South Main alt Lake City 1, Utah 1 I \ I | Please send the music indicated above. 1 ( On Approval ( Charge }! ' { i} |!! I us. ©) Money Enclosed SO an Address.......... City & State 0.0.00... See =. = | Se oe eee Da FIRST OF ALL — RELIABILITY 45-47 SOUTH ay Wtuse G MAIN STREET e SALT LAKE CITY 1, UTAH 710 CUCUORGEUEESUEOONAEANNUSURORGEOOEDAOANUOUDEUSTOANEUOGSORTEAOOUOUUOGAUCUESDEUODEUUCSIOLUMA AONE AES For complete details of our CHRISTMAS HOLIDAY TOUR Write or Phone: Vida Fox Clawson 966 East South Temple Salt Lake City. Utah Phone: 4-2017 AUAVAPUNOUDUNDOSBUOOUESUUDEOUOGESSOUUUECOOEOTOOSSOODEOROEOOGUIOODSS RS —_-_ If you are interested in a 1955 EUROPE TOUR let us know early Write to: Vida Fox Clawson 966 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah TULL CULL C LULU. SEARS SALE! ROEBUCK AND CO Cotton Carpet At Lowest Sale Price Ever! Our regular 5.75 "plush pile' carpeting in choice of brilliant Har- 399 mony House colors. Sq. Yd. Fx 2-1... 4IF6O Oml5bamee.. 61 a5 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1954 or consuls, and those in which a state shall be a party, the Supreme Court of the United States has original jurisdiction. 'That is to say, such suits or actions may be commenced in the Supreme Court itself. In all other cases the Supreme Court of the United States has appelate jurisdiction only. Appelate jurisdiction means the power to hear cases on appeal from lower or inferior Federal courts and from state courts where the same may have been commenced or appealed. Article III, section 2, clause 3 of the Constitution specifically provides that all trials involving criminal offenses shall be tried by jury and shall be held in the state where the offense was committed. When not committed within any state, trial shall be at such place as Congress may, by law, provide. Article III, section 3, clause 1 defines the crime of treason against the United States. It shall consist only in levying war against them, or in adhering to their enemies, giving them aid or comfort. No person shall be convicted of treason except on the testimony of two witness to the same overt act, or on confession in open court. This Constitutional requirement makes the conviction of treason a most difficult task for the Government to accomplish. Congress, in addition, has the power to prescribe the punishment for treason which, under present law, is punishable by "death, or imprisonment and fine, with 'the loss of right to hold office under the United States" (C. Of U. S., page 152). But conviction (attainder) of treason shall work no corruption of blood or forfeiture except during lH TODS ERTOGUES EC EOCU DEC EOT OUST: LESSON DEPARTMENT the life of the person attainted (convicted). (See Y. R. C., page 155; C. Of U. S., pp. 149-153.) "Corruption of Blood" means the destruction of the right to inherit property. Forfeiture is the forced relinquishing of estate or property to the government. Questions on the Lesson 1. In what office is the executive authority of the Government vested? 2. Is an Executive Department essential to the Government? Why? 3. How were the President and VicePresident originally chosen under the Constitution? What is the present method of selection? 4. Name some of the powers and func tions of the office of President of the United States. 5. How many Presidential Electors does each state have? 6. What are the necessary qualifications for the Presidency? 7. In whom is the judicial power of the United States vested and to what classes of cases does it extend? 8. What is the purpose of the Judicial Department and how does it affect the Executive and Legislative Departments? G. How are judges appointed under the Constitution? 10. Discuss briefly the doctrine of "Judicial Review" and how it operates to protect the liberties of all citizens. U: sttor Genevieve Groen Winter winds greet wigwams After Indian summer feet Have danced trees bare, And walked the leaves to sleep. 711 THE WORLD'S FINEST PIANOS Mason & Hamlin The Stradivari of Pianos EVERETT Finest Toned Spinet Piano Built Cable-Nelson Finest Low Priced Piano Built —>- All Obtainable At Beesley Music Co. Pioneer Piano People obo ve Gro WS So nder Ethel Jacobson Love grows fonder Through the years; Laughter's sweeter After tears. Hands are dearer, Loved and known For caresses Often shown. Love, at first So fragile-sweet, Fills a life It made complete. And gossamer strands That caught my heart Are fused to steel By love-wise art. 70 S. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Page 712 She Golden Cage Elizabeth Williamson DD something a little different—a little glamorous to your home decorations this year. Make a gilded cage. 1. Secure an old bird cage retrieved from an attic, a basement, or a secondhand store. 2. Paint the cage gold or silver. 3. Get two Christmas tree ornament birds from the store, and attach them in side the cage. 4. Place sprigs of evergreens and some red berries on the bottom of the cage. 5. Tie a big red or green bow on the top of the cage. Light of Magic Eunice ]. Miles Grinning goblins, sheeted ghosts, Merge and fade in eerie light, Jack-o-lanterns blink a path For gypsies trailing in the night. Lanky figures short and tall As they challenge: "Trick or treat In a chilling undertone. >? | How could anyone believe Such gay spirits, magic-led, At the witching hour of ten Would be fast asleep in bed. Wo rh in Print Fanny G. Brunt lor years she tried to create poems With rhymn and meter right, But critics frowned upon them, Called her words and phrases "trite." But still she kept persisting, Till her hair was getting gray, To see her work appear in print That urge she could not stay. After years of trying to write A poem or a sonnet, She made a pretty apron With lace and ruffles on it; Her work improved with practice, And from prints of rare design, Each apron was a classic Like a pretty valentine. By needle thread and thimble, An art, and skill, and dint, Even in far off places now— Her work appears in print. The Pride of Your Library! Your Relief Society Magazines when handsomely bound into permanent yearly volumes acquire new value as excellent reference books. Just $2.50 (Cloth Binding) $3.50 (Leather Binding) Per Volume If necessary to mail them to you, the following postage rates will apply. Distance from Up to 150 miles 2.0... Ecccccecccee cece eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee 35 150 to 300 miles veseettt ce 39 300 to 600 miles. Noneseenscsi ene ae 45 600 to 1000 miles 20. 254 1000 to 1400 miles -.64 1400 to 1800 miles 2.00. 76 Over 1800 miles 2222.2... Eine.87 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press 31 Richards St. Salt Lake City, Utah Phone 4-258] Go Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Latest and Best in LD S 2. COLONIA JUAREZ LITERATURE 1, ISRAEL! DO YOU KNOW? LeGrand Richards '"Tsrael! Do you know why the Lord has made such great promises unto the House of Israel?" This masterful book, just off the press, written with vitality and easy readability, answers the great promise made to the Jews. It tells how the prophecy of the reuniting of the House of Israel and the House of Judah will be accomplished... How even now it is being fulfilled. Nelle S. Hatch Colonia Juarez $2.00 Here is one of the color ul most coor' 9" 3. MATTHEW COWLEY SPEAKS will r IT rc TI > mar rollous ser T a) n L | EXCE I her y: ~ A V ft { sparkiin '; at r rela NI ls autmen t - f perspect + lif death, and eventual fc nae ' a "a * rebirth of one of the the qospel A @ world's most intrigu- — qorful fami _ ing places.... — aa lent Juarez. Gift, too, for some- $3.50 one you love $4.00 I DESERET BOOK COMPANY | a 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah entlemen: ) Enclosed you will find................ Check........-....--- money order............ Charge to my | account the following $-..............0...... For the encircled (numbered) books: 1 2 3 DST mune nS nun peru eee =~ GE ------- eevee City Se ee State © ee eee } | /\ GEIS 2S go oosvovod pagneeeeyocca==202020605 965600664UHEHE Se —eEBEEEB SEES SAA BS 0008 -ES SSE: OR RN 252959055200 Resizents of Utah include 2% sales tax. Summer fades fast in the high mountain valleys, and nature, in a wild burst of energy, seems determined to display her most beautiful charms before winter's icy grip strips her foliage. The aspen leaves reflect the sun like polished gold coins, The blazing red maples, the bronze oak leaves, and the deep-green evergreens blend into color harmonies that defy the artist's brush. The autumn years in a man's life can also be the most beautiful of all. With maturing ability to distinguish ideas and things of real worth, with more time to Hutumn Glory... Meditate and to enjoy, and provided with reasonable assurance against financial worries, no one need fear the advancing years, but rather welcome them. Planned Beneficial Life programs have enabled thousands to enjoy to their fullest these golden years... But you should start such a retirement program as early as possible. Ask your Beneficial Life insurance counselor about the many popular planned retirement plans., Call him now, while you have it fresh in mind. BENEFICIAL LIFE Insurance David O. McKay, Pres. ) eA. Oe VOL. 41 NO. 11 § | © Lessons for February NOVEMBER 1954 She Pumpkin Pie Glorified Bertha F. Cozzens How many times have you heard a speech about this or that being great, But what's more noble than Pumpkin Pie bedded snugly in a plate? It isn't just a pie to me, it's filled with memories rare, The children by the kitchen stove are all mixed up in there. It's flavored with spices from afar, what a story they could tell! Of countries far across the sea where other people dwell; Of gardens where a big round moon shone on the flowers below, And the sun in all its glory helped the fragrant spice to grow. A wheat field serenaded by the bluebird and the lark, A handsome pumpkin flirting, and who promptly lost his heart To a gentle zephyr breeze who dropped briefly by his side To view with admiration the marvel of his size. And he sighed as he watched her drift away across the waving grain, For he knew he must stay to complete his task, and on the vine remain. And then the eggs, a work of art, a miracle of creation, Let bells ring out, let symphonies give a magnificent ovation, For as they pop out of the shell and in the bowl they drop, You've got a mixture there, my friend, to make your eyelids pop. And now, you take the cool, white milk stored from a summer's sun, Of pleasant days with "Bossy Cow" whose work was so well done. Now pour it in and, drop by drop, you watch it take its place Among the immortal gifts of God, a hymn of praise and grace. Ah! Now you've got a mixture there that's history in the making! Just sniff the aroma in the air the time that pie is baking. It's one of those moment: in our lives when trivial things won't matter, As we pause awhile in cur busy day, that Pumpkin Pie to flatter. Oh! That luscious Pumpkin Pie, the top all flecked with gold, And as I dig my teeth deep in, the half can never be told. As each loved one takes a piece, his face is all aglow; There's a feeling of real happiness to watch the portions go. So when we give our thanks to God for blessings day by day, Put in an extra word or two, let us not forget to say, "We thank thee Lord for sun and rain, and all good that in them lie That combine the wondrous making of a family Pumpkin Pie," The Cover: Old Pinion Pine, Near Moab, Utah Photograph by Willard Luce Frontispiece: Field of Pumpkins Photograph by Ewing Galloway Cover Design by Evan Jensen Srom Near and Sar The Relief Society Magazine is wonderful, and the spiritual guidance I get from it is priceless, since we live so far from a branch that we don't get to meetings often. —Mrs. Velma Divis Ulysses, Nebraska I do appreciate our Magazine very much, and I can assure you all that I think what a great comfort you must bring to all with whom you come in contact. I have always felt I belonged West. I stayed with an aunt in Shelley, Idaho, and made a number of friends there. My wish is to come West some day with my husband and two children. —Mrs. Ethel Hackett Clayhole Cottage Kelty, Fifeshire, Scotland I love Relief Society, and have attended the meetings as often as I could. Last winter I would wake my baby from his nap, feed him, and away we'd go along the cold, snowy sidewalks down to the... Ward, just a few blocks away. I also joined the Singing Mothers. I always held my baby on my lap and my big boy played around while we practiced. Unfortunately I am about the only young matron in our ward who attends. I urge all young mothers to come out to meetings and see what they've been missing. I tread The Relief Society Magazine from cover to cover. I never imagined there was such a Magazine, so pure and undefiled.... —Melba L. Lucas Ogden, Utah I do not know who has been responsible for sending me The Relief Society Magazine, but would just like to say that I have enjoyed receiving it these past twelve months that I have been in Japan. Though it might seem a little unusual, I have enjoyed it if for no other reason than reading of Church activity back home. —Corporal Ernest D. Oater United States Marine Corps C/O Post Master, San Francisco, California Page 714 I have read our Relief Society Magazine for many years and was our ward representative for a few years. Here is a poem I wrote about the Magazine many years ago: When you are blue and lonely And in need of a kindly friend, Just get our Relief Society Magazine And read it from beginning to end.... —LePreal McKnight Heber, Utah I feel impressed to thank you for the little gem I found in my mailbox yesterday (the September Relief Society Magazine). First of all, I read the conclusion of the serial "The Falling Shackles" by Margery S. Stewart, and felt within myself the peace that came to Papa Tobler.... Then I read the article "A Heavenly Banner" and wept a little, as I always do, when a feeling of patriotism and gratitude for this great country surges within me.... The story "No Secrets Between Them" brought to my mind the lesson in courage which my own dear mother taught us in her last illness... Beulah Huish Sadleir's poem "Traditional" was choice.... I will always remember my mother who used to hold up our Relief Society Magazine and say, "This little book is worth its weight in gold." —Emily W. Brewer Ogden, Utah As always, I did enjoy the September number. "Where Are the Nine?" by Sylvia Probst Young is fine. The little article "Ralph" (by Dorothy A. Johnson) is touching, and the two short. Stories "The Long Night" (by Maurine B. Hansen) and "No Secrets Between Them" (by Dorothy Boys Kilian) are excellent. I enjoyed the serial "The Falling Shackles" by Margery S. Stewart. Her handling of the foreign brogue was outstanding. —Frances C. Yost Bancroft, Idaho THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Sratiaid - - Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - First Counselor Velma N. Simonsen - - - - - Second Counselor Margaret C. Pickering - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Mary G. Judd Evon W. Peterson Christine H. Robinson Charlotte A. Larsen Anna B. Hart Leone O. Jacobs Alberta H. Christensen Edith P. Backman Edith S. Elliott Louise W. Madsen Mildred B. Eyring Winniefred S. Florence J. Madsen Aleine M. Young Helen W. Anderson Manwaring Leone G. Layton Josie B. Bay Gladys S. Boyer Elna P. Haymond Blanche B. Stoddard RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE President Editor - - - - - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Vol. 41 NOVEMBER 1954 No. 11 = ontae fs ——- FEATURES Belle S. Spafford 716 Sees... Sanveeeeaes -Marianne C. Sharp 721.. Velma N. Simonsen 724 Belle S. Spafford 727 The Greatness of Relief ie ell 'But One Thing Is Needful' Be Ye an Example Report and Official Instructions t Books for Children 20.0... Ccc —_.. Abbie H. Wells 741 FICTION A Little More Spirit.. Ae.......... Carol Read Flake 734 A Sure-Enough Sem aoc ca canna ccnessececccccncssentastnteceerceccccsseeee Mabel Law Atkinson 749 Contentment Is a Lovely Thing.......... Dorothy S. Romney 754 Cama. FEATURES From WV SST ge TANC URE CTS TU Nr ee 714 Sixty Years Ago 2... Ccccseceseeeccceeeceeeee ene 745 Woman's Sphere.. — = "Ramona W. Cannon 744 Editorial: Praise and 'Thanksgiving. 4 Vesta P. Iain: 746 Notes to the Field: A Centenary of Relief Society Placed in Public Libraries 2.0.000.: cccccscsson 748 Notice to Contributors of Relief Society Magasine —_ 748 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities...... _. Margaret C. Pickering 761 FEATURES FOR THE HOME Make Baby Some Rattle Shoes.... EaNell Folkman 752 Mary S. Young Learned to Paint at SeventyEight = ee ee 789 A Letter From Mother 220..0.000.00.0.0cccccccccccceceeeceeeeeoeeeceneeeneneeene.... "Clara Horne Park 760 A Different Christmas Wreath. — _Elizabeth Williamson 784 "LESSONS FOR FEBRUARY © Theology: Instructions of Alma to His Sons.. Lleland H. Monson 764 Visiting Teacher Messages: ''For Just As Surely As This Director Did Bring Ow) cise. 3 2. EeLeone O. Jacobs 769 Work Meeting: Ranges 0.000000..... Rhea H. Gardner 770 Literature: Wuthering Heights by Emily Bronte.... Briant S. Jacobs 772 Social Science: The Constitution of the United States, Articles IV, V, Vi, 'and VII and Bill of Rights, First Four Amendments. —_—".. Albert R. Bowen 776 The Pumpkin Pie sailed Leeann eo even eeBertha F. Cozzens 713 Transition.......0.0.... SS eae... Ella J. Skelton 720 Herds) cae vecsstsssttteseeeeee-Werda Mackay 726 TOO Manny Memories ooo... Cece encieeecesesesscnececceessceseceecessoseesessosaceceensnsasesessseecssseceessensesnsneasaneeesZera Wilde Earl 726 Poetry ounce ceeeeceeeeeeeeeeee sone... Mary Gustafson 733 Wherever You Are ooo... Ce cceceecee eens seeceeteeeee este eeeeeeees Evelyn L. Daines 740 Ultimate Comquest o.... EccceccceccececcsscceceececscnsesnesesesessseseneccessetnensaccansatscesseersesececacenatesesenensnsesesecsIris W. Schow 747 Friendship o. Oo 2; -Elsie Sim Hansen 751 Family Night........ _.... =...'Mabel Jones Gabbott 753 Little Wise Men _.... — Lael W. Hill 758 Ephemeral Moment Thelma j. Lund 759 Autumn Rituals ———EEEunice J. Miles 760 ESE WAKTAGW,..... OcccccccscscescocsseecesorvecnsnsassseussreveecceaneceevsessncrssuaescecesnansensasusesarensutsesuresoueereersrersMaryhale Woolsey 763 Time By the Heart _ a Vesta N. Lukei 769 AvThought 2... - ee... Oe eSGene Romolo 77) Reflection one. Cecececceecececeeveveveeeoeevceeeeveeeeeseeeeveeeee SE a. Pansye H. Powell 784 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY SubEditorial and Business Offices: 40 North Main, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 4-2511; scriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of 'October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. "Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Pall) Cheering oo. Eccccc cee eceecc ceccc ce ceneseseseesacaceeessuensevssoveesunssesseuseenserences.. Bernice T. Clayton 748 The Greatness of Relief Society President Belle S. Spaftord [Address Delivered at the Annual General Relief Society Conference September 30, 1954] am deeply grateful today for the [| privilege and blessings of this conference, for the faith, for the unity, and for the spirit of sisterhood that exists among us. I am grateful for the presence of General Authorities of the Church whose direction, support, and encouragement are indispensable to us. I am particularly grateful for the presence of President Stephen L Richards and for his willingness to address us today. It is impossible to overestimate the value to us, as organized women, of having with us in our conference God's chosen leaders among men, One who has known this blessing feels deeply its lack when attending a gathering of women where Priesthood authority is not present. I am deeply grateful for my membership in the Church and for the knowledge which I have of the divinity of Christ and the truthfulness of the restored gospel; for the blessings and watchcare exercised over me by my Father in Heaven in my daily comings and goings; and at this time I am particularly grateful for the watchcare vouchsafed me as I traveled about in foreign lands during the summer months. I am grateful for the missionaries who are proclaiming the gospel to the nations of the earth. As I noted the earnestness with which the missionaries in Europe were performing their labors, the purity of their lives, and the sincerity of their testiPage 716 monies, I felt to love them every one. I bring to the mothers of these missionaries their love and their greetings. I assure the mothers of the great importance of the work in which their sons and daughters are engaged. I am grateful for the lives of the young Latter-day Saint men and women in the armed services overseas, who are upholding the standards of the Church. They too, are performing missionary service. I recall one young man who waited for me after the sacrament meeting in Germany one Sunday. He said, "Sister Spafford, I guess everyone asks you to remember them to someone when you return home; but if it is not imposing, I would surely appreciate it if you would call my mother and tell her I'm fine. I know how anxious she is about me." 'Then with great earnestness the boy added, "Every night I pray God to bless my mother for the good teachings she has given me." God will answer the prayers of that boy and he will bless that mother for teaching her boy the principles of righteous living. I am grateful to live in this beautiful land of America declared by God's prophets to be a land of promise, a land choice above all other lands; a land of great cities and productive farms; a wonderland of broad rivers, blue lakes, lofty mountains, and expansive plains; a progressive land; a Christian land whose THE GREATNESS OF RELIEF SOCIETY culture is enriched by the contributions from many cultures. I am grateful for my United States citizenship, for the privilege of belonging to a nation whose citizens are assured basic freedoms by a divinely inspired Constitution— where I may go to the church of my choice, unrestricted.( When one has talked with a young man who was imprisoned and severely beaten for possessing a Book of Mormon and a few gospel tracts, he realizes the greatness of this freedom. ) I am grateful to belong to a nation where I may express my opinions freely; where I have the right to own property, to work, and save, and make provision for my future; where I may maintain my simple home and rear my children according to my own desires and standards; where I may go forward and improve my own conditions and pursue the interests that make me happy without any unnecessary fears, restraints, or restrictions — rights guaranteed me by a government in which I have voice. I am grateful today, perhaps more than any other time in my life, for my membership in Relief Society, for the inherent greatness of this organization, Priesthood directed and guided by the light of the gospel. These are blessings to which most of us have become so accustomed that, at times, we are inclined to take them almost for granted. Only as one sees the absence of them does he fully and deeply sense their magnitude. ND now I would speak of Relief Society and its place among women's organizations of the world. 717 I trust that what I say will in noway seem boastful. I assure you I speak with humility. I recall in the past reading the old Woman's Exponent and noting with interest the title on the front page which read: "For the Rights of the Women of Zion and the Rights of the Women of All Nations." I also recall a phrase used many times by the early-day Relief Society leaders which engaged my _attention. It read: "Standing as we do at the head of the women of all the world." Picturing those pioneer women, more or less isolated from the world, locked away in the fastnesses of the Rocky Mountains, struggling at the side of their husbands to establish homes and wrest a living from hard and barren soil, trying to build a community that would help them to survive and, at the same time, endeavoring to do their part in the establishment of their little Relief Societies, I smiled that they should envision themselves as "Standing at the head of the women of all the world." However, as my experiences have been widened, as my perception has been deepened, as my knowledge and understanding have been increased, I no longer smile. Rather, I marvel that, young as was the work and new to them as leaders, they should have had so enlightened a concept of the place of Relief Society among women's organizations of the world and of their position as its leaders. As most of you know, during the summer months it was my privilege to attend the triennial conference of the International Council of Wom- en at Helsinki, Finland, and to serve as Chairman of the delegation of the National Council of Women of the United States. This conference brought together many distinguished and able women representing influential women's organizations from thirty-four free nations of the earth, whose total membership would be counted in terms of millions. I vividly recall the deep feelings that stirred within me at the formal opening of the conference as it became my privilege to lead the chairmen of the respective delegations on to the dais of the festival hall, and, as the chairman of the National Council of Women of the United States, the world's leading nation, to stand in front of the glorious Stars and Stripes and be formally introduced. For one brief moment there flashed into my mind the phrase at' which I had so often smiled and which at that moment seemed almost prophetic—''Standing as we do at the head of the women of all the world." During the conference, I had opportunity to meet the leadership, to learn the purposes, to become more or less acquainted with the programs and accomplishments of women's organizations from many nations of the world. ODAY I pay tribute to these leaders and to the organizations which they represent. The leaders are serious-minded women dedicated to the accomplishment of good as they see it. They are organized for instruction to their members, for mutual edification, and service to humanity. It would take this entire session to present to you, even briefly, the varied interests and activities of the many affiliates of the International Council of Women. Their aims and programs vary so considerably that they cannot be brought under a few classifications. The traditions, cultures, social and economic development, the political life of the nations wherein the various organizations operate differ greatly, making it difficult, at times, for the council to project for consideration matters of equal interest and concern to all. However, there are some things on which all agree. As an International Council of Women they assert their belief in education, in culture, in the removal of prejudices and misunderstandings between individuals and peoples, in the preservation of the dignity of women, in social justice, and in the maximum spiritual development of mankind. They subscribe to the belief that the age-old role of mother and homemaker remains today the primary role of woman. They regard good homes as the basis of man's well-being and the fundamental cornerstone of a good society. They support the contention that moral well-being is basic to a strong, enduring, and expanding world civilization, and that it is accorded too small a part of the organized and co-ordinated efforts of countries and their peoples. They believe that women must be the preservers of the human and spiritual values in community life. And now that civilization has reached the threshold of the nuclear age, it is their contention that women must do their part in guarding against the misuse of the forces of nature. 718 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1954 THE GREATNESS OF RELIEF SOCIETY These are all matters we as Relief Society women hold at heart. But a question arises: Wherein are we different from other women's organizations whose work is animated by goals toward which we ourselves strive? Wherein lies our right to claim pre-eminence among women's organizations? Recalling my feeling as I was introduced at the opening session of the conference, I knew full well our position comes not by virtue of my standing on a platform or by any worldly recognition that might be accorded us. My feelings led me to consider the elements which go into making a great woman's organization. My contemplation brought me to the conclusion that any society of women to be great must be well founded; its purposes must be important to the well-being of people; its program must be capable of fulfilling its purposes; and its affairs must be administered by capable leadership devoted to its cause. Countless numbers of women's organizations conform to these standards. Relief Society conforms to them. Wit, then, does Relief Society possess in addition to all this? I realize the inadequacy of words to define the elements that give Relief Society transcendency among women's organizations of the world. An understanding of this lends itself to feelings more than to verbal expressions. This knowledge is the testimony of the heart rather than the mind. Nevertheless, I call your attention today to a few things. Relief Society is pre-eminent among women's organizations because it is God's organization for his daughters 719 here upon earth. It was founded under the inspiration of the Lord bestowed upon the Prophet Joseph Smith; it was organized "under the Priesthood and after a pattern of the Priesthood." Relief Society women are women embarked in the service of God, and it follows that they are embarked in the service of their fellow men. Ours is not a man-made society—a higher power is operating to bring about the fulfillment of the purposes of Relief Society. The light for which organized women are reaching in many of their programs has been ours for more than a century. The hazy paths along which they are slowly feeling their way are clearly il lumined for us by the revealed word of God. The power inherent in them is decreed by human determination. 'The power inherent in Relef Society is God ordained. The great disciplines of the gospel of Jesus Christ give to us unbounded strength. I have seen the power of Relief Society literally to transform the lives of women; to make of them, as the Lord said to Alma, "new creatures." It makes their burdens light. In faraway Finland I found Relief Society women, who by their own words "had suffered much." They were sweet-spirited, poised, capable in their leadership, and they were radiantly happy women. Just as | saw this in Finland, so I saw it in the other European countries, so I have seen it at home. I have seen the spirit of Relief Society touch the hearts of women and, rising above the barriers of nationality, race, social and economic 720 position, make of them sisters in very deed, ready to labor and minister to one another as well as to those about them. Entirely forgetful of self, I have seen them tenderly and tirelessly minister to the sick and patiently care for the aged. I wish you all might see some of the little welfare rooms in the faraway missions filled with neatly packaged, usable clothing and other commodities, representing the labor and the love of Relief Society women, ready to meet the emergent welfare needs of their people. I have attended programs, handwork exhibits, socials; I have listened to Singing Mothers concerts—all a glorious reflection of the power of the society to utilize and develop the talents and the tastes of the women. Few organizations in all the world have so comprehensive a program as does Relief Society. 'There is not a worthy interest or a woman's talent that cannot be nourished in this wonderful society. Relief Society reaches into every avenue and touches every aspect of a woman's life. Personal ambitions so damaging in some women's organizations and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1954 so conducive to disharmony among members, has little place in Relief Society. With lines of authority and positions within the society well defined by Priesthood authority, Relief Society goes forward practically devoid of this disturbing and often destructive influence. Relief Society is a society of order, regulated by a righteous and inspired Priesthood. My visit abroad has deeply impressed me with the importance and magnitude of the work of the Relief Society. My vision has been enlarged until today, like the earlyday sisters, I recognize the true greatness of Relief Society. Today the Lord has given us influence among women's organizations of the world. It is our responsibility so to conduct our lives and our affairs that this influence may be ever widened for the blessing and the benefit of our Father's children. In conclusion I say to you—sisters, value that with which you have been blessed. Never underestimate its beauty, its importance, its power, and its influence for good. Make it ever more potent as an organization proclaiming the Master's way. == Crandiian Ella J. Skelton The field of yellow, ripened grain must kneel Beneath the reaper's blade. Each golden head Is crushed, and precious hearts are ground to meal; Then we enjoy a loaf of wholesome bread. The fairest flower must wither, fade, and die, And thus it bears, and scatters forth its seed; The tree, majestic, soaring to the sky, Must fall to earth, and fill the builder's need. So we, alas, transition must endure, To know the destiny of God's great plan; Time's juggernaut is pressing evermore, Toward eternal betterment of man. Fear not, my soul! Is only change.. To sleep beneath the sod. Immortal life with God. 'But One Thing Is Needful" Counselor Marianne C. Sharp [Address Delivered at the Annual General Relief Society Conference September 30, 1954]| feel very humble this afternoon, and would ask an interest in your faith and prayers that what I say may be in accord with the spirit of the Lord. In that great vision of Moses as recorded in the Pearl of Great Price, he was told by the Lord God: "For behold, this is my work and my glory—to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man" (Moses 1:39). And in that mighty prayer uttered by the Savior before he went to his suffering in the garden of Gethsemane, he declared, "And this is life eternal, that they might know thee the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent" (John 17:3). If we, as daughters of our Heavenly Father, would know the Father and the Son hereafter, it behooves us to study the words about themselves they have vouchsafed to us. How may we know Jesus Christ unless we seek an understanding of the scenes and experiences he passed through in mortality, and then live in accordance with our understanding? Do we realize that in spite of the different civilizations at the time of Christ and now—of trudging the dusty miles instead of flying through the heavens, of beating clothes against rocks, perhaps, to wash them, instead of turning a switch— that the fundamental experiences of our sisters of that day and our own day are basically the same? In spite of modern conveniences we are still as was Martha "cumbered about much serving," and we must remember the words of Jesus in reply to Martha's complaint of her sister Mary—who sat at Jesus' feet, and heard his word: "But one thing is needful: and Mary hath chosen that good part, which shall not be taken away from her" (Luke 10:42). We must not let the perplexities of today's living exclude the one thing needful of hearing and doing the will of the Lord. As we strive to gain understanding and put ourselves in the experiences of our sisters of a former day, we realize better the requirements which will be made of us to gain like blessings. For God is no tespecter of persons, and we may well ask ourselves: Have I the faith to win that reward? Would I be worthy to feel the ecstasy of joy she did? As we consider the life of Mary the "mother of the Son of God, after the manner of the flesh"... "A virgin, most beautiful and fair above all other virgins" (I Nephi 11:18, 15), as Nephi describes her, we are impressed by her obedience, selflessness, and the suffering which came to her. While her life and destiny were glorious, her way was hard. Simeon foretold to her even when Jesus was in his early infancy... 'a sword shall pierce through thy own soul also..." (Luke 2:35). Page 72] We are told more than once that Mary kept all these things and pondered them in her heart. In contradiction to the false cult that has grown up about the worship of Mary herself, the scriptures make plain her true role as the earthly mother of the Christ. When her sinless Son was but twelve years of age, he reminded her, "... Wist ye not that I must be about my Father's business?" (Luke 2:49). From two other incidents that are recorded, it would seem that the divine mission of her Son was ever kept before her even if imperfectly understood by her. Once when Jesus was told that his mother and brethren sought him, he replied: "... Who is my mother?.... For whosoever shall do the will of my Father which is in heaven, the same is my brother, and sister, and mother" (Mt. 12:48, 50). And once when a woman in a company called out, "Blessed is the womb that bare thee," (Luke 11:27) he replied, "Yea rather, blessed are they that hear the word of God, and keep it" (Luke 11:28). We are led to conclude that throughout Mary's life she lived according to her reply to the angel at the Annunciation, "Behold the handmaid of the Lord; be it unto me according to thy word..." (Luke 1:38). In his dying moments Jesus' thoughts were concerned with both his earthly mother and his Eternal Father, as he entrusted the care of his mother to his beloved disciple John and his spirit he entrusted to his Eternal Father. The trials and sufferings of Mary's life were rewarded by the knowledge of the resurrection of her Son. We are told in Acts that she continued in prayer and supplication with the brethren. ROM the beginning of Jesus' ministry in Galilee, faithful women followed him and ministered unto him of their substance, and went up with him to Jerusalem that last time. Some of his most sublime teachings were directed to women. It was a woman of a race despised by the Jews, to whom he declared. But the water that I shall give him shall be in him a well of water springing up into everlasting life" (John 4:14). To her he also revealed himself as the Christ. It was a woman of Canaan whose faith in him was so great that she persisted, even in the face of his denial to cure her daughter of an unclean spirit, and presented her appeal so adroitly that the Savior consented to heal the daughter though she was not of Israel. Such persistent faith can also avail us as mothers today. Jesus used the story of a widow constantly petitioning a judge for redress to teach the need of persistent prayer to his Father. As an example of the saving power of faith, he pointed out to his discourteous host our sinful sister who washed Jesus' feet with her tears, dried them with her hair, and continued to kiss his feet in adoration and anointed them. Her repentance won forgiveness. (See Luke 7:36-50.) The widow who threw her two mites into the temple treasury was revealed by the Master as one who had given all her substance. Speaking of other donators Jesus declared, "For all they did cast in of their abundance; but she of her want did cast in all that she had, even all her living" (Mark 12:44). 722 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1954 "BUT ONE THING IS NEEDFUL" Exceeding faith in the healing power of Jesus was exemplified by our sister who knew that if she could but touch the border of Jesus' garment, she would be healed. Through some power of which we know not, Jesus felt virtue go out of him. When she made herself known he promised her, "... Thy faith hath made thee whole; go in peace..." (Mark 5:34). Contemplate the reward bestowed upon the widow who had her only son restored to life, and rejoice with our erring sister who was commanded, "go, and sin no more" (John 8:11), and who had opened to her understanding the mighty principle of repentance, so necessary to each of us, as we live our lives. CONSIDER again the sisters Mary and Martha of Bethany and their brother Lazarus, in the blessed companionship they enjoyed. With Jesus, all of whom he loved. Both of these sisters stand as examples to us of devotion and faith—Martha with her great knowledge of the resurrection as she said, speaking of the death of her brother, "... I know that he shall rise again in the resurrection at the last day" (John 11:24) and her declaration of Jesus' Messiahship, "... I believe that thou art the Christ, the Son of God, which should come into the world" (John 11:27). It was her sister Mary who came before the Passion Week as Jesus sat at supper and anointed him with the precious spikenard in the alabaster box. You will recall that in response to Judas Iscariot's complaints, the Savior prophesied, "For in that she hath poured this ointment on my body, she did it for my 723 burial. Verily I say unto you, Wheresoever this gospel shall be preached in the whole world, there shall also this, that this woman hath done, be told for a memorial of her" (Matt. 26:12-13). And then we come to the transcending experience of our sister Mary Magdalene, out of whom Jesus cast seven devils. Faithful Mary was near the cross at the crucifixion, she was at the burial, at the tomb early in the morning, and the first to see the resurrected Christ. What love, service to others, and devotion must have been hers to merit the blessing of exclaiming, "Master," as she recognized her risen Lord. Such great and glorious blessings came to our sisters of a former day because they earned them, for in this dispensation the Lord has said: "There is a law, irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundations of this world, upon which all blessings are predicated—And when we obtain any blessing from God, it is by obedience to that law upon which it 4s. Psedicated" (D. & C. 130:20-21). Blessings await us, if we will earn them as did our sisters of a former day by obeying the laws on which they are predicated. And as we go about our lives of service and learning in Relief Society, let us often recall the words of Christ to Martha: "But one thing is needful: and Mary hath chosen that good part, which shall not be taken away from her" (Luke 10:42). Let us choose the one thing needful—of hearing and doing the will of the Lord—and it will not be taken away from us. 'That we may all do so is my prayer. Be Ye an Example Velma N. Simonsen [Address Delivered at the Annual General Relief Society Conference September 30, 1954]| feel very thankful for the privilege of being here today, and it is gratifying to see the overwhelming number who are assembled here. It is an evidence of your devotion to the worthy cause in which we are engaged. The Lord Jesus Christ, teaching his disciples, called attention to the importance of their position and place in the world. He did this, notwithstanding that men considered the disciples of small consequence. He told them that they were the salt of the earth, the light of the world. He encouraged them to effort and achievement by showing them that their exalted positions would avail them little unless they made proper use of their high callings. He pointed out to them that, "... If the salt have lost his savour, wherewith shall it [the earth] be salted?" (Mt. 5:13). They were called, "... The light of the world. A city that is set on an hill cannot be hid" (Mt. 5:14) but were cautioned that " Neither do men light a candle, and put it under a bushel, but on a candlestick; and it giveth light unto all that are in the house" (Mt. 5:15) meaning that, while they were full of light and knowledge it was improper to hide that knowledge. It should be diffused abroad for the benefit of all.. They were then counseled: "Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works, and Page 724 glorify your Father which is in heaven" (Mt. 5:16). 'These conditions and instructions apply to us today just as much as they did to those who lived in the days when these precious words were uttered. 'The commandment, "Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works,.." is just as binding upon Latter-day Saints as it was upon the former day saints. We sisters sitting here in this building are among those that are the salt of the earth, and in us is vested the gospel light, but it will avail nothing unless we consider ourselves of some consequence, unless we realize the importance of the positions and responsibilities which we hold, and let our light shine forth collectively and individually for the world to see and to follow. We have been admonished by our Priesthood authorities to be a light unto our sisters, to be leaders of our Father's daughters in this generation. How will we discharge this responsibility? First by example. Example is the greatest quality of leadership—not only in the Church but in every phase of life. Brigham Young said, ""Uhe greatest and loudest sermon that can be preached, or that ever was preached on the face of the earth, is practice. No other is equal to it." It has been said that, "Precept is instruction written in the sand, and the first wave that comes along may obliterate the record, but example is record written BE YE AN EXAMPLE in rock which may endure throughout all eternity." Example is everything, and precept very little unless backed by example. President David O. McKay said, "In example we prove our worth." First we must consider the example of our own lives. Are we conforming to the ideals and standards of the Church? We do not need to go into a discussion of what these standards are. We know what they are, or we should know, if we are leaders, and we know within ourselves if we are living in accordance with these standards. HAT we do not fully realize, perhaps, is how important the light of our own life is in teaching others these ideals and standards. If we would truly teach a truth to another we must first live that truth. If we would teach others honesty, we must be honest. If we expect loyalty from those whom we lead, we must loyally support those who lead us. Questioning, before those whom we wish to lead, of the instructions given us by our leaders injures the fine spirit of loyalty and co-operation that makes for successful leadership. If we would be zealous in fulfilling the commandment to spread the gospel of Jesus Christ to our neighbors, we must impress them with the value of the gospel in our own lives as reflected by our good works. Living the good life is really the only way to teach the good life. Even our personal appearance is important in leadership. We have been told over and over again that our dress should be becomingly modest, neat, and clean. Many of today's fashions are not becoming 725 to Latter-day Saint women. Let us not adopt such fashions to ourselves, but do let us be an example of fastidiousness in our neatness and cleanliness. There is nowhere in the Church or in the world where good examples should be more evident than in our homes—that is where effective leadership should be most manifest. Since the art of making a good home is woman's greatest achievement, and since the maintaining of a home is her first responsibility, our homes should be examples of cleanliness, thrift, and spirituality, where the spirit of the Lord dwells, where religion is taught, both in our conversation and by our actions, and where our daughters are taught by example the fundamental arts of housekeeping. Under these conditions when the responsibilities of homemaking come to them, they will be free from the sorrows and _perplexities which come from ignorance and inexperience. Today, as we read the frightening statistics of divorce and delinquency even among our own Latter-day Saint people, and see the evil effects that come from broken homes, let us resolve that our own homes will be examples where children may see and absorb the sacredness of family life and the joys and responsibilities associated therewith, and that they may have a high view of marriage, realizing that it is not an arrangement to be terminated lightly. The greatest hope for the raising of the standards of the home, and thus of the community and the nation, is by the examples set by parents who know and love the Lord. Today, I have but briefly men- tioned two obligations resting upon us as Latter-day Saint women—that of making our personal lives worthy examples, and in maintaining true Latter-day Saint homes. Let us sense seriously all the responsibilities that rest upon us and be worthy examples in all our responsibilities. May the Lord bless us all and be with us in maintaining our homes that they may be truly a city set upon a hill. May we, each as a Relief Society sister, be a lighted candlestick unto the thousands of women who look to us for guidance and leadership... As _ President McKay has said, may we by our examples prove to be of great worth in building our Father's kingdom. > Hands Verda Mackay My hands were warm and trembling As we knelt side by side That day we spoke our wedding vows And I became your bride. Your hands were strong and confident As they clasped mine that day, And love for me was evident In each glance sent my way. Now our hands are joined by two, A perfect work of art. They'll cling to ours forever more And captivate each heart. Joo Many Memories Zera Wilde Earl Yesterday I drove all up and down Its tree-lined streets; the old place seemed the same; I almost felt that from a shady lawn Someone might wave a hand or call my name. But these were strangers here; they could not know I, too, had loved this town those years ago. Amid its trees the chapel rested, dreaming, And farther, where the town's rim used to be, That silent city lay, its white stones gleaming, Where slept those who would have remembered me, There, while day died, I lingered, musing, till _ The mountains on the east loomed dark and still. The town's night life awoke now, twinkling, purring, Bright neon signs urged me to pause, to stay, But I had felt too many memories stirring; The long road beckoned and I drove away. 726 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1954 Report and Official Instructions President Belle S. Spafford [Digest of an Address Delivered at the Annual General Relief Society Conference, September 29, 1954] T is with appreciation for the labors of the sisters and the blessings of the Lord that I bring to you a brief report of the status of Relief Society as shown in the annual report for 1953, together with a few instructions which it is hoped will be helpful to you in the conduct of the work. Organizations and Reorganizations At the close of 1953 there was a total of 209 stakes, an increase of thirteen over the previous year. There was a total of forty-two missions, an increase of one over 1952. At the close of 1953 there were 3,451 ward and branch societies, an increase of 139 over 1952. During 1953 there were thirty-six reorganizations in the stakes and thirteen in the missions. Missions We are pleased with the progress of the work of Relief Society in the North American missions. A typical statement from an annual teport is this: The work of Relief Society is progressing, bringing increasing strength to the branches and helping the members more fully to live the teachings of the gospel. More and more their testimonies are being borne through the goodness of their lives and through their love for one another. Membership has increased in the missions; the visiting teacher program is being continuously expanded; generally speaking, the lessons are being well accepted and the quality of teaching is good. Emphasis is being placed on the welfare activities, particularly on the compassionate services. One less mission was on the Magazine honor roll in 1953, fifteen compared to sixteen in 1952. A brief report of the work of Relief Society in the European muissions as noted from my personal observations and from discussions with mission Relief Society presidents during my recent visit may be of interest to you. It is heartening to feel the strength of the Relief Societies there, their importance in the lives of the members, and _ their value to the branches. In most of the missions the Record Book, as well as the portions of the Handbook that apply to the missions have been translated. 'The recommended lessons are translated, and in most instances are being followed. Considerable effort is being made to encourage better teaching methods. The use of visual aids is being encouraged in some missions. Most of the missions have a publication wherein matters of importance to Relief Society are given space. Some of the mission Relief Societies issue bulletins regularly. The March and November programs issued by the general board are utilized. Relief Society work is considered at district conferences and considerable attention is being given to welfare activi- 727 ties. Sister Elizabeth Reiser of the British Mission reported their welfare activities as follows: As a beginning to welfare, a few branches are supplying cupboards and gathering food and clothing and other welfare supplies. "The Kindling Corner," which I have mentioned to many branches, will be a worthwhile project. Firewood sells here for three pence, sixpence, and one shilling per bundle and is needed all through the year. You would be interested to see the amount of wood now in sheds back of "Valerian," our home. 'The wood and coal have been salvaged; the wood gathered from forests, building areas, demolition, and other projects.... Scouts assisted with chopping and sorting the wood and placing it in sheds under cover. The visiting teachers can easily take a bag or parcel of wood and add a little comfort and warmth along with the gospel message. New Relief Societies are being organized in the European mission, some of them among the wives of servicemen who appear to take great delight in Relief Society work. A number of these fine young women traveled long distances, carrying their babies with them, to participate in the Relief Society meetings held during my visit abroad. I have noted an excellent spirit among the sisters and the work moves forward. Each time I met with the sisters, had it not been for language differences, I would have thought I was in a Relief Society meeting at home. How marvelous it is to travel so far from home and there find one's very own! The Island missions are progressing, as are the South African and South American. Sister Afton K. Shreeve of the Uruguayan Mission reports: The women are especially pleased with the choice of lessons, particularly in the social science class, and as far as this mission is concerned, they are timely.... We feel that the people here were revived completely because of the visit of President and Sister David O. McKay and their son Robert in January 1954. A meeting was held especially for the women of the mission, wherein 184 were present. We received words of counsel and advice from Sister McKay and a wonderful spirit prevailed. We felt more united in spirit and purpose than ever before, and we believe the coming year will show substantial gain in attendance and accomplishments. Membership Membership in Relief Society shows an increase of 7,740 over 1952, making a total membership of 148,094. While we are grateful that so many new members have been added to our ranks, we feel to urge more intensified membership efforts. We must do our part to establish in the minds and hearts of Latter-day Saint women a positive faith in the basic eternal guiding principles of life. We must help them to know the divine plan for happiness and well-being. We have a responsibility to bring women into Relief Society, where they may learn these truths. Visiting Teaching The visiting teaching figures for 1953 show an increase in family visits of 191,788. <A_ total of 2,432,032 visits was made during the year. These figures reflect not only the number of calls made to the homes, but countless hours of time, sincere prayer, conscientious study, and unselfish effort on the part of 56,602 faithful women who, month after month, rain or shine, go from house to house on their assigned districts, obedient to the call of those who preside over them, 728 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1954 REPORT OND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS and desirous of serving their organization and their fellows. Educational Program During 1953 there were 12,097 women engaged in teaching the educational courses. I recall in the first report I made to you as general president of Relief Society there were 7,335 class leaders. Our Relief Society lessons are planned to help us find the real values of life, to establish faith in God and in the teachings of the Church, to help women to see and appreciate the beauty and the goodness in_ life. They are planned also to give practical help in applying our faith to works. 'I'he measure of their worth is their influence in bettering our thoughts and our actions. The theology course, "The Characters and Teachings of the Book of Mormon," has been extended one year, to be concluded at the close of the 1956-57 season. We regard this course as of immeasurable value to the sisters in helping them to gain a testimony of the divinity of Christ. I quote from an address given by the late Elder Matthew Cowley, of the Council of the Twelve, at a Relief Society general conference: I would like to bear my testimony to you about the book which you are studying in the Relief Society, The Book of Mormon. I know nothing about archaeology.... I know very little about the outside evidences of The Book of Mormon, but I have a testimony of the divinity of this book, and that testimony has come to me from within the two covers of the book itself. Reports from 211 stakes and nineteen missions indicate 61,952 women or 41.82 per cent of the membership read the section of The Book of Mormon covered by the lessons 729 for the past season. 'This was an increase of 260 over the number who did the reading assigned for the previous year. I suggest you review the objectives of all of the other courses as set forth at the time they were introduced. They will stand as excellent guides and controls in the discussions. Work Meeting Intensive efforts have been put forth to strengthen the work meeting program. While the work meeting showed the lowest average attendance of any of our meetings in both the stakes and missions during 1953, still it showed the greatest percentage of increase. We urge stake Relief Society presidencies to give special consideration to this meeting during the forthcoming season. The responsibility for the program rests with the wards, circumscribed only by the purposes of the day as defined in the Handbook. However, stake officers are responsible for encouraging and helping the wards to make this meeting as attractive and helpful to Relief Society members as possible. We recommend that consideration be given this meeting in the president's department of a union meeting and in the officers meeting of the ward Relief Society conference during the coming season. We all know that skill in the art of homemaking remains of primary importance to women. The course, "Selection, Care, and Use of Household Equipment," like all other work meeting activities, is under the direction of the work director counselor. We note also that some Relief Societies are still without a sewing machine. A sturdy sewing machine, in good working order, is indispensable to the work of the society. Attendance at Special Classes In connection with our educational program we observe with appreciation the growing interest in leadership programs offered by the Brigham Young University and other Church schools. We also are advised that some class leaders are attending special classes for the purpose of enlarging their understanding of subject matter and effective teaching procedures. Such additional effort on the part of the sisters to help themselves better fulfill their callings in Relief Society is commended. However, we point out that the approved directions for the teaching of Relief Society courses of study come directly from the general board; also, such special classes are not to be regarded as a substitute for a union meeting. We also point out that attendance at leadership programs and other special classes is in no way obligatory. This is a matter for individual determination. Officers may wish to show their support of such efforts by arranging for groups to travel or be housed together, where attendance takes the sisters outside their own geographic location. However, Relief Society funds as such (and this would include funds acquired through the sale of "authorized pattern" garments) should not be used to meet costs—either housing, transportation, or tuition. The general board also discourages special projects to raise funds for such purposes. I am sure you understand the reason for this. The Relief Society Magazine The Relief Society Magazine report for December 31, 1953, showed that the Magazine was going into 121,014 homes. The loyalty, zeal, and efficiency with which Relief Society Magazine representatives fulfill their calling is appreciated by the general board. Ward Visits We note with gratitude the excellent records made by stake officers in visiting the ward societies. Visits are of inestimable value, both to the ward and stake officers, in fulfilling their callings. You will note that the Handbook specifies that a stake board member should be in attendance at the March and November Sunday evening Relief Society meetings. Such attendance is highly desirable. However, where wards are so far removed from the stake center as to make only one, or, at most, two visits a year possible, we recommend that the visit be made to a meeting where the regular work is conducted rather than to a special meeting or social function, even though the stake may not be represented on these important occasions. Charges for Luncheons at Stake Relief Society Conventions We appreciate the splendid efforts put forth by the stakes in connection with the Relief Society stake conventions. 'There is one matter, however, which is causing a little concern. We note some stakes charge for the noonday luncheon. The Home Stake is assigned responsibility for making luncheon arrangements. 'The sisters attending a morming meeting, and who are required to stay through the luncheon period in order to attend the afternoon session, may be asked 730 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1954 REPORT OND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS to bring their own package lunch, with the Home Stake providing a suitable place for the luncheon to be eaten; or the Home Stake may provide the luncheon. In this event it is optional with the Home Stake as to whether or not the ward presidencies shall be invited. 'The size of the group participating in the convention, facilities for serving the luncheon, the funds available, and similar considerations should be the determining factors. Where the Home Stake provides the luncheon, we suggest that it be kept simple. The cost is a legitimate stake board expense to be met from stake board funds, if there is sufficient money in the treasury to warrant this expenditure without impairing the regular work of the board. These luncheons should not be used as a fund-raising program. Providing a simple luncheon should not work too great a hardship on a stake, since we try to rotate the Home Stake assignment so that the responsibility does not rest with the same stake year after year. Temple Clothing We are grateful for the success which has attended the opening of the Temple Clothing Department in Southern California, and for the support of the General Authorities of the Church, the local Priesthood authorities and the California stake and ward Relief Society presidents. This center for the distribution of temple and burial clothing located at the Church center on Soto Street in Los Angeles is under the management of Sister Josie B. Bay of the general board, with three stake Relief Society presidents, Sister Rose B. Astle, South Los Angeles Stake, Sister Marion Pinkston, 731 Los Angeles Stake. And Sister Le nore G. Merrill, Long Beach Stake. Serving as a committee to co-ordinate the work of the California department with the Salt Lake general board department and give "on the ground" supervision to activities. 'These sisters, supported by other Southern California stake Relief Society presidents, have performed a magnificent work. We invite all of you when in Los Angeles to visit the center. Both the temple clothing department in Los Angeles and the temple clothing department in Salt Lake offer complete sets of clothing for burial and temple wear. This includes dresses, shoes, trousers, ties, socks, and other items. We urge those stakes engaging in any way in the production of temple clothing to make sure that the specifications set by the Church and instructions issued by the general board are meticulously followed. Nurse Training Relief Society in meeting its responsibilities to the sick continues to encourage nurse training. Nurse Survey The nurse survey forms were sent vou again in August. They should be returned not later than December 15th. It is important that these lists be kept current and that the requested information be fully and accurately supplied. Church Welfare Activities Relief Society continues to lend its full support to the Church Welfare Program. Even though clothing budget assignments were smaller in 1953 than the previous year, there was an average of 8,237 women who participated in welfare sewing at work meetings, and an aver- age of 2,357 who participated in welfare sewing at the sewing centers. 'The average number partticipating in welfare projects other than sewing was 10,910. The number of initial family visits made by the ward Relief Society presidents under the direction of bishops increased by 749, making a total of 8,628 such visits. Followup visits increased by 1,232, making a total of 19,439 such visits. The number of women who were the beneficiaries of these visits who gave service on Church welfare projects increased by 115, or a total of 1,573. The number of such women who sewed at work meetings was 1,738, or an increase of 233. 'The number of these women who sewed for themselves and families was 2,048, or an increase of eighty-three. While these increases are small, they are gratifying in that they indicate a growing adherence to a cardinal principle of the Church Welfare Program that persons receiving assistance through the bishops should contribute to the program where possible. Stake Relief Society presidents are urged to make sure ward presidents have a copy of The Relief Society Handbook for Welfare, the Clothing Bulletin (No. 4), and that they are familiar with the duties of Relief Society as set forth in the Church Welfare Handbook. Discuss the information found in these publications, as well as the Handbook forms, in the regional bimonthly welfare meetings, and with the ward presidents in the stake bimonthly meeting. 'Train and encourage the ward presidents to make use of this material. They will find it an asset to them in meeting their responsibilities in the Welfare program. Compassionate Services: The compassionate services continue to expand. During 1953 there were 217,806 or an increase of 7,912 visits made to the sick and homebound. 'There was a total of 23,739 eight-hour days of bedside nursing care given the sick on a volunteer basis by assignment of ward Relief Society presidents. 'This was an increase of 1,235 days over the previous year. The number of funerals at which Relief Society assisted was 6,598, or an increase of 124. The narrative reports indicate a continuing solicitude for the aged, the infirm, and the homebound, for which we ate extremely grateful. One narrative report told of the sisters having decorated two caskets, one for a baby, and one for a nineyear-old boy. In parentheses was this comment: "They were beautiful." 'These words deeply impressed me in that they were an expression of the love which went into the service. Such love should characterize all of our compassionate services. Conclusion The Lord has prospered our labors during the past season. We tejoice in the accomplishments of the sisters at home and abroad. We are delighted with the progress being made with our new building, and we are grateful that tomorrow we will lay the cornerstone. We pray the Lord will continue to prosper our efforts and that he will abundantly bless Relief Society and you who hold positions of leadership and trust as well as the faithful members of the society with whom you work. 732 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1954 Don Knight MOUNT SHASTA, CALIFORNIA Poetry Marv Gustafson T am expectancy that sings through rain; The shining thread that suns a darkling hour Of sorrowed hurt; the peace that comforts pain And leaves a fragrant heart within a flower. I am a star that glows beyond a cloud; A cricket chirping in the night to bless The ebon span; a field that is well-plowed And seeded to the harvest of success. I concentrate what man may see or feel; I am swift wings that skim the meadow space That hems the stream; a lifted spade; a wheel That turns the length of distance to a place The heart may dream.... I live with bond and free— I am their voice.... Men call me poetry. A Little More Spirit Carol Read Flake on the straphanger beside her as the bus swung onto her street. She straightened, not bothering to murmur another apology. She had been leaned against, stepped on, and shoved about for twenty-one blocks. If she could remain vertical for seven more she would never board another bus until next year. Which wasn't saying much, she remembered dismally. Next year was only a week and a half away. Her armload of packages shifted perilously, and she forced her aching muscles to redouble their effort. Christmas! She started to sigh in dismay, but was interrupted by a violent lurch forward. As she regained her footing, she felt a sharp object being thrust into her ribs, which she valiantly ignored, although it probably was a gun. She was carrying two of them herself. Plus a bright yellow road grader! She bent in an effort to see beyond the swaying torsos. 'They should be nearing her stop. Only an indistinguishable blur of colored Christmas lights rushed past. When the bus slowed, Julia allowed herself to be carried along to the exit. One glance told her she was short of her destination, but there was no turning back. "Oh, dandy," she muttered under her breath as the wind tore at her coat. "Just dandy to have to finish off with a hike." She was scarcely in a mood to enjoy the brightly decorated windows along the street. At most it stirred a feeling of relief in Jorn Brayner leaned heavily upPage 734 the knowledge that their own tree was trimmed. When she had put the presents beneath it, she had discovered that one child suffered a shortage and her sister Ethel a complete lack of gifts. There had been nothing to do but wake little Larry from his nap, cart him over to Mrs. Chandler's, next door, and catch a bus to town—for the dozenth time this week! But there would be no other opportunity, with school programs to attend, the house to clean, and a hundred other things to do by Christmas. Julia hoped the children had found her note on the kitchen table and gone to bring home Larry as soon as they came from school. 'Tom was probably home by now. There was the house at last, large and overbearing beside Mrs. Chandler's tiny cottage. But what — there wasn't a light anywhere! She quickened her pace. Where could the children be? Surely not still over to Mrs. Chandler's. 'They knew better than to stand around in her crowded little parlor, chattering like magpies. She was out of breath when she reached her door. Pushing the bundles against the wall, she freed a hand to open it—then blinked in surprise at the unfamiliar Christmas tree glowing in the corner. "Mama, sh-h-h! I'm Santa and everyone is s'posed to be asleep...." "Mama! Mama's home!" A shrieking chorus interrupted Santa, who was eleven-year-old Dick, padded and stuffed in his father's pa- A LITTLE MORE SPIRIT jamas. Children rushed at her from all directions. "Mommie, we wanted to help do the tree!" "Mother, did you get my present for Miss Chadwick?" "Hey, what's that yellow—" "Stop it, stop it!" Julia's voice rose above the bedlam as_ she pushed through to the hallway. '"'Now behave, all of you. For goodness sake, Dick, get that outfit off and straighten this room. Put your school things away, Tommy. Sharon, take the baby's coat off and get the table set." "It is set." The girl followed along, almost as tall as her mother. "Mother, I have to have Miss Chadwick's "Yes, yes, dear. I have it. I can't get at it this minute. Now stay out, every one of you." She shoved the bedroom door shut with an elbow, and deposited the heavy armload on the bed with a deep sigh. A curtain billowed and little curls of dust bobbed about on the floor. Julia groaned as she went to close the window. She had let the house go all this horrible week. HERE was Tom now. She could tell by the baby's breathless little squeal as his Daddy tossed him high. Hurriedly she hung away her coat and jerked an apron from the hook, reaching the door just as he did. "Gee whiz, all dolled up." He bent his lanky frame for their kiss. "Town again?" he grinned teasingly. "Tom, honestly, if you could be a little more help at Christmas time instead of...." "T see a tuck. I wanna tuck, Daddy." 735 Julia closed the door sharply behind them, her voice equally sharp. "No, you do not see a truck. Hasn't sister taken your coat off yet?" She snatched Larry from 'Tom's arms and whirled into the nursery. The children were clamoring at the table, when she brought the baby to his highchair. 'Tom stood peering inside the refrigerator. '""M-m-m, how about sampling this fruitcake of yours?" "Don't you dare! It's only four davs old and won't be cut until Christmas." "Okay, okay. Just thought I'd ask. It's leftovers again, while Mother's in her usual Christmas dither." Julia's hands trembled as she tied Larry's bib. A lot of appreciation she got for running herself ragged so the family would have a decent Christmas. "Tommy, ask the blessing — wait until your mother sits down." "Tm not eating," Julia said, but dropped into her chair as 'Tommy mumbled briefly over his folded arms. "Eat, Julia," 'Tom ordered. "You can't keep that human dynamo going without fuel. Did you have to stand on the bus?" "What do you think? And with nothing to cling onto but my sanity. There wasn't even a strap left." Tommy dashed suddenly from the table. "Oh, Mommie, I almost forgot. 'Teacher gave me a note." "Oh, no. Not another costume! { haven't finished Sharon's yet." She took the shp of paper from her little first grader. "Well, a shepherd. I guess I can rake up something. Daddy will have to make the staff," she added pointedly. "Oh, I don't know." 'Tom made a long reach for the butter. "I see you handled the Christmas tree all by yourself." Julia's head flew up, her dark eyes sparking indignation. "I thought you'd be glad to see that job done." "Is decorating the tree such a grim task? I thought it was supposed to be a gala event, with all the family sharing in the fun." He ducked beneath his upraised hands. "Yes, I know. If I think it's fun, I need my head mended. What you need, Mama dear, is a little less grimness and more of the old Christmas spirit. You've forgotten what it's all about." joe sprang up. "I know what Christmas is. It's nothing but a great big birthday party for every member of the family, with presents to buy, and wrap, and baking to do, and the house to clean and decorate. And then they call it a holiday!" "It's Jesus' birthday, isn't it, Mama?"Tommy's voice carried a note of bewilderment that brought color rushing to Julia's cheeks. She could not meet Tom's eyes. She turned and went quickly to her room. She stood beside the bed, gazing with revulsion at the pile of packages. Reaching down, she fingered the pale rose organdy she had bought to make Ethel's apron. It would have to be run up on the machine tonight, the handwork done tomorrow. Sharon's angel costume had to be fitted and finished, Miss Chadwick's gift wrapped.... "Julia, aren't you going to eat?" Tom was coming down the hall. "TIl scramble you some eggs, honand admonish his wife.? Ey." The note of solicitude in his voice warmed her, and she smiled the least bit as he came in. "Thanks, Tom. I'm not hungry, and I've some things I must do." "What's that?" he demanded, nodding toward the organdy. "Material to make one of those fancy aprons for Ethel...." His eyes fell upon the little road piece. He picked it up with a scowl Julia hoped was curiosity rather than disapproval. She explained hesitantly, "I got to checking, 'Tom, and honestly, Dick didn't have a thing. I mean, besides clothing and books. Nothing to have fun with." He had set the machine on the rug and was lowering the blade. Suddenly he grinned. "They haven't missed a thing, have they?" He stood up, reaching into a pocket. "T guess we were both worrying about Dick's Christmas. I got him this today." He brought out a long, narrow box, snapped it open. "Oh—a watch! But it must have Gost.... "Tt did," he assured her emphatically. "Now don't go trying to equalize the presents again. We can't afford it." Y morning the wind had given place to a dreary rain. 'There was much rummaging about to locate caps and rubbers, with Dick constantly grumbling, "Gee whiz, why'd it have to be rain? We never get snow anymore for Christmas." "Cheer up, son. Be glad you don't live in Australia, where Christmas comes in July." 'Tom whisked through the kitchen on his way to the garage, pausing briefly to kiss "Now take 736 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1954 A LITTLE MORE SPIRIT it easy, Julia. Don't turn the house upside down today." She waited at the dinette window to wave to the family as he backed down the drive. 'Take it easy, indeed! She would scarcely get a good start when she would have to break away for Sharon's program at one o'clock. 'Tomorrow would be Tommy's—and also the last day of school. Housecleaning she must do before the children were out for vacation, swarming all over the place. Her eyes moved to the curtains, crisscross; they had been new and beautiful when she hung them last summer. Might as well start with them. She got the dusty things off the rods and carried them to the utility room. There on the washer lay the bag with 'Tommy's shepherd costume. Remember to take it along this afternoon. Remember to wrap Ethel's apron and mail it on the way. Remember to do this. Do that. Hurry! Hurry! At noon she fed Larry and hurried with him to Mrs. Chandler's. "He'll sleep till I come," she announced hopefully, tucking the afghan around the chubby little body. "Oh, Mrs. Chandler, what would I do without you?" She paused at the door, letting her gaze sweep over the neat, quaintly furnished room with its colorful rag rugs, the chairs with their crocheted tidies in place, plants trailing greenery from tables and window ledges. She couldn't repress a_ wistful sigh. "All this peace and orderliness. Sometimes I think I won't last to enjoy the sunset years." "You'll probably last, my dear." The white-haired little woman smiled benignly. "But whether you enjoy them depends upon what you 737 have to look back upon in these busy, productive years." She turned her smile to the covered child, murmuring, "All these lovely young lives to shape." Julia was looking at her watch. "Oh, I've got to run. I want to get the wax on, now this toddler's out of the way, so the floors can be dry when the children get home." Now I've made myself late, she lamented to herself when finally she was ready to leave for the school. Sharon was on stage when she arrived. Julia caught her eye and watched the girl's face light up as she gave her an admiring wink and a smile of encouragement. She took her seat in the auditorium, casting a nervous glance toward the clock on the wall. She hoped this didn't take too long. There was still that package to mail and she mustn't forget to stop by Tommy's room. HE heard her daughter's voice, low and tremulous: "... Which shall be to all people. For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Saviour, which is Christ the Lord." Don't be frightened, darling. Pride swelled in Julia's bosom. Truly she was an angel, this only daughter of hers. 'The heavenly host was joining her now, half a dozen lesser little angels, singing together. How carnest they all were. Julia settled back, soothed by the familiar music and the story. The story. It was all there, she observed as the pageant proceeded, word for word, right out of Holy Writ. Something stirred deep within her, some emotion of gratitude. How 'Piarveléus, teally, that the schools could do this. What was the little song the children sang— "Where, oh, where but in America, can you sing sweet freedom's song?" How blessed they were, in this Christian land of liberty where children could hear the story of Jesus and his teachings and mold their lives.. The low, sweet tones of Luther's "Cradle Hymn" began. Sharon and the other angels were replaced by shepherds and Mary and the Infant, But Julia was no longer relaxed and glowing. Something else was stirring within, pricking uncomfortably as she remembered Mrs. Chandler's comment—"You have these lovely young lives to shape." In the same moment came Tommy's voice, uncertain, questioning: "Tt's Jesus' birthday, isn't it, Mama?" The guilty flush returned. What sort of mother was she, complaining about the preparations for a day that commemorated one of the greatest events in the history of the world? The flush deepened with realization of the painful truth. She had not been preparing for such a thing at all. Not in all the frenzied shopping and card mailing and housecleaning and tree trimming had there been any real thought of honoring Jesus, the Savior of the world. Nowhere had she paused to shape her children's minds. An angel, Sharon? How wonderful, darling. The Lord sent his angel to tell Mary she would bear a son, and he sent the angel to announce to the shepherds that he had been born. And you'll be one of those shepherds, Tommy. The Bible tells the story of the shepherds, how they were the first to go and visit Mary and her Baby. Dick, dear, snow: isn't what makes Christmas. It's love for our Father in heaven and for each other, and doing good. HE nativity scene was over, and the entire sixth grade crowded on stage for a final round of carol singing. 'They were chanting to a soft accompaniment of bells the sweet, simple words of Eugene Field: "Why do bells for Christmas ring? Why do little children sing? Once a lovely, shining star...." Tears stung her eyes and the words her heart. She didn't wait for the curtain to be drawn. Blindly she made her way into the hall and down the corridor. Tommy's room was in' another wing. As she approached the halfopened door the sound of baby voices reached her, raised in a lilting tune: Sing a little song. At Christmas Christmas is a time of joy, When Santa Claus remembers Each good little girl and boy. "That was lovely," she heard Miss Adams exclaim. "Isn't Christmas a happy time, children?" There was an excited clamoring of voices. One stood out louder than the others until it had claimed attention. Julia bent nearer and almost stopped breathing as_ she heard 'Tommy announce to the entire room, "My Mommie doesn't think Christmas is a happy time. She says it's just a bunch of work." "Christmas is a busy time for our mothers, 'Tommy," Miss Adams explained. "How many of us try to help our mothers?" Julia gasped and drew back. She hesitated, staring at the shepherd things in her arms. 'Then she turned 738 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—-NOVEMBER 1954 A LITTLE MORE SPIRIT in confusion and hurried from the building. RS. Chandler's house was warm and fragrant with the spicy odor of baking. "Sit down, dear," the old lady invited, moving her needlework from the big chair. "Baby's still sleeping like a cherub. Didn't even wake with all my clattering in the kitchen." She settled herself in the little rocker. "I'm baking a few cookies for the children." "Oh, = Mrs.. Shouldn't." "My goodness, I wanted to. It's been a long time since my own children were home and I could do for them. I was thinking this afternoon of all the fun we had at Christmas, stringing berries, popping corn, making cut-outs and doodads for the tree. We didn't have all these fine baubles and gadgets you have now." She rocked in happy reminiscence. "Our tree always looked beautiful to us, though. My, I haven't had a tree in years—never since I moved into this house." Julia was gazing glumly at the braided rug beneath her feet. "You're all tired out, dear." Mrs. Chandler clucked sympathetically. "Such a pace you keep. Why don't you go have a rest before the children come home? Larry's just fine and dandy here." It isn't that I'm tired, Julia wanted to cry out. It's that I'm sick, sick at heart because I've failed my family so miserably. And only last night I was feeling noble and self-sacrificing "doing" for them. But I wasn't "doing" for them. I was cheating them. She rose and = said gratefully, Chandler, — you 739 "Maybe I will, Mrs. Chandler. Pll send Sharon over for the baby." She entered her home by the front door and leaned back against it, staring through burning tears at the Christmas tree that mocked her from the corner. Closing her eyes over the tears, she bowed her head in her hands. Help me — someway — to make it up to them. She moved on to her room and changed to a house dress. 'They would be trooping in soon, eager and aglow with anticipation of the holidays. And what would they find? A mother, cross and complaining, making a burden of it? No, they would not. She tied on her apron. Plans were beginning to shape in her mind. Not tonight they wouldn't. The clock on the kitchen range told her there was still time for a delivery. She sat at the telephone and scribbled a list — one small tree, bag of cranberries, can of popcorn, walnuts, citron.... OTHER, my fudge is sugary!" Sharon wailed, licking her fingers. "Well, never mind, dear. It won't go to waste, you may be sure." Julia was busy spooning carrot pudding into a baking powder tin. It didn't take a very large container for Mrs. Chandler. "Why don't you give Tommy a hand with those berries? He isn't piercing all of them through the center and they're lopsided. No, no, Larry! That popcorn isn't to eat." "Hey, how's this, Mom?" Dick appeared in the doorway with the little Christmas tree. He set it care- fully upon the linoleum. "Gee whiz, it still tilts, doesn't it?" "Not bad, son. You can fix it." Julia hummed a little tune as she placed the pudding in the boiling water. "Think I'll try a batch of divinity, Sharon. Daddy likes it better than fudge, anyway." Then she realized that she was humming a familiar tune. "Mama, I know that song," 'Tommy cried. "We're going to sing it in our program tomorrow. How'd you know it?" Julia looked at him blankly. "What was I singing, honey?" 'Then she flushed, remembering, as he fairly shouted it out. Sing a little song at Christmas Christmas is a time of joy, When Santa Claus remembers Each good little girl and boy. "Daddy's here," Dick called from the utility room. "Can I tell him, Mom?" "No, me, me, me!" 'Tommy made a wild dash for the door, his string of berries trailing after. ""We're making a Christmas tree for Mrs. Chandler. See, Daddy. We're using berries and things." Tom stopped in the doorway, surveying the scene with wonder. "And we're going to have a program after supper," Sharon informed him importantly. "Mother is going to read to us from the Bible and I have to sing my Christmas carols...." "We're all going to sing 'em," Tommy corrected indignantly. "I know a lot she doesn't." Tom pushed his hat to the back of his head. "What's the occasion?" The children stared, dumbfounded. Julia came to him, half smiling, half sober. "It's Christmastime, darling," she said softly. "I finally remembered what it's all about." "You did?" He smiled indulgently. "Well, three cheers for Mama. She has had so many things to do she hasn't had time to remember." He winked above her head. "We'll have to see if Santa can't do something about that, won't we?" he asked, making a pantomime of dishwashing behind her: back to remind the children of the new dishwasher present for her, as they all shouted happily in anticipation of her joy and surprise on Christmas morning. > Wherever You Are Evelyn L. Daines Can you truly sense the grandeur Of a rose or of a star? Can the mystic songs of nature Lift you up, wherever you are? Can the glories of a sunset Bathe your soul with blessed peace, And the far-flung call of night birds Bring a comforting release? Nature cradles healing in her haunting melodies And songs are made immortal through her captured harmonies. 740 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1954 Gift Books for Children Abbie H. Wells N organization in London, A called the "New Elizabethans," has started a movement for the purpose of encouraging boys and girls to read better literature. 'They are bringing to the attention of parents and_ teachers the importance of elevating the standard of reading among children. They are doing it by means of lectures, discussions, and reading lists. Another organization in England is considering the publication of a children's paper listing books it considers suitable for children from seven to ten. There is also a group studying the bad effects of comics and saying parents "should do something about it." In America there are many groups considering the same projects, but one of the most outstanding movements has been started by the publishers of children's books. They are having the noted authors and artists write and illustrate their books. They are increasing the books for the two and three-yearold ages. Their linen books are most attractive, and first and second grade readers are works of art compared to the readers of years ago, with their fine print and black and white illustrations, if there were any at all. When the books are so informative, well written, and the pictures are in full color by the best illustrators, and so very lovely, it is easy to encourage a child to read about things which interest him. At the same time they increase his reading ability. More and more books are being published in series. There are almost forty modern series at the present time and they are on all subjects. A few are listed below: CuILp's Book Series Maxton Publishers, Inc. 15th East 26th Street, New York 10 A Child's Book of Birds A Child's Book of Insects A Child's Book of Flowers A Child's Book of Dogs Fifteen titles, each 59c. First Books Franklin Watts, Inc. 699 Madison Avenue, New York 21 Cormack, M. B.: First Book of Stones. Trssets, ALBERT B.: First Book of Bees. WILLIAMSON, Marcaret: First Book of Birds. Almost eighty titles, each priced at $1.75. Subjects in this series include science, travel, transportation, games, hobbies, people at work, new worlds to know and enjoy, nature, God and country, people around the world. For children seven to twelve. True Book Series Children's Press Jackson Blvd., and Racine Avenue, Chicago 7, Illinois /? Erickson, PHorse: True Book About the Animals of Small Pond. Friskey, Marcaret: True Book About the Air Around Us. Miner, IRENE: True Book of Plants We Know. PopENporr, ILLA: True Book of Trees. For children six to nine. $2 each. CHILDHOOD or FAmMous AMERICANS Bobbs Merrill Company Indianapolis, Indiana Burt, O1ive Woottry: Young Jed Smith, Westering Boy. Page 741 Burt, Ouive W.: Luther Burbank — Boy Wizard. STEVENSON, Aucusta: Abe Lincoln, Frontier Boy. STEVENSON, AUGUSTA: Printer's Boy. STEVENSON, AUGUSTA: Nurse. Waconer, JEAN Brown: Jane Addams, Little Lame Girl. Over eighty titles, on the Great Scouts of the West, Great Statesmen, Great Colonists, Great Heroines, Great Writers, Great Explorers, Great Scientists, Great Early Presidents, Great Girl Patriots, Great Later Presidents, Great Inventors and Business Builders, Great Girl Writers. For children eight to twelve. $1.75 each. Ben Franklin, Clara Barton, Girl LanpMARK Booxs Random House New York City Apams, S. H.: The Pony Express. Davucuerty, J.: The Landing of the Pilgrims. Mayer, J.: Betsy Ross and the Flag. SHIPPEN, K. B.: Mr. Bell Invents the Telephone. Over fifty titles, each covering some great event in American History and written by a recognized authority on the period. For children ten to fifteen. $1.50 each. Rea Boox SeEriEs Garden City Publishing Company Garden City, New York Coy, Harotp: Real Book About George Washington. GoruaM, MICHAEL: Abraham Lincoln. Goruam, MicuakEt: Real Book of Great Anvetiean Journeys. SHERMAN, JANE: Real Book About Amazing Scientific Facts. Over eighty titles. For children eight to fourteen. $1.25 each. Deluxe editions of some of the later titles at $1.50. Real Book About SIGNATURE Book SERIES Grosset and Dunlap Company, Inc. 1107 Broadway, New York Baker, Nina Brown: Story of Abraham Lincoln. LeicHton, Marcaret: Story of Florence Nightingale. Meapowcrart, Enip LaMonre: Story of Thomas Alva Edison. Meapowcrart, Entp LAaMonte: Story of Benjamin Franklin. Nearly thirty titles. For children eight to twelve. $1.50 each. True ADVENTURE LIBRARY Little, Brown and Company Boston, Massachusetts Komrorr, MANvEL: True Adventures of Spies. Truax, Ruopa: True Adventures of Doctors. A series of books for the teenagers about exciting and important adventures. Five titles at present. Each $2.75. AMERICAN HERITAGE SERIES Aladdin Books 55 Fifth Avenue, New York DeruetH, Aucust: The Captive Island. LatuaM, F. B.: Jed Smith, Trailblazer. For children ten to fifteen. $1.75 each. Moving stories about significant events in our history. SCRIBNER'S CLASSICS Charles Scribner's Sons New York FieLtp, Eucene: Poems of Childhood. LANIER: Boy's King Arthur. STEVENSON, Rospert L.: Child's Garden of Verses. Arabian Nights, illustrated by Maxfield Parrish. Grimin's Fairy Tales. These volumes do not belong with the modern series, as they were published many years ago. They are among the beautiful gift books and would make a valuable addition to any child's permanent library. The books listed above will not only entertain children, but may also direct their lives toward knowledge, which is inspirational as well as merely entertaining. 'These books portray for children some of the, ideals and accomplishments of our 742 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1954 GIFT BOOK FOR CHILDREN American citizens and give the readers a good foundation in American history. Among the rather unusual books on the fall lists are: MarcuerriTE DE ANGELI'S Book of Nutsery Mother Goose Rhymes, Doubleday Company, New York. 275 thymes and over 260 illustrations, book size 8%"x124", $5. The author is the mother of five children and grandmother of nine, and had three children when she first studied art. She is the author and illustrator of several very beautiful books. The above is a lovely gift book for children of all ages. Crarxk, Ann Noran: Blue Canyon Horse, Viking Press, New York. $2.75. The author is winner of the Newberry Prize for her book Secret of the Andes. Blue Canvon Horse is the story of an Indian boy whose pony runs away to join a band of wild horses, but who returns to his master. The scene is laid at Havasupai, a tributary to the Grand Canyon. The small Indian tribe who live there love their horses and are expert riders. The illustrator is Allan Hauser, an Apache Indian. For children seven to eleven. Coomss, Cuarirs: Skyrocketing Into the Unknown, William Morrow and Company, New York. $4.00. Describing accomplishments in aviation, having 145 photographs of all types of planes, including the latest jet and rocket planes. For all ages, from twelve up, who are interested in aviation. Doane, Prracie: Bible Children, J. B. Lippincott Company, — Philadelphia. 92.75% Contains ten reverently told stories of Old Testament characters. For children four to eight. Jasuima, Taro anp Mitsu: Plenty to Watch, Viking Press, New York. $2.50. Everyday life in a Japanese Village, as 743 seen by a child returning to his home from school. Orto, MARGARET AND Stuart: The Horse and Pony Book, William Morrow and Company, New York. $2.50. Twenty-four types of horses are illustrated and described. For children eight to twelve. Prrer, Enpwarp Wartty: The Little Engine That Could, Platt and Munk Company, $1.00. A new edition of a classic that has sold over a million copies. For children four to eight. Ravieiui, ANtHony: Wonders of the Human Body, Viking Press, New York. $2.50. Accurate text and unusual drawings describing the "most perfect of all machines," but ""we are more than just machines, because we love and want to be loved, and have pity, and know why, and dream, and have ideals and faith. These gifts of the spirit set man above all other creatures." For children nine to thirteen. Zion, Gene: Hide and Seek Day, Harper and Brothers, New York. $2.00. By the author of the beautiful book All Falling Down. Where do turtles, trains, and people hide, and why? A little boy finds out. For children four to six. One of the publishers has said that it has the "most fabulous list of books in its entire history," and it would be impossible to give the titles of all the outstanding and beautiful books recently published for children. Both authors and illustrators are giving their talents towards producing worthwhile and permanent books for boys and girls of all ages. The test of their success is in the popularity of their books and when children ask for more of the same kind. Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, November 1, and November 15, 1894 "For THE RiGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomMeEN oF ALL NATIONS" Harmony of Line and Color: Small delicate women will select styles and material which increase the look of size. 'They may wear light colored fabrics very beautiful in themselves but with little trimming and that choice. A large graceful woman should clothe herself in soft rich stuffs of such color as not to increase the look of size. 'Tall women should avoid stripes, short ones should avoid plaids. Dress should be made decorative as well as necessary. It is a woman's duty to dress becomingly at all times, and as well as her circumstances will allow.... —M. B. Hanson QUEENS WHO RULED THEIR PEOPLE WELL We must admit, in England's queen A noble woman we have seen, A bright example all her life Of faithful mother, loving wife, Though she has reigned for fifty years, Well versed in state-craft, wise as peers... —Woman's Journal OUR TRIP TO UINTAH: In connection with sisters M. A. Freeze and May Anderson having been called to visit the sisters in Uintah Stake.... Enjoyed the ride very much up Parley's Canyon... Not reaching Park City until evening, we could not leave for Heber until morning.... When we arose the next morning the snow was about two inches deep... But we started traveling through a twelve mile canyon, then entered the beautiful little valley of the Wasatch... Tuesday the eighteenth, the weather having cleared up, we ascended over the top of the Wasatch mountain, then through Strawberry valley on through the roughest roads that could be imagined, a continual going up and coming down mountains.... Saturday we arrived in Ashley... We regretted very much that our stay could not be longer among those good true Latter-day Saints that know so well how to appreciate the blessings of the gospel.... —E. J. Stevenson THE UTAH WOMAN'S PRESS CLUB: The Utah Woman's Press Club held a meeting at the office of President E. R. Shipp, Oct. 30, 1894.... Each member present endeavored either by costume or symbol, to represent some author or literary character.... In answer to her name she arose, and the other members or visitors made a guess as to the character represented:... E. R. Shipp, Portia, in judicial robes.... Miss Gladys Woodmansee, Hypatia, in Roman costume.... Mrs. C. R, Wells in white attire, represented Wilkie Collins' "Woman in White."... Mrs. C. Louise Boyden, by a symbol represented Browning.... Mrs. Lucy A. Clark, with powdered hair, lace cap, and imitation snowflakes, represented Mrs, Eliza R. Snow.... —Lizzie S. Wilcox, Sec'y. VISITOR: Fannitza Abdue Sultana Nalide is a fine-looking girl from Beyrout, now staying at a quiet residence in Brooklyn. She is the cousin of the wealthiest Arab in that far-off city, and is known among her countrymen as "the Syrian Princess." On the books at Harvard she will be entered as Miss Alice Azeez, and her object in coming to this country is manifold. She wishes to obtain educational honors both here and in England, and while in America will study the government, the people, and occidental methods of doing things....; —Selected Page 744 ARY TODD LINCOLN is the subject of a new biographical novel, Love Is Eternal, by Irving Stone, a "fresh and different outlook on one of the most controversial First Ladies in American history." FRANCES C. YOST, contributor to The Relief Society Magazine, who lives on a farm near Bancroft, Idaho, has recently had her second book of poems, While Orchids Bloom, published by the Caxton Printers, Caldwell, Idaho. — GRACE JORDAN, wife of the Governor of Idaho, has taken time out of her busy First-Lady life to pen Home Below Hell's Canyon. It is a book of personal history, telling of a courageous adventure in sheep ranching in a mile-deep gorge in the country between the Snake the Salmon rivers. With three children under seven, she assumed the duties of their school teacher for several years after the depression, along with regular ranching tasks. The glorious country, horseback riding, and other fun native to their unusual life compensated for the hard toil. Mrs. Jordan has been a teacher in the state universities of Oregon, Washington, and California. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon R. MARGARET BRIDGMAN, distinguished American consultant on nursing programs, was a consultation visitor during the late summer at the Brigham Young University School of Nursing. She also met with the administrators of the University, and greatly enjoyed her visit. ISS BERNICE CHAPMAN, nursing educator and former assistant professor at the University of Illinois, is the new director of the School of Nursing at Brigham Young University. She is enthusiastic about the expanding nursing program, with its great potentialities, at B. Y. U. MB:. RUTH BRYAN OWEN ROHDE, eldest daughter of William Jennings Bryan, and first American woman to serve as an envoy to a foreign country, died in July at the age of sixty-eight. BIRTHDAY congratulations are extended to Mrs. Ellen Beazer, Cardson, Alberta, Canada, ninetysix; Mrs. Christine Anderson, Salt Lake City, ninety-four; Mrs. Annie Katherine Mortensen Ivie, Salina, Utah, ninety-one; Mrs. Annie McKean Smith, Mrs. Lucinda Tidwell Smith, and Mrs. Maria van den Heuvel Kruys, ninety, all of Salt Lake City. Page 745 C—> EDITORIAL c~© VOL. 41 NOVEMBER 1954 NO. 11 Praise and Shanksgiving Praise ye the Lord. Light. Earth, and all people. (Psalm 148). ANY nations throughout the world in times past and in the present have established certain days for offering praise and gratitude to the Lord for life and temporal blessings upon the earth, and for the promise of eternal life. These times of special thanksgiving have lifted the hearts of those expressing gratitude and have made them more appreciative of the earth itself, more closely allied to their own kindred, and more concerned for the welfare of all people. And such rejoicing has increased spirituality and has made people more deeply aware of their dependence upon the Heavenly Father. There are many among us whose lives reveal a constant gratitude and a continual faith and hope. Their expressions of thankfulness and their appreciation of all their blessings have become an integral part of their way of life, and they need no special day of thanksgiving, although their thoughts may be turned towards the special significance of a particular day and a particular season. A feeling of reverence and a deep searching within ourselves for faith and understanding come with our tecalling of the thanksgiving of the Pilgrim Fathers in the bleak beginning of winter when their first harPage 746. Mountains, and all hills; fruitful trees, and all cedars... Both young men, and maidens; old men, and children.... Praise ye him, sun and moon: praise him all ye stars of. Kings of the vest had been reaped from the land. Theirs was uot a rejoicing that free ah had been bestowed upon them, ut a gratitude to the Lord that through faith and effort they had been able to establish themselves in a new land. The Latter-day Saints in their desert wilderness, also, were grateful for opportunity, for strength to live and serve their fellow men and obey the commandments of God. And, though their humble expressions of thanksgiving may have been clothed in simple words, there were eloquence and majesty in_ their prayers and in their praise. Once, in a desert town, on the Sunday preceding Thanksgiving Day, an elderly immigrant from Denmark acknowledged in halting phrases his gratefuluess for his home in the far western mountains. He thanked the Lord for his log cabin, for the rain that fell upon his fields, and for his plow and his scythe. Then he spoke of the canal that circled the village and watered the gardens, and he gave thanks for all the streams of water that were given, as he said, "by morning and by night." His humble words of deep sincerity might remind us of the lofty language of the Psalmist who said: "The pastures are clothed with flocks; the valleys also are covered EDITORIAL over with corn; they shout for joy, they also sing" (Psalm 65:13). Prayers, both in the congregations of the saints, and individual prayers, may be expressions of praise and thanksgiving; they may rise beyond the needful prayers of petition and intercession and become paeans of rejoicing. Moreover, prayers of gratitude need not always be for the great blessings of earth which have steadfastly been given us through the years, though these should be included; prayers may be words of rejoicing in the continuity of our lives in time eternal; and prayers may be an outpouring of humble thanksgiving for our families and friends, for food and shelter; and prayers may be an acknowledgment of the gift of the earth itself, for "The heavens declare the glory of God; and the firmament sheweth his handywork." Faithful ones and humble people through the ages have felt small and insignificant of themselves and have sought strength and assurance 747 through unity with others of like belief, and have sought for the blessings of the Lord. It has been said that the Pilgrims were so-called because they "looked for a city... Whose builder and maker is God.... These all died in faith, not having received the promises, but having seen them afar off... And confessed that they were strangers and pilgrims on the earth" (Hebrews 11:10, 13). Whatever may be our individual ways of offering thanksgiving, in the season of harvest, or at any time throughout the years, in the duration of our lives, may we always be grateful and humble, and look forward with hope and faith, and may we be able to say with integrity of spirit, as the Psalmist said in ancient days, speaking of the Heavenly Father's concern for his children: ".. Thou understandest my thought afar off... And art acquainted with all my ways..." (Psalm 139:2). —V. P. C. > Ultimate Conquest Ins W. Schow Those who must learn to trust the friendly dark, Cost what it may in grieving to prevail, One day forget the soaring, singing lark In favor of the peerless nightingale. For them the peony no more can show A ballerina-skirted pirouette; They must accept that maid in calico, The humble, plain, but fragrant mignonette. Is the stage lost? There still are symphonies; Are butterflies unseen? Soft kittens purr; The handclasps of a child, its praises, these Are sweeter than its sparkling glances were. Those who will strive find old desires wane For things they cherished most once in the past, In old joy's opposites find joy, and gain That greatest conquest over self at last. Notes TO THE FIELD 'A Centenary of Relief Society " Placed in Public Libraries GPECIALLY bound copies of A Centenary of Relief Society, an illustrated history (now out of print) published in 1942 by the general board in commemoration of the one hundredth anniversary of Relief Society, have been sent to public libraries in certain large cities throughout the United States. We believe these copies will be found valuable as reference for persons in metropolitan areas, since it is not likely that a similar publication will be issued before the end of our second century. One copy has been sent to the public library in each of the following cities: Atlanta, Boston, Chicago, Denver, Houston, Los Angeles, New Orleans, New York, Philadelphia, Phoenix, Portland, and San Francisco. There are two copies in the Congressional Library in Washington, D. C. Po Notice to Contributors of 'Relief Society Mlagazine. THE Magazine committee of the general board reminds contributors to The Relief Society Magazine that it is not a reprint publication. Poems, articles, stories, and other literary material submitted must not previously have been published nor be in the hands of another publication for acceptance, or rejection. All material published in The Relief Society Magazine is protected by legal copyright, and no part of the contents may be reprinted without permission from the general board. Fall Cleaning Bernice T. Clayton Last night the wind roared into town Loose bricks blew down from chimney tops, And sent the brown leaves flying, Stray shingles soon went sailing, Stripped lingering petals from each bush And houses creaked and groaned through all To hasten autumn's dying, The wind's rambunctious wailing. Flung shutters wide, banged open doors, Our town was swept and scoured clean Caused old and young to scurry; By its incessant blowing; Ballooning skirts and flying hats We wakened to a fairy world Made plain the wind's great hurry. Glazed white with winter's snowing. Page 748 A Sure-Enough Seamstress Mabel Law Atkinson 66 H, Granny, I wish you 8) could help me! I do so want to take my three boys to our class reunion next month. My invitation came yesterday. This year we are going to bring our children and introduce them to our classmates when our names are called." Sheryl Blaine gave a great hopeless sigh as she finished speaking. "What makes you think you can't take them, my dear? There's plenty of room in your car, and you can make the trip in one day. You can take a lunch with you, so there need be no extra expense." Granny's voice was reassuring. "It isn't that, Granny. The boys all need new suits. They've completely outgrown the ones I made from Bill's old suits which he discarded shortly after we were miartied." "Why not let Robert take Richard's, and Richard take Russell's. Perhaps you could get Russel a new one or make him another from a suit of Bill's." "You make the problem sound so simple, Granny, but the fact is the suits are worn out. Richard's elbow went through his coat sleeve last Sunday, and all of them are beyond being mended any more; and Bill is down to his last suit now; and we haven't the money to buy new clothes, not till crops are harvested this fall." Sheryl's usually cheerful voice ended on a note of despair. Granny thought a while, then said, "Before I would deprive your classmates of seeing your adorable boys, I'd take them in new overalls." "Oh, Granny, bless you! But I could never do that. If only I had the material, I would make them each a new suit—coats and all. Can't you just see them, Granny, the three in a row standing smiling before my classmates in suits made just alike of light brown tweed! Can't you see them, Grandma?" At the mention of brown tweed, a faraway Icok came in Granny's eyes. It seemed as if a key turned and the door to a past memory opened—a door she had resolutely closed and locked, forever, as she thought, but now it had magically opened. THE young bride watched eagerly, with candles of delight illumining her eyes as the peddler displayed the contents of his bag: yards and yards of lace, tablecloths, bedspreads, scarves, beads, trinkets, yard goods, woolen, cotton, and_ silk, and almost everything alluring there could possibly be. Knowing she had but a few nickels above her "necessity money," which must be kept for food, she turned from all but the lace. Her eyes caressing it wistfully, she asked, "How much is this?" "That, my lady, is imported lace of rare design and costly, but you may have it—nine yards of it—for but one dollar," answered the peddler suavely, "only one dollar!" 749 "But I haven't that much. It is lovely lace, though." She visioned it on the little white dresses and petticoats she was making. "For you, my lady, I'll sell it for seventy-five cents — at a great discount, you understand." "Put it away," said the young wife, "for I can't afford it. I only have fifty cents." She saw plain little dresses without lace. The desire to make a sale rose above the peddler's discretion, and he threw the bolt of lace in her lap, saying, "Give me your fifty cents, for you must have the lace, lady. I wouldn't do it for anyone but you." As he was putting things back in his bag and arranging them in an orderly fashion, he laid out a bulky bundle, the better to arrange things, and she saw it was heavy tweed cloth, light brown, yards and yards of it. How she had longed for a coat last fall made of the same materia]! Without thinking what she was doing, she began fingering the material lovingly, and almost before she realized what was happening, the peddler was gone with her two dollars of "necessity money," and that great huge bolt of wool tweed was in her lap. Her Jim came then, from the fields, and for the first time she knew how foolish she had been, and burst into tears. "What made me do it, Jim? I can't sew well enough to make a coat. It's almost more than I can do to make baby dresses. What shall I do, Jim?" His laugh was good to hear, as it rang out buoyantly from. His soul, "Never mind, honey, put it away with moth balls in that old cedar chest in the attic, and who knows, perhaps some day one of our posterity will be a sure-enough seamstress and make use of it." He put his arm tenderly about her as he spoke. RANNY was recalled to the present by Sheryl saying, "No, my pride wouldn't let me take them in overalls." "If moths haven't broken in, you won't need to," replied Granny. "My dear, go up to the attic and open that old cedar chest and get that bundle wrapped in newspapers and bring it down to me. It's right on top; you can't miss it. My legs complain about climbing the stairs now." Sheryl was gone in a flash, and, in almost no time at all, returned with a bundle still securely wrapped in newspapers yellow with age, her eyes illumined with excitement. "Clip the strings, my dear, and take off the papers, and if moths don't fly out, perhaps you will have a chance to make those tweed suits yet." Granny's eyes were shining, too. "What do you mean, you blessed Granny?" "Simply that the cloth in that bundle was stored away three months before your mother was born, and if that chest is mothproof as your grandpa's mother said it was, the tweed should siill be as good as new." Anticipation and hope made Sheryl's fingers tremble as she removed layer upon layer of paper, till at last the tweed came in sight. "Oh, Granny, it's beautiful! Just what I'd hoped for!" "Hold it—single thickness—to the 750 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1954 A SURE-ENOUGH SEAMSTRESS light, child, to see if it is whole," said Granny with a whispered prayer that it would be. It was—not a sign of being motheaten. "Qh, Gran, do you mean this is mine? And where on earth did you get it?" "Yes, it is yours, my dear." And Granny told her the story of the peddler and of its purchase. The two women laughed till the tears came, while Sheryl asked many questions, having Granny tell some parts of the story over again, for the peddler was a unique personality in her mind. Sheryl almost wished she had lived in the days of such interesting characters and of such cheap buying. With a smile on her face, Sheryl said, "Dear Granny, you are a blessing to me, and a lifesaver at this moment. But I may neglect you for the next week or so while I am so busy sewing, but I shall love you | more than ever." The three weeks following this: event were indeed long ones for Granny. Her little great-grandsons —one or more of them—came every | day, but she missed Sheryl and the | outh and music she always seemed | to bring with her. True, she ran in | a few times, but only for a moment each time when she breathlessly | told of the progress in the making | of the suits. Then one evening when Granny | was sitting in the contentment of | the twilight, she heard the gate | click, and looking up, she saw them | coming single file up the path: the 751 three little Blaines, then Sheryl, and last of all, Bill. "Oh, Gran, aren't they adorable?" The words brimmed from Sheryl's happy heart. "I wish you could have seen them, standing there in a row, smiling at my classmates. Our class photographer took their picture, and I'll give you one as soon as I get them." A week later as Granny looked at the picture of three handsome little boys in new tweed suits, she said to herself softly, "If only my Jim were here to see them!" She was lost in reverie for a few moments, then smiling reminiscently she continued, "But perhaps he knows that one of our posterity is a 'sure enough seamstress. 79) & Make Baby Some Rattle Shoes Nell Folkman D° you pride yourself on being creative and enjoy making your own baby gifts? Or does your own three or four-months-old baby need something new to amuse him? Then, here is something for baby that will bring oh's from the new mother and coos of delight from baby. As soon as the little one discovers he has feet, he will delight in these brightly colored shoes with the added attraction of a rattle on each toe. These rattles will amuse him long before he can hold a rattle in his hand. For some creative fun for you, hours of play for baby, or an inexpensive gift, here's all you'll need: A piece of brightly colored felt (10" x 12" is large enough for one pair). 2 small plastic ball rattles—or you can use a dumbbell rattle. 2 skeins of embroidery floss. Y% yard of ribbon—for laces. 1 large darning needle for making holes. Small piece of heavy string. Pliers and sandpaper. Materials ready? Then follow this simple outline and in a couple of hours the shoes will be ready. A. Cut a paper pattern from diagram shown below, using 1-inch squares. AMIE ie HES Re fle lt \ift th WE i Ai TTS | B. Cut out the felt pieces: 1. Two each of soles and tongues 2. Four side pieces C. Saddle stitch the shoe together using six-ply embroidery floss, as follows: 1. Right sides out, stitch down back seam. 2. Starting at the back, stitch sole to upper. If necessary, trim one side slightly so that the side pieces overlap only slightly in front. 3. Sew front seam. Page 752 MAKE BABY SOME RATTLE SHOES. 753 4- Sew in tongue piece, gathering side pieces slightly to fit. Match x's, D. Prepare the rattle as follows: E. Oa Cur HERE Using hacksaw or pliers, remove all the handles from the rattles, 2. File or sand (using coarse sandpaper) until smooth. 3. Using a large darning needle, make small holes in the rattle on each side 4 -_ e of where the handle used to be. Insert 2 strands of heavy string—long enough to sew the rattle onto the shoe. 5. Sew the rattle to the toe of the shoe, being sure to fasten securely. Punch a small hole on each side of the front and insert ribbon long enough to tie a bow. MAKE HOLES HERE Family Night Mabel Jones Gabbott When ice and snow have covered up the sandpile and the swing, And roller skates and jump-the-ropes are put away till spring; We gather in the kitchen where the smell of bread, new done, And popped corn, hot and salted, spell a lot of family fun. Then Mother tells us stories, Daddy leads us in a song, And it seems that nothing in the world could possibly go wrong, Contentment Is a Lovely Thing CHAPTER 2 Dorothy S. Romney Synopsis: Margaret Lansing, whose husband Jed has become a farmer contrary to the wishes of his parents, is worried over the approaching visit of Jed's father, a prominent brain surgeon, and his wife, whom she has never seen. Just before their arrival Margaret is taken ill, and the young couple find it impossible to get help in the household. Jed takes Kimmy, the baby, with him to the station to mect his parents, and Margaret is left alone. ARGARET sent up a little prayer that Jed's father and mother would see how contented he was, and be proud that he had strength of character enough to choose the life's work he was best fitted for... That they would consider that a son was an individual, and not just someone designed to carry out a family wish. Then she was looking up into the faces of two of the most intelligent and _ distinguished-looking people she had ever seen. Mrs. Lansing— or rather Mother Lansing, as Jed had instructed her to call his mother, had the air of a queen. Her eyes were serene, her forehead as smooth as a young woman's, and her bluewhite hair beautifully coifed. Jed's father looked exactly as Margaret thought a famous doctor should look. She found herself stammering excuses for the condition of the house amid the introductions and Jed's explanation of their lateness. "T tried to telephone you from the station to tell you that the train was going to be late. I guess you Page 754 were asleep," he said. 'There was an awkward gap in the conversation which he broke by saying, "I guess I'd better go out and get the stock in out of the rain. I noticed the lambs looking hopefully toward the barn as we came in. The words filled Margaret with fresh terror. He couldn't go out and leave them here staring at one another. Mrs. Lansing was equal to the occasion, however. Margaret was sure that she would be equal to almost any occasion which called for tact and understanding. "If you'll show us to our room," she said, "we'll do some unpacking while you're busy outside." "Of course," said Jed. Margaret watched them out of the room, Kimmy jabbering away in his adorable manner, with sounds that said nothing, but meant everything to Margaret. "Tll bring in your luggage," Jed was saying, "and I'll get the stock in and do a few other necessary chores. 'Time and calves wait for no man—not very patiently, anyway." Why, oh, why, must he go out of his way to point up the inconveniences of farm life! Thought Margaret impatiently. She hadn't long to consider this, however, before Jed's father was back with his black physician's bag in his hand. He took out a thermometer and shook it down., Hold this under your tongue CONTENTMENT IS A LOVELY THING while I take your pulse, then we'll go to work and find out what the trouble is here," he said. She held the thermometer lightly between her lips while he took her pulse, and then drew a stethoscope out of the bag. I'll never be able to call him anything but Dr. Lansing, she thought. He's so dignified—so much the physician. "A case of flu—not too bad," he announced cheerfully when he had finished the check-up. "We'll have you up and around again in a few days. I'll give you some medicine that will help hurry things along." A few days! Thought Margaret in panic. She couldn't spare even a few hours from her many duties. The care of the baby alone was almost a full-time job. She'd have to get up tomorrow. Oe came through the. Kitchen door, the gusty wind strong at his back, just as his father finished the diagnosis. He came into the bedroom and looked questioningly at his father. "A touch of flu," Dr. Lansing answered Jed's unspoken question, as he picked up his bag and went into the kitchen, followed by his son. Margaret could hear Kimmy making happy sounds, apparently revelling in the attention he was getting from his newly discovered grandparents. Then Mrs. Lansing's voice came to her—bewildered, uncertain, "I suppose that I had better start preparing dinner." Margaret didn't blame her for the uncertainty. It wasn't easy to go into a strange kitchen and begin the preparations for a meal. It was easy 755 to imagine that Mrs. Lansing didn't spend much time in any kitchen, not even her own. "Oh, there's plenty of — stuff about," Jed assured his mother cheerfully. ""That's one thing about a farm. You never lack for something to eat." Margaret heard the refrigerator door open and Jed's triumphant, "Wien seat" Margaret groaned inwardly. Oh, to be well again and have a chance to prove to her in-laws that life on a farm could be beautiful and satisfying! Jed walked into the bedroom, a spoon and bottle in hand. He bent over to give her a spoonful of some thick looking red medicine. She saw the firm curve of his mouth, the gentle understanding look in_ his eyes, and at once found new peace in his strength. Now that she had met his parents she realized the strength of the bond between them. She must do all she could to win their approval and affection. "You're not to worry, everything is going fine," Jed informed her with his usual optimism. He went out and her eyes turned towards the window, to the scene that was a never ending source of wonder to her for its beauty and serenity. She looked out beyond the meadows, where the shadows were gathering and lengthening along the slopes of the hills, and watched until she saw the sun dip closer to the faraway mountains before she dropped off to sleep. When she awakened there was lamplight streaming through the bedroom door, and the house was fragrant with the odors of good food. In a few minutes Mrs. Lan- sing came in carrying a supper tray. She was wearing one of Margaret's aprons. Her hair was slightly disarranged from its former sculptured smoothness, and her face was flushed from the heat and unaccustomed work. "IT hope that you can eat something," she said. "Thank you so much, it all looks wonderful," said Margaret appreciatively. "You don't know how dreadful it makes me feel to put you to all this trouble, when I did so want to make your visit a pleasant one." "Don't worry. Helped," ly. She turned on the bedside lamp, and Margaret could see in the circle of light how really tired the older woman looked, but not without cause, Margaret reasoned. After a long train trip she should have been able to rest instead of having to take over a household. Later, when Jed came in, having finished his nightly chores, she heard his mother ask, "Where does Margaret keep her mopstick? | found the bucket on the service porch. Kimmy spilled some of his supper, and it will be tracked all over the kitchen if it isn't mopped up. But aren't you doing too much?" Jed asked solicitously. "Yes, perhaps I am," replied simply. Margaret could hear the swish of the mop and the water for quite a while after that. It couldn't be replied Mrs. Lansing simphis mother HEN Jed came in to see how she was feeling, she asked anxiously, "Isn't there some way to keep your mother from doing so much, Jed?" "None that I know of," he re plied seriously, and then added in a lighter tone, "she's getting into the groove, all right. She enjoys taking care of Kimmy." "As long as she considers it a groove, and not a rut," she murmured, so low that Jed didn't quite catch what she had said. "What did you say?" he asked. "Nothing... Nothing at all," she answered. He gave her a big grin as he left the bedroom, full of confidence and good cheer on the surface, but Margaret wondered if he could sense, as she did, that his parents were disappointed in what their visit had revealed. Jed came in a short time later from his last round of the barn, and Margaret could hear the three of them settling down in the kitchen for what was left of the evening before bedtime. As the kitchen was hers and Jed's favorite spot, they had placed easy chairs facing the large window. 'There was always a bow] of fresh fruit within reach, and Jed had put a small bookshelf in a convenient corner for easy access to the books they were currently reading. The day had been a trying one for all of them, but it was nearly over, and to Margaret a new day to look forward to was always a fresh and wonderful experience. A low hum of pleasant conversation came to her from the kitchen, and she was glad that Jed and his parents were at last finding time for the good talk that families always enjoy after a separation. She settled her- 756 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1954 CONTENTMENT IS A LOVELY THING self comfortably, glad that the day was ending on this happy note. Then quite distinctly she heard Mrs. Lansing's voice through the open door, quiet, but determined. "Jed," she was saying, "it isn't too late. You could still come back to us and take up your medical training where you left off. You owe it to yourself, to your father—even to Margaret. Surely you don't want to submit yourselves to the drudgery of a farm for the rest of your lives?" Margaret wanted to cry out, "Oh, but it isn't drudgery! It's wonderfull! Apple orchards blossom in May. Larks sing in the meadows. The air is different. 'The people are different!" "But there's no future for you. Look at your father—only forty-five and already famous. Think of your own son. Some dav you will be ambitious for him, too." Margaret found herself clutching the cover tensely. Mrs. Lansing had not yet given up. Perhaps she would never give up until she had won her point. ARGARET must have - slept deeply. She awoke, feeling refreshed, the sunlight of a new day shimmering, gold-gauzed through the big window. Jed never drew the Shades at night. He liked to wake in the middle of the night and be able to see the whole valley in the moonlight. Margaret could hear the distant hum of farm machinery. Jed must have awakened early, fixed his own breakfast, and gone straight to work. After her ears had adjusted to the pleasant murmur of the day's beginning, she could hear Jed's mother 757 and father talking in low tones in the kitchen. She was undecided whether to call out a greeting, but then she remembered the _ last words she had heard spoken by Jed's mother through the open door last might. But today was a new day, and Margaret resolved to put all her problems aside. After a time Jed's father opened the door to the bedroom cautiously lest she be asleep. When he saw that she was awake, he came into the room. '"How's my patient this morning?" he asked. "Much better, thank you," she answered. '"How are things going?" "Very well," the brief reply came back. "Mother will fix you some breakfast." Again she felt an apology rushing to her lips for being such a bother to everyone, but she closed them tight and kept silent. Dr. Lansing took her temperature and pulse, then told her, "You'll be fine in a day or two." He went back into the kitchen and Margaret could hear him telling his wife that she was awake and ready for breakfast. In a few minutes Mrs. Lansing came in with a breakfast trav and set it down on the bedside table. "T'm glad to hear that you're feeling better this morning," she said, with a seemingly determined cheerfulness. "Yes, I feel much better,'' Margaret answered, "I'm sure I'll be able to get up tomorrow. I have a picnic planned, and it's such a lovely spot it would be a shame to miss it." "The doctor will want you to remain in bed tomorrow, I'm sure. Now eat your breakfast, my dear." "T thought it would be a nice change for all of us," Margaret persisted. "Perhaps it would," her motherin-law answered unsmilingly, "but you are to remain in bed." She was gone, and so was the plan for the picnic that was to have been such fun. Margaret and Jed had planned to take his parents to their favorite picnic spot in the near-by greening glen, where they could enjoy the peaceful seclusion and be grateful each time all over again that they were privileged to live in such a lovely place. There were busy sounds in the kitchen all morning, and Margaret could hear Kimmy crowing happily now and then. The doctor had ordered Kimmy to be kept away from her for fear of his contracting her illness. She was missing him dreadfully, and listened intently for every sound he made. Soon she heard Mrs. Lansing admonish Kimmy, "You be good now while I go into the living room for a while." Then she could hear him. Pounding the tray of his high chair with his toy over the high keening of the vacuum cleaner. Jed's mother was doing too much. Just doing the things that were absolutely necessary would have been enough to tire the older woman out. All this extra work and responsibility would not help her to like the place. She will never be satisfied to let Jed stay here and be a farmer, Margaret told herself. She turned her face to the window where the plum tree branches touched the glass. (To be continued) Little Wise Men Lael W. Hill They who have squandered nickels lavishly On comic books, too many candy bars, And every bauble their quick eyes could see, Now hoard their pennies, counting them like stars. At night they stack their treasure in small heaps And total it again and yet again; Each hides it in his pillow while he sleeps And dreams about the magic moment when Daddy will flaunt a brilliant flowered tie, And mother smell of summer if | she stir, And dignity be theirs, who save to buy Gifts rare as gold and ftankincense and myrrh. 758 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1954 i Mlary S Young Leanved to Paint at Seventy-Gight M* S. Young, Salt Lake City, mother of cight children, and former matron of the Salt Lake and Manti temples. Learned to paint when she was seventy-eight years old. Her paintings have been displaved at the Utah State Capitol, the University of Utah, the Lion House, and at the Brigham Citv exhibit Sister Young is also talented as a home decorator, as a poet, and, while her husband Robert D. Young was on a three-vear mission to Australia, she successfullly owned and operated her own millinery shop. Later, when her husband was called to preside over the Manti Temple, she was serving as a Relief Society stake president. "Who has time to grow old?" she asks, "In this land of opportunity there is so much to learn."" In her art work she hopes to portray "'a little of the rare beauties of nature, God's marvelous creations." Recently, at the age of cighty-one she was honored with membership in the National Pen Women's organization. Her friend, Alice Packer Foutz, in a poem called "Lines to a Mother in Israel," expressed in lovely phrasing, some of Sister Young's outstanding characteristics, including the following lines: It is the soul's celestial grace That shines from out her gentle face; It is the charm of heart and mind That in her presence are combined.... <-> &phemeral ITloment Thelma ]. Lund Morning comes To find the glistening lands Holding the shine of stars In hoarfrost hands. Page 759 A Letter From Mlother How are you all this pleasant day? This is a lovely time of year, cool enough to stir us to action, yet warm enough to enjoy some outdoor activity, too. No complaints? It is one of the greatest blessings of life to have good health, and no complaints. My Dear Children: Thanksgiving Day is just around the corner and will bring another blessing with it, for it means that we will have our dear ones with us again for the fun and frolic of another celebration. Festivals, we are told, are the answer to man's desire to lift himself above the commonplace, to escape from monotony, to taste of high days that he would experience in no other way. They are as sunlit peaks, above dark valleys, giving us new viewpoints, new dreams, and new ambitions. Thanksgiving Day is a festive day that families should spend together, I believe. Enjoy other days with your friends, but this day should be a Mother's and Father's Day combined, with no child absent from the family circle if it is possible to be within it, or am I just wishing? You may not know, dear ones, but a mother would rather cook Thanksgiving dinner for her family than go to the finest restaurant in the world. What else could be so rewarding as to hear her son say, "Oh, Mother! Your own home-made biscuits? What a treat!" Or her daughter ask, "Mother, why didn't I inherit your talent for making this delicious brown gravy?" Of course, mother will be tired. Her feet will ache and her back will practically break before the final preparations are completed, but she will work with a song in her heart and a prayer on her lips, for the old days will come back again, and the past will mingle with the present, and she will thank God with all her heart for this opportunity of giving, and receiving and rejoicing, and of being young again with her beloved brood. Maybe the old songs will be heard again throughout the house, the old stories with the jokes on each other and on Mother and Dad told, with the viewpoint and flavor of our experiences in the interim softening the outline somewhat. Maybe the loved new additions to our family will share at least a part of the day with us and partake of our enthusiasm and foolishness, and love us the more for it. Please, dear ones, come early to our house. Let the celebration begin long before the dinner hour. I promise that good, appetizing aromas will come from the kitchen no matter how early you may arrive. The anticipation of our happy day together fills me with joy and gratitude. Bring only your dear selves and your love. I thank God for every one of you! Lovingly, Mother, Clara Horne Park Oo Autumn Rituals Eunice J. Miles When orchards flaunt their fruity wares With super-aristocratic airs, We welcome Halloweenish pranks, And Pilgrim rituals of thanks. Page 760 <a (frotes Sj aon Tae TELE Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Socicty presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for 'Notes From the Ficld" in the Magazme for Apnl 1950, page 278, and the Handbook of Instructions, page 123. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Mary G. Sorensen DANISH MISSION RELIEF SOCIFTY MEMBERS GREET PRESIDENT BELLE S. SPAFFORD AT A MEETING IN AALBORG, DENMARK Front row, at left: President Belle S. Spafford. Second row, at left: Mary Kaiser, Secretary, Danish Mission Relief Socicty; third from left, Mary G. Sorensen, President, Danish Mission Relief Society. The photograph was taken during the recent visit of President Belle S. Spafford to Europe, June, July, and August 1954. Ne _ Fag oF | 762 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1954 Photograph submitted by Bernice S. Anderson EAST RIVERSIDE STAKE (SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH), FIFTEENTH WARD RELIEF SOCIETY HONORS PAST PRESIDENTS AT LUNCHEON March 16, 1954 Left to right: Annie Bailey (1948-1952); Genesee Roderick (1946-1948); Anna Schoenhals (1936-1941); Alice Buhrley (1931-1936); Irene Lawrence (appointed in 1952, present president); Ruth T. Jones (1941-1945); Edna Williams (1945-1946); Edith Price (January 1952-November 1952). Bernice S. Anderson is president of East Riverside Stake Relief Society. Ok Photograph submitted by Cacia F. Margetts WELLS STAKE (UTAH), WILSON WARD VISITING TEACHERS COMPLETE SEVEN YEARS OF ONE HUNDRED PER CENT VISITING TEACHING First row, seated, fifth from the left, Edith H. Koelliker, visiting teacher supervisor. Second row, seated, first at the right, Eliza R. English, class leader. Third row, seated first from left, class leader Verda Pyper, a ward president. Fourth row, standing, third from the left: Cacia F. Margetts, President, Wells Stake Relief Society; at Sister Margett's left, Janet Bettilyon, a stake class leader. The seven years of one hundred per cent visiting te: ee were completed in January 1954, although the picture was taken in the summer of 195 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 763 -_. "© a P « Photograph submitted by Ada S. Van Dam NETHERLANDS MISSION, ROTTERDAM, TTOLLAND, SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR VISIT OF PRESIDENT BELLE S. SPAPFFORD Front row, left to mght: Renstje Vanderlinden, district supervisor; Maria S. Schippers, Secretary, Netherlands Mission Relief Society; Ada S. Van Dam, President, Netherlands Mission Relicf Society; Marba C. Josephson, Associate Managing Editor, Improvement Era, and member of the general board of the M. I. A.; President Belle S. Spafford; Donovan H. Van Dam, President, Netherlands ievienien,; Nicholas Vanderlinden, First Counselor; Rinze Schippers, Second Counselor. President Ada S. Van Dam reports the visit of President Belle S. Spafford and Sister Marba Josephson: "The picture is a Singing Mothers chorus in Rotterdam, with Sister Belle S. Spafford and Sister Marba C. Josephson as our visitors. It was an honor to have these two sisters as our guests, and we are sure that our Relief Society sisters in the Netherlands, as thev recall the pleasant association they had with Sister Spafford and Sister Josephson, will consider them as true cxamples of all that is fine in womanhood. 'Their lives are of goodness, service, and humility, and we pay tribute to Sister Josephson and to our belov ed Relief Socicty President, Sister Spafford, and we thank them for the wonderful influence their visit has left in our mission. It has had a farreaching effect, and the sisters here will always remember the warmth of their handshake, the friendliness of their manner, the imspiring words they spoke, and their untiring devotion to the work of our Heavenly Father and to their fellow men. They brought blessings into our lives, and we are most grateful. The Netherlands Mission comprises all of Holland and the Plemishspeaking part of Belgium. We have 3,419 members in the mission at the present time. —_ Gast Window Marvhale Woolsey At night, while sleep delays, I look at stars And think, how lucky I, to have such view Of skies!... Sunrises will be grand to watch, From bed—a beauty-fest with comfort, too! The morning dawns, with pink-gold glory bright Against my eyes. Beauty it does not lack; But slumber now is amorous, insistent... I draw the shade—and let sleep have me back. Sheology—Characiers and Teachings of The Book of Mormon Lesson 29—Instructions of Alma to His Sons Elder Leland H. Monson (Text: The Book of Mormon: Alma, chapters 36-42) For Tuesday, February 2, 1955 Objective: To show how Alma's admonitions to his sons emphasize that only through keeping the commandments of God can we achieve happiness in this life and joy in the world to come. N the seventeenth year of the reign of the judges, Alma sensed an increase in iniquity among his people. He, therefore, called his three sons together and gave "".. Unto them every one his charge, separately, concerning the things pertaining unto righteousness..." (Alma 35:16). These three sons were Helaman, Shiblon, and Corianton. Helaman Told of Alma's Conversion Alma related to Helaman an account of his own sinful past, and how he had gone "... About with the sons of Mosiah, seeking to destroy the church of God..." (Alma 36:6). He recounted the appearance of the angel to him, who had said: "... If thou wilt of thyself be destroyed, seek no more to destroy Page 764 the church of God" (Alma 36:9). "Alma told Helaman that after these words he had fallen to the earth, "... And it was for the space of three days and three nights that I could not open my mouth, neither had I the use of my limbs" (Alma 36:10). The other brethren, Alma told Helaman, had heard more words from the angel, but Alma declared that after he had heard the words of the angel addressed to him:... I was struck with such great fear and amazement lest perhaps I should be destroyed, that I fell to the earth and I did hear no more. But I was racked with eternal torment, for my soul was harrowed up to the greatest degree and racked with all my sins (Alma 36:11-12). The terrible responsibility which weighs upon a man who leads others LESSON DEPARTMENT astray into unrighteousness was thus expressed by Alma: Yea, and I had murdered many of his children, or rather led them away unto destruction... Oh, thought I, that I could be banished and become extinct both soul and body, that I might not be brought to stand in the presence of my God, to be judged of my deeds (Alma 36:14:15). At last, however, Alma told Helaman, remembering the words of his father, Alma, prophesying to the people concerning the coming of the Son of God, had caused Alma to cry within his heart "... O Jesus, thou Son of God, have mercy on me.... I could remember my pains no more..." Alma added (Alma 36:18-19). Thus the teachings of his father had come to him in his extremity and given him guidance. In speaking to Helaman, Alma also impressed upon him the joy of righteousness when he - said, "... There could be nothing so exquisite and so bitter as were my pains. Yea, and again I say unto you, my son, that on the other hand, there can be nothing so exquisite and sweet as was my joy" (Alma 36:21). The great joy which the Lord had since given to Alma as the fruits of his labors in bringing souls to repentance, was affirmed and the goodness of the Lord extolled when Alma spoke of his mercy. "And I have been supported under trials and troubles of every kind, yea, and in all manner of afflictions.. 2" (Alma 36:27). Alma impressed upon Helaman the promise: Inasmuch as ye shall keep the commandments of God ye shall prosper in the land... Inasmuch as ye will not keep 765 the commandments of God ye shall be cut off from his presence (Alma 36:30). Helaman Entrusted With Records and Other Sacred Relics Alma entrusted Helaman with all of the records and other sacred relics, dating from early times. He impressed Helaman with the magnitude of his responsibility in keeping these sacred histories. He pointed out that these records had been instrumental in bringing many to a knowledge of God and of convineing many, including thousands of the Lamanites, of the error of their ways. In instructing Helaman regarding his record-keeping responsibility, Alma said: And I... Command you that ye keep a record of this people, according as I have done, upon the plates of Nephi, and keep all these things sacred which I have kept, even as I have kept them; for it is for a wise purpose that they are kept (Alma 37:2). In speaking of the plates of brass, Alma said they had "... Enlarged the memory of this people, yea, and convinced many of the error of their ways..." (Alma 37:8). In regard to the twenty-four plates (from which the Book of Ether had been abridged], Helaman was instructed to keep from the people the secret oaths and covenants contained therein and "... Only their wickedness and their murders and their abominations shall ye make known unto them..." (Alma 37:29). Also entrusted to Helaman were the interpreters. Alma used the Liahona, the compass which guided the Nephites to the land of promise, to teach an impressive lesson to Helaman. He reminded Helaman that this instrument was symbolical of things spiritual, that it worked according to the faith and diligence of the people. For behold, it is as easy to give heed to the word of Christ, which will point to you a straight course to eternal bliss, as it was for our fathers to give heed to this compass, which would point unto them a straight course to the promised land (Alma 37:44). Instructions of Alma to Helaman Sensing the needs of the people, Alma gave Helaman specific instructions regarding what he should teach. He emphasized that he should teach four things in particular: (1) to have "... An everlasting hatred against sin and iniquity" (Alma 37:32). (2) to "Preach... Repentance, and faith on the Lord Jesus Christ." (3) "... To humble themselves and to be meek and lowly in heart...." (4) to "... Never be weary of good works..." (Alma 37:32-34). He further said: "... The way is prepared, and if we will look we may live forever" (Alma 37:46). Concerning Helaman's personal welfare, Alma advised him to "... Learn wisdom in thy youth; yea, learn in thy youth to keep the commandments of God" (Alma 37:35). He admonished Helaman to: Counsel with the Lord in all thy doings, and he will direct thee for good; yea, when thou liest down at night he down unto the Lord, that he may watch over you in your sleep; and when thou risest in the morning let thy heart be full of thanks unto God; and if ye do these things, ye shall be lifted up at the last day (Alma 37:37). Alma's Commandments to Shiblon Alma's instructions to Shiblon indicated his deep concern that his son should endure to the end. Alma was extremely pleased with Shiblon and commended him for the patience, diligence, and_ faithfulness which he had shown in adversity as a missionary among the Zoramites. He referred to the time when Shiblon was stoned by the people, and expressed "great joy" in him for his steadiness, but, at the same time expressed the hope that, "... As you have commenced in your youth to look to the Lord your God, even so I hope that you will continue in keeping his commandments; for blessed is he that endureth to the end" (Alma 38:2). Alma further instructed Shiblon, after telling of his own conversion, that he should learn of him:. That there is no other way or means whereby man can be saved, only in and through Christ. Behold, he is the life and the light of the world. Behold, he is the word of truth and. Righteousness (Alma 38:9). He admonished Shiblon that he should continue to teach the word, to:... Be diligent and temperate in all things. See that ye are not lifted up unto pride; yea, see that ye do not boast in your own wisdom, nor of your much strength. Use boldness, but not overbearance; and also see that ye bridle all your passions, that ye may be filled with love; see that ye refrain from idleness (Alma 38:10-12). Alma then warned Shiblon not to pray as the Zoramites with the intent to be heard and praised by other men; but always to acknowledge his unworthiness before God. ' Alma's instruction to both Helaman 766 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1954 LESSON DEPARTMENT and Shiblon end with the words "... Be sober. My son, farewell" (Alma 38:15 and 37:47). Alma's Reproof to Corianton We see from Alma's instructions to his third son, Corianton, that he was bitterly disappointed in the way Corianton had conducted himself while doing missionary work among the Zoramites, in contrast to the example set by Shiblon. Coming directly to the point, Alma said to Corianton:... Now this is what I have against thee; thou didst go on unto boasting in thy strength and thy wisdom. And _ this is not all, my son. Thou didst do that which was grievous unto me; for thou didst forsake the ministry, and did go over into the land of Siron, among the borders of the Lamanites, after the harlot Isabel. Yea, she did steal away the hearts of many; but this was no excuse for thee, my son. Thou shouldst have tended to the ministry wherewith thou wast entrusted. Know ye not, my son, that these things are an abomination in the sight of the Lord; yea, most abominable above all sins save it be the shedding of mnocent blood or denying the Holy Ghost? (Alma 39:2-5). In calling attention to Corianton's sins, Alma said: And now, my son, I would to God that ye had not been guilty of so great a crime. I would not dwell upon your crimes, te harrow up your soul, if it were not for your good. But behold, ye cannot hide your crimes from God; and except ye repent they will stand as a_ testimony against you at the last day (Alma 39:7-8). Owing to his weaknesses and to his youth, Alma counseled Corianton to seek advice and guidance from his older brothers, saying, "... Ye stand in need to be nourished by your brothers..." (Alma 39:10). 767 In pointing out the grievousness of these sins, Alma explained to Corianton "... How great iniquity ye brought upon the Zoramites; for when they saw your conduct they would not believe in my words" (Alma 39:11). Alma's Teachings on Plan of Salvation Alma's explanations to Corianton about the plan of salvation, the universality of the resurrection; the separate states of the mghteous and wicked between death and resurrection, the reasons for laws governing right and wrong, on punishment, and how mercy may claim the repentant; and the meaning of restoration, are among the most powerful and explicit found in all scripture. Alma foretold the coming of Christ, and explained that it was important for the people living then to understand that Christ would come to take away the sins of the world and to declare glad tidings. He asked:.. Is not a soul at this time as precious unto God as a soul will be at the time of his coming?... Is it not as easy at this time for the Lord to send his angel to declare these glad tidings unto us as unto our children, or as after the time of his coming? (Alma 39:17, 19.) Alma explained the resurrection to his son. He said that "... There is no resurrection... Until after the coming of Christ" (Alma 40:2). He further elucidated, '""Now there must needs be a space betwixt the time of death and the time of the resurrection" (Alma 40:6). Now, concerning the state of the soul between death and the resurrection—Behold, it has been made known unto me by an angel, that the spirits of all men, as soon as they are departed from this mortal body, yea, the spirits of all men, whether they be good or evil, are taken home to that God who gave them life. And then shall it come to pass, that the spirits of those who are righteous are received into a state of happiness, which is called paradise, a state of rest, a state of peace, where they shall rest from all their troubles and from all care, and sorrow. And then shall it come to pass, that the spirits of the wicked, yea, who are evil— for behold, they have no part nor portion of the Spirit of the Lord; for behold, they chose evil works rather than good; therefore the spirit of the devil did enter into them, and take possession of their house— and these shall be cast out into outer darkness; there shall be weeping, and wailing, and gnashing of teeth, and this because of their own iniquity, being led captive by the will of the devil (Alma 40:11-13). Restoration Explained Alma also carefully explained the meaning of the restoration, saying to Corianton:... The plan of restoration is requisite with the justice of God; for it is requisite that all things should be restored to their proper order.... That the soul of man should be restored to its body, and that every part of the body should be restored to itself.... That men should be judged according to their works; and if their works were good in this life, and the desires of their hearts were good, that they should also, at the last day, be restored unto that which is good. And if their works are evil they shall be restored unto them for evil... (Alma 41:2-4). He emphasized the fact that no one must suppose that he shall be restored from sin to happiness, explaining that "... Wickedness never was happiness" (Alma 41:10). The importance of earth life as a probationary period, and a period in which to learn to prepare oneself and to repent, was explained. Alma said: And thus we see, that there was a time granted unto man to repent, yea, a probationary time, a time to repent and serve God (Alma 42:4). Alma perceived that his son did not understand the justice of God in the punishment of sinners. He, therefore, gave him a clear explanation of the plan of salvation as it applies to the laws of the gospel, and the blessings and _ penalties which come from obedience or disobedience. He explained, "... There is a law given, and a punishment affixed, and a repentance granted..." (Alma 42:22). He warned his son not to attempt to excuse himself for his sins through the process of denying the justice of God, which would bring condemnation upon his head. Alma_ entreated Corianton to "... Let the justice of God, and his mercy, and his longsuffering have full sway in your heart; and let it bring you down to the dust in humility" (Alma 42:30). Alma concluded:... And now, my son, go thy way, declare the word with truth and soberness, that thou mayest bring souls unto repentance, that the great plan of mercy may have claim upon them. And may God grant unto you even according to my words. Amen (Alma 42:31). Alma's great sermons to his sons give a clear explanation of God's great and eternal purposes, which were prepared from the beginning of the world and upon which salvation and redemption are based. Questions on the Lesson 1. What instructions did Alma give to Helaman? To Shiblon? To Corianton? 2. Why was Alma disappointed in Corianton? 3. What is the meaning of restoration? Tow docs it exemplify the justice of God? 768 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1954 Visiting Seacher I lessages Book of Mormon Gems of Truth Lesson 29—"... For Just As Surely As This Director Did Bring Our Fathers, by Following Its Course, to the Promised Land, Shall the Words of Christ, If We Follow Their Course, Carry Us Beyond This Vale of Sorrow Into a Far Better Land of Promise" (Alma 37:45). Leone O. Jacobs For Tuesday February 1, 1955 Objective:... The land of promise. A HE "ball" or "director" found by father Lehi, as the little band of travelers took their journey into the wilderness, was prepared by the Lord to show them the course which they should follow. This "director" was also called "Liahona," meaning "a compass." In comparing the words of Christ to the "director," Alma gives us a beautiful and fitting simile. 'The words of Christ are designed to point the way to that glorious land where we may live in the presence of God. How grateful we should be that the way is so clearly marked! The simile continues in its application for, as Nephi observed, the pointers worked "... According to the faith and diligence and heed which we did give unto them" (1 Nephi 16:28). Having a compass IN OUT possession is no guarantee that we will reach our goal. It is important for us to remember that To point out that everyone has the power within himself to reach.." by living by the words of Chnist. Its practical value is in following its direction, unerringly. The Nephites did not always find it easy to follow the "director." At times they faltered, were slothful in exercising faith and diligence, and then their progress was impeded. So it may be with us. A knowledge of Christ's words, and diligence, faith, and unswerving devotion in following them, is the price of attaining that "land of promise." Following Christ's words with faith is our directive in attaining our salvation. When we know we are on the tight course, that assurance gives us confidence to overcome the obstacles along the way and see the journey through. 'This assurance by Alma should increase each one's determination to follow the principles which will make his own arrival in the eternal "land of promise" a reality. ——- Sime by the Heart Vesta N. Lukei Time is So relative... A moment of sorrow Exceeds an hour of happiness And joy. Page 769 Work IT leeting—Selection, Care, and Use of Household Equipment (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 5—Ranges Rhea H. Gardner For Tuesday, February 8, 1955 HE purchase of a range for your kitchen represents a long-time investment. One purchased at the time of your marriage may still be serving the family when the food preparation load has greatly decreased. Much pre-planning should be done before the purchase is made. One company may currently offer as many as ten models, each different in size, special features, and cost. In each price range there is a choice between a _ moderate-size model, with an extra large oven; a standard size, with a normal size oven and additional storage space; or a standard size with two ovens, enabling the user to bake at different temperatures or bake and broil simultaneously. Such things as_ utility drawers, warming drawers, oven lights, pilot lights, automatic controls, and deep well cookers all add to the cost. Before selecting a range with these features, make sure that they will be put to profitable use. The arrangement of surface units should be given serious consideration at the time the range is purchased. The safest arrangement is considered to be the straight line of units across the back of the range. Each utensil may be put in place, removed, or checked on without one Page 770 having to reach over another kettle. It also leaves the front of the range clear for food service. 'The next best arrangement, so far as safety is concerned, is the one where there are two elements at each end of the range top. By careful planning, there is little need for one reaching over steaming kettles with this arrangement. Free space is available in the center for food service. The least safe arrangement is the one where all four elements are close together. Eighty-five per cent of all burns originating from the top of the range have been from the socalled "clustered arrangement" of cooking units. The arrangement of switches is also worthy of serious thought. In homes where there are small children or very elderly folks who use the range, switches or push buttons above the cooking surface are safer in many ways. A safe, convenient arrangement and method of operation of heat controls, is one feature that might actually save money, even though it added to the cost of the particular model. Careful study of your book of instructions will add to the efficient use of your range. Proper use of a range is an important part of its care. Prevent spillovers by not filiing saucepans too full and not leav- LESSON DEPARTMENT ing heat on high too long. When water begins to boil, turn the heat down. Slow boiling is just as effective as rapid boiling. Prevent unnecessary grease spattering by using moderate heats when frying and roasting. Aluminum foil placed under the unit (with a hole in center for air) saves time in cleaning. When baking, arrange the tins so that the pans do not touch the sides of the oven or each other. This allows for circulation of hot air around each pan and prevents uneven baking. When baking on two racks, stagger the pans so one is never directly above another. In order to preserve the beauty of a range, avoid harsh abrasives, sudden changes of temperature, and scratches. Even though the finish is labeled acid resistant, any acid food, such as vinegar, salad dressing, or fruit juices should be wiped up immediately with a dry cloth or paper towel. Follow with a thorough cleaning as soon as the range has cooled. A ring of asbestos, cut to fit around the unit, will protect the enamel when large pieces of equipment are used. A general rule for all ranges states: for greatest efficiency of your range top, use utensils that are the same size as the unit on which they are used. After each meal, when the enamel is cool to the touch, wipe the surface of your range with a damp, soapy cloth, then with one wrung out of clear, warm water. Burn off 77\ spilled food on open units, then remove with a soft brush rather than try to dig or scrape it off. Cleaning the oven after each use will prevent grease and _ spillovers from baking into the enamel. When baking fruit pies and other juicy dishes, insert a sheet of aluminum foil under the tin or dish during the latter half of the baking period. However, serious damage has resulted when overcautious cooks have completely lined their ovens with foil in an attempt to keep them clean. Electric roasters now have almost the versatility of a kitchen range. They may be used for roasting, baking, stewing, steaming, boiling, toasting, and frying. A convenient feature is that they may be connected to a regular outlet, thus requiring no special wiring. Stands especially designed for holding the roaster, are available in either table or cabinet style. This piece of equipment is especially suited to people who are not permanently located and do not want to invest in a range. Thoughts for Discussion 1. The careful selection of the right kind of utensils and efficient methods ot cookery will make for economical use of your range. Cite examples to prove this fact from your own experiences or those of others. 2. Have members tell of uses they have made of electric roasters. 3. Give plenty of time to informal discussion. Discuss methods and new cleaning agents for cleansing ovens, cautions to be taken, etc. I Shought Gene Romolo No heart can be lonely Where God is housed. of iterature—Literature of England Lesson 45—"Wuthering Heights" by Emily Bronte Elder Briant S. Jacobs For Tuesday, February 15, 1955 Objective: To become better acquainted with the novel as an art form, and to weigh and consider Emily Bronte, and Wuthering Heights, as they relate to us. N LAST month's discussion we mentioned the life of Emily Bronte, and how her. Poems had integrity because they gave a true statement of the inward, intense events of her existence. Having thus met specimens of her art in cameo-size, we are now better prepared to approach her masterpiece. This novel is portrayed against a backdrop in harmony with Miss Bronte's memorable, natural characters and the reality which this passionate, haunting book achieves. Wuthering Heights has been many things to many readers, starting immediately from the day of its publication in 1847, only a few months before Emily's death at age thirty. In her preface to the 1850 edition, Charlotte Bronte, Emily's sister, admits charges that some of the reading public have found the book "rude." In answer to the charge that her sister's book is rustic, Charlotte writes: I admit the charge, for I feel the quality. It is rustic all through. It is moorish, and wild, and knotty as the root of heath. Nor was it natural that it should be otherwise; the author being herself a native and nursling of the moors. Aside from one lone reviewer. Who, by 1850, had sensed the power and genius of the novel, Charlotte, at least, understood the book and its significance, for she speaks of "the Page 772 immature but very real powers" of this "first novel." Charlotte maintained that, as a creative artist, Emily's role was merely that of midwife, regardless of whether her creations are to be praised or blamed. In this we must agree. Wuthering Heights, of necessity, must be the spontaneous outgrowth of Emily's instinctive genius, since never in her life did she have contact with any literary school or dominant literary influence. While Charlotte sought to explain Wuthering Heights, so it would be accepted, she, nevertheless, insisted on at least one element of grandeur within the novel: its sustained magnificent power. She also came near pointing out the true identity of the book as a prose poem, in which Emily's poetic powers, the real source of her genius, achieve a shattering interplay of forces, tensions, and various levels of interpretations. The Victorians felt this inexplicable power, but because it could not be explained, and because the book defied almost all conventions—of form, subject matter, plot, characterization, it was little read in the nineteenth century, since it was held to be a warped, chaotic book. Even as late as its 1929 edition, the Ency clopedia Britannica devoted but one sentence to discrediting Branwell Bronte's claim LESSON DEPARTMENT to authorship, and another sentence to speak of Wuthering Heights. And that is all. Today most critics are ready to acknowledge it as one of the greatest novels ever written. Plot of Wuthering Heights The plot is neither overly complex nor lengthy; it fulfills its function perfectly, and without Emily's telling, it would be just another story: Lockwood, a city dweller who for a time leases Thrushcross Grange, an_ isolated country estate, tells the story. He calls on Heathcliff, who owns Wuthering Heights, four miles away. Lockwood is so haunted by this visit, that he asks Nelly Dean, his housekeeper, what she knows of her neighbors. Nelly Dean, who had been a servant at Wuthering Heights when Heathcliff was brought to Wuthering Heights as an abandoned babe by the owner Mr. Earnshaw, sits up half the night telling Lockwood most of the novel. Heathcliff had been reared in the Earnshaw home, but he was so teased and hated by Mr. Earnshaw's son, Hindley, that Heathcliff retreated more and more often to the wild countryside, accompanied by Hindley's sister, Catherme Earnshaw, who was a little younger than he. They had fallen in love, but because Heathcliff was a menial about the place with nothing to offer her, Catherine had turned from him to weak, mild, Edgar Linton, heir to Thrushcross Grange, who worshiped her. Heathcliff left Wuthering Heights in anger when he heard Catherine say that a marriage with him would degrade her. Three years later Heathcliff returns, handsome, polished, and _ mysteriously wealthy. Catherine and Edgar are expecting their first child. Heathcliff is consumed by a desire for revenge on Hindley. He takes up quarters at Wuthering Heights where, through Hindley's weakness for gambling, he wins entire control over him and all his lands. At Thrushcross Grange, Heathcliff insults Edgar as a coward and taunts Catherine as loving himself alone. So torn is Catherine by the contrast between Heathcliff's strength and her hus- 773 band's lame spirit, and between her feelings of love and hate for Heathcliff, that she becomes delirious, and for weeks is not herself. Through Edgar and Nelly Dean's constant care she is spared death, but her suffering has so changed her features that when the rash Heathcliff forces his way m to see her, he hardly knows her, and weeps that he has destroyed her. In a dynamic scene quivering with lightning, Catherine acknowledges her mistake in marrying Edgar. That evening she dies giving birth to a daughter, Cathy. After Catherine's funeral Edgar begins a life of dedicated seclusion, living only for Cathy and the memory of his wife. Meanwhile, Heathcliff has married Edgar's sister, Isabella; however, he so maltreats her that finally, she escapes to a distant city to give birth to their son, Linton Heathcliff. At his mother's death, young Linton is claimed by his Uncle Edgar, but Heathcliff insists on his rights as the father, and Linton comes to Wuthering Heights to live. Heathcliff has reared Hindley Eamshaw's son, Hareton, as a menial, refusing to give him any education, and teaching him to hate everyone but Heathcliff himself, whom Hareton worships. In contrast to Hareton, Heathcliff's own son, Linton, is a weakling. Although Linton is dying, Heathcliff contrives to have Cathy marry him. By agreemg to marry Linton, she returns to her father, Edgar, who is ill at Thrushcross Grange. Thus, at his son Linton's death, Heathcliff receives Thrushcross Grange and all the Linton property, and Cathy comes to live at Wuthering Heights. She begins to educate young Hareton, and falls in love with him. Heathcliff, suddenly, haunted by Catherine's ghost, loses all his malice, and dies, leaving young Cathy and Hareton his property and every prospect of happiness. Technique In writing her novel, Miss Bronte faced the same problem as in her poetry: how to incarnate within her creation the convictions and 774 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1954 THE BRONTE SISTERS, ANNE, EMILY, From an old Print of the Painting by Branwell Bronte great conflicts within her heart without revealing more of her own secret emotions than she wished to share with the public. Wuthering Heights is far too intense a struggle ever to be recorded in first person; also such a viewpoint would make the novel appear too autobiographical, so Emily introduces Lockwood and Nelly Dean, both largely outside the main plot, and impersonal. By having most of the events happen in past time, and leading up to the present moment, Miss Bronte prepares the reader to accompany Lockwood as he observes the final scenes for himself. Never does the author intrude between the novel's action and the reader, nor does she editorialize in the usual Victorian manner. Her method of telling is one of directness and simplicity, catching exactly the wild, rough speech of country characters, then rising to crescendos of poetic powCHARLOTTE er, followed by subtle, piercing passages of great effectiveness. Word-Power Consciously or innocently, Miss Bronte's purpose throughout the novel seems to be to give to her main characters, Catherine and Heathcliff, the strength and the natural powers which, as creatures of unknown, untamed nature, should be theirs. She draws many images from nature, from earth, and air, and fire, and from the lives of fierce animals. And she uses vigorous verbs: writhe, crush, bludgeon, rage, twang, tear, clutch, and shriek. The power of the book is not only in scene or descriptions, but in the rhetorical fireworks of the dialogue, again with figures drawn from nature: I perceive that people in these regions acquire over people in towns the value that a spider in a dungeon does over a, spider in a cottage (chapter 7). LESSON DEPARTMENT Treachery and violence are spears at both ends—they wound those who resort to them, worse than their enemies (chapter 17). Throughout the novel, it is the extremes of emotion which are important; the causes of emotion are neither explained nor acknowledged. Protest Against Spiritual Restraints The following excerpts reveal the power of descriptions in the novel: Joseph, the servant: you saw him, I daresay, up yonder. He was, and is yet most likely, the wearisomest, self-righteous Pharisee that ever ransacked a Bible to rake the promises to himself and fling the curses to his neighbors (chapter 5, paragraph 3). My love for Linton is like the foliage in the woods: time will change it, I'm well aware, as winter changes the trees. My love for Heathcliff resembles the eternal rocks beneath: a source of little visible delight, but necessary. Nelly, I am Heathcliff! He's always, always in my mind: not as a pleasure, any more than I am always a pleasure to myself, but as my own being (chapter 9). One time, however, we were near quarrelling. He said the pleasantest manner of spending a hot July day was lying from morning till evening on a bank of heath in the middle of the moors, with the bees humming dreamily about among the bloom, and the larks singing high up ovethead, and the blue sky and bnght sun shining steadily and cloudlessly. 'That was his most perfect idea of Heaven's happiness: mine was rocking in a rustling green tree, with a west wind blowing, and bright white clouds flitting rapidly above; and not only larks, but throstles, and blackbirds, and linnets, and cuckoos pouring out music on every side, and the moors seen at a distance, broken into cool dusky dells; but close by great swells of long grass undulating in waves to the breeze; and woods and sounding water, and the whole world awake and wild with joy (chapter 24). 775 Just as Emily Bronte felt smothered by the rigid social code which kept her father far distant from his children, which enforced loneliness and disdain upon old maids, and which was often concerned with the outer shell and appearance of religious and political institutions, so, in her novel, she releases her inner turmoil in her personal world of complete, inner freedom — a dream world of innocent, inevitable nature where only the laws of its own order are obeyed. Although her art was extremely subjective, welling up from the realm of the unconscious to be expressed on the page with stirring dramatic power, Miss Bronte's attitude toward her characters was one of complete detachment and amazing innocence. Often her vivid imaginings are truer than she knew. In her novel is the great incarnation of the tensions which Emily Bronte suffered: the struggle and contrast between the gigantic disorder which she sees everywhere about her, and the inner peace which her poems express. The novel is so powerful because of the many tensions it contains: between romance and social restraint; between the innocent peace of childhood and the stern, sometimes cruel realities of maturity; between mythical force and rural isolation; between a brutal nature and over-polite civilization; between material and spiritual values, or the Other World as opposed to This World; between death of the spirit through resignation and inertia as opposed and subdued by achieving life through self-expression, action, and liberty. In the final analysis Wuthering Heights, indeed the entire existence 776 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1954 of Emily Bronte, is a magnificent most difficult to analyze — namely, protest against those easy, man-made the soul of man itself. Restraints which wither the spirit. Oucstions en the Lesson Her great plea is for liberty of the 1. What is the relation between Emily human soul—liberty which is diffiBronte's poetry and her novel? Cult to define because she deals with 2th Vidiy Ge Stee epee pict, cles. Tered existence, how do you account for the realm of values which is itself the great power and passion of her novel? Oocaal Seience— The Cansmiien of the United States (It is recommended that each Relief Society member read the text of the Constitution relating to each lesson as printed before the lesson) ARTICLE IV Section 1. Full Faith and Credit shall be given in each State to the public Acts, Records, and judicial Proceedings of every other State. And the Congress may by general Laws prescribe the Manner in which such Acts, Records and Proceedings shall be proved, and the Effect thereof. Section 2. The Citizens of each State shall be entitled to all Privileges and Immunities of Citizens in the several States. A Person charged in any State with Treason, Felony, or other Crime, who shall flee from Justice, and be found in another State, shall on demand of the executive Authority of the State from which he fled, be delivered up, to be removed to the State having Jurisdiction of the Crime. No Person held to Service or Labor in one State, under the Laws thereof, escaping into another, shall, in Consequence of any Law or Regulation therein, be discharged from such Service or Labor, but shall be delivered up on Claim of the Party to whom such Service or labor may be due. Section 3. New States may be admitted by the Congress into this Union; but no new State shall be formed or erected within the Jurisdiction of any other State; nor any State be formed by the Junction of two or more States, or parts of States, without the Consent of the Legislatures of the States concerned as well as of the Congress. The Congress shall have Power to dispose of and make all needful Rules and Regulations respecting the Territory or other Property belonging tu the United States; and nothing in this Constitution shall be so construed as to Prejudice any Claims of the United States, or of any particular State. Section 4, The United States shall guarantee to every State in this Union a Republican Form of Government, and shall protect each of them against Invasion; and on Application of the Legislature, or of the Executive (when the Legislature cannot be convened) against domestic Violence. ARTICLE V The Congress, whenever two-thirds of both Houses shall deem it necessary, shall propose Amendments to this Constitution, or, on the Application of the Legislatures of two-thirds of the several States, shall call a Convention for proposing Amendments, which, in either Case, shall be valid to all Intents and Purposes, as part of this Constitution, when ratified by the Legislatures of three-fourths of the several States, or by Conven- LESSON DEPARTMENT 777 tions in three-fourths thereof, as the one or the other Mode of Ratification may be proposed by the Congress; Provided that no Amendment which may be made prior to the Year One thousand eight hundred and eight shall in any Manner affect the first and fourth Clauses in the Ninth Section of the first Article; and that no State, without its Consent, shall be deprived of its equal Suftrage in the Senate. ARTICLE VI All Debts contracted and Engagements entered into, before the Adoption of this Constitution, shall be as valid against the United States under this Constitution as the Confederation. This Constitution, and the Laws of the United States which shall be made in Pursuance thereof; and all Treaties made, or which shall be made, under the Authority of the United States, shall be the supreme Law of the Land; and the Judges in every State shall be bound thereby, any Thing in the Constitution or Laws of any State to the Contrary notwithstanding. The Senators and Representatives before mentioned, and the Members of the several State Legislatures, and all executive and judicial Officers, both of the United States and of the several States, shall be bound by Oath or Affirmation, to support this Constitution; but no religious Test shall ever be required as a Qualification to any Office or public Trust under the United States. ArtTicLe VII The Ratification of the Conventions of nine States shall be sufficient for the Establishment of this Constitution between the States so ratifying the Same. ARTICLES In ADDITION TO, AND AMENDMENT OF, Tue CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA ARTICLE | Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press; or the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to petition the Government for a redress of grievances. ARTICLE II A well regulated Militia, being necessary to the security of a free State, the right of the people to keep and bear Arms shall not be infringed. ARTICLE III No Soldier shall, in time of peace be quartered in any house, without the consent of the Owner, nor in time of war, but in a manner to be prescribed by law. ARTICLE IV The right of the people to be secure in their persons, houses, papers, and effects, against unreasonable searches and seizures, shall not be violated and no Warrants shall issue, but upon probable cause, supported by Oath or affirmation, and particularly describing the place to be searched, and the person or things to be seized. Lesson 11—Its Form and Content—Articles IV, V, VI, and VII and Bill of Rights, First Four Amendments Elder Albert R. Bowen Texts: Your Rugged Constitution, (Y. R. C.), pp. 157-203; The Constitution of the United States, Its Sources and Its Application, (C. Of U. S.), pp. 156-210. For Tuesday, February 1955* Objective: To study the relationship between the National Government and the states; the provisions for amendment of the Constitution; the miscellaneous provisions; and the first four Amendments in the Bill of Rights. N the two previous lessons we have studied the first three Articles of the Constitution which deal with the three separate departments of Government: namely, the Legislative, the Executive, and Judicial Departments. We shall now consider the remaining four Articles of the Constitution as _ originally framed. Article [V—Relationship Between States and Federal Government (Y. R. C. Pp. 157-169; C. Of U. S. Pp. 156-169). Section 1 provides that "Full Faith and Credit shall be given in each State to the public Acts, Records, and judicial Proceedings of every other State." In other words, no state may refuse recognition to such public acts, records, or judicial proceedings of every other state. They must be given the same recognition to which they would be entitled in the state where made. As an example, a marriage performed in one state and recognized by the laws of that state is good in every other state. Section 2, clause 1 provides that "The Citizens of each State shall be entitled to all Privileges and Immunities of Citizens in the several States." This provision of the Constitution has been further extended by the Fourteenth Amendment. The object of this provision is to prevent a citizen of one state from being considered or treated as an alien in another state. 'Thus, if a citizen of California goes to Oregon, he is entitled to all the privileges enjoyed by a citizen of Oregon. Privileges and immunities are the fundamental privileges enjoyed under all free governments. Section 2, clause 2 provides for the extradition of criminals who flee from justice into another state from the one in which the crime was committed. Upon application of the aggrieved state, the governor of the state to which the fugitive from justice has flown is bound to deliver the fugitive to the authorities of the state making the demand for his return. Section 3 provides for the admission of new states and territories to the Union. Congress has this power of admission exclusively. The only limitation on the power is that in creating a new state, Congress may not take away any territory from an existing state without its consent. "It is recommended that those Relief Societies whose meeting date would fall on February 22d, use the fifth Tuesday in March to bring the social science lessons upto-date. 778 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1954 LESSON DEPARTMENT By this section also Congress has the power to make rules and regulations respecting territories of the United States, to dispose of their property. Section 4 guarantees each state a republican form of government and imposes upon the United States the duty to protect each state from invasion, and upon application of the state, from domestic violence. Article V—Method of Amending Constitution (Y. R. C., pp. 171-179; C. Of U. S., pp. 170-175) Article V of the Constitution outlines the method of amending the Constitution. 'This may be ac complished by both houses of Congress presenting a joint resolution of amendment to the legislatures of the various states. Upon adoption of such joint resolution by threefourths of the states, the Amendment becomes effective. This method of amendment is the one which has been universally followed in all the amendments thus far adopted. The other method of amendment provided in the Constitution is for the legislatures of two-thirds of the states to apply to Congress for the calling of a convention to propose amendments to the Constitution. Amendments proposed by such a convention become operative when adopted by the legislatures of threefourths of the states. Article VI—Supremacy of Constitution (Y. R. C., pp. 181-187; C. Of U. S., pp. 176 184) Article VI of the Constitution contains its general provisions. Section 1 made the debts of the National Government, prior to adop- 779 tion of the Constitution, the debts of the new Government. Clause 2 provides that the Constitution of the United States, the laws of the United States made in pursuance thereof, and all treaties made under the authority of the United States, the supreme law of the land. 'The judges in all states are bound thereby, anything in the law or Constitution of any state to the contrary notwithstanding. Clause 3 provides that all Senators and Representatives of the United States, members of state legislatures, and all executive and judicial officers of the United States, and of the several states, shall be bound by oath or affirmation to support the Constitution of the United States. Article VIJ—Ratification of Constitution (Y. R. C., pp. 189-193; C. Of U. S., pp. 185-192) Article VII provided that upon ratification by the conventions of mine states the Constitution should be established. Nine state conventions had acted by June 21, 1788. Bill of Rights (C. Of U. S., pp. 194- 197) In 1789, the first Congress assembled under the new Constitution submitted to the states twelve proposed Amendments to the Constitution. 'Ten of these Amendments were adopted by the requisite threefourths of the states and became a part of our Constitution on June 15, 1791. These first Ten Amendments are popularly known as the "Bill of Rights." In this lesson we are considering only the first four Amendments of the Bill of Rights. During the debates on the question of the adoption of the Consti- tution, the criticism most frequently leveled against it was that it contained no Bill of Rights to guarantee what were considered the fundamental rights of the individual against encroachment by the Government. Such formal statements or guarantees were a common feature of the state constitutions. Ideas contained in these Amendments stemmed from declarations as far back as Magna Charta (1215). They found expression in the English Petition of Right of 1628 and the English Bill of Rights of 1688. They were proclaimed by the Stamp Act Congress of 1765, the First Continental Congress of 1774, and by the Declaration of Independence. These pronouncements were so deeply imbedded in the thinking of Americans that formal, written recognition of them was deemed vital to the popular acceptance of the new Government. The guarantees and prohibitions contained in the first Ten Amendments apply only to the National Government and not to the states. Most state constitutions, however, contain similar pronouncements as restrictions upon the state governments, forbidding their encroachment into the basic individual rights and liberties of their citizens. First Amendment Freedom of Religion, Press, Speech, Assembly, and Petition (Y. R. C., pp. 196-197; C. Of U. S., pp. 197- 206) Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press; or the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to petition the Government for a redress of grievances, It will be remembered that many of the colonists left England because of religious persecution. Laws were enacted in England which required the people to support the established church whether or not they belonged to it. At times the persecution of the non-conformists was very severe. In nearly all of the colonies provision was made by law for the support of an established church. Strangely enough some of the colonial governments were guilty of religious persecution of nonconformists, notwithstanding they themselves had been the victims of such treatment. Rhode Island was one colony which was founded upon the proposition of complete religious freedom and the complete separation of church and state. This principle was adopted by the First Amendment. This amendment also prohibits Congress from passing any law interfering with complete freedom of individual conscience. Every person in this country is guaranteed the privilege of believing or accepting, or not believing or accepting any religious principle he chooses to espouse or reject. However, it must be remembered that the First Amendment does not permit individuals to break the law under the guise of belief. Thus the laws may not be broken and immunity therefrom claimed because illegal practices are advocated and taught under the guise of religion. Neither can an individual refuse to support the Government, such as in time of war, because he belongs to a church which repudiates war on any ground or reason and even though grounded upon religious belief. Thus the so-called "'conscientious objector" is 780 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1954 LESSON DEPARTMENT not excused from supporting the Government in time of war. Freedom of speech and of the press are two of the great mghts guaranteed to citizens by the First Amendment. Such freedom of expression was one of the rights most dearly cherished by the founding fathers and was a principle for which they had been required to fight throughout the struggle with the English government. It was but natural that the protection of these great rights should have been uppermost in the minds of the founding fathers. A citizen may therefore speak and write anything he chooses so long as he does not violate the laws against defamation of character which we know commonly as libel and slander. Libelous and slanderous writing and sayings are punishable under the law; and a person guilty of either is subject to payment of damages to the aggrieved party. | The right to free speech and press is not unlimited. One may criticize or say anything one chooses against the Government so long as it is honest criticism. One may not, on the other hand, incite treason or rebellion against the Government under the guise of freedom of speech and press. Similarly, one may not abuse this great privilege of free constructive criticism to cripple the necessary operations of Government. 'This is true, especially, in time of war. The Supreme Court of the United States has said the following on this subject: Freedom of the press may protect criticism and agitation for modification or repeal of laws, but it does not extend to protection of him who counsels and encourages the violation of the law as it exists. The Constitution was adopted to 78) preserve our government, not to serve as a protecting screen for those who, while claiming its privileges, scek to destroy. It. Other great principles of the First Amendment are the protection of the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to petition Government for redress of grievances. The assembly, however, must be peaceable and must not violate the rights of other citizens. Furthermore, public meetings of this character are subject to regulations designed to safeguard the public order and to insure others of the right to the use of the streets and other public places to which they are likewise equally entitled. The right to petition for redress is a basic right of all free peoples and may not be denied under our Constitution. Second Amendment — Right to Bear Arms (Y. R. C.,, pp. 198-199; C. Of U. S., p. 206). A well regulated Militia, being necessary to the security of a free State, the tight of the people to keep and bear Arms shall not be infringed. In the Declaration of Independence complaint was made that kings had disarmed the people. This amendment was intended as a safeguard against Government usurpation of authority not given by the Constitution to the National Government. This does not, however, confer upon the lawless the right to carry concealed and dangerous weapons for the purpose of preying upon other citizens. The traffic in and sale of firearms may be regulated by law. Amendment Two guarantees that the weapons to make secure the militia for the protection of the people may not be denied to the people. ORGAN BOOKS for Church and Home. At the Console—Hammond Ongom.........2......2222..--2...-- 1.50. At the Console—Consonata Organes:...2....35..-- 1.50.. Chancel Echoes—Hammond ONngGiNny..... 2222... -sexen-----2--- 1.50. Chancel Echoes—Consonata OFQ@an..........-----. Cecssze------- 1.50. Consonata Concert Album —Vols. 1 & 2...........- ea. 1.00. Devotional Organ Album— a 2 2.50. Lorenz Folio of One Page Voluntaries—Vols. 1, 2, 3,08....:...._..2 eeea. 1.25. Music For the Consonata— Vels.. 1 G2...)ea. 1.50 - Organ Musings............-..- 1.50. Organ Voluntaries— Schreiner—Vols. 1 & 2, ea. 3.50.. Organ Melodies—Landon.. 1.50. Preludes For Service........ 1.25 — Music Sent on Approval — Use this advertisement as your order blank DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 45-47 South Main Salt Lake City 1, Utah | | | \ Please send the music indicated above. F (1 On Approval (1 Charge | I ( Money Enclosed ' \! T i) | \ t ddress QO FZ ity & State U PTTTOTTUPTTTT EY $47 sour mn WT) Sal, Cry {145 NORTH UNIVERSITY, PROVO # 2260 WASHINGTON BLYD., OGDEN Third Amendment — Quartering of Soldiers (Y. R. C., pp. 200-201; C. Of U. S., page 207) No Soldier shall, in time of peace be quartered in any house, without the consent of the Owner, nor in time of war but in a manner to be prescribed by Jaw. The colonists were particularly sensitive to the quartering of troops in their midst by the British Crown. They looked upon the soldiers which King George III sent to America as a menace to their liberties. 'They voiced objection to the practice in the Declaration of Independence. In early times kings resorted to the practice of quartering troops upon rebellious subjects, or upon one who had incurred the royal disfavor, as a means of punishment. They also sent troops into localities or towns and required the inhabitants to take them into their homes and feed them. Oftentimes this was required without any payment or reimbursement for such expense to the owner. Standing armies were regarded as the instruments of lawless power. It will be remembered that many of the troops sent to America prior to the Revolution were mercenary troops rented to the British by the Hessian princes. Fourth Amendment — Arrests and Searches — Warrants (Y. R. C., pp. 201-102; C. Of U. S., pp. 208-210) The right of the people to be secure in their persons, houses, papers, and effects, against unreasonable searches and seizures, shall not be violated, and no Warrants shall issue, but upon probable cause, supported by Oath or affirmation, and _particularly describing the place to be searched, and the persons or things to be seized. 782 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1954 LESSON DEPARTMENT In colonial times it was common ractice for magistrates to issue what were called "Writs of Assistance." These documents were general search warrants which permitted officers to invade homes and private premises where they suspected illegal goods might be concealed or where suspected persons might be hiding. This form of warrant had also been used in England; and there were cases in England where such writs had been used to secure evidence to convict men of crimes. The early Americans strongly resented this practice and fought against it. It was regarded as illegal; a violation of the ancient English axiom that "A man's home is his castle." Under this Amendment it is guaranteed that no search of private premises may be made to apprehend a person suspected of crime, or a seizure made of private papers without a warrant sworn to under oath describing or naming the person and the articles to be seized. The Fourth Amendment protects every citizen against unauthorized invasion of his premises and seizure of his private effects and papers. No person may be searched unless he is lawfully arrested or charged with a crime. Furthermore, seizure of private papers to be used as evidence in court against the owner is tantamount to making him give testimony against himself, which is prohibited by the Fifth Amendment. Questions on the Lesson 1. What is the meaning of "Full Faith and Credit" under the Constitution? 2. Describe briefly how the "Privileges and Immunities" of each citizen are protected by the Constitution. 3. How are new states and territories admitted to the Union? 783 Europe In 1959 For Details Write or Phone: VIDA FOX CLAWSON 966 East South Temple SALT LAKE CITY 2, UTAH Phone: 4-2017 4. Does the Constitution prescribe the form of Government of the states? What form is prescribed? 5. By what method may the Constitution be amended? 6. What constitutes the "Supreme Law of the Land" under the Constitution? 7. Why are the first Ten Amendments to the Constitution called the "Bill of Rights"? 8. What was the "Bill of Rights" designed to accomplish? G. How did the founding fathers regard a state supported church? 10. Does "Freedom of Conscience" sanction unlawful acts in the name of religion? 11. How far may a citizen go in his criticism of the Government? 12. What are the limits of the right of assembly under the Constitution? 13. Under the Second Amendment may all citizens carry weapons? Why not? 14. How are the rights of citizens protected by the Fourth Amendment? Electricity does so much, costs so little. Nea UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. It's awaiting You... Y®S there is still a tremendous amount of outstanding instruction and use awaiting you in this and other copies of the Relief Society Magazine. Your editions may be handsomely bound at the West's finest bindery and printing plant for $2.50 cloth bound and $3.50 leather bound per volume plus postage for mail orders. Follow these postage rates if you send your order by mail: Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles 0035 150 to 300 miles 39 300 to 600 miles...... 45 600 to 1000 miles..... 1000 to 1400 miles.. 1400 to 1800 miles.. Py. Over 1800 miles.... 2. B87 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press 31 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah. Phone 4-2581 te Different Christmas WVrea th Elizabeth Waulliamson 7 a, Pe Vara es Cass ies a A very attractive and fragrant gift which you can make at the holiday season for your friends who love to cook is an herb wreath. Around a wire frame, not more than twelve inches in diameter, tie on, as the base, rosemary branches. Add pieces of sage, bay leaves, thyme, and basil. Wrap up small onions in red cellophane. Wrap pieces of garlic in white cellophane. Tie on small red peppercorns. These will add color accent to the wreath. The wreath can be hung above the stove, where it will be convenient and inspirational for the soups, meats, stews, and omelettes. These herb wreaths make fine bazaar gifts, and you will find them disappearing very rapidly. Reflection Pansye H. Powell As the smallest drop of dew Reflects each rainbow hue, A little child may be Proof of Divinity. 784 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1954 ened von na Tete FOR MOMENTS OF ae RX aon COLONIA JUAREZ pepury HACK NELLE SPI CLL N PTL SPIRITUAL READING 1. ISRAEL! DO YOU KNOW?— Le Grand Richards With missionary vigor, the author reminds Jewish people everywhere of the great promise made to them, how the reuniting of the House of Joseph and the House of Judah will be accomplished, and how it is presently being fulfilled. The book has vitality, is easy to read, and clearly interprets the Divine purpose of the Lord. $2.00 2. COLONIA JUAREZ—Nelle Spilsbury Hatch Here's the colorful and exciting story of one of the most fabulous towns on the American continent. It's written by an excellent story teller who has a thorough, first-hand knowledge of the town's amazing history, and who relates with warmth and feeling many of the human experiences of its populace. $3.50 3. STALWARTS OF MORMONISM— Preston Nibley A collection of brief pioneer biographies comprises the text of this handsome volume. The stories reveal the stalwart character of L. D. S. Men and women who lived unselfishly and followed the path of righteousness. Life experiences in this book range from the poet who wrote by the light of the campfire to the Old World artisan who helped to pioneer the industrial development of Zion. $2.50 4. FOR TIME OR ETERNITY—Mark E. Petersen All parents will be delighted with this book. Written in simple story form, it relates the experiences of Sue and Bob as they make preparations for a Temple Marriage. Invaluable for instruction purposes, it thoroughly explains the spiritual symbolism and the true significance of the Temple Marriage ordinance. $2.00 J Gentlemen: | Enclosed you will find ( ) check ( ) money order ( ) | charge to my account the fellowing amount $ for the encircled (numbered) books: } 2 3 4 j Name: | Address ss —— - | City Fre.... Zone State | 4 Residents of Utah include 2% sales tax ' MT J-S 4-223-20416 DEC, and through the town Tht the hig ay < house well hie, She 0 ful P pumpkin i You needn't be a grandmother, of course —or even a mother—to make the finest pumpkin pie anybody ever put a fork to. Mary Lee Taylor's recipe and Sego Milk's creamy goodness practically guarantee enthusiastic praise. You don't need butter—or cream, either —for this pumpkin pie. And only one lone egg for each big delicious pie you make. That's part of the magic of Sego Milk. It takes the place of costlier ingredients in so many tempting © You'll make this pie? Good! It will be! HOMacENNED ye i pers dno! Thing that makes in l l i t | I | Mary Lee Taylor's MUSBAND-TESTED PUMPKIN PIE RECIPE Turn on oven and set at 450° (extremely hot). Mix in a bowl % cup brown SUGAR 1 tablespoon FLOUR 2 teaspoon SALT 24 teaspoons PUMPKIN PIE SPICE Add and stir until smooth 1% cups cooked or canned PUMPKIN 1% cups SEGO MILK 1 slightly beaten EGG 2 tablespoons dark MOLASSES Pour into a 9-in. Pie pan lined with unbaked pastry made with pie crust mix. Bake on center rack of oven 15 minutes, then reduce heat to 325° (low moderate). Bake about 40 minutes, or until firm. Cool before serving. 1 1 I I l | I | [ I l L and nutritious dishes. Vaporal DECEMBER 1954 oo ond uU es = 7 oO —_ " c fe] 2) " @o —_ & | et Again this year... Thousands of women will make delicious Fruit Cake with no baking! Fruit Cake bright with festive color, and superbly rich, moist and mellow. And—you make it with a simple twist of your wrist. It never gets near your oven. The secret is the rich creamy Sego Milk which blends magically with the other good things— graham crackers, marshmallows, orange juice, spices, raisins, nuts, dates and candied fruit ~< —to produce a holiday masterpiece. Try it. You'll save time. And you'll have a perfect cake that costs much less than any you could buy HOMOGENIZED. EVapoRATeEe Tew ry ul pane: sens. Eure ee Qe FESTIVE FRUIT CAKE 1. Line bottom and sides of 5-cup loaf or tube pan with waxed paper. 2. Put % cup Sego Evaporated Milk, 16 finely-cut marshmallows, and 3 tablesp. Orange juice into a bowl and let stand until needed. 3. Roll 4 dozen 22-inch graham crackers into fine crumbs. 4. Put crumbs into a large bowl with '4 teasp. Cinnamon, nutmeg, ' teasp. Cloves, | cup seedI I I i I | I I l less raisins (dark or light), % cup | I l l [ I I l I l ie A teasp. Finely-cut dates, % cup broken English walnuts. 3. Add % cup ready-mixed, cut-up candied fruit.* 6. Add milk mixture and mix with spoon, then with hands, until crumbs are moistened. Press firmly into pan. Top with fruit and nuts. Cover tightly. Chill two days before slicing, and keep in a cool place. (*Or cup finely-cut candied pineapple, /s cup finely-cut candied cherries, and 2 tablesp. Finelycut candied orange pecl.) oe DOWNSTAIRS as % M, + STORE give her a Lady Gay —_ bet sleeping <=; beauty — A gift to delight, come Christmas morning. So nicely detailed and cut for comfort and fit. Round or VCrossNeck styles in pink, blue or yellow. | Rayon in S, M, L, 2.98; XL, 3.98. Nylon and rayon in S, M, L, 3-98. Mail orders to: MARGOT MANNERS, ZCMI Salt Lake City 10, Utah Please send the following Lady Gay Gowns. Quon. Fabric Size | Color | Price Cash D Chorge c.0.0. O Ninrni ee) sevieaaaiecennestsvamemenasion oie. Ov oniea n aMETOT a TINTTOS Address.... CY. Eseeesese ce cecece cece enseer OMG co SIOTE cv sescscennees Include 20¢ postage for first gown, 7¢ for each additional, Utah residents add 2% Tox, From Near and Sar My dear mother-in-law gave me a subscription to The Relief Society Magazine four years ago while my husband, who is a naval officer, was stationed in Newport, Rhode Island. It was while we were attending the Newport Branch that I discovered Relief Society.... The presiding elder called me to be president. What a wonderful experience!... I have been literature class leader for the past year and have been grateful for our San Diego Stake literature class leader, Betty Westwood. I want to add my thanks for The Relief Society Magazine and the inspiring contents thereof, special features, editorials, lessons, poetry, general features, features for the home, etc... I especially want to thank Lucile Tournear for her inspirational story "New Light" in the August Magazine. I shed tears each time I read it. —Sarah L. Hinchcliff Chula Vista Ward San Diego Stake, California I can never explain how I love the little book — the Magazine — for I read it from cover to cover, then the lessons over and over. You put a little piece on the Near and Far page with my name on it. I received a card from one of my friends in Hawaii on a mission, Hazel Poulsen Snow. She is a grandmother and a widow, and I hadn't heard from her for years. There she was reminded of me by that little book carrying a message in that faraway land! Then, down in Florida, Hazel Clark, a friend from Bancroft, saw my name and wrote me a letter.... She told me how she loved the Magazine. My near friends also said they saw my name, and a cousin in California I had almost lost track of. I think it should almost be called a Magazine of happiness. —Zetta H. Ormond Bancroft, Idaho I enjoy the Magazine very much. As soon as it comes I usually sit down and tread it from cover to cover as soon as I can. —Mrs. Heber L. Olson Logan, Utah Page 786 I have six daughters. All are in Relief Society, one president, two social science: class leaders, one theology class leader, one stake board member, and one who helps with the work meetings. I started out as a secretary and have been active ever since. I taught the theology lessons until illness in 1940 prevented me from being able always to attend meetings. Now that I cannot attend meeting, I still enjoy the wonderful Relief Society Magazine. It is so spiritual. —Rebecca Harris Heyburn, Idaho I do so much enjoy all the wonderful articles in the best Magazine of all—The Relief Society Magazine. I get so much pleasure reading each one of the stories and poems, and enjoy the interesting way in which the stories are told of our leading men of the Church. —Mrs. Gladys B. Thomas Pasadena, California The Magazine is so wonderful I would not want to miss one issue, as each is read by my family from cover to cover. We live forty-four miles from any organization of any kind and so are not able to get to meetings very often. I do miss my Relief Society very much, as we used to live at Conrad, and I was the president of the first Relief Society ever organized there, five years ago. I do keep up on all my lessons and scripture reading. Life would be very unhappy if I did not have my Magazine. —Mrs. Clarence J. Peterson Chester, Montana I love the Magazine and have had many happy surprises from it, finding the pictures of cousins and girlhood frends suddenly looking out at me, and I have thrilled with them at the prizes they have taken. The only fault I have ever found with our Magazine is that there is never enough of it to stretch from one month to the next. —Bernice Edrington Roosevelt, Utah THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - First Counselor Velma N. Simonsen - - - - - _ Second Counselor Margaret C. Pickering - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Mary G. Judd Evon W. Peterson Christine H. Robinson Charlotte A. Larsen Anna B. Hart ' Leone O. Jacobs Alberta H. Christensen Edith P. Backman Edith S. Elliott Louise W. Madsen Mildred B. Eyring Winniefred S. Florence J. Madsen Aleine M. Young Helen W. Anderson Manwaring Leone G. Layton Josie B. Bay Gladys S. Boyer Elna P. Haymond Blanche B. Stoddard RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Edito - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawtord General Manager - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Vol. 41 DECEMBER 1954 No. 12 omens SPECIAL FEATURES Contributions of the Church to Home and Family 22....0..00.0-ccocccsceccseccseeceeseeseceesesStephen L Richards 790 The Annual General Relief Society Conference—1954 a. Margaret C. Pickering 799 The Relief Society Building Cornerstone-Laying Ceremony........... 801 FICTION Sek "fOr they iitpeeenres ee co ccceesccececneconsosseneccecneecusoeconcenecesseyeityeneaceasees! Beatrice R. Parsons 813 Contentment Is a Lovely Thing—Chapter 3 a sencsneeeee---Dorothy S. Romney 833 "As Little Children' ee weneecaciiisc-Virginia M. Kammeyer 838 GENERAL FEATURES From Near and Far.. 7 786 Sixty Years Ago........ = rr 820 Woman's Sphere. Ee ee eee. Ramona W. Cannon 821 Editorial: The 125th Sem nua! Church Conference........ Marianne C. Sharp 822 The Meaning of December for Latter-day Saints.0..0..0............ Vesta P. Crawford 824 ee. Cme... - Ida M. Pardue 826 ee a. Sesetsstneseeeseesereeeeeee--Llizabeth Williamson 827 ee —e cetecssntseteeerereerereeeeeee Helen §. Williams 828 Homebound Woman Makes Hand-Pieced Quilts (Marinda Christena Peterson) ceccecceccescecsecssssse 832 LESSONS FOR MARCH Theology: Moroni and the Nephite Armies Serve Their Country and Their Ciuiichy cee... ES Leland H. Monson 840 Visiting Teacher Messages: ''... As Ye Have Begun to Teach the Word Even So I Would That Ye Should Continue to Teach' Leone O. Jacobs 845 Rhea H. Gardner 846 Literature: Victorian Humorists = ee BaBriant S. Jacobs 848 Social Science: The Constitution of the United States — The Bill of Rights — Amendments Five Through Ten Albert R. Bowen 854 POETRY; A Sign for Zarahemla — Frontispiece.......0......-....- Lael W. Hill 789 The Winter Heart 0.0... Ececcccececeseceesecesceseeseteseee cesses 3 Maryhale Woolsey 798 Country Houses oeMargaret Evelyn Singleton 819 The Paper Santa Claus ' Elsie McKinnon Strachan 825 Throu Your Eyes sete Bernice T. Clayton 825 One Story a. Gene Romolo 832 Turntable SFMaud Rubin 837 From an Old Trunk a Angelyn W. Wadley 837 There Will Always Be a Christmas Adelia M. Pierce 844 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 40 North Main, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 4-2511:; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 8, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. A Sign for Learahemla Lael W. Hill Now it came to pass that there was a day set apart by the unbelievers, that all those who believed... Should be put to death except the sign should come... (III Nephi 1:9). In a far land there were also those who waited Watching for a sign, Six hundred years and the world's diameter away. Six hundred years of struggle through wars and wiles That beat like waves on sand and stone Upon their spirits, The world's diameter from where their fathers Walked beside old seas, along the ancient river, They kept the same commandments—and waited.... Now, in the land that was long ago as legend, The young wife bore her Child God-given to the world And angel voices woke the celebrant echoes.... Afar in this other place, too, Faith held reward And there was great rejoicing, when night Shone bright as the days it stood between, And the new star blazed in heaven. Always, the Father watches and fulfills his own; They that believe receive his blessing Though feet must follow a strange and difficult way. Through cleft and shadow, apart from familiar hills And from the intimate fields, He shall go with them as ever he has gone, Sharing his truth and his eternal promise— So there shall be forever and forever No darkness in the night. The Cover: The Sistine Madonna, from a Painting by Raphael Frontispiece: Madonna and Child, from a painting by Edward Steinbrueck from Camera Clix, New York Cover Design by Evan Jensen Contributions of the Church to Home and Family President Stephen L Richards Of the First Presidency [Address Delivered at the Annual General Relief Society Conference, ~ September 30, 1954] scene of beauty stretches out before me. I compare it to the symphonies of autumnal colors which grace the mountainsides in these days. 'The intelligence, the profundity of thought and wisdom inherent within this great organization have been amply attested in the outstanding addresses to which we have listened. 'Thank the Lord for them. The culture, the refinement, and aesthetic taste have surely been manifest in the beautiful music to which we have listened. I assure you, my dear sisters, that I regard it as a high privilege and honor to have the privilege of addressing this great conference of Relief Society workers. Ever since I received the invitation from Sister Spafford and her counselors, I have pondered most seriously what I should say, and I have prayed for direction. I feel, however, that you may feel a little disappointed when I tell you that I have decided to bring to your attention a theme which has no novelty to engage your attention. My subject is a very old one, yet perhaps I need not make apologies for the choice of it because current conditions bring it forcefully to the forefront of our consideration. I propose to speak to you on the "Contributions of the Church to Home and Family." It will be obvious | think, that I contemplate Page 790 a review, necessarily hurried, of a number of items. The first contribution which the Church makes comes from its theology—the theology derived from the revelations, mostly new and concurrent with the restoration of the gospel in the latter dispensation. Members of the Church will understand how this new and comprehensive theology is made particularly plain in the temples of our Lord. This latter-day theology clarifies much of the ancient scripture and gives a vastly enlarged concept of what is and perhaps always has been the major concern of man, namely, to know his place in the universe, and in the whole eternal scheme of things. We can scarcely appreciate what an intimate bearing this fundamental theology makes to all phases of our lives and our relationships among men. It is particularly pertinent to an adequate understanding of home and family. When you understand that all people had an ante-mortal existence, and that the spirits of all, which is the enduring, life-giving, intelligence within them, are in very truth the spirit children of our Father and our Creator, you cannot— unless your senses and your conscience have become corroded and calloused by sin and indifference— you cannot look upon a human be- CONTRIBUTIONS OF THE CHURCH ing as merely a chemical organism whose breathing may be snuffed out with impunity or complacency. Would that all men could be brought to an acute realization that killing the body does not kill the spirit, and that some day the spirits of those who have been the victims of tyranny, oppression, and even neglect, will arise to accuse their oppressors, and that the God of justice will impose the penalty. My sisters, you may think that this revealed principle, demanding respect and justice for the spirit children of our Father tabernacled in the bodies of men, applies chiefly, if not entirely, to the tyrants and oppressors of the race throughout the world. It goes much further. It has application in all our living, and particularly in relation to the family. I know of no more salutary principle in all our theology than that a home is a religious institution, into which the Father permits his spirit children to come and abide in mortal tabernacles, and that the mission, the predominant, transcendent mission of parenthood is to bring the spirit children entrusted to their care back into the presence of the Father, prepared through the tuition, experiences, and wise guidance of the parents to go on and on in eternal progression to the achievement of the highest destiny ever revealed for man. I have no hesitancy in making the declaration that if that mission for the home could be understood and accepted by the parents of the world, it would furnish the basis of solution for all the problems of the world. I am aware that many will say that all this is visionary, utopian, 791 and unattainable. I am not willing to yield to that criticism. If you will bear with me I propose to point out some ways and means by which this glorious concept of home and family may be made to bring about great and good results to all society. HERE are many sins of omission as well as commission. 'The Church teaches that it is an offense against the Lord to wilfully and knowingly neglect opportunities and obligations to do good. 'Those who are the victims of neglect will be righteous accusers, just as those who are the victims of tyranny and oppression. At times I wonder if the children of the world at the judgment day may not constitute the greatest and most justified body of accusers coming out of the world. Such a thought makes me pause and reflect. It may have the same effect on you. This noble concept of family life places the emphasis where it truly belongs. It recognizes the value of education and parental guidance to make out of children doctors, lawyers, teachers, and artisans who can effectively serve their fellow men. All education for service and worthy accomplishment is commended, but sight is never lost, not for a moment, of the prime and ultimate objective to bring the child back to God, the Eternal Parent. We observe with kindly tolerance, if not always with great enthusiasm, the boasting of parents with reference to the worthy accomplishments of their children. They are happy, and we are happy for them. We could wish that spiritual advancement might receive at least equal acclaim. Now the Church from its very be- ginning has purposely and methodically directed its endeavor to help and bless the home and children. In a measure, at least, all of its agencies contribute to this end. While it is never felt that any agency can be proxy for the home, it has caused all units in the organization to assist parents and family. In the teaching process the organizations of the Church have assumed, perhaps, a major role. Children learn the theology of the gospel almost from their infancy through institutional training in the Church. Perhaps the home has thrown a disproportionate share of this responsibility upon the teacher, because the revelations impose the primary obligation on the parents. And again, inasmuch as parents have children in Zion, or in any of her stakes which are organized, that teach them not to understand the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ the Son of the living God, and of baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of the hands, when eight years old, the sin be upon the heads of the parents (D. & C. 68:25). The Church has taken a major part in providing, also, recreational activity for children. Here, it seems to me unfortunately, parents have turned over pretty much the whole job to the Church and some of its organizations. Recreation, which has such an appeal to youth, in all too many instances has been taken entirely out of the home. I suppose it is very often considered reactionary to look back to the past, but I confess I cannot escape the conviction that more home parties, such as I knew in my youth, would contribute immeasurably to the happiness and betterment of both parents and children. Our Church teaching of youth and much of our recreational program, fortunately, have had very definite and specific aims. Generally and tangibly, these objectives are two (I wish they were always fully understood ), first, missions; second, temple marriages. The first accords with the primary revealed assignment to the Church to spread the truth, and the second is in line with the next assignment to perfect the lives of the saints, which according to our understanding, may be accomplished only through temple marriage and the family establishments that follow. I advocate a simplified and clarified understanding of these primary objectives. I realize that generalizations are easier than specific remedies and formulas, but I am sure there is far less confusion and far more concentration through unified effort if specific objectives are constantly kept before the people in all our procedures. Just think what it would mean if there could be constantly kept in the forefront of the thinking and aspirations of our youth these two lofty objectives, a mission and a temple marriage. Please do not overlook the fact that in the achievement of these aims every principle of the gospel must be incorporated into the lives of those who succeed. T seems to me almost unnecessary to propound the question before you sisters, "What does temple marriage contribute to home and family life?" Most of you are in position to testify as to the value of this unique concept, for it is unique and exclusive with the restored Church of our Redeemer, so far as 792 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1954 CONTRIBUTIONS OF THE CHURCH we know, in the whole Christian or non-Christian world. It has no counterpart, or is there any close approach to it, to its lofty and comprehensive import and concept. It is true that there may be many people all over the world, good people, who have great regard for the solidarity of the family, and who earnestly wish for its perpetuation hereafter, but as a means of bringing about a consummation of their high hopes, there is nothing anywhere comparable to the temple marriage. Temple marriage is an_ essential, necessary ordinance to make a man and a woman and their family eligible for exaltation in the presence of God the Father, and his Beloved Son. We have respect for honotable wedlock, and for good husbands, good wives, and homes built and maintained on principles of love, honor, and righteousness the world over, but we know we are tight because the Lord has revealed it, that no one can attain to the highest glory and the loftiest blessings which the Lord holds out to his children except through the sealing process which lies at the basis of temple marriage. It is difficult for many people to understand what the concept of an enduring life together means to two people who have undertaken to carty forward the great enterprise of building a home. There is probably not too much to be gained by attempting to minimize the problems inherent in such an_ enterprise. There will always be some differences in temperament, attitude, and judgment, concerning the questions to be resolved in the home. I think nearly all will agree that it would be a great thing for society if some 793 solvent could be discovered for marital irritations and home difficulties. 'Theoretically, at least, and practically, too, there is such a solvent. It arises out of this basic concept that matriage is ordained of God, and that the family is an eternal institution. 'Two people who constantly look forward to an eternal life together will be far more ready to forgive and to view with some tolerance the irritations that may beset their marital life. It is like a man going on a long journey. If his destination is London, he will not be too impatient about a few hours or even a few days delay in Chicago and New York, but if he has an appointment in Ogden, he gets pretty mad if road repairs hold him up for a half hour on the way. Married people who know they have a long journey together must learn tolerance and patience. We as a people deplore divorce. In many of its aspects it is cruel, and in some it is positively wicked. While I do not pretend to know the prevailing conditions, I was very much disturbed and dismayed to read in the paper a few days ago that Prime Minister Nehru had come out for the introduction of divorce in India. It has not been very long since the stigma of disgrace was generally placed on divorce by substantially all the better elements of our society. I well remember the rather shocking announcement made by one of the judges in this State, when I was a practicing lawyer before the courts, that he would not use his judicial powers to compel incompatible people to live together, by which he meant that in granting decrees of divorce he would go beyond the statutory grounds provided therefor. I have no way of measuring the impetus and inducement for divorce which came from that announcement. 'That judge wanted to make divorce easy. He succeeded, and the courts of pretty much our whole country have likewise suc: ceeded in making divorce so easy that it has come to be accepted as normal and without stigma. Want to tell you that divorce is not normal, and it is not without stigma. It is cruel, unspeakably cruel. To children, and to many innocent people. It is cruel to the participants themselves, filling their lives with bitterness and enmity more galling than wormwood, and the Lord in due course will rebuke this terrible wrong against the sacred institution of the home, which in his providence he has set up for the happiness and glory of mankind. Now, if there are alleviating circumstances, of course in his mercy he will consider them also. Now, it is not my purpose merely to decry the evil of divorce. I believe that there are ways available to us to reduce, or at least retard, growth of this social malady. I think we can accomplish something in the way of tempering the attitude of complete tolerance for this evil. I doubt very much that they who have broken their marriage vows stand in the same position before the Lord as those who have kept and preserved them, and I doubt, too, the wisdom of trying to make divorcees generally feel too comfortable and complacent about their status. Nearly every day or week you read in the society column of the paper where Mrs. Black announces the engagement of her daughter, Miss Green. Seldom is Father Green mentioned in connection with the forthcoming marriage of his daughter, so, socially, the poor girl has one sponsoring parent, and we take it all casually. We are accustomed to it, and I suppose we cannot do much about it, but I never fail to feel sorry for Miss Green, whose divorced and remarried mother is handling her affairs at a time when she needs the guidance and direction of the pair to whom the Lord entrusted her life for safekeeping. I suppose some of the sociologists would rap me for the statement I am making about divorce. They would probably say that it is cruel to make incompatible people live together, and that the children raised with quarreling parents will never be happy and well fitted for life. I should probably find myself in some part, at least, in agreement, but I would probably be at variance with the remedy that they suggest. I do not believe that the remedy for irritation and quarreling in_ the home is divorce. I believe that the remedy the Lord approves is repentance—repentance which demands forsaking the ways, the thoughts, and the intemperance which give rise to domestic troubles, repentance from sin in one form or another against the laws of God which makes fertile ground for dispute and contention, envy, jealousy, and hatred. I doubt very much that these social workers over the country, educated and well-intentioned as they are, understand the full meaning of repentance. I doubt that they know how to call people to repentance. In fact, I 794 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1954 CONTRIBUTIONS OF THE CHURCH know of no one who can effectively issue the call except under the spirit of our Lord who is author of the divine gift of repentance. Friends of the disturbed couples often strive for their reconciliation. I doubt that the reconciliation which is based upon a long-suffering endurance of unrighteous conduct by one of the parties is either a fair or promising solution of domestic problems. Marriage is an institution, the success of which demands highest character. 'There is no noble character without self-control and the power of resistance to evil. A marriage can succeed only on the lofty plan of righteous conduct and love, that is, a marriage which is recognized of God, and I think there should be no other kind. If there is, I don't know much about them. — cannot tell you sisters how much it pains the First Presidency and the Presiding Brethren of the Church to learn of the large numbers of our members who secure divorces. It is difficult to secure all the data which is essential for a correct appraisement of the stability of our marriages as compared with other peoples. Under conditions that are comparable, including divorce laws and their administration, we feel that the record of our people for marriage stability will stand comparison anywhere. We feel certain, too, that that record will be outstanding among those married in the temple. However good it is, it pains us grievously to see this practice of easy divorce creeping in among us. We warn our people against it, and I think we have the agencies and facilities to combat it, 795 if we will but use the opportunities effectively. I am repeating myself in part when I assert that nothing will in the long run make a more effective contribution to the stability of marriage than adequate teaching of the revealed word of God about it. It is gratifying to note the emphasis which has been placed on this teaching by all the organizations, your own Relief Society, the Sunday School, the Mutual, and some of the Priesthood quorums. I think your own organization has perhaps the greatest opportunity of all to inculcate in youth through the homes the exalted concept of marriage which the Lord has given. You have the mothers with you, and you touch the homes more inti mately than any other organization. Can you not, without ceasing, teach the mothers how to establish and maintain homes with the lofty ideals the Lord has given us? You do not need to be afraid of repetition. There is a crop of new mothers every week who need the same teaching you had when you began to build a home. The subject never becomes trite or worn out, because there is constant need for it. In your societies it is refreshing to have a course in literature, or history, but it is indispensable to keep the home in the forefront of the thinking and the attention of all your members. I am sure you can doa service to the whole community by pointing out the evils of divorce and the tragedies of broken homes. Once a month, perhaps oftener, is not too frequent to keep our people reminded of these important considerations. Now in this process of teaching the revealed truth about home and family, I hope we can get all the organizations to emphasize the subject as you do. The Priesthood quorums can, if they will, teach the men as you do the women, and heaven knows they need it. So the first great contribution which the Church can make to the home and family is that of universal teaching of the glorious principles revealed by the Lord to his people. Have thought of a few practical matters which I would like to bring to your attention. We cannot blind ourselves to the fact that we have many disturbed and undesirable home conditions among us. When divorce occurs, pitiable conditions ensue, more frequently with children and deserted mothers, which deserve and receive the attention of our duly constituted agencies. I believe we are equipped, however, to do much to prevent divorce and broken homes. In the very beginning of the latter-day work, the Lord instituted a sort of protective surveillance for all the families of the Church. Relatively small and compact groups of the people were organized into wards over whom a man of the Priesthood was appointed to preside, with special emphasis on the fatherly care he should give to those under his charge. Under him a group of Priesthood bearers, known as ward or home teachers, were called to give assistance. All these good men have been assigned to visit the homes of the people for the purpose of inquiring into all matters pertaining to the well-being of the inmates of the home. 'These officers of the Church are expected to ascertain, in appropriate and inoffensive ways, the spirit of the home, the compatibility of husband and wife, the atmosphere and environment in which children are raised. Scarcely any question affecting these home conditions is not tenable if asked under the inspiration of the spirit, with sincere interest in the welfare of the family. If the teachers and the bishops may be established as friends of the family, there is provided a marvelous opportunity for a kind of service in times of need which can probably be supplied from no other source. Here is the power of the Priesthood to call to repentance, if there arises need for such a call. Here is the power to rebuke and persuade aud to bring harmony out of discord. An additional factor for the solution of home problems, economic and otherwise, lies in the Priesthood quorum to which nearly all heads of families belong. If the proper spirit of fraternity and brotherhood exists in the quorum, it will prompt their fellow members to come to the assistance of each other in all matters, spiritual and temporal, and will prove to be a great source of strength to the weak and the negligent in an effort to regain self-control and self-respect. A good deal of the contributing cause for domestic trouble stems from finances and economic difficulty. The Welfare agency of the Church, through the bishop and the quorum, and the Relief Societies also, is often able to render great assistance in the solution of such problems. Now, in mentioning another agency, I wish to close with a tribute and an appeal. I pay my tribute of respect, admiration, and 796 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1954 CONTRIBUTIONS OF THE CHURCH love to the visiting teachers of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. In my humble judgment, and to the best of my knowledge, there has not existed in the last hundred years, and there does not now exist, any group of persons, male or female, who have given and now give more devoted, altruistic, unselfish, and self-effacing service to the children of our Father than this group of Relief Society visiting teachers. They are the quiet, unobtrusive, faithful guardians of our homes. Throughout the years their kindly ministrations have been countless. They, with the bishops, have been the first to appear with offerings of help in times of sickness, death, or other distress. They have fed the hungry, they have clothed the naked, they have comforted the bereaved, and inspirited the hopeless. They have never taken nor received a cent of pay. I believe there is no other such social service of record on a purely volunteer basis. I find by examining the report for the year 1953 that the visiting teachers of the Relief Society made a total of 2,432,032 visits to the homes of the people. A compilation of the figures for their total years of service would be astounding. I feel that the Lord loves them as we do for their loving service to humanity. Their reward is assured. Now, I would like to have these visiting teachers do even more than they are doing, and that is my appeal. I know of no one better situated to secure an intimate knowledge of home conditions than are these dear women. In order to help 797 a family intelligently, knowledge of conditions is necessary. Our visiting sisters go into the home usually when the husband is away, often the children also. The lady of the house is alone. She receives these kindly people, and they soon establish with her, through their friendly solicitation, an atmosphere of understanding and confidence. It is not difficult in their ministrations for the teachers to discern trouble and anxiety of spirit. Perhaps the lady has felt great need for a confidant to whom she might unburden herself. Here is the opportunity, unsolicited, generally, but now welcome. She can trust these friends, and they can help. Just suppose the lady discloses a condition in the home of disagreement, quarreling, neglect, abuse, and the possible imminence of separation. What can the teachers do, and what should they do? First, they can counsel patience and forbearance and postponement of any contemplated proceedings. 'They can point out the seriousness of forsaking marital obligations, the tragic consequences to children, and the hazards of divine rebuke. 'They can pray for the lady in such serious trouble, and counsel her to pray and to have faith in the Lord, and then they can, and they should, do something more. They should ask the lady to endeavor to get her husband to join with her in approaching the bishop to solicit his counsel and aid in the solution of their problems. If the lady subsequently informs the visitors that she cannot get her husband to lay their matters before the bishop, the visitors should then seek her permission to report to the bishop that the home needs help, and thus give to the father of the ward and his assistants the opportunity to work with the man and the woman for the composition of their difficulties Would it be worth all this effort to save a home and the marriage? I trust you sisters to answer that question. | I remember a part of a eulogy to the home which I read many years ago. It is as follows: "Home! Upon that word there drop the sunshine of boyhood and the shadow of tender sorrows and the reflection of ten thousand fond memories. Home! When I see it in book or newspaper, that word seems to rise and sparkle and leap and thrill and whisper and chant and pray and weep. It glitters like a shield. It springs up like a fountain. It trills like a song. It twinkles like a star. It leaps like a flame. It glows like a sunset. It sings like an angel. And if some lexicographer, urged on by a spirit from beneath, should seek to cast forth that word from the language, the children would come forth and hide it under garlands of wild flowers, and the wealthy would come forth to cover it up with their diamonds and pearls; and kings would hide it under their crowns, and after Herod had hunted its life from Bethlehem to Egypt, and utterly given up the search, some bright, warm day it would flash from among the gems, and breathe from among the coronets and the world would read it bright and fair, and beautiful, and resonant, as before—Home! Home! Home!" The Lord be praised for the inestimable blessing of home and family, and for the provision he has so generously made in the restoration of the gospel for their support, and for the achievement of their high destiny. May he bless all of us that we may widen the knowledge throughout the world of his truth respecting these sacred institutions, I pray humbly in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. She Winter Heart Maryhale Woolsey Who has a winter heart, when nights Are long and still and cold, Will seek a quiet firelit room Where gentle dreams unfold; Will seck someone to talk with, or To share in song or rhyme. Companionship and slow-paced hours Belong to wintertime.... The year is rich with lovely wealth— A garden for the spring, A cabin far in ageless hills For joyful summering; And autumn's golden sunlit ways Enchant with gypsy art.. But winter is for home—and claims The homing winter heart. 798 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1954 The Annual General Relief Society Conference—1954 General Secretary-Treasurer Margaret C. Pickering ciety conference was held in the Tabernacle, Wednesday and Thursday, September 29 and 30. All the stakes and thirteen missions were represented by 1,770 officers—1,733 from the stakes and 37 from the missions. Mission presidents were not in attendance at the conference, but several missions were represented by district presidents. The general session filled the Tabernacle to capacity, with many standing. The Officers Meeting on Wednesday was addressed by President Spafford who gave Official Instructions, and by Elder Henry D. Moyle of the Council of the 'Twelve. Lena W. Glaus, former President of the East German Mission Relief Society, and Leanor J. Brown, former President of the Argentine Mission Relief Society, reported on these missions. The Wells Stake Singing Mothers chorus, Mabel H. Shelley, director, furnished two beautiful numbers. At the Wednesday afternoon meeting from 1:30 to 2:30 P. M., Elder Mark E: Petersen of the Council of the Twelve and an advisor to Relief Society, gave an address, after which the theology department program was presented. Music was furnished by a Singing Mothers group from the Provo stakes under the direction of Florence J. Madsen. From 2:45 to 3:45 [ci annual general Relief SoP. M., department sessions were held simultaneously for work meeting, secretary-treasurers, Magazine, and music departments. The annual reception was held Wednesday evening in the Lafayette Ballroom, Hotel, Utah. The music for the occasion was furnished by Sisters Florence S. Allen, Lota Lamoreaux, and Ann Larson. The presentation of the educational courses was continued in the Thursday morning session when the programs for the visiting teaching, literature, and social science depattments were presented. Music was again furnished by the Singing Mothers group from the Provo stakes, and by Car] J. Christensen who sang "Invictus." The general session held 'Thursday afternoon included addresses by President Stephen L Richards, President Belle 5. Spafford, Counselor Marianne C., Sharp, Counselor Velma N. Simonsen, and Aleine M. Young. 'The Singing Mothers chorus of more than five hundred from Bear Lake, Benson, Bountiful, Cache, Davis, East Cache, Franklin, Grantsville, Hyrum, Layton, Logan, Montpelier, Mount Logan, North Davis, North Jordan, North 'Tooele, Oneida, Oquitrh, Smithfield, South Davis, South Summit, Summit, Tooele, and Wasatch Stakes furnished the music. It was directed by Florence J. Madsen who also directed the Page 799 RELIEF SOCIETY RECEPTION Lafayette Ballroom, Hotel Utah, September 29, 1954 Left to right: General Secretary-Treasurer Margaret C. Pickering; Former President Amy Brown Lyman; Counselor Velma N. Simonsen; Counselor Marianne C. Sharp; President Belle S. Spafford. Congregational singing of the conference. Elder Frank W. Asper was organist of the conference. 'The large Singing Mothers chorus sang at the Friday sessions of the semiannual conference of the Church. Following the close of the conference, the cornerstone-laying ceremony for the Relief Society Building was held at 4:15 p. M. At the southwest corner of the building on Main Street. President Spafford conducted the ceremony which was witnessed by most of the General Authorities, special guests, and representatives from stakes and missions. 'The program of this historymaking event is published in full in this issue of The Relief. Society Magazine. The Official Instructions by President Spafford and the addresses by the general presidency appeared in the November issue of the Magazine. President Stephen L Richards' address appears as the feature of this issue. The address by Elder Mark E. Petersen will appear in the January 1955 issue; by Elder Henry D. Moyle in the February issue; by Aleine M. Young in the March issue. 800 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1954 The Relief Society Building Cornerstone-Laying Ceremony Main and North Temple Streets, Salt Lake City, Utah Thursday Afternoon, September 30, 1954 President Belle S. Spafford HE time has arrived for us to T begin our cornerstone-laying ceremony. We are filled with gratitude today to meet under the direction of the First Presidency to lay the cornerstone for the Relief Society Building. We welcome you to these ceremonies. We are honored to have with us the First Presidency, President David O. McKay (and President Richards will be here in just a few moments), and President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. We are honored by the presence of members of the Council of the Twelve and the Patriarch of the Church, Assistants to the Council of the Twelve, members of the Council of Seventy, and members of the Presiding Bishopric. We are happy to have with us Sister McKay and Sister Richards, as well as wives of others of the General Authorities. 'The support of these sisters is valuable to us in all of our undertakings. We are very grateful for the presence of members of the General Church Welfare Committee, the Church Building Committee, together with the architect, Bishop George Cannon Young, and representatives of the other Church auxiliaries. We also have with us some distinguished guests, including The Honorable J. Bracken Lee, Governor of the State of Utah, and His Honor, Mayor Earl J. Glade of Salt Lake City. We have received word that Mrs. Lee would have been with us today had she not had a previous appointment which took her out of the city. Mrs. Glade is in the group, with her daughters. We also acknowledge the presence of Sister Amy Brown Lyman, immediate past President of Relief Society, and a number of former Relief Society general board members. All three members of the general presidency of Relief Society are present and all members of the general board except Leone O. Jacobs who is absent due to illness. At this time we wish to thank Mayor Earl J. Glade and the city commission for closing the street to traffic in front of this building during our services. We will begin our program by singing "High on the Mountain Top." The singing will be led by Florence Jepperson Madsen. Following the singing, President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., a member of the First Presidency, will offer the invocation. Invocation President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Our Heavenly and Eternal Father, reverently and in humility we, a few of thy servants and thy handmaids, have assembled together today to lay the cornerstone of the Relief Society Building. Our Father in Page 801 heaven, wilt thou attend with thy Holy Spirit these services. Wilt thou see that they are conducted in accordance with thy mind and will. Wilt thou cause that there shall be said in the course of these services those things, our Heavenly Father, which shall be more encouraging and further encouraging to the officers and members of this great organization, the greatest of its kind in the world. Our Heavenly Father, we are grateful for their service of the past; we look forward with confidence to their service in the future. Hear us, our Heavenly Father, in this, the opening prayer. Grant to us peace and comfort, and the inspiration of thy Spirit. May we go from here, the Relief Society members particularly, imbued with a determination to go forward in their great work, encouraged, built up, administering to the needs of the poor and to the needy, and to those who need help. We commend these services, our Heavenly Father, into thy kind care and keeping. We ask for these blessings and every other blessing that thou seest we need at this time, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. President Belle S. Spafford For the past nine years the Relief Society building program has held the interest of Relief Society members throughout the world. This program has been an important part of the history of the society for this period. It was in September 1945 that the First Presidency, President George Albert Smith, President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., and President David O. McKay, authorized the general presidency of Relief Society, President Belle S. Spafford, Counselor Marianne C, Sharp, and Counselor Gerttude R. Garff, to propose to the Relief Society membership — assembled in general Relief Society conference, the erection of a Relief Society building. The sisters voted affirmatively on the proposition. At the general session of the Relief Society conference in October 1947, the First Presidency authorized the general presidency, President Belle S. Spafford, Counselor Marianne C. Sharp, and Counselor Velma N. Simonsen, to present a financial plan for a sustaining vote of the membership. 'This same year Bishop George Cannon Young was engaged as the architect, and authorization was given to begin preliminary plans. The following year, October 1948, our hearts were filled with thanksgiving to our Heavenly Father and with gratitude to the General Authorities and the presiding Priesthood throughout the Church for their support and encouragement, and to the sisters of Relief Society for their loyalty and magnificent efforts in the fund-raising program which made it possible for us to announce the success of the financial program—the raising of over one half million dollars. It was a happy day, in October 1952, when President David O. McKay advised us, just prior to the opening of our general conference, that the First Presidency, President David O. McKay, President Stephen L Richards, and President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., had granted us this choice site on which to erect our building and authorized us to make announcement of this grant to the 802 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1954 Courtesy Deseret News-Salt Lake Telegram GENERAL PRESIDENCY OF RELIEF SOCIETY Standing at the Southwest Corner of the Relief Society Building September 22, 1954 Left to right: Counselor Marianne C. Sharp; President Belle S. Spafford; Counselor Velma N. Simonsen. On? Page OUD GENERAL AUTHORITIES OF THE CHURCH, OFFICERS OF RELIEF SOCIETY, AND HONORED GUESTS PRESENT AT THE CORNERSTONE-LAYING CEREMONY Front row, left to right: His Honor, Mayor Earl J. Glade of Salt Lake City; President J. Reuben Clark, Jr.; President David O. McKay; Sister Emma Ray Riggs McKay; The Honorable J. Bracken Lee, Governor of Utah; Counselor Marianne C. Sharp; Counselor Velma N. Simonsen; Former President of Relief Society, Amy Brown Lyman. At the time this photograph was taken, President Belle S. Spafford was standing at the speaker's stand, delivering an address. On other rows. Relief Society membership in a session of our conference. We all recall the rejoicing of a year ago, October 1953, when ground was broken. In the fall of 1953 plans were approved and bids were let. Bids were opened December 3, 1953, and the appropriation from the Church was approved December 22, 1953. 'The contract for the Other General Authorities may be seen construction of the building was awarded to the Fullmer Brothers Construction Company, and excavation began January 16, 1954. 'Today we are gratified to take another step forward—the laying of the cornerstone. In an address delivered at the general Relief Society conference, October 2, 1947, President George Al- 804 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1954 CORNERSTONE-LAYING CEREMONY bert Smith, in tribute to the Relief Society sisters and in speaking of the building, said: I don't care how fine it is, how large it is, or how beautiful it is, it will not be better than you deserve. There isn't anything too good for you as long as you keep the commandments of the Lord. You know he said, "... Seek ye first the kingdom of God, and its righteousness; and all these things shall be added unto? You. A year ago at the ground-breaking ceremonies, President David O. McKay reminded us: No matter how commodious it may be, no matter how well-furnished the rooms, no matter how great the convenience of the furnishings, the house itself with all equipment is but a means to an end, and that end is the establishment in the hearts of the membership of the Church of a testimony of the truth of the restored gospel of Jesus Christ.. It is the means to a glorious end, the salvation of our Father's children.... And so this house becomes a means of furthering the work of the great Relief Society, the very heart and purpose of which is to bring happiness and peace into the homes and the hearts of the Latter-day Saints. In speaking for the Relief Society women throughout the world today, I say to President McKay, President Richards, and President Clark, we acknowledge our blessings, we recognize our responsibilities, we sincerely pray for strength and wisdom to live so as to merit a continuation of our blessings and to meet our Godgiven responsibilities under the direction of the Priesthood. We will now hear remarks from our immediate past President, Sister Amy Brown Lyman, who will speak for the women of yesterday. 805 President Amy Brown Lyman President McKay, Sister Spafford, my dear brothers and sisters, dear everybody! The erection of this important building is one of the greatest achievements of the Relief Society. It is the culmination of the hopes, dreams, and prayers of the women of the past and the pride and joy of the women of today. The idea of a woman's building has been uppermost in the minds of Relief Society workers for many years. It began to take shape when the first general board was organized seventy-four years ago. It was in June 1880 that President John Taylor, at a sisters' conference in the Assembly Hall, organized central, or general boards, for the three women's auxiliary organization of the Church. The Relief Society was then thirty-eight years old, and had a membership of 12,288. Four stakes had already recently been organized, and several others were in the course of being set up, and by the end of the next year, 1881, sixteen stakes in all had been organized. It was apparent at once that this amalgamation of independent ward societies into unified stake groups, with uniform standards and co-ordinated activities, would need direction and supervision, and that a central office or headquarters would be necessary for the work. The Woman's Exponent, which had been established eight years before, in 1872, and which had a very modest office, came forward and graciously opened its doors to the new board, and for the next twenty-nine years, in this modest little office, wherever it was located, Relief Society board meetings were held, and the supervisory work of the organization carried on. The Exponent office, which had a number of different locations during this period, was finally set up in the Templeton Building, with two large rooms and adequate closet space. Here, it became the center of women's activities, a sort of central intelligence agency, or bureau of information for the women of the Church. 'The general board, meanwhile, was happy here and managed fairly well. We remember, with a feeling of nostalgia, the cozy board meetings held here, which were often spiritual feasts. However, the need of more space and a headquarters of their own were ever before these energetic, resourceful women. Ambitious women, they were, not for themselves, but for their organization. And a_ building fund was started, which, by the turn of the century, was a considerable amount for that day, and a building site was promised them on this very square or block. I am persuaded that no other location would have been entirely satisfactory to them, so close had they always felt to the First Presidency and the headquarters of the Church itself, ever since the days of Nauvoo. After careful consideration with the Brethren, the erection of a suitable building was felt to be beyond the ability and resources of the women at that time, and they were advised to invest their funds in the proposed new Bishop's Building being planned for, in lieu of which, they would be adequately housed there. To this proposition they acceded, I must say rather reluctantly. And for forty-five years, since December 1909, the Relief Society, with the two other auxiliary groups which also made their contributions, has had comfortable headquarters and a delightful home. Here the general board has worked under the direct supervision of the Presiding Bishopric, who, because of their kindly consideration and understanding hearts, have been deeply appreciated and greatly beloved. We were a very happy family, always, in the Bishop's Building. And now, after these many years, we are to have a magnificent building of our own, our very own, greater and grander than was _ ever dreamed of, and surely worth waiting for. Here it stands, facing the holy temple, and in close proximity to the headquarters of the Church. Here it stands on ground which has been made sacred by the many historic events which have occurred here, on ground made sacred by the feet of those who have trodden here. Here it stands on the very square from which goes forth the Word, also great and manifold spiritual blessings, yes, and material succor as well. In behalf of the women of the past, it is with joy and deep appreciation that I extend gratitude and thanks to the Presiding Authorities of the Church for their generosity in granting us this precious piece of ground, and for assisting us so magnanimously in the erection of the great edifice which will adorn it. Also, gratitude and thanks for the women of today for their generosity, and to any and all who have contributed to this great project. May God bless this building which will be dedicated to his service, and bless us all, is the prayer I offer in Jesus' name. Amen. 806 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1954 CORNERSTONE-LAYING CEREMONY Courtesy Deseret News-Salt Lake Telegram PRESIDENT BELLE IN RELIEF SOCIETY S. SPAFFORD DEPOSITS BUILDING 807 RECORDS CORNERSTONE September 30, 1954 Left to right: Bishop George Cannon Young, Architect for the Relief Society Building; Belle S. Spafford, General President of Relief Society; Velma N. Simonsen, Second Counselor, Relief Society; President David O. McKay. President Belle S. Spafford We will now proceed with the laying of the cornerstone. This service will be directed by President David O. McKay. He has authorized Counselor Marianne C. Sharp, Chairman of the General Board Building Committee, to designate the articles to go into the corner stone, and President Spafford and Counselor Simonsen have been requested by President McKay to place the articles in the cornerstone. President McKay will offer the dedicatory prayer. I now turn the proceedings to President McKay. Announcer: Dean Bennet for KSL Radio Station. Now the stone is in place and is being set by workmen here on the project. The chain will be released from the stone, and the copper box will be placed within the cornerstone. 'Che box is quite large. It is eleven inches wide by twenty nine inches long, and thirteen and a half inches deep. It is all copper 808. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1954 a product of the State of Utah, one of the outstanding products that the State of Utah produces. The box is placed within the cornerstone now. [During the time that Counselor Sharp was reading the list of articles to be placed in the cornerstone, President Spafford and Counselor Simonsen deposited the articles in the cornerstone.| Counselor Marianne C. Sharp This is a joyous occasion, not only to us who are privileged to be here today, but also to our dear sisters throughout the world who helped for this great occasion by giving of their five-dollar quotas. Under the direction of the First Presidency, we have collected the articles to be placed in the cornerstone. We have listed them under six categories of seven packages. Each package has been wrapped in plastic and sealed, and a listing of the articles in each package is written on top of the packages. ARTICLES PLACED IN THE CORNERSTONE OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY BUILDING SEPTEMBER 30, 1954 The first category contains two packages: I. Lists of Stake and Mission Contributors to Relief Society Building Fund II. History of Relief Society Building Activity: Copies of Financial Forms Used to Record the Raising of a Half Million Dollars General Instructions Three Types of Receipt Cards: Quota, Special, Memorial Sample Sheets for Contributors' Names Copies of Three Letters: A Photostat of the Approval of the First Presidency to Undertake Building Program, September 16, 1947 General Presidency of the Relief Society Letter to Stakes and Wards Outlining Financial Plan, October 21, 1947 Presiding Bishopric Letter of November 6, 1947, Endorsing Fund-Raising Program of Stake Presidencies and Ward Bishoprics Copy of Architect's Drawing of Relief Society Building Copies of Relief Society Annual General Conference Programs: 1948, 1953, 1954 Copy of the Invitation to Ground-Breaking Ceremony, 1953 Copy of the Invitation to Laying of Cornerstone Ceremony, 1954 Financial Statement of Building Fund, 1947-1954 Bound Volumes of The Relief Society Magazine for 1947, 1948, 1949, and Single Copies of The Relief Society Magazine, 1945-1953 Containing Articles on Building Activities III. Historical Records of Relief Society: Relief Society Annual Reports, 1948 and 1953 Handbook of Instructions of the Relief Society, 1931 Gifts of Amy Lyman Instructions for Recording Names of Contributors National Woman's Relief Society Historical Sketch, 1842-1931. Brown CORNERSTONE-LAYING CEREMONY, 809 Handbook of the Relief Society, 1954 Relief Society Welfare Handbook, 1948 Notice of Visit Slip Instructions and Order Forms of Relief Society Magazine Nurse Forms for Wards and Branches Pictures of General Presidents of Relief Society, 1842-1945 A Centenary of Relief Society Copy of the Woman's Exponent, September 1906, Volume 35, Number 3 Copy of Relief Society Bulletin, Volume I, Number 2, 1914 Copy of Relief Society Magazine, January 1915, Volume 2, Number 1 Article on Editors of Woman's Exponent and The Relief Society Magazine, October 1947 Sample Fillers for Stake and Ward Resse Books Visiting Teachers Report Book Relief Society Pin Membership Card Letterheads of: General Board of Relief Society and The Relief Society Magazine IV. Standard Works of the Church, Periodicals, and Coins Standard Works of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (With the Autographs of the First Presidency ) 1954 Coins—$1, 50c, 10¢, 5c, and lc; 25c for 1953 (As 25c Pieces for 1954 Have Not Yet Been Minted) The Improvement Era, October 1954 The Children's Friend, October 1954 The Instructor, September 1954 The Relief Society Magazine, October 1954 Newspapers—Salt Lake Tribune, September 25, 1954 Deseret News - Salt Lake Telegram, September 25, 1954 V. Pictures: First Presidency 1945 General Presidency of the Relief Society 1945 General Board of the Relief Society 1945 General Authorities 1948—(This was the year in First Presidency 1954. ~~which the Brethren supGeneral Authorities 1954 'ported us in our fundGeneral Presidency of the Relief Society 1954 _—siTalsing program) General Board of the Relief Society 1954 Ground-Breaking Ceremony, October 1, 1953 VI. Microfilms: The sixth category contains microfilms of articles whose originals are not being placed in the cornerstone: Microfilm of First Issue of Woman's Exponent, June 1, 1872 Microfilm of Relief Society Bulletin, Volume 1, Number 1, 1914 Microfilm of 'Female Relief Society Book of Records," March 17, 1842—March 16, 1844, Nauvoo, Illinois, in the handwriting of our first Secretary, Eliza R. Snow. President David O. McKay I now pronounce this chief cornerstone of the Female Relief Society Building duly and_ properly laid in accordance with arrangements heretofore made by the architect and builders in relation to its position. We shall now offer the dedicatory prayer for this cornerstone. Dedicatory Prayer President David O. McKay Our Heavenly and Eternal Father, thou knowest our hearts as we assemble on this solemn and important occasion. We are grateful for the Authorities of thy Church who established the Female Relief Society. Grateful for all the sisters who have labored during these many years in accordance with instructions given by the Prophet Joseph Smith. We are grateful for this occasion, for the faithfulness of those who presently preside over this important organization and for the membership of the society throughout the world, for this building belongs to them, whether in the organized stakes or in the missions of the field. We have deposited this box containing various records pertaining to the organization, duties, activities, and history of the Female Relief Society of the Church, also the standard works, magazines published by the auxiliaries of thy Church, coins of the realm, and other articles already specified in the presence of this large audience. We desire, Heavenly Father, that this box, with all its contents, will be preserved in safety until, in fulfillment of thy purposes, it shall be brought forth. This hermetically — sealed box, with its seven wellwrapped packages, we now place in the receptacle prepared for it, and invoke thy protecting care upon the cornerstone in which it is placed, that the stone may remain unmoved until the purposes for which this building is erected are consummated. We dedicate this cornerstone, with the contents placed therein; we rededicate the grounds upon which it stands; we dedicate the walls of the building thus far erected, the timbers, steel, and other material on the lot, and other material which will yet come. We invoke, our Heavenly Father, thy blessings upon the builders, that they may take pride and satisfaction in their work, with a prayer in their hearts that they may build even better than they know, that this building may be a source of pride and satisfaction and inspiration to the members of Relief Society throughout the entire world. We invoke thy blessings upon Sister Belle S. Spafford, upon her worthy counselors, upon all the members of the general Relief Society board. Continue, O Lord, to inspire them with true leadership, with humility and devotion. Likewise, bless the presidents of Relief Society in all the organized stakes and missions, and the members thereof. Help them to reduce to a minimum tendencies to find fault, to indulge in petty bickerings and jealousies. On this sacred hour we dedicate ourselves unto thee, and unto the establishing of the kingdom of God on earth. Help us all to fulfill our duties in our respective callings, ever keeping thee and thy glory the cen- 810 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1954 CORNERSTONE-LAYING CEREMONY Courtesy The Salt Lake Tribune THE FIRST PRESIDENCY AT THF LAYING OF 811 THE CORNERSTONE OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY BUILDING, September 30, 1954 ter of our devotion, that we may ever be found worthy in thy sight. And, in conclusion, O Lord, on this solemn occasion, unitedly we ask thy blessings upon our country. Preserve the freedom of the indivual and the rights of states as vouchsafed by the Constitution of the United States, and frustrate the plans of sinister men and women who have sinister motives, who would, in any way, deprive the citizens of this Republic of the liberties thou, through thy inspiration to the founders, hast given to them. 'This laying of the cornerstone, the sealing of the copper box with its contents, the expression of our gratitude to thee for blessings named and all others, we render unto thee on this Courtesy The Salt Lake Tribune "i of | y PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY PLACES A SPIRIT LEVEL ON CORNERSTONE OF RELIEF SOCIETY BUILDING LOWERED INTO PLACE September 30, 1954 occasion, invoking thy blessings upon the Authorities of thy Church and good men and women everywhere, in the name of Jesus Christ, our Lord. Amen. President Belle S. Spafford We will conclude our services by Sister Madsen leading us in singing "The Spirit of God Like a Fire Is Burning," following which President Joseph Fielding Smith of the Council of the Twelve, an advisor to the Relief Society, will offer the benediction, Benediction President Joseph F ding Smith Our Father who art in heaven, we pray that the action of this day may be ratified in the heavens. Be with these, our sisters, who preside over this great organization; guide and bless them and all the membership of this great sisterhood, that all that they are called upon to do may be accomplished. We thank thee for this occasion. Bless, we pray, what has been done, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. 812 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1954 Seek for the Gift Beatrice R. Parsons HE kitchen bustled with acT tivity and excitement. It was a few days before Christmas. The children's eyes held dreams. Only Rod's heart was bruised and sore. How, he thought bitterly, can a man give his children a decent Christmas with their mother gone? His heart ached with loss and pain. Martha had been dead only a month. Silently he called her name, Martha, Martha! Why, oh, why? He had no answer for that question. Truths Rod had known since childhood, through adolescence, through his marriage to Martha, had completely disappeared from _ his consciousness. He had forgotten everything but his loss. Inside he was old, shriveled, without hope. Martha was dead, buried within the white blanket of snow which had swept across the cemetery during the night. Rod's face was twisted as he watched the children eating breakfast. Fran, his seven-year old daughter, was eating oatmeal without enthusiasm. It was lumpy because Rod had cooked it. Carefully, she pushed the lumps aside. Rod had made the cocoa, too. He knew by the way five-year-old Timmy was shoveling sugar into the mixture that it was tasteless. Martha had been such a good cook. Baby Trudie, just past one year old, was drinking her milk. Rod watched a rivulet run down her torn bib. Julie, his eldest daughter, ten-going-on-eleven, Crs. Took a paper napkin to wipe Trudie's hands. When Martha was alive, there had been pretty white napkins with gay sprigs of embroidery in the cornRod's eyes burned as_ they watched Julie. "She's old enough to miss her mother," he told himself painfully. He wished that he had let Mrs. Jensen, his next-door neighbor, stay all night as she had wanted to. But he couldn't impose on Mrs. Jensen. Her husband had a cold, and she had her own worries. Of course, there were others who had been helping, cousins, neighbors, and the children's grandparents; but Rod knew his problem was his own to solve. He thought with sudden despair: How can a man give his children a good Christmas when he's alone? He was alone in that bright, gay kitchen. The children had retreated into their own little magic world of Christmas. Their eyes were shining like lighted candles, and _ talk flowed round the breakfast table in a river of excitement. "T told Santa to bring me a sixgun!" It was Timmy's voice, high, eager. "T want a doll," said Fran haughtily. "One that drinks, and wets, and everything." "T wanna doll," cried Baby Trudie, banging her silver mug against the aluminum tray in her high chair. She began to cry, and Julie hurried to comfort her. Rod noticed, painfully, that Julie Page 813 did not tell her wants. Her smal, pensive face was pale and pinched. Rod knew what Julie wanted most. Pain flooded over him. Why, oh why, had Julie's mother died? He could not stop asking it. There was no answer. But he needed one. Desperately. Rod was frightened—agonizingly frightened. He wasn't a homemaker. He'd left that to Martha. Now he was alone. Alone during the uninterrupted hours of the long, empty nights when he longed for the touch of Martha's hand on his, the fragrance of her brown hair on the pillow beside him. Rod was confused. Relatives had offered to take the children to live with them. He had tried to think what would be best. The children needed something he could no longer give them. They needed the security of an untroubled home. HE bleak bankruptcy of hopelessness made Rod put down his newspaper and speak slowly. "Chil dren, I've something to tell you." Yes, his mind was made up. He could not face Christmas without Martha. Not even the dinners and trees that had been offered so generously by so many people. He could not stay in the place which meant Martha in a million burning, hurting ways. He could not hurt the children by asking them to stay. His mind was made up. It was better this way. His voice was loud, and more stern than he realized. "I think it would be better for you children to live with someone else." He was shocked to see their faces. Julie's was pale and still. Baby 'Trudie didn't understand. She laughed and banged her cup against her tray. The noise cut into Rod's nerves, and his voice was rough. "Julie, you're going to live with Grandma Henderson. She wants you because you're so like... Like your mother." He had trouble with the word, then added quickly: "She can't take the other children. She's not very well." In the face of their silence, he tried to make them understand. "This is the best way. Timmie will live with Aunt Ellen. Fran with Aunt Margie. Grace wants the baby. You'll have a wonderful Christmas...." "But how will Santa know where we are?" It was Timmy's voice, shaken, desperate. He tried to hide tears by rubbing his eyes with the back of a grubby hand. Rod saw that 'Timmy's suspender buttons had come off. One side of his overalls hung limply at his waist. Rod felt a lump in his throat. He forced his voice to be calm. "Tl see Santa this very afternoon. I'll tell him your new addresses. I'll see that he brings you everything you want." Every gift, he knew helplessly, except the one gift he could not give them. To be together as a family at Christmas. Their eyes were still turned towards him. 'Their small faces had not changed. 'They were waiting. "Tt's not that I don't want you to stay with me." If only he could tell them how baffled he was, how ill with his own shortcomings. His voice almost failed as he continued: "T can't look after you the way your aunts and your grandmother can. They love you. They want you. It isn't that I don't love you, either." 814 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1954 SEEK FOR THE GIFT They didn't believe him. They sat there like stones. Even the baby's cup was quiet. He couldn't make them understand. So that they could not see the tears on his lashes, he got up and began to wash the dishes. He clattered them loudly so as not to hear the small, stricken whispers which sped around the table. He tried to bury doubt, fear, and discouragement deep in detergent suds. After a while he became conscious that the children had left the table and were playing their usual games. Julie was sweeping the crumbs. The broom was too tall for her. But Julie was like her mother — a housekeeper, a homemaker. Rod's hand touched her sunny brown hair, and for an instant it was like touching Martha's. Yet Julie seemed to shut him away as she went to put the broom in the closet. Rod's thoughts bred bitterness. He was thankful the children were young. That they could not be hurt as he had been. They had loved their mother. But they would forget her. And each other! Thought Rod despairingly. He didn't want that to happen. Yet there was nothing he could do. He could never take Martha's place. And each child would have love and kindness showered by eager relatives. After a while they would stop missing their mother and their father. UT Rod would never stop missing Martha. Martha with her bright. Happy smile, her eager plans for their future. Even when they'd bought the small, white cottage on Walnut Street, Martha had been 815 hoping for a December baby, but not even Martha had dreamed that 'Timmy would be born on Christmas Eve! Rod could still recall the fear that had swept into his heart when the doctor said there was no time to get Martha to the hospital. Martha had reassured him. "Just hang on to my hand, darling. Everything will be all right!" He had held her hand and he could still remember the wave of awe and gratitude which had flowed into his heart at his son's first, frail cry. That was a beautiful Christmas. Martha had insisted on having the tree set up in a corner of the living room where she could see it from her bed. She had even asked him to hang the silver star at the end of one of the branches so that it could shine into her room. The future had been so bright. It had seemed brighter than ever when baby Trudie had come. But Martha had not been well after Trudie was born. There had been pain for her, anxiety for Rod. Martha had guessed his worry and had reassured him. "Tm feeling better, darling. Even well enough to go to meeting on Sunday. Bishop Fence is going to speak. He has so much faith, so many truths in his heart. He knows, Rod. He never doubts." Rod had also known the things of which the bishop spoke as he had sat next to Martha, touching her hand. There had been no doubt in his heart as they walked home together through the coolness of a crisp November evening. But in the morning, when he woke to find' Martha lying pale and white, a soft, gentle smile against her colorless lips, all the things they had heard cried out in mockery. Martha was gone. Rod was alone. OW, as he wiped his hands, he saw Mrs. Jensen crossing the lot. Her blue stole made a cheery blot of color against the white snow. As she opened the door, stamping powdered snow from her galoshes, she chided Rod gently. "Mercy, Mr. Edgerton, you didn't have to wash the dishes. Next time pile them up. That way you'll have more time for the children, and Ill wash the dishes while the children are playing." Rod glanced at the children. 'They had closed the door to their small, magic world, and he was grateful that they, at least, had power to forget. But he saw, as he kissed them goodbye before getting out the car to go to the office, that they were still afraid of the coming separation. Julie's small, red mouth trembled when she kissed him, and Baby Trudie clung to his legs begging to be lifted up before he went. Walking out into the winter cold the bleakness of its snow and ice froze the unshed tears behind his lashes. The morning was cold and bright; but there was a promise of more snowflakes in clouds that hung pinned to the mountain tops. Downtown there were gay red lanterns on lampposts, and great, sparkling stars suspended in the middle of the streets. At the northernmost star, the great snow-tipped spires of the temple and the golden figure, capped with a crown of snowflakes, made the pain in Rod's heart grow keener than ever. It was more than twelve years since he and Martha had_ stood within those templed walls to be married. 'Their hearts and their hopes had been as high as the sky. Now Rod felt they were dead, buried under the earth below that sky which had promised eternal happiness, As Rod entered the big office where he worked, one of the new stenographers was placing sprigs of holly on the desks. She put one on his and spoke eagerly, "My mother sent me a box from the holly tree in our back yard." Her eyes misted a little as she explained: "I used to live in Portland, Oregon. I'm staying here in Salt Lake while my husband, Ben, is in Germany...." Her chattering broke off in the middle of a word. She seemed suddenly aware of the grayness in Rod's face. She snatched up the holly and apologized swiftly. "I'm sorry, Mr. Edgerton; I had forgotten...." Rod reassured her stiffly. "It was nice of you, Mrs. Brown. Christmas can't stop just because...." He left it there as he turned to the insurance books on his desk. Just before noon he made a list of the things he meant to buy—a six-gun for Timmy, a fire engine, and some little cars and trucks for Aunt Ellen to tuck into the toe of his stocking. He'd buy a doll for Fran, and. Some bottles and nipples. And plenty of didies! 'There was a fireplace at Aunt Margie's where Fran could put up her stocking! Trudie should have a new doll. Maybe a doll buggy, now that she was beginning to walk so well. He'd buy some new bibs. Some training pants. Baby Trudie would have a fine home with Cousin Grace. He chewed his pencil and thought 816 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1954 SEEK FOR THE GIFT about Julie. He didn't know just what to put down. Julie would want something more grownup than a doll. He'd find something when he went through the stores. Julie would have a good Christmas with Martha's parents. They were old, but they loved Julie very much. When Rod went down in the elevator, Mrs. Brown was there. Her voice held a veneer of gaiety. "I'm going to buy the smallest turkey I can find and cook it all for myself." She was close to tears, but she shook them away, saying: "I'd hate Ben to see what a baby I am. When he comes home we'll have a good laugh!" After they'd entered the street and Mrs. Brown had turned off into the super-market, her words tortured Rod's mind. If only Martha could return home! But Martha would never return. The knowledge was an edged knife in Rod's heart. He tried not to see the brightly decorated windows, the strings of gay-colored lights on the Christmas trees, and the red-coated Santas, with their silver bells. He did not look before him. The future was flat and empty. It was like walking backwards, seeing where you'd been, not where you were going. NSIDE the big department store a current of eager shoppers swept him toward the elevators. But they crowded in, and he had to stop at the door. The elevator girl gave him a smile. Her brown hair was a little rumpled, but her cheerfulness was a bright, gleaming badge. ""They push and shove, but they don't mean to be rude. It's just that they're so happy." 817 "Happy!" 'The word jarred at Rod's mind. He was surprised to see that the girl looked a little like Julie, or like Julie would look when she was eighteen or nineteen. When the elevator came down again, the girl gave him a little nod. He got in and was crowded to the back by the wide shoulders of a tall, young lad. The boy gave him a companionable grin. "Kind-a scares you, doesn't it?" Rod had to admit that it did. As they stepped into the lane of toys bordered by a steady march of blue and gold Christmas trees, the lad again spoke, "I gotta find something extra swell for Mom!": His hands swept up to ruffle his. Shock of red hair. And he turned back to the elevator, realizing that he was on the wrong floor. As the car door closed, something caught Rod's attention. Why, in spite of freckles and red hair, that lad looked a little like Timmy, or like Timmy would look at fifteen. "May I be of service?" A kind voice broke into his thoughts. A clerk stood at his elbow. There was a hint of silver in her hair, and she was middle-aged. "Something for your children?" Rod nodded and followed her to the games. She picked up a nurse's case. Her eyes shone behind her polished glasses. "I bought one of these for my granddaughter. She's always playing nurse, though she's just a baby." Trudie liked to play nurse. Rod said he'd take it, and was surprised to be thinking of Trudie as a fine grownup young nurse with a stiffly starched cap over her soft, blond curls. He spoke awkwardly: "Perhaps you could suggest something for my eldest daughter. She's almost eleven." The clerk showed him a set of Blue Willow dishes. "My daughters used to have play-parties when they were eleven and ten. This set has everything from soup plates to a serving tray. If your daughter is a little homemaker, she'll love it." Rod had a mental picture of Julie sweeping crumbs. His voice was tender. "Julie is like her mother." His voice died on the quick pain in his throat. But the clerk was writing her sales slip and didn't seem to notice. When she had finished she looked up. "Where are these things to be delivered?" Rod's hands shook a little as he separated his purchases into four piles. He began with the play-party dishes. "This is to go to...." He could not give his mother-in-law's address, and said quickly: "Have them wrapped and I'll call by and pick them up on the way home from the office." As he went towards the elevators he chided himself: Now why did I tell her that? It will only make for confusion. He'd have a lot of running around to deliver the packages. E was still puzzling about it as he stepped from the car on the main floor. The elevator girl made little clicking sounds with her starter and gave him a friendly grin. "Did you find what you were looking for?" He nodded. When he gained the street he found that it had started to snow. The flakes were icy against his face. As he passed the market Mrs. Brown came out. She was clutching a knobby bundle, and he took it from her arm. She spoke breathlessly "I bought a bigger turkey than I expected. | met some friends in the store. 'They are sort of alone the way I am with their husbands overseas. I'm going to cook dinner. I won't be alone, after all." Rod heard the words with a dull, gnawing ache in his heart. As they passed a window, Mrs. Brown urged him to stop and watch the mechanical toys that rode musical merry-go-rounds and ferris wheels under a gay, tinsel-trimmed Christmas tree. Rod saw that one of the silver stars had come loose and was hanging perilously close to the end of a branch. Unconsciously, he put out his hands as though to straighten it, and Mrs. Brown laughed as they turned away. "Don't worry about that silver star, Mr. Edgerton. Even if it falls its brightness won't diminish. Even lying on the floor of the window it will go on shining as brightly and proudly as before.": She hurried away, after retrieving her bundle, to finish her shopping. Rod tramped slowly along the slushy streets and kept thinking of that silver star. Why, it was very like the one which Martha had asked him to hang on the end of a branch when Timmy was born. He smiled, and as he smiled Martha seemed very, very close. That afternoon as he sat at his desk, working over his insurance books, he seemed to hear the elevator girl's voice asking: "Did you find what you were looking for?" He heard the other employees leaving for the day, and even as he put his books away, the voice said 818 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1954 SEEK FOR THE GIFT over and over: "Did you find what you were looking for?" Suddenly, as he got his car from the parking lot and turned in a storeward direction, he recalled the events of the day—the girl with the brown hair like Julie's, the clerk who had sold him the nurse's cap for Trudie's soft, blond curls, the boy with the red hair and freckles, who looked like 'Timmy would look when he grew up, and the silver star! All at once wonderment filled him. Had he found what he was looking for? Had he found the answer to the dream he and Martha had shared? Had he found Martha in remembering a silver star? The truth as he had known it from the first was beginning to brighten in his mind. 'The ice that had ringed his heart was melting in the knowledge that was springing up in his soul. Martha had painted their future, and he had caught a glimpse of that future in a bustling department store, in a window filled with mechanical toys, and a silver star. He saw it more plainly, more clearly than ever as his eyes turned to the spires of the temple, gilded now in a weak burst of setting sun. 819 How brightly they gleamed in spite of their snow-tipped pinnacles. How clearly things stood in Rod's mind as he remembered the vows he had exchanged with Martha. He knew now that she would never entirely go from his life. He had a part of her — a living part of her — in their children. He had the future that she had planned, and eternity together. Nothing could ever destroy that future again. It would be very hard to keep it, but Rod meant to try. He didn't know how he was going to manage. But he would not send the children away. He would keep them close to his side with the help of friends, neighbors, and kind and loving relatives. He could imagine the joy which would flood their small faces when he told them. He could almost see the happiness that would light Julie's eyes. A little while ago he had felt lonely, bereft. Now he had found his Christmas miracle. His eyes were wet, not with burning, cruel sadness, but with gleaming, shining hope. He felt strangely reborn in truth and knowledge, like a small child who has been given a great, and unexpected gift! > Country Houses Margaret Evelyn Singleton Each stands in summer cool, aloof Behind an arboreal screen Isolating roof from roof By latticed walls of green. As human tenants seek their kind, Homes seem in winter weather To reach through leafless boughs and find Their hearths drawn close together. Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, December 1, and December 15, 1894 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WoMEN OF ALL NATIONS" CHAUCER: Like a new star did the genius of Chaucer burst upon the English world of the fourteenth century. A star which, by its mellow radiance, revealed to the world, beauties and pleasures it never dreamed of before. A heralding luminary shedding its friendly light down to the brilliant constellation which was to follow in the distance. As the "Father of English poetry," he has claimed the honor of all succeeding generations.. —Gladys Woodmansee SUPREME LESSON: If for any reason whatever a child can be taught but one lesson, let that lesson be Faith in God. For that one step towards an education is of more permanent value to a human being than all other learning put together. —Grains of Truth MR. LAMBOURNE'S NEW BOOK: The new book just issued for the holidays by Alfred Lambourne... Author, artist, and story teller, is beautiful enough in the quality of paper, type and binding to please the most fastidious taste.... The story is of the Rocky Mountains, our own dear snow-capped everlasting hills, and is gracefully and tenderly written, and most exquisitely illustrated. 'The book as a whole inside and out, is suitable for the most elegant drawing-room, or library table, and withal the tale is graciously intermingled with lofty sentiments and purity of language. The title befits the subject and blends harmoniously with the pen sketches and characteristic pictures— "Plet—A Christmas 'Tale of the Wasatch." —Kditorial A DECEMBER DITTY The holly, oh, the holly! Green leaf and berry red, Is the plant that thrives in winter When all the rest are fled. When snows are on the ground, And the skies are gray and drear, The holly comes at Christmastide And brings the Christmas cheer. —Selected RELIEF SOCIETY REPORT FROM BOUNTIFUL: This society is a small one, only about thirty-three members, but all are good, energetic workers. Our meetings are quite well attended, and we are trying to obey counsel in storing up wheat.... At present we have no poor in our ward, and can truthfully say that we do live in the land Bountiful. But all is not pleasant sunshine with us, for death has stepped in and taken one of our most faithful and useful sisters—Lucy Dark Muir.... —AZilla Grant, Secretary ENGAGEMENT: Mts. Kate Douglas Wiggin is soon to be married to George Riggs, a young business man of New York. 'They were together last summer on a coaching party in Wales.-: 'This will not interfere with Mrs. Wiggin's literary career. —Selected Page 820 ELL DORR, eminent artist, has assembled a number of her exquisite photographs in a new book Mother and Child. The photographs "magnify the beauty of even the smallest household rites... The inner beauty, depth, and poetry of mother and child." NITA LESLIE, an American relative of Sir Winston Churchhill, is the author of The Remarkable Mr. Jerome, a biography dealing with the family of Jennie Jerome who married Lord Randolph Churchill and became the mother of Sir Winston Churchill, the great British statesman. USAN B. Anthony, the great women's suffrage leader, is memorialized in a recent biography by Katherine Anthony. Susan Anthony is represented as " a symbol in garnet velvet" of the inevitable recognition of the civil rights of women. HE first women entered our Federal Government service in 1786. Now, 168 years later, nearly a half million women are working for the Government, making up twenty-two per cent of the civilians in Government service. R. CYLVIA SORKIN, St. Louis economist and business consultant, told the Business and Professional Women's Clubs at their national convention, that she would Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon not be surprised if the United States had a woman president by 1966. She added that ability, not sex, should determine who fills the office, and said that she knows a dozen women qualified for the office. HE nurses of America were honored during National Nurses Week, October 11th to 17th, with special radio, television, church, and school programs devoted to the women in white who bring sunshine into gray lives, ease pain, help to cure disease, care for infants and the aged, and make the world a better place in which to live. NNE HUTCHINSON is the subject of Boston's only statue of a woman. She was a very brilliant person who disagreed with the Calvinistic Puritans and insisted on speaking her mind. She was banished with her family, in 1638, and settled in Rhode Island. The sculptor was a native Utahn—Cyrus E. Dallin. IRTHDAY congratulations are extended to Mrs. Ann C. Milne, Murray, Utah, 106; Mrs. Amanda Sanderson Jones Pritchett, Fairview, Utah, one hundred years old; Elizabeth Carlyle Bawden, Salt Lake City, Utah, ninety-seven; Mrs. Sally Agnes Call Cordon, Rigby, Idaho, ninety six; Mrs. Lydia Westberg, North Salt Lake, ninety. Page 821 CG-—> EDITORIAL co VOL. 41 DECEMBER 1954 NO. 12 She 125th Semi-Annual Church Conference spirit of appreciation, gratitude, and unity characterized the entire proceedings of the One Hundred 9 'T'wenty-Fifth Semi-Annual Conference of the Church held on October 1-3, 1954, in the Tabernacle on Temple Square. The presence and words of two of the General Authorities were missed—Elder Adam S. Bennion and Bishop Joseph Wirthlin both of whom were recovering from illnesses. Great coverage was afforded by radio and television in Western States, originating with KSL and KSL-T'V, and through a closed circuit the proceedings of the Priesthood meeting went to stake chapels in Utah, Idaho, Wyoming, Arizona, and up and down the Pacific Coast, where members of the Priesthood were assembled for this unusual opportunity. The spread of the gospel, geographically, was indicated by President McKay's extending love and greetings to Church members in Canada, Mexico, Europe, South Africa, South America, New Zealand, Australia, the Polynesian Islands, Japan, China, Greenland, Iceland, to groups in Korea, the Philippines, on Guam, and other islands of the Pacific. In President McKay's opening address he stated that he felt imPage 822 pressed to say a word of commenda- - tion about what the Church is doing to help parents rear their children, particularly the teenagers of the Church. Three groups carry the responsibility of training children, he averred, first the family; second the Church; and third the state. President McKay stressed the fact that the Lord has placed upon parents:... The responsibility, first to teach the doctrine of repentance; second, faith in Christ, the Son of the Living God; third, baptism and confirmation; fourth, to teach children to pray; fifth to teach children to walk uprightly before the Lord. Parents who shirk this responsibility will have to answer for the sin of neglect.... The most effective way to teach is by example. In speaking of the great work being done by the Church for teenagers, he commended that of the Aaronic Priesthood, Sunday School, Y. M. M. LA. And Y. W. M. LA., the Primary, and the seminaries. He showed plainly "how effective the Church is in its divine organization in touching the life and activities of every member therein." President Richards set forth for the edification of Church members, some features of the missionary program, notably "planned teaching of the gospel to investigators...." EDITORIAL Teaching with testimony, he characterized as the epitome of missionary effort. He outlined the standardized program, mentioning lessons used by the missionaries on: the Godhead; the apostacy; the restoration; The Book of Mormon; followed by the teaching of the principles of the gospel and the eternal plan of salvation as they affect the individual lives of all men; the call to repentance; and humility. He pointed cut: There is a feature of this missionary teaching not confined to any one lesson, but running throughout the entire program, which deserves special mention. It is the constant emphasis on: the principle that it is the truth. President Richards appealed to the homes visited by the missionanes "to listen with an open mind, and with a measure of patience." He also declared that the consistency of the living of Latter-day Saints will make an invaluable contribution to the missionary program. President Clark expressed gratitude for, '"'a sixth sense," which a non-member once referred to in jest as a sense that enables one to believe Mormonism. He pointed out: This gospel... Has been the same gospel from the beginning, not always understood, not always preached, but it has been the plan of life, salvation, and exaltation from the time it was taught to Adam.... I am happy that we Latterday Saints have blessings and a_ heritage that teaches us the truths of this everlasting gospel. He recounted one by one the marvelous blessings enjoyed by the Latter-day Saints. ''We are blessed, I was going to say, beyond all, in our 823 knowledge, our testimony, our witness that Jesus is the Christ." He said in closing: I bear you my testimony again that the authority conferred upon Joseph still is in the Church and that the President of the Church, our great leader, President David O. McKay, is the repository at this moment of all the power and authority that was conferred upon Joseph. At the first session of the conference, President McKay asked that the spirit of unity and oneness might characterize the first session. In his concluding remarks he said: We wish that all within the sound of my voice at this moment, all who have any prejudice in their hearts, might have glimpsed the General Authorities in the House of the Lord last Thursday morning, when they met in fasting and prayer to prepare themselves spiritually for the responsibilities awaiting them in this great conference. You would have glimpsed the unity of the First Presidency and through this transmission of heart to heart, soul to soul, you would have known the love I bear for these two counselors, for their clear vision and sound judgment and their patience with their leader when necessary. You would have glimpsed the unity and love of these twelve men, of their Assistants and of the First Council of Seventy, the Patriarch, and the Presiding Bishopric.... We bless you that the spirit of unity and the spirit of testimony of the divinity of this work may abide in your hearts always, that peace and love may be in your homes as never before, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. Truly the entire conference was a feast of the bread of life, and those privileged to attend through the final session left the historic Tabernacle with reluctance, so great had been their spiritual joy throughout the three days. —M. C. S. She Mleaning of | December for Latter-Day Saints N this season of the Christmastide our hearts are turned in greater devotion towards our families and friends, and, in remembrance of the precious gifts of gold and frankincense and myrrh which were given to our Savior, we offer gifts to our loved ones, and we remember with greetings of good will our friends and acquaintances. And yet it often happens that in the midst of our Christmas plans, and in our hurry to accomplish our more material desires, we forget the true meaning and the sacred significance of the coming of December. It may be that in our own hurry and confusion, we have neglected to teach our children the difference between the festivities associated with Santa Claus and the exchange of gifts, and the reverent remembrance of the season in which we observe the birthday of our Lord. It may be that the message of good will and salvation which fell long ago upon the Palestinian hills has not become an integral enough part of our own lives, and so the earth's greatest heritage may be in danger of being lost to our children. For Latter-day Saints, the time of Christmas has a particular and a precious import, an additional significance which should increase our thoughtful devotion and give a spiritual illumination to these days of winter. On the twenty-third day of December in 1805, there was born to Joseph Smith and his wife Lucy, in Sharon, Windsor County, Vermont, a son whom they named Joseph, a boy destined to receive for himself Page 824 and for all the people of the earth, a divine reaffirmation of the mission of the Lord Jesus, and the Father's design for the eternal progress of his children. Feeling within his heart that the Heavenly Father would answer prayer and give wisdom, as is promised in the Epistle of James, young Joseph, in his fifteenth year, prayed earnestly for direction in his desire to affiliate with some religious organization. 'The answer was glorious beyond any expectation: When the light rested upon me I saw two Personages, whose brightness and glory defy all description, standing above me in the air. One of them spake unto me, calling me by name, and said, pointing to the other—This is My Beloved Son. Hear Him! (Joseph Smith 2:17) This spirit of trust in the Heavenly Father, and in the Father's willingness to draw close to one who sought his guidance, became, in the illuminated years that followed, a directing principle of the restored Church. For it was given to Joseph Smith to re-establish upon the earth the eternal concept of the nature of God and the mission of his Son, Jesus the Christ. It was given to Joseph Smith to witness to the world that the heavens had been opened to him, and he had seen the Father and the Son. Belief in a personal God and adherence to the gospel as practiced in the primitive Church had been lost in the long intervening centuries. The ancient truth, the everlasting ordinances, and the power of the Priesthood were restored to the earth through Joseph Smith, and thus his own generation and the generations fol- EDITORIAL lowing the life of the Prophet, were given the light of the living gospel and a true knowledge of the meaning of the coming of Jesus to the earth. Thus Christmas and the month of December have a meaning far beyond the holly wreaths and evergreens; far beyond the carols and the anthems; far above the radiant windows of the chapels. For these are but the reflected glow in the shadows of earth. The great illumina- 825 tion is the sure knowledge of the mission of Jesus who has prepared for us an eternal home. Now what do we hear in the gospel which we have received? A voice of gladness! A voice of mercy from heaven; and a voice of truth out of the earth... Glad tidings of great joy.... And again what do we hear? Glad tidings from Cumorah! Moroni, an angel from heaven, declaring the fulfillment of the prophets... (D. & C. 128:19-20). —V. P. C. <>< She Paper Santa Claus Elsie McKinnon Strachan It is not the size of the Christmas tree We choose with care each year, It is not the way its tinsel shines Nor lights that make it dear; It is not the packages at its base— Each one a work of art— That snows the mind with memories, And stirs the nostalgic heart. It's the crayoned, paper Santa Claus, We hang on the tree with care— His mended places showing, His beard in disrepair— Which causes our reflections, weaves A dearer family tie, And we give thanks, for a son man-tall, For Christmases gone by. Shrough Your Eyes Bernice T. Clayton The sunrise broke this morning on a bright and glistening world, As over towering mountain peaks its molten colors hurled Into this peaceful valley, which still slumbered here below, In heavy winter underwear and comforters of snow. The sight of so much glory in the flaming morning skies Caught at my heart, that heaven should be glimpsed by mortal eyes, The freezing air tore at my clothes with penetrating cold, And on the counterpane of snow were footprints fresh and bold, Where hunger-driven wild-life folks, insensible to harm, Had come to share the bounty and the shelter of our farm. Footprints of timid hare and quail, and on our snow-filled lawn, Were pheasants, while our youngest calf shared his breakfast with a fawn. Josef Muench POINSETTIAS —_ Right After Christmas Ida M. Pardue Te time out after the excitement of Christmas to give a different kind of social. This is an afternoon of sharing memories—with each person telling her oddest. Funniest, or most vivid Christmas memory. Memories? Everyone has them. Yourself, for instance. Wasn't there ever a Christmas that was particularly gay—or sad? How did you feel when you learned that Santa Claus did not honor your home just in December—but lived there all year round? Remember the present of a wiggling puppy that had to be chased all over the room after knocking down the tree? Once started, you'll be surprised at the eagerness with which someone will say, "Oh, that reminds me....!" and they'll all be off. The storytelling begins as soon as guests are comfortably settled with refreshments. Kecp them simple. Provide a good beverage (hot chocolate is good), a plate of dainty sandwiches, and perhaps some cookies or fruitcake. A dish of nuts and candy would be welcome, too. Arrange the food buffet style before the guests arrive. For a centerpiece, stand a single red or green candle in an apple, with a sprig of greenery on either side, or tuck a few brightly colored bulbs into a pine bough. A shallow dish piled with an assortment of ornaments makes a gay centerpiece, also, Page 826 ' RIGHT AFTER CHRISTMAS 827 SANDWICH SUGGESTION Cream cheese spread on rounds of brown bread, or date-and-nut bread, both of which come in cans and are quite inexpensive, is delectable. So are deviled egg fingers— made by spreading devild egg mixture on a slice of bread with crusts off, then cutting the slice into three lengths. Or cut the slices crosswise into four triangles. 'The hostess starts the storytelling. After that someone will probably voluntarily continue. Be prepared to hear some amazing tales. In one such group a very popular girl stunned listeners when she said she had never known a real Christmas. Reared by a maiden aunt who considered Christmas "foolish," this girl had never eaten a holiday dinner, never enjoyed a decorated tree, and never received a gaily wrappd gift. Another girl fascinated the same group with a vivid description of the tree decorations cherished for generations in her family. Handmade in Sweden, the ornaments had been brought to America by her grandparents and were as much a part of the Yule celebration as St. Nick and mince pie. Refill chocolate cups and pass the sandwich plate between tales. By the time everyone has spoken, you'll find many minutes have flown on swift wings—that your afternoon has itself become a memory—one which you may want to repeat every year thereafter, perhaps even with the same guests.: Gift Wrapping Elizabeth Williamson A very attractive gift wrapping tied with pinked calico strips will surprise and delight your friends. Simply cut strips from quaint prints or small patterned calico into the desired lengths. \Many times there are strips left over from dresses, aprons, or quilts, which can be used instead of throwing them away. The paper on the package is more attractive if it matches the calico ties. (That is, if the color of the paper is the predominant color of the print). Occasionally, it is possible to match the paper to the print. For example, a polka-dot design. This idea can be used for children's projects, or for little children who are staying in bed who love to cut with pinking scissors. Try this idea at a shower sometime, and see if your gift package is not singled out as being unique. Hal Rumei MANTEL ARRANGEMENT BY FLORENCE WILLIAMS Again "Cais! Helen S. Williams ERE comes Christmas! The time for gift giving, for singing, for decorating, for knowmg the joy and happiness of belonging! It's the time to make our homes gay and bright with color and happiness. Let's make this Christmas the most beautiful one we've ever had. Let's make our rooms, mantels, tables express the joy of Christmas season so that all who enter our doors will feel our love and enthusiasm for this special season. With pine on the mantle and stars of hope hanging above, and with mistletoe hung here and there to give an excuse for a warm embrace, with the aroma of delicious, wonderful food from spicy, fragrant kitchens, Christmas welcomes us once again into that season of seasons when love for each other reigns supreme. Fireplaces and mantels are part of the Christmas morning welcome. What could be more heartwarmingly natural than a Yule log fire burning brightly beneath a rustic mantel decoration like the one that Florence Williams has in her hospitable and beautiful home. The broad mantel is banked with soft green Ponderosa pine boughs, with huge brown cones that grow right on the trees. How fortunate you are if you live near a pine grove where these beautiful old trees grow. What fun you can have taking your family to forest areas where permission for cutting boughs can be obtained, and gathering them for Christmas adornment, decorating, and wrappings. Page 828: AGAIN IT'S CHRISTMAS! 829 Florence has banked the pines high in the center of the mantel because her ceiling is high and her mirror is spacious. Three stars of hope hang above. 'These are cut from plastic foam. She trimmed them with sequins and pearls, and wisely she has spaced them irregularly to give balance and interest. The fireplace mitten hanging at the side of the fireplace is almost solid with the gavest and brightest of sequins you could imagine. Little tinkling bells edge the cuff. Florence thought the gay mit might encourage the youngsters to keep the log box full and the fire constantly burning. Grownups as well as the little ones warm to the welcome and beauty of stars of hope, pines, and warm fires. Yes, again it's Christmas, and once more we tingle m anticipation of making our homes and hearts ready to welcome neighbors, friends, and family to our hearthsides. A TasLe To DeLicnut CHILDREN HE Christmas season draws near, and with it come ideas, suggestions, and pictures for ways to decorate tables, mantels, windows, and doors. Christmas is a glorious time of the year, for hearts and spirits are aglow with warmth and friendliness. Homes seem to breathe a special welcome to friends and families at the Yuletide season, and all the world is aglow with color Florence Williams has done this table in the old traditional Christmas colors, red and green, and, after all, they are favorites for nearly cveryone. She has used the symbols of Christmas that awaken memories of our childhood and make us nostalgic for the vouth that once was ours. If only we had the genius to recapture those days again for our loved ones! The tablecloth, handmade of heavy linen, is of Christmas red, with Christmas trees of white braid appliqued on it. While not all of us own picturesque English Spode Chnistmas tree plates, which add so much to the festive appearance of this table, we can all have the glasses with snow scenes and individual names. Christmas decals can be bought at stationery or hobby shops, and these can be Hal Rumel TABLE ARRANGEMENT BY FLORENCE WILLIAMS 830 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1954 handpainted to add color and richness, then applied to the glass. They have their own glue. If you have a way with sketching, you could draw your own snow Christmas scenes on a piece of paper to fit the base of the glass perfectly, then freehand the scene with enamel paint to the glass. The enamel and the decals hold up remarkably well for several washings. Call to your aid someone who prints or writes especially well to do the names on your glasses, for if the names are well done, your tumbler will have an added professional appearance. These glasses serve as place cards and individual gifts for the guests as a reminder of the Christmasy, hospitable time spent at your home during the Yule season. Your guests will love them. The artistic candleholders are made of brass tubing, and their bases are cut in the shape of stars. Florence made a paper pattern for the base, and then, with tin snips, had no trouble cutting the brass in perfect shape. The tubing is held in place with drippings from the candles, or could be glued with Amco glue. These holders, with their bright red Christmas candles, add just the right touch to these festive decorations. The cornucopia Christmas trees were made of fuzzy green paper, but these could be made of green felt, glued to stiffened cardboard. 'Tiny painted cows, horses, men, sheep, and dogs, are glued to the trees. The little figures delight the small fry. They can be purchased at dime stores, perhaps, or could be made of heavy cardboard paper and painted with enamel paint. On top of each tree is a wooden Santa head to give the finishing touch for the Christmas look. If Florence can create or find all these unique touches to do things differently and picturesquely—so can you! The houses and the figurines placed here and there on the table came from Sweden. They are handcarved of wood and are exact replicas of the quaint little cottages from overseas. Perhaps they will give you ideas of something similar you have and can use, some old treasures that have been tucked away for years. Get them out and use them this Christmas. Each article on this table could be made by members of the family, the carved wooden figures, the candleholders, the little cornucopia Christmas trees. Anyone with a sewing machine could make the festive tablecloth of either red or green. You might even use tinkling brass bells sewed here and there in place of these embroidered trees if you should choose. Pin the bells on with small gold safety pins, then there is no trouble when laundering is needed. Florence hopes that this table she has done for Christmas may inspire you to create unique and festive ideas of your own. Remember to look in your cupboards for old figurines. Perhaps from some far-off land a missionary has sent home mementos to make your Christmas table different and exciting. These ideas are sent to you by Florence because she knows what real joy comes when you do something that will make children's laughter ring through the house, something that will make grownups smile and sing, something that will make a song spontaneously come to your own heart, when, through your labor and love, you have created an atmosphere for the spirit of Christmas to abide in your home at this season. CuristMas Gores ForRMAL HER is another and quite different type of Christmas table created by Florence. It carries the Yuletide motif, and in its simplicity and lovely soft colors, gives evidence again of her unusual versatility as an artist. The elegance of it will be enhanced because on this table will be laid only the family heirloom china, beautiful old silver, and rare crystal. It is an exquisite formal table laid for an ideal number of guests—six or eight—who will probably wear their best holiday attire to grace it. Good conversation, gay Christmas happiness will enhance the occasion, and the soft candle glow will give a radiance to the event. AGAIN IT'S CHRISTMAS! 831 Hal Rumel FORMAL TABLE ARRANGEMENT BY FLORENCE WILLIAMS The tablecloth is an imported Italian one of finest sheer pink linen with appliques in white embroidered designs. Because the cloth, china, silver, and crystal will be the real enhancement of the table, Florence has used perfect taste in her choice of simple, yet beautiful table decorations. Three tall, stately pink candles ate placed down the center of the table. They bespeak the Christmas elegance in a soft, subtle way. Each candle stands in a ball made of plastic foam which was purchased at the florist's or a variety store. These Christmas balls were dyed with a deep pinkish dye paint, then brushed with liquid glue. While the glue was still moist, gold glass dust was sprinkled over them. The paint, glue, and gold dust can be purchased at most any paint store. Next, pink and gold sequins were added. These were fastened into the Christmas balls with a long headed pearl pin. The effect is a glorified Christmas ornament in soft pastel shades, which is beautiful because of its simplicity. At the base of each candle is tied a soft bow of pink maline about two inches wide on which has been sprinkled gold dust and sequins. This Christmas do more entertaining in your home, for there is no place like it. It's where we make and share wonderful memories and experiences with those we love best. Each occasion calls for a different type of table setting and decoration. Whether it is a table set to delight the hearts of children, or whether it is a table of soft richness and luxury, where older members of the family can bask in its loveliness and feel the warmth of Christmas cheer, let your entertaining express the warmth and sincerity of your Christmas hospitality. Homebound Woman Makes Hand-Pieced Quilts Marinda Christena Peterson, Blackfoot, Idaho, Keeps Herself Busy and Makes Others Happy RS. Marinda Christena Peterson, who has been a widow for twenty-eight years, and a homebound invalid for eighteen years, has found a hobby that keeps: her fingers flying and brings much happiness to her family and friends. Now eighty-six years old, she has donated more than twenty quilts to the Relief Society, and she holds membership in the Groveland Ward, Blackfoot Stake. Her favorite quilt pattern is the Double Wedding Ring, although she has pieced many other patterns and has made original designs. She does all her quilt piecing by hand, lying on her back, and averages about two quilt tops each month. Mrs. Peterson was born in Goshen, Utah, and moved to Idaho in 1905. She has six children and fifteen grandchildren, and many friends. — One Story Gene Romolo One story—though so many ages old, Grows, every year, more lovely with retelling, The fragrant gifts more sweet, more pure than gold, And more divinely precious the anthems welling From angels' lips to shepherds and Wise Men, Who, star-led, found the Lord in Bethlehem. Page 832 ' Contentment Is a Lovely Thing CHAPTER 3 Dorothy S. Romney Synopsis: Margaret Lansing, whose husband Jed has become a farmer contrary to the wishes of his parents, is worried over the visit of Jed's father, a prominent brain surgeon, and his wife, whom she had never seen. Just before their arrival Margaret is taken ill, and since the young couple find it impossible to get help, the motherin-law assumes the care of the household and the baby Kimmy. She tries to persuade Jed to return with them to the city and resume his medical studies, and Margaret thinks that the difficult work around the farm home has made her mother-inlaw more than ever opposed to country life. HEN Jed came to her be- \\V fore he had his lunch, she knew immediately that she had been right, that his mother had worked beyond her strength, and that she was not enjoying her visit. Jed's voice was flat with discouragement. "Did Mrs. Jackson say when she would be back?" were his first words to her. "I think I'd better try to get her to come in and help out here," he continued. "T'm sorry, Jed, that I made such a mess of things," she burst out, ignoring his question for the moment. "T didn't say you had made a mess of things," he said patiently. "You couldn't help getting sick. It's just that Mother and Dad both needed a rest, and they're not getting one." "Mrs. Jackson didn't say when she would be back, she probably didn't know," Margaret answered wearily. "T could ask Liza to come in for a day or two," Jed said. He left the bedroom abruptly and Margaret heard him dial a number. 'The house was quiet except for Jed's low voice on the telephone. Apparently Kimmy was taking his nap. Dr. Lansing had donned overalls, and Margaret could see him busy repairing the broken fence that Jed had forgotten to fix in his excitement over the stalled station wagon yesterday. She saw Mrs. Lansing pass the window, carrying a basket of freshly washed clothes, then return to the house again, probably having forgotten the clothespins. Her shoulders seemed to droop with fatigue. After a short time the telephone conversation terminated, and a few minutes later Jed came into the bedroom carrying a luncheon tray. "T' invited the Hawkins family over this afternoon to meet Mother and Dad," he announced, setting the tray down on the bedside table. "You invited the Hawkins family over here!"" Margaret said incredulously, "with me unable to aes up and prepare refreshments... Or anything." "En masse," he answered blithely. Margaret couldn't believe her ears. A few moments ago Jed had been in the depths of despair because of the load of work that had been put on his parents on their first visit to the farm. The visit that she hoped would be a delightful vacation for them, and now Jed was deliberately inviting a houseful of guests. Page 833 "T thought you called Liza to ask her to come in and help out here. Instead, someone will have to get busy and prepare refreshments, and we certainly can't ask your mother to do it," Margaret said, more than a little piqued. HEN she gave Jed a long, searching look, and there was no mistaking the outward signs. "Jed Lansing, you're up to something," she said. "Well," he confessed, "when Liza told me she was making a freezer of ice cream and baking cookies, and that she would invite us over if you weren't ill, I sort of got the idea that it would be a good time to ask the Hawkins to meet the elder Lansings, amd.... "Jed, you didn't?" Margaret interrupted, knowing full well that he had—that he had invited Liza to bring her family over with the stipulation that she furnish her own refreshments. "Not exactly," Jed countered, knowing just what Margaret meant. "Liza said she'd like to meet Mother and Dad... And, well, we sort of worked it out together. Liza is bringing the ice cream and cookies with her." "But Jed! The Hawkinses of all people! I know they're good-hearted and all that...." "The salt of the earth," declared Jed firmly. "But they're almost the last people in town I'd think of inviting over to meet your folks. They're just— well, diamonds in the rough. If Liza had any sense of the proper amenities she wouldn't have offered to come over here when I'm ill." "T'm not sure of the meaning of your five-dollar word," replied Jed cheerfully, "but I do know that they're coming. And don't take it so hard. [ll bet that Mother and Dad will love them, the same as we do." ""Jed—please call and ask them to postpone it for just a day or two," she pleaded. "IT can't. 'The ice cream is already made. Be a good girl and maybe I'll bring you some." With that he punched her pillow and strode from the room. Maybe they'll be awed by Jed's folks and Liza will let someone else do part of the talking, thought Margaret hopefully. Maybe Jim will wear his teeth. Maybe Ellie and Nina will have something else to do and stay home. Maybe—oh, it was use! She groaned and buried her face in the pillow. Nothing ever yet bothered any of the Hawkinses and nothing ever would. She heard them the moment they arrived. Liza's loud voice, friendly, brimming over with love for her fellow men—but loud just the same. Jim's muffled tones—he hadn't worn his teeth—and the two girls' giggly comments. She was grateful that she couldn't hear the details of the conversation, but one look at Jed's face, when he brought in the promised ice cream, told her that the afternoon had not been a success. When Mrs. Lansing came in later to ask what she would like for supper, Margaret replied, "Oh, just a bowl of soup, please. 'There is plenty on the supply shelf. Maybe that would do for everyone. You must be completely worn out." "Tt has been rather a tiring day," assented Mrs. Lansing. 834 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECLMBER 1954 CONTENTMENT IS A LOVELY THING HE next Morning Margaret was Wracking her brains to try and Who might be pushed her back into the pulled up the covers, "What is it?" she asked breathless. "What on earth happened?" "Mother was outside watching immy, and Mrs. Jackson's pigs came rushing through the fence— yes, the one Dad was working on— Mother trip and "Oh, how awful!" cried Margaret, "is she hurt? Of course the pi "EY 8?" "Hie agreed. "Mother js just shaken up, but I'm getting desMargaret heard him calling on the telephone and later talking with his father on the front porch, there were still five days left of the scheduled visit 835 "Margaret," he began with an air of apology, "T hope you won't mind "You mean they're not staying the week out?" she asked, blankly, "T'm afraid that's right," immy. Instead they had found nothing but hard work, An approaching hurried prepout to make A complete sense of failure closed in on Margaret, The heavy UMMER'S beginning was always a time of joy in the valley. The very air seemed to be filled with a friendly content, the earth's reawakening showing in the fresh green of the fields and gardens, in the gloriously delicate blossoms that festooned the orchards, giving promise of a bountiful harvest. Jed and Margaret had always found new happiness each spring in the awareness of nature's fulfillment. But this spring, with her strength returning slowly, Margaret's spirits felt no soaring. Mrs. Jackson had come back from her sister's, and Margaret welcomed her kind solicitousness. This morning, Mrs. Jackson had insisted on doing the heavier duties in the kitchen, while Margaret managed the lighter work, at the same time trailing around after Kimmy, keeping him out of mischief. She finished tidying up the bedroom and steered Kimmy's pattering feet into the kitchen just in time to meet Jed as he came in from the barn to eat his lunch. "Hi, honey," he greeted. He picked Kimmy up and swung him up on his shoulder, then asked. "Is everybody all set for the ward supper tonight?" "All set," Margaret answered. "Smell those delicious pies Mrs. Jackson just finished baking." The pies Mrs. Jackson had baked to take to the ward supper were set in a row on the kitchen table, still steaming hot from the oven. This would be Margaret's first time out since her illness, and as practically everyone in the community always attended these affairs, she was looking forward to greeting friends she had not seen for many weeks. Tonight's supper had been planned to raise funds toward building a new chapel. Jed was chairman and he wanted it to be a big success. He had been so busy and happy the past few weeks that Margaret hoped it meant a réturn to their old feeling of contentment. She knew that since his parents' brief visit and their sudden departure, he had begun to feel again that he was neglecting his duty toward them. Margaret had prepared a single sandwich for Jed's lunch, and poured a glass of the rich, cold milk that was his favorite beverage, and set it on the breadboard so as not to disturb the cooling pies. "What gave you the idea that I had lost my appetite, lady?" Jed asked, when he saw the sparse lunch set out for him. "We're all saving our appetites for tonight," she explained. "Hmm... Just like that," he said. Just then Mrs. Jackson came out of the pantry, a twinkle in her eye, and a berry pie, smaller than the other pies, but smelling every bit as delicious, in her hand. "All for you," she declared, setting the pie down in front of Jed. "I knew Margaret would try to starve you today." At exactly five o'clock the pies were packed into a container and loaded into the back seat of the station wagon, along with the paper plates, napkins, and silverware Margaret had been asked to furnish. Jed, Margaret, Mrs. Jackson, holding a radiant Kimmy on her lap, crowded noisily into the front seat of the old car. They were among the first to reach the church. Liza and Jim were 836 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1954 CONTENTMENT IS A LOVELY THING already there, with their three sturdy little boys, and Liza's mother, Mrs. Andrews, a sweet old lady, and one of Margaret's best friends. Mrs. Andrews had been a semil-invalid for as many years as Margaret could remember. She took a friendly interest in everything that went on in the community, and was always ready to give advice and counsel whenever she could. As Margaret had had strict orders from both Jed and Mrs. Jackson to keep away from the heat of the kitchen, she sat down to chat with Sister Andrews, glad of a chance to catch up on the local news, while 837 the two of them kept an eye on Kimmy and the ambitious Hawkins youngsters. Mrs. Andrews' first words to Margaret were, "I guess there's no point in beating around the bush. Jed's folks left in kind of a hurry, didn't they?" "Yes, Dr. Lansing had to get back," Margaret answered, and felt her color rise with the half-truth she had spoken. It was foolish not to tell Mrs. Andrews of the difficulties that had arisen, and of Jed's parents' obvious disappointment in the life he had chosen. (To be continued) > Jurntable Maude Rubin Just what would be the dire result If Junior spoke as an adult And shouted, "Goodness! How you've grown!" Then in the same inquiring tone Would brightly go night on to say: "Let's see, how old are you today?" Just what would be the dire result If Junior spoke TO an adult? From an Old Srunk Angelyvn W. Wadley Two beautiful ladies have called on me; They are very distinguished, it's plain to see. Each carries an elegant evening bag, And they hold up their skirts so the hems won't drag As they mince along in the carefulest way In high-heeled shoes that have had their day. Those hats were never designed for those dresses, And they slip askew on the soft young tresses. But royal court ladies dresesd for a ball, Couldn't look any prouder or sweeter at all. What a surging of memories their query brings! "Mama, when and where did you wear these things?" "As Little Children'"' Virginia M. Kammeyer when Bill passed through the kitchen on his way to the basement. When he came up twenty minutes later for a drink of water, she was watching a television program and dreamily cutting dates onto the kitchen table. "Watch it!" Bill said. Sally jumped and looked in surprise at the pile of fruit on the table. Bill had bought the 'T''V for their sixth wedding anniversary, and Sally had wanted it placed so she could see it from the kitchen while she worked. The results, so far, had been disastrous. Sally had sliced her finger while she watched "Aunt Maggie's Cooking Bee"; she had poured Worcestershire sauce into a caramel pudding while observing the "Name the Game" program, and the purple stain in the linoleum was grape juice she abstractedly poured on the floor while viewing, "Break and Take." Holding Sally's rapt attention now was a woman in an absurd hat, her voice a gurgle. "It's Mrs. Hugo Quayle from the Happy Life League," Sally explained. "She's talking about "We are Deceiving our Children.'" Bill took a drink of water and came closer to look at Mrs. Hugo Quayle. "Looks to me like she thought she'd wandered from a more exalted sphere." "Bill! Mrs. Quayle has been saying that today's children live in a world of fantasy—television, radio, the movies.' "That's bad?" Page 838 ° Sa ten was mixing fruitcake "Mrs. Quayle says that unless our children are awakened to a world of reality, they won't adjust properly when they are adults. We must throw away the fairy tales." "Nuts," said Bill and went back downstairs. Sally did not dismiss Mrs. Hugo Quayle so lightly. Was she doing her duty as a mother? Karl and Ann seemed like normal children, but they did spend a great deal of time in games of make-believe. Karl's dream of the future was to be a cowboy and ride the range in a silk embroidered shirt. Would it be too great a shock to his system when he found out that cowboys do not, for the most part, wear silk shirts, and very few of them have horses that can untie knots? The mail truck stopped out by the road. When it passed on, there was a large package sticking half out of the box. The children, who a moment ago had been playing in the yard, were now standing on tiptoe, tugging at the package. Sally hurried across the lawn and helped them pull it out. "It savs, To Karl and Ann." "Oh, boy!" "It also says, Do not open until Christmas." "Oh." "Who's it from, Mommy?" Karl was prancing about, his hazel eyes shining. "Is it from Santa Claus?" Sober, brown-eyed Ann echoed his words. "T bet it's from Santa Claus." "Tl bet it's from Grandpa and "AS LITTLE CHILDREN" Grandmommy, because it's postmarked Salt Lake City." "Does Grandpa wear a red suit?" asked Ann. "No!" scoffed Karl. "Grandpa.... What does Grandpa look like?" "Why Grandpa is very young looking. His hair is still black. And Grandmommy is little and plump." Sally felt a sudden pang. It had been two years since her parents had seen the children. Grandpa and Grandmommy in Salt Lake were the only grandparents that Karl and Ann knew, since Bill's mother and father were not living. Ann had been two and Karl three. Of course they didn't remember. Grandmommy's health had been too poor for them to make the long drive again, and every time Bill got a vacation, something happened, it seemed, so they and the children couldn't make the trip to Salt Lake. "Is Grandpa gonna come on Christmas an' bring us lots of presents?" persisted Ann. "No, darling, you're getting Grandpa mixed up with Santa Claus. Santa Claus is...." She stopped. This was what Mrs. Hugo Quayle meant by children living in a world of unreality. Because they only knew Grandpa as a man who sent them presents, they confused him with Santa Claus. WALKING back across the frozen lawn, Sally resolved firmly to set them straight. She led the children into the living room, set them on the sofa and drew up a chair before them. Bill's power saw was still humming in the basement where he was making a doll house for Ann. 839 "Karl, Ann, Santa Claus is not a real man." They looked at her blankly. "He is just imaginary. Santa never brings you presents, because there isn't any Santa Claus. All the gifts you get are from other people." "But...." A puzzled look broke out on Karl's face. "I saw him... Uptown, in a store window." "That was just a man dressed up," Sally explained patiently. "Like... Like you dress up like Roy Roges." Karl gave a noncommital "Oh," looked thoughtful for a moment, and then dashed off to play. Ann followed. There! Sally thought triumphantly. Now we'll have an honest Christmas. No little fat man in a red suit is going to get credit he doesn't deserve. In the next quickly passing days, Sally made plum puddings and fancy cookies, sent the last of the Christmas cards, and on Saturday took the children shopping. They entered Lee and Johnson's Department Store. On a huge dais in the middle of the glittering main floor sat a jolly figure with a magnificent white flowing beard. "Santa Claus!" Ann tugged at Sally's hand. Karl had already dashed over to get a closer look. "Tt's not really Santa Claus, darling. I told you. It's just a man." Santa extended a mittened hand and said in a rich, booming voice, "Would you like to sit on Santa's lap, little boy, and tell me what you want for Christmas?" Karl hesitated, looked at his moth- @r. "We have to get Daddy's pres- (Continued on page 860) Sheology—Characters and Teachings of The Book of Mormon Lesson 30—Moroni and the Nephite Armies Serve Their Country. And Their Church Elder Leland H. Monson (Text: The Book of Mormon: Alma, chapters 43-49) For Tuesday, March 1, 1955 Objective: To show that the Lord will not suffer his people to be destroyed, if they remain righteous and uphold the truth. Invasions of Lamanites FOLLOWIN G Alma's great teachings and admonitions to his his three sons, they went forth in the power of the Priesthood among the people to preach the gospel. Alma "himself could not rest" so he also preached. At this time in the history of the Nephites, about seventy-three years before the birth of Christ, there began a series of invasions by the Lamanites who captured some cities of the Nephites. During the dark years of war, a great military leader Moroni arose among the Nephites who was named chief captain at twenty-five years of age, and given command of all the armies of the Nephites. Not only was he a great military genius, he Page 840 was also a mighty spiritual leader. When Moroni was faced with a decision on the war, he turned to Alma and sought the will of the Lord through him. The first invasion of the Lamanites was into the land of Antionum, occupied by the apostate Nephites, the Zoramites, who had become Lamanites. Zerahemnah, leader of the Lamanites, wished to "... Usurp great power over them, and also that he might gain power over the Nephites by bringing them into bondage" (Alma 43:8). Through this knowledge of those under him, he recognized that the Amalekites, who were also apostate Nephites "... Were of a more wicked and murderous disposition than the Lamanites were..." (Alma 43:6), LESSON DEPARTMENT and so all the chief captains whom he appointed were either Amalekites or Zoramites. The intention of the Lamanites throughout the wars that followed was either to destroy the Nephites or bring them into bondage that they might hold sway over all the land. The desire of the Nephites, on the other hand, was to preserve their lands, to be allowed to support their wives and children, to preserve their liberty, and their Church. When successes came to the Nephites, they came because of the righteousness of Moroni, his prayerful conduct of the war, and the valor of his armies who put their trust in the Lord and called upon him to spare them in their dire extremity. However, many of the Nephites, at this time, were unrighteous, and so brought upon all the Nephites afflictions and troubles. The way Moroni armed his men and fortified his cities as told in The Book of Mormon, reminds one of the way the Europeans did in the Middle Ages. He put on them breastplates, | arm-shields, — head shields, and thick clothing. Their weapons were the sword, cimeters, bows and arrows, stones and slings. When the Lamanites observed the protection given the Nephites by their armor, they copied it and armed their own warriors in like manner. However, when they came upon a Nephite city in their new armor, they discovered that the wisdom of Moroni had kept the Nephites a step ahead in the wonderful new way he had fortified the city. (See Alma 50:1-6.) Battle at Manti In the beginning of the war, the 841 Lamanites withdrew from Antionum when they found how well protected the Nephite army was, even though fewer in numbers. When the Lamanites withdrew into the wilderness, Moroni was very desirous of knowing their next point of attack, so he sent spies after them in the wilderness and then:. Knowing of the prophecies of Alma, sent certain men unto him, desiring him that he should inquire of the Lord whither the armies of the Nephites should go to defend themselves against the Lamanites. And it came to pass that the word of the Lord came unto Alma, and Alma informed the messengers of Moroni, that the armies of the Lamanites were marching round about in the wilderness, that they might come over into the land of Manti, that they might commence an attack upon the weaker part of the people... (Alma 43:23-24). Through this warning, Moroni prepared the people of Manti, and by dividing his army and through stratagem (for "... He thought it no sin that he should defend them by stratagem..." (Alma 43:30) because of the evil intentions of the Lamanites ), the Lamanites were defeated although "... Never had the Lamanites been known to fight with such exceeding great strength and courage, no, not even from the beginning" (Alma 43:43). When the Nephites, whose army was less than half as large as the enemy's, were about to flee, Moroni inspired them with "... Thoughts of their lands, their liberty, yea, their freedom from bondage." 'Thus inspired "... They turned upon the Lamanites, and they cried with one voice unto the Lord their God... And in that selfsame hour that they cried unto the Lord for their freedom, the Lamanites began to flee before them..." (Alma 43:48 ff.) When the Lamanites saw they were encircled and Moroni saw they were "... Struck with terror" (Alma 43:53), so charitable was Moroni that he stopped the fighting and said:... Behold, Zerahemnah, that we do not desire to be men of blood. Ye know that ye are in our hands, yet we do not desire to slay you (Alma 44:1). He then pointed out that the Lord was with the Nephites:... Because of our religion and our faith in Christ... And never will the Lord suffer that we shall be destroyed except we should fall into transgression and deny our faith (Alma 44:3-4). Have a class member read all of Alma 44:4. Moroni pled with Zerahemnah. If - the Lamanites would deliver up their weapons and go their way, and vow to come no more to war against the Nephites, he promised the Lamanites he would spare their lives. Zerahemnah agreed to deliver up his weapons, but he said, "... We will not suffer ourselves to take an oath unto you, which we know that we shall break, and also our children..." (Alma 44:8), nor would he acknowledge that God had delivered the Nephites, but said it was their superior armor. Moroni said, "... I cannot recall the words which I have spoken..." (Alma 44:11), therefore the battle was resumed. But when Zerahemnah rushed forward to kill Moroni, a soldier of Moroni's broke Zerahemnah's sword off at the hilt and took off his scalp. Zerahemnah withdrew among his own soldiers. Many Lamanites then came forth willing to enter into a covenant of peace. These, the Nephites allowed to de- 45:1) part into the wilderness. 'The battle then was waged more fiercely than ever, until finally Zerahemnah capitulated and entered into a covenant of peace, and the remainder of his army departed into the wilderness. And the armies of the Nephites, or of Moroni, returned and came _ to their houses and their lands. And thus ended the eighteenth year of the reign of the judges over the people of Nephi. And thus ended the record of Alma, which was written upon the plates of Nephi (Alma 44:23:24). Alma Entrusts Records to Helaman The Nephites rejoiced to be delivered from the Lamanites and "... They did fast much and pray much, and they did worship God with exceeding great joy" (Alma Helaman, son of Alma, continued the record of the wars (Alma, chapters 45-62). Helaman wrote that his father, Alma, came to him in the nineteenth year of the reign of the judges. After testing the faith of Helaman by asking if he believed in Jesus Christ, in the words which he, Alma, had spoken concerning the records which had been kept, and, after Helaman's promising to keep Alma's commandments with all his heart, Alma revealed a prophecy to his son Helaman which Helaman was told to record, but not to make known to the people living at this time. Alma declared: "... What I prophesy unto thee shall not be made known, even until the prophecy is fulfilled..." (Alma 45:9). Then Helaman was told of the dwindling in unbelief of the Nephites:. In four hundred years from the time that Jesus Christ shall manifest himself unto them.... Yea, and then shall 842 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1954 LESSON DEPARTMENT they see wars and pestilences, yea, famines and bloodshed, even until the people of Nephi shall become extinct... Yea, I say unto you, that because they shall sin against so great light and knowledge.. That from that day, even the fourth generation shall not all pass away before this great iniquity shall come.... But whosoever remaineth, and is not destroyed in that great and dreadful day, shall be numbered among the Lamanites, and shall become like unto them, all, save it be a few who shall be called the disciples of the Lord; and them shall the Lamanites pursue even until they shall become extinct. And now, because of iniquity, this prophecy shall be fulfilled (Alma 45:10 ff.) When Alma had said these things to Helaman, he blessed him and also his other sons and "... Blessed the earth for the righteous' sake" (Alma 45:15). Alma also said:... Thus saith the Lord God—Cursed shall be... This land, unto every nation, kindred, tongue, and people, unto destruction, which do wickedly, when they are fully ripe... For this is the cursing and the blessing of God upon the land, for the Lord cannot look upon sin with the least degree of allowance (Alma 45:16). After saying these words Alma blessed the Church and:... Departed out of the land of Zarahemla, as if to go into the land of Melek. And... He was never heard of mote; as to his death or burial we know not of. Behold, this we know, that he was a righteous man and the saying went abroad in the church that he was taken up by the Spirit, or buried by the hand of the Lord, even as Moses... (Alma 45:18-19). Rise of the King-Men; Title of Liberty Helaman and his brethren went through all the cities to "... Establish the church again..." (Alma 843 45:22) and appointing "... Priests and teachers throughout all the land, over all the churches" (Alma 45:22), but because of pride in their great riches, many would not heed the words of Helaman. The leader of the dissenters who were seeking power was Amalickiah who desired to be king. Thus, in spite of their recent great victory over the Lamanites, the Nephites again became divided and their affairs were:. Exceedingly precarious and dangerous.... Thus we see how quick the children of men do forget the Lord their God, yea, how quick to do iniquity, and to be led away by the evil one (Alma 46:7-8). When Moroni heard of the dissensions, he was angry with Amalickiah, and Moroni rent his coat and took a piece of it on which he wrote:... In memory of our God, our teligion, and freedom, and our peace, our wives, and our children—and he fastened it upon the end of a pole (Alma 46:12). The Christians (the true believers of Christ) came forth, and casting their rent garments at the feet of Moroni, they covenanted that they would maintain their rights and their religion so that the Lord would bless them. Moroni related to them a significant prophecy made by Jacob, father of the twelve tribes. (Have a class member read Alma 46:23-27.) Then Moroni sent throughout the land rallying to his cause all those who would fight for liberty. When Amalickiah saw that his followers were outnumbered, he fled with them. Moroni sought to intercept them and succeeded in bringing most of the dissenters back 844 to Zarahemla, but Amalickiah escaped with a small number of men to the Lamanites. Through treachery Amalickiah made himself king of the Lamanites after killing the king and marrying the queen, but servants who were guarding the king escaped to the land of Zarahemla and joined the people of Ammon. Amalickiah:... Was acknowledged king throughout all the land, among all the people of the Lamanites, who were composed of the Lamanites and the Lemuelites and the Ishmaelites, and all the dissenters of the Nephites, from the reign of Nephi down to the present time (Alma 47:35). Character of Moroni The successful conclusion of the series of battles with the Lamanites was due, in large measure, to the character of Moroni. We are told:. Moroni was a strong and a mighty man; he was a man of a perfect understanding; yea, a man that did not delight in bloodshed; a man whose soul did joy in the liberty and the freedom of his country, and his brethren from bondage and slavery; Yea, a man whose heart did swell with thanksgiving to his God.. A man who did labor exceedingly for the welfare and safety of his people... A man who was firm in the faith of Christ. Yea, verily, verily I say unto you, if all men had been, and were, and ever would be, like unto Moroni, behold, the very powers of hell would have been shakRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1954 en forever; yea, the devil would never have power over the hearts of the children of men. Behold, he was a man like unto Ammon, the son of Mosiah, yea, and even the other sons of Mosiah, yea, and also Alma and his sons, for they were all men of God (Alma 48:11 ff.). At the conclusion of the nineteenth year peace was restored, and there was:. Exceeding great prosperity in the church because of their heed and diligence which they gave unto the word of God, which was declared unto them by Helaman, and Shiblon, and Corianton, and Ammon and his brethren, yea, and by all those who had been ordained by the holy order of God, being baptized unto repentance, and sent forth to preach among the people (Alma 49:30). Questions on the Lesson 1. What were the differences in the objectives of the Nephites and Lamanites? 2, What were the Nephites taught about defending themselves? (See Alma 43:46-47.) 3. Give instances of the truth of the words "*... We also see the great wickedness one very wicked man can cause to take place among the children of men" (Alma 46:9). 4. Comment on the significance of the statement "... They [Nephites] were sorty to be the means of sending so many of their brethren out of this world into an eternal world, unprepared to meet their God" (Alma 48:23). —_- Shere Wl Always Be a Christmas Adelia M. Pierce There will always be a Christmas; It will forever bring New faith, new hope, new courage, As joyous carols ring. And always through the darkness The Christmas star will shine, A pledge of peace and freedom To this land of yours and mine. 4 Visiting Seacher I lessages Book of Mormon Gems of Truth Lesson 30: ".. That Ye Should Continue to Teach..... As Ye Have Begun to Teach the Word Even So | would Use Boldness, But Not Overbearance; and Also See That Ye Bridle All Your Passions, That Ye May Be Filled With Love.. -' (Alma 38:10, 12). Leone O. Jacobs For Tuesday, March 1, 1955 Objective: To show the need of being courageous in teaching the word of God and being filled with love. LMA, in this passage, gives counsel to his son concerning his conduct and its relation to the successful teaching of the gospel of Christ. We are all teachers — if not directly, then indirectly, by the lives we live, the examples we set before others. And thus Alma's advice can well apply to each of us. In showing another a better way of life, it is well to be courageous in its defense, but never should one approach the point of being arrogant or dictatorial. Love must fill the heart. Love is the greatest force in the world. More good can be accomplished through its use than by any other medium. It is the most effective tool in combating evi). If wisely given, it may often change the most wayward or stubborn heart. Love is constructive in nature; it lends encouragement, builds and ennobles. As President George Albert Smith often said, "People can be loved into doing good. They cannot be forced." Love is not compatible with anger, hatred, or vice. These must be ruled out of life if one is to be consistently filled with love. Either we learn to control our passions or our passions will crowd out much of the love which should be in our hearts. How may we bridle our passions, as Alma advised? It is suggested by some that we concentrate on one weakness at a time, determine to control it one day at a time, and soon, under this schedule, the weeks and months will give evidence of victory. President Brigham Young gives concrete advice on conquering one's temper: There is not a man in the world who cannot overcome his passion, if he will struggle earnestly to do so. If you find passion coming on you, go off to some place where you cannot be heard; let none of your family see you or hear you, while it ls upon you, but struggle till it leaves you; and pray for strength to overcome. If you first gain power to check your words, you will then begin to have power to check your judgment, and at length actually gain power to check your thoughts and reflections (Discourses of Brigham Young, 1946 Edition, chapter XXIII, page 267). In order to be filled with love, one must devote some time to its development. In this busy day, we are very conscious of time. With each passing hour certain appointPage 845 ments and duties must be performed. But how much time are we devoting to loving one another? Are we taking enough time to dispense this priceless commodity? Is there time for us to be patient, kind? If not, then we are not using time judiciously, for love is the most needed corrective for this world's ills. 'The Savior said: A new commandment I give unto you, That ye love one another; as I have loved you, that ye also love one another (John 13:34). In the Church there are numerous opportunities afforded us to show. Our love for one another, and the more of these opportunities we accept, the greater will be our capacity for love. "As we love, we serve, and as we serve, our love is increased." In a spirit of love we can truly teach the word of God to others. Work IN leeting—Selection, Care, and Use of Household Equipment (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) 'Lesson 6—Home Freezers and Refrigerators Rhea H. Gardner For Tuesday, March 8, 1955 ODERN home refrigeration equipment has done as much or more to improve standards of living and add to the pleasantness of life than any other kind of household equipment. Home freezers and refrigerators have made it possible for isolated farm families to enjoy garden fresh fruits and vegetables the year around. A continuous supply of fresh meat and_ other foods, stored in the home freezer or nearby locker plant, has made possible appetizing and nutritious meals during all seasons of the year. Before you buy a home freezer you would do well to have definite plans for securing food to put into it. The wisdom of buying fresh fruits and vegetables from the regular retail market is questionable. Unless one can raise his own vegetables and fruit or secure them in quantity directly from a grower, it may pay to buy a freezer just large enough for meat and cooked foods. Frozen fruits and vegetables are now available at most grocery stores at a fair price. If one intends to fill the freezer with home produced foods, plans for increased amounts and varieties best suited to freezing should be made prior to planting time. Homemakers should be sure they have sufficient room in their homes for a freezer and they would do well to understand what the total cost of owning a home freezer will be before actually making the purchase. This includes interest on the money invested, cost of repairs and upkeep (approximately two per cent of cost per year), electricity to 846 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1954 LESSON DEPARTMENT freeze food and maintain storage temperature, and cost of packaging. Consider the home freezer, like most other kitchen appliances, a real advance in living standards, but one that costs rather than saves money. The cost of operating a home freezer depends, to a large extent, on how well the space is utilized and the total pounds of food frozen over a given period. 'The more rapid the turnover of products stored, the less cost of operation per pound of food. Some folks boast of keeping food in their freezer for many months or even years. 'This is not economical. 'The major operating cost is the cost of keeping food frozen. A roast that has been kept in the freezer for nearly two years costs several times more than the market price of a fresh roast. Freezers are useful for the storage of ready-cooked foods. By cooking generous quantities and freezing the surplus, a family can eat several times with only slightly more labor costs than for one preparation. Develop the habit of storing packages in your freezer in an orderly manner, thus saving space. Be sure everything is properly packaged. Be familiar with'the amount of food that can be safely frozen at one time. The usual amount is four to six pounds per cubic foot. Food freezes slowly and loses much of its fresh flavor and firm texture if more than this is put in. Each package should be in direct contact with a freezing surface. How often frost should be scraped off the walls of your freezer depends on how nearly packages are vapor proof and how often the freezer is opened. In most cases, defrosting 847 is necessary only once or twice a year. It is easy to do if you remove the frost while it is dry, not icy, and only half an inch or so thick. If you wait longer the freezer must be disconnected until the ice melts. The purchase of a refrigerator also calls for pre-planning and analyzing of needs over a long period. If one has or intends to buy a home freezer, space for general storage of food requiring refrigeration is all that will be needed. The current trend is to have space for the storage of frozen food across the complete upper part of the freezing unit. This convenience is not justified economically if there is a locker nearby. However, if you rent a commercial locker which is some distance away, it would be wise to select a refrigerator with enough freezing space so you can store packages of frozen food in it between your weekly or semi-weekly visits to the locker. You can save money by storing the nght kinds of food in your locker. Corn on the cob is definitely in the luxury class, as ninety-two per cent of an ear of corn is inedible. Freezing and storage space cannot be used interchangeably without special packaging, since storage area is maintained at a forty-three degrees temperature, and the freezing compartment at a temperature of zero. Some automatic features recently made in refrigerators cost more than would several additional cubic feet of storage space. Before buying a refrigerator, decide which will serve your needs best. Do not clutter up the refrigerator with foods that do not require tefrigeration. Wash vegetables and trim off inedible portions. Remove store wrappings from meat and put in covered dishes or plastic bags. 'To remove a quart of milk from the refrigerator, use one cup of it, and then allow the rest to remain out until it reaches room temperature before putting the quart back, is an extravagant practice. More heat is put back in the refrigerator than if the door were left open until all the cold air escaped. 'This is due to the principle of high heat retention by certain foods. Cold air in the storage area of your refrigerator cannot circulate effectively when food is packed solidly on each shelf. Defrosting a refrigerator is advisable before frost is one-fourth inch thick. Ice on coils acts as an insulator and rapidly cuts down the efficiency of the cooling system and forces the motor to run more. The investment necessary for either a refrigerator or home freezer is not small. 'They are pieces of equipment that can return you dividends through wise use, or cost you excessive amounts through misuse. Be sure a reputable dealer is within reach, who will be responsible for having your equipment serviced when and if necessary. Thoughts for Discussion 1. In what ways has your refrigerator or freezer contributed toward better living for you and your family? 2. What experiences have you had with your freezer that others might profit by, such as having the freezer on a different circuit than your other large pieces of equipment to avoid blowing fuses? 3. Give handy hints regarding use of deep freezers or refrigerators. 4. Allow for adequate discussion by members. See: "Gardening for the Home Freezer," by C. W. McCullough, The Reliet Society Magazine, April 1954, page 253; and "Safe Method of Freezing Corn," The Relief Society Magazine, June 1954, page ceED Mian Literature of England Lesson 46—Victorian Humorists Elder Briant S. Jacobs For Tuesday, March 15, 1955 Objective: To appreciate humor better and to understand the necessity and value of humor in our own lives. F during the recent war, with its rationing, mass relocation of children, saturation air raids, blockbusters, and magnesium fire bombs, the British had not been able to make puns about Hitler, and jokes about their own sufferings, they might well have had their spirits broken from within. As it was, their moral stubbornness and_ their humor gave them a "bounce" which was their strongest secret weapon. Traditionally the true Briton has possessed a ready wit, and the ability to toss off a joke lightly. Despite their heavy seriousness, Victorian Englishmen in this were no different from the English either before or since. To know literature is to know hfe 848 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1954 LESSON DEPARTMENT in its fullness. Surely in our past treatment of English literature we have committed. Serious error, if we have defined great literature only as lofty, serious writing. 'True, just as life is deep, broad, and profound, mysterious even, so must these qualities be central to any true literature which hopes to mirror life. But equally true, life is also humorous, satirical, playful. One man is as incapable of high humor as another is of high seriousness. For every Milton we have a Chaucer; for every Carlvle and Ruskin and Arnold, with their intensity and complete absence of humor, we have Thackeray and Lewis Carroll and Sir William S. Gilbert, pranksters and punners supreme. Now, as from the beginning, Latter-day Saints are a joyous people. In no small measure, our pioneers were buoyed up and heartened by their sense of humor. How often quoted are words of our leaders which sparkle with wit. Such humor, like literature, is universal. Also universal are Alice in Wonderland, "The Owl and the Pussy-Cat," and The Mikado. It is to these, then, that we now turn to join in the delightful "un-Victorian" fun which has never been confined to any particular place or time. It is hardly possible that Charles Dickens, Poet Laureate of Humor and Good Cheer, could have achieved his popularity in an age earlier than his own. His art needed the cheap steam press to get the last written chapter into the hands of waiting thousands. Such a press also reproduced wood and, later, steel engravings at low cost. Dickens' writings attained twice the power 849 after they were also caricatured by Cruikshank's illustrations. Punch In this age of humor and caricature, one of the greatest and most enduring of British institutions had its beginnings. Punch, the British magazine of humor and satire which still appears every week with the same old cover, was first published July 17, 1841. The success of Punch was assured by "Mrs. Caudle's Curtain Lectures," the printed monologues she delivered in bed to her husband each night before going to sleep. 'This feature appeared for more than thirty years, and was so beloved by the English middle-class that there are those who assert, even today, that certain nostalgic English people continue to subscribe to Punch in the hope that before their subscription expires, Mrs. Caudle's lectures will re-appear. Humorous Victorian verse was the mainstay of Punch. It falls into two classes: nonsense verse, which, other than itself, has no excuse for being (nor needs one), and light satire. We shall discuss the first type first, beginning with Edward Lear. Edward Lear (1812-1888; see text pp. 824, 826-827) A lifelong student of animals and nature, Edward Lear studied art and through his active years traveled widely in Europe and Africa painting animals and landscapes. For more than a decade he was an art teacher in Rome, and he illustrated 'Tennyson's poems. When, in 1845, he broke his voluntary exile and returned to England, he gave Queen Victoria drawing lessons. In addi- af EDWARD LEAR tion to his verse he wrote so many limericks for his own amusement that he, perhaps more than any other, kept the limerick alive. Not only is his immortal "The Owl and the Pussy-Cat" nonsense and fun; it is also, in its fashion, a successful lyrical love poem. For as we read the poem, we have no doubt that the pussy indeed is lovely, and when: Pussy said to the Owl, You elegant fowl, How charmingly sweet you sing! Oh, let us be married; too long we have tarried.... (text p. 826, lines 12-15) are not Lear's rhythms and internal thymes (owl-fowl) completely successful in making this owl as elegant as ever an owl can be? Bong-tree, piggy-wig, tuncible, and pea - green betray Lear's great pleasure in inventing and sounding words, just for the satisfaction of hearing and feeling them soothe the tongue, the ear, and the image-making imagination. Runcible, a rhythmic, melodious word, connotes far more when used in Lear than can ever be gleaned from any definition such as the one which is recorded in serious literalness in our text. Likewise, in reading the parody on Wordsworth, any child instinctively knows that Tiniskoop-hills and Borley-Melling are Learean landmarks — far. More real in that never-neverland of the imagination than in any stuffily actual place! Charles Stuart Calverley (1831-1884, see text, pp. 824, 827). An exceptionally gifted classical scholar, Calverley translated Homer, Virgil, and Horace into English, and Milton, Herbert, Pope, and Tennyson into Latin. At Oxford he was popular for his ready wit and charming conversation. He practiced law for a time, but a skating accident at age thirty-five ended his active career. Calverley's writing is not for children; for them it remains meaningless nonsense. However, for those who recently read Rossetti's "Sister Helen" (text, p. 787), Calverley's "Ballad" (text, p. 827) contains in rich measure the intellectual delight which comes from a combinatioi of irony (the exact reverse of what is being said), parody (mocking imitation), and kittenish playfulness. For someone who is not completely "taken in" by Rossetti's oft-repeated refrain about hell and heaven, how telling a device it is to substitute for Rossetti's refrain, the new (and moving) refrain, "Butter and eggs and a pound of cheese." What sheer, clean fun! Always, throughout Calverley's "Ballad" the reader feels that, in the next line, the poem will begin to 850 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1954 LESSON DEPARTMENT make sense, but it never does. The many real details are skillfully evoked, but finally those of us who are forewarned, see it for what it is: a mild, tongue-in-cheek parody of those poets who take their art, their creative powers, and themselves too seriously. Calverley's "Ballad" is an excellent example of bewildering doubletalk. Aren't you tempted to try it on your family and friends, to see how much you can get away a before you are caught? Surely a long as you can maintain a serious tone and a straight face your "sin will not find you out." As each stanza is spoken without being discovered, surely you have your real and considerable reward. Here we see, as elsewhere in this lesson, how the parody often becomes as famous and well-known as the poem it parodies. And what keener ridicule than to smile at the wrong things, and at the wrong time? Lewis Carroll (Charles Lutwidge Dodgson, 1832-1898; see text, pp. 828-833). A mathematical bachelor who spent his entire outward life as a teacher at Cambridge, Mr. Dodgson was as stuffy as his name and his vocation. But his other (truer?) self is dear to all of us as Lewis Carroll, whose light-hearted, whimsical verse is so laden with good humor and riches of the imagination that it is better known by children of all ages than any other verse save the Mother Goose rhymes. In the company of adults Charles Lutwidge Dodgson was shy, even glum; but in the company of children, Lewis Carroll sparkled and 851 LEWIS CARROLL shone. He loved them, for their basic honesty, for their innocent unconcern with money, conventions, and the drive for power, and for the real, delightful world of imagination in which he and they could always blend together their cherished waking dreams into visions of delight. He always carried candy and puzzles in his pockets for their enjoyment; and he made friends with them wherever he went. Most of us know how his Alice in Wonderland was written to amuse little Alice Liddell. Recently the original manuscript sold for a fabulous sum. We find Dodgson comes alive in the comments of Alexander Wollcott, who reminds us that he was:. All his life neatly pigeonholed, all the letters he wrote or received in thirtyseven years elaborately summarized or catalogued so that by the time he died there were more than 98,000 cross-references in his correspondence files. He was the kind of a man who kept a diagram showing where you sat when you dined with him and what you ate, lest he served you the same dish when you came again. He was the kind of a man who gravely stipulated that no illustrations for a book of his be drawn on Sunday.... In this same methodical manner Mr. Dodgson never admitted publicly that he had even heard of Lewis Carroll. When asked about his writings, his stock reply was, "Mr. Dodgson neither claims nor acknowledges any connection with books not published under his name." And it is only a myth that when Queen Victoria wrote him requesting a copy of "his books" he sent her A Syllabus of Plane Algebraical Geometry (1860) and An Elementary Treatise on Determinants (1867). Yet often such an anecdote or caricature best defines the man. Most of the selections in our text are taken from Alice in Wonderland, which was illustrated in the 1866 edition by Sir John Tenniel, already well-known to British audiences for sixteen years through his contributions to Punch. For most of us these original drawings have become as much a part of Alice as Carroll's own words. Why humor is humorous is no more to be explained than why some like their eggs up while some like them over. Perhaps for you Lewis Carroll is boring. We cannot know how many people he has bored; we do know that during the past century he has been found delightful by millions. "The Crocodile" (text, p. 828), "Father William" (text, p. 828), "The Mock Turtle's Song" (text, p. 829), "The Walrus and the Carpenter" (text, p. 830), and the other text selections are for many readers sheer delight; for others they are dull. Why, who knows? It may be that some of us have allowed our imaginations and sense of humor to depart with the reality of Santa Claus. For others, what delightful commentary on life it is to hear Father William say:... Don't give yourself airs! Do you think I can listen all day to such stuff? Be off, or 'll kick you downstairs! (text, page 829, lines 30-33). Or to see the Walrus and the Carpenter:.. Walking close at hand; They wept like anything to see Such quantities of sand. "If this were only cleared away," They said, "it would be grand!" (text, page 830, lines 20-25). The supreme test (and reward) is "Jabberwocky" (text, p. 829). What a friendly caricature of all literary pretension is this. How a careful, sympathetic reading of it sets the wheels and cogs of our imaginations awhirr! How gently it leads us, "the literati," to laugh at ourselves, and at each other. How transporting is its spell.- 'This is sheer magic: "Twas brillig, and the slithy toves Did gyre and gimble in the wabe; All mimsy were the borogoves, And the mome raths outgrabe. Beware the Jabberwock, my son! The jaws that bite, the claws that catch! Beware the Jubjub bird, and shun The frumious Bandersnatch! (text, page 829, lines 1-8). Many of these poems deserve mimeographing for use in class, but particularly "Jabberwocky" and _ its added glossary which defines frumi- 852 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1954 LESSON DEPARTMENT ous as "another portmanteau word meaning fuming and furious." 'Truly this is divine nonsense. Sir William Schwenck Gilbert (1836-1911; see text, pp. 825, 833-838). How fully the sister arts lean on each other! Just as Carroll is hardly half without illustrations, so Gilbert is less than half without music and drama and voice and dance. But even with less than half, Gilbert is probably the best-loved, best-known of Victorian nonsense writers. 'This is so because he best helped his contemporaries to laugh at themselves. Before he began his famous collaboration with Sir Arthur Sullivan (composer of "Onward, Christian Soldiers"), young Gilbert had been a soldier, clerk, and lawyer. Like our other humorists he was a lifelong bachelor. At age thirty-three his Bab Ballads appeared. At once his humor brought him fame. When, six years later (1875), his first light opera appeared, he confessed how he had "unblushingly cribbed" from the author of Bab Ballads in writing librettos so flawless that they have deservedly become famous apart from the music. According to Mr. Gilbert, "all humor is based upon a grave and quasi-respectful treatment of the ludicrous." Because he found much to laugh at in English nobility, lawyers, politicians, doctors, snobs, artistic pretenders, particularly "'sertous" opera, he was taken to the bosom of the prosperous, rising middle class of Englishmen as their champion. Always he was one of them, so much so that it is said mild Queen Victoria withheld a 853 peerage from him, so pointedly did he poke fun at royal human frailty. Yet most people today find his humor temperate and buoyant. He was finally made a Knight in 1907. Gilbert's style is always light and graceful. In few writers does rhyme sparkle as it does in his lines: so precisely do the meter and rhyme fit the content that often it is his meter and rhyme which are those of the music itself. His plots are incredible, even impossible, yet his strange situations are always merely ludicrous exaggeration of actual dilemmas known in Victorian England. Often his parodies contain within them so much common sense, such a keen, satirical touch, that they rise above Victorian England to attain a universal appeal. As an example of technica] skill and fluency, consider the first stanza of "The Yarn of Nancy Bell" (text, p. 833): "Twas on the shores that round our coast From Deal to Ramsgate span, That I found alone on a piece of stone An elderly naval man, (lines 1-4). The internal rhyme in the third line, and the crescendoing cadence of the last line make his lines bouncing and alive. After a reading of several such compelling stanzas, it is almost impossible to keep fingers and toes subdued. When such skill is coupled to a worthy theme, we have Gilbert at his best, as in his most popular The Mikado. The Lord High Executioner compiles his "little list" of those "social offenders who might well be underground": And who never would be missed — who never would be missed! There's the pestilential nuisances who write for autographs— All people who have flabby hands and irritating laughs— All children who are up in dates, and floor you with 'em flat— All persons who in shaking hands, shake hands with you like that— And all third persons who on spoiling tete-a-tetes insist— They'd none of 'em be missed — they'd none of 'em be missed! (text, page 836, lines 3-10). "Let the Punishment. Fit the Crime" (text, p. 837), implements the same nonsensical machinery of punishing those repulsive criminals who go scot-free merely because their crimes are not proscribed by present-day laws. And besides being sly and smooth, Gilbert always has the happy knack of dulling with laughter the sting of his blow. Then, as now, even those being satirized join in Gilbert's infectious laughter at themselves. This is "divine nonsense" indeed. Questions on the Lessons 1. How may we justify humor as being literature? 2. Discuss humor as an English trait. 3. How does parody differ from satire? From irony? Whose verse in our lesson exemplifies each of these terms? 4. Do you agree with Gilbert's definition of humor as "a grave treatment of the ludicrous?" Why? Seaias Saittice— Whe Constitution of the United States Lesson 12—The Bill of Rights—Amendments Five Through Ten Elder Albert R. Bowen Texts: Your Rugged Constitution (Y. R. C.), pp. 204-217; The Constitution of the United States Its Sources and Its Application (C. Of U. S.), pp. 210-227 For Tuesday, March 22, 1955 Objective: To give further consideration to the Bill of Rights as a guarantee and protection to the rights and liberties of individual citizens. Rights of Persons Accused of Crimes | Fifth Amendment No person shall be held to answer for a capital, or otherwise infamous crime, unless on a presentment or indictment of a Grand Jury, except in cases arising in the land or naval forces, or in the Militia, when in actual service in time of War or public danger; nor shall any person be subject for the same offence to be twice put in jeopardy of life or limb; nor shall be compelled in any criminal case to be a witness against himself, nor be deprived of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law; nor shall private property be taken for public use, without just compensation. The Fifth Amendment is one of the truly great bulwarks of individual freedom and human rights found in the Constitution. Its provisions have been invoked in literally thousands of cases. 'Tersely stated, this Amendment may be said to guarantee that a person shall not be subjected to criminal prosecution or ' 854 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1954 LESSON DEPARTMENT deprived of property without a full, open, and public trial with full opportunity of defense, nor shall his property be seized or taken for any public purpose without full and adequate reimbursement. It goes without saying that criminals must be punished for crimes committed in order that society may protect itself against the effects of lawlessness. On the other hand, innocent persons must be protected from wrongful or illegal prosecution. The Fifth Amendment is one of the Amendments designed to regulate the steps in a criminal proceeding so that, while the interests of society are being protected and safeguarded, the interests and rights and liberties of individuals may be likewise safeguarded and protected. A capital offense, of course, is one for which a guilty person may be executed. An infamous crime is one for which he may be imprisoned. Before a person can be held to answer for such an offense he must be indicted by a grand jury, before whom all evidence against him must be laid. If the grand jury determines that the evidence presented to it warrants prosecution, it votes in favor of an indictment (formal accusation ). Then, and only then, is the person charged subject to being tried. It might be said that the system of indictment under the Fifth Amendment prohibits a_person from being subjected to Federal criminal proceedings on mere suspicion, no matter how well-founded such suspicion may be. Each state has similar laws and constitutional provisions designed to accomplish the same end. In most states the grand jury system of indictment has been abandoned in 855 favor of more expeditious processing of criminal proceedings, but the essential requirements of grand jury indictments have nevertheless been preserved. The indictment itself must set forth the nature of the offense charged and the circumstances of its occurrence. In this way the accused may know of the crime for which he must answer and thus may prepare his defense. The phrase, "to be twice put in jeopardy," means to stand trial for the same offense more than once. This means that if a person is tried for a criminal offense and found not guilty, or acquitted, as the term is known, he may not be tried again but must be allowed to go free, even though he may, in fact, have been guilty. In England before the Revolution, it sometimes happened that when the Crown was unsuccessful in convicting a person of a crime charged, the judges would compel a man to be tried over again, sometimes more than once, to insure a conviction. 'This provision of the Fifth Amendment has no application in cases where a jury cannot agree on guilt or innocence. In such cases a new trial is lawful and the accused cannot plead "double jeopardy." A final word on this vital provision of the Fifth Amendment is, that in jury trials before Federal courts, the verdict in a criminal case is required to be unanimous. In no criminal proceeding may an accused be compelled to testify against himself. He may sit mute if he wishes and his silence may not be considered as any evidence of his guilt. If he voluntarily takes the 856 witness chair and testifies on his own behalf, then he is subject to all the rules of cross-examination by the prosecution. An extension of this same protection of human liberty is that a man's wife, or a woman's husband, cannot be required to testify against his or her spouse. One aspect of the Fifth Amendment includes civil cases as well as criminal proceedings. 'That is, even in civil cases, a person may not be compelled to testify as to any matter being examined at the trial, if such testimony would tend to incriminate him—make him subject to criminal prosecution. An interesting sidelight on this provision of the Fifth Amendment is that the Communists always invoke the "self-incriminating" rule in their refusal to answer questions in court touching upon their party activities. Invariably they are successful in refusing to give evidence on their activities which might make them liable to be tried for a criminal offense, such as treason. 'They cannot refuse to testify, however, if their testimony would not lay them open to criminal proceedings, or they cannot refuse to testify if enough time has elapsed so that the statute of limitations would prevent their prosecution. ('The law provides that for most crimes the offenders must be prosecuted within a fixed period of time. After that time has elapsed, any prosecution is barred.) Also they must testify if they have already been tried and convicted of the offense at an earlier time, or have already been pardoned of the offense. "Due process of law" means protection from arbitrary and _ illegal acts by Government or GovernRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE-—-DECEMBER 1954 mental agents. It could be said to be a requirement that all Governmental proceedings are subject to the requirement of fair play. This requirement applies witn special force and emphasis in all judicial or court proceedings. The provision against Governmental seizure of private property prohibits the Government from taking the property of an individual, no matter how important or necessary the purpose of the taking may be, without paying him just compensation for the taking. It is true that one of the attributes of sovereignty requires that private rights must yield to public need. On the other hand, no individual is required to sacrifice his property for a public use or need, unless the public pays for it. The right of "eminent domain" (which means the appropriation of private property for public use) is subject to this very essential and vital limitation. _What a person shall be paid for the taking of his property must be decided by a jury on the demand of the person whose property is being appropriated. Thus Governmental agents may not be arbitrary in fixing fair value aud the amount payable for such taking. In England this right of seizure had been invoked by the sovereign, often in a very arbitrary and unfair manner, and, all too often, the aggrieved individual received little or no compensation or payment for this property. Trial for Crimes—Sixth Amendment (Y. R. C., pp. 206-207; C. Of U. S., pp. 216-221) In all criminal prosecutions, the accused shall enjoy the right of a speedy and pub- LESSON DEPARTMENT lic trial, by an impartial jury of the State and district wherein the crime shall have been committed, which district shall have been previously ascertained by law, and to be informed of the nature and cause of the accusation; to be confronted with the witnesses against him; to have compulsory process for obtaining witnesses in his favor, and to have the Assistance of Counsel for his defence. The Sixth Amendment, along with the Fifth, is designed to safeguard the interest of persons accused of crime and to insure them a speedy and public trial, and requires that they be informed of the charge or accusation against them. In addition, every accused person shall have the right of confrontation with witnesses against him, and shall also be entitled to compel the attendance of witnesses to testify in his defense, and to have an attorney to represent him during the entire proceedings against him. In early England the rights of an accused were not, in all cases, adequately protected. Mary, Queen of Scots, was never allowed to confront her accusers, and Sir Walter Raleigh was tried and executed upon the evidence produced in the form of a deposition. A deposition is a sworn statement obtained out of court usually taken down in the presence of a notary public. The colonists were well versed in the political history of England and were determined that, in America, a person accused of crime should be given a fair trial. A speedy and public trial is one which takes place with reasonable dispatch and without unnecessary delay. The trial is required to be public to insure that the trial procedure is fair and just. An accused is much more likely to be tried fair- 857 ly, if his trial is conducted openly for all to see. In colonial days it was not uncommon for persons accused of crime to be transported overseas to be tried. Therefore, the requirement that all criminal trials shall be conducted in the district where the alleged crime was committed. Furthermore, the Sixth Amendment contains the second reference to jury trials in criminal cases. Unless specifically waived by the accused, a jury trial is a constitutional requirement. In order that an accused may prepare his defense, it is important for him to be fully informed of the nature of the crime with which he has been charged. This information must be complete, with time and circumstance specified in the indictment. The right to confront accusers is very important. 'This means the right of cross-examination in court. The witnesses against an accused may not testify against him unless they testify in his presence. "To have compulsory process for obtaining witnesses in his favor" means that the Government is bound to produce the witnesses which the accused requires for his defense, and must bring them into court at Government expense. In every criminal trial the accused is entitled to an attorney to plead his case. 'The court will appoint counsel for an accused if he does not have counsel of his own choosing. Lawyers, as a part of their professional duty, must defend persons accused of crime when appointed by the court. Furthermore, they are required to do so without compensa- tion, if the accused is unable to pay for their services. Jury Trials in Civil Cases—Seventh Amendment (Y. R. C., pp. 208-209; C. Of U. S., pp. 221-222) In suits at common law, where the value in controversy shall exceed twenty dollars, the right of trial by jury shall be preserved, and no fact tried by a jury, shall be otherwise re-examined in any Court of the United States, than according to the tules of the common law. The people of the United States have always been attached to the jury system of trials. 'his Amendment was to insure jury trials in civil cases as well as criminal proceedings. 'The only limitation on this right in a civil case is that the amount involved must exceed twenty dollars. In our days this is a ridiculously small amount to warrant calling a jury of twelve persons to listen to the case. Until the Amendment is modified it is the constitutional law of the land and may not be changed or abrogated either by the Legislature or the courts. The requirement of jury trial applies to the courts of the National Government and not to the states. All states have constitutional provisions and laws which regulate and prescribe the procedure for trial of civil cases by jury. Some cases before Federal courts are not required to be heard by a jury. They are known as equity or admiralty cases. The rule of. Jury trial applies only to cases at common law. The English common law (which forms the foundation for our American legal system) is made up of court decisions, enactments of Parliament, and usages CECE MERE NE ENE ENE NE MEU UE EE EE ~ CHRISTMAS CANTATAS for LADIES VOICES. Carols of Christmas— SSA—Lorenz.......-..----.80. Child. Of Bethlehem— SA—Walter _......-...-.---.80.... Christmas Messiah — SSA—Handel.......-.-.-.80. Dawn of Christmas— SSA—Nolte -....-......----.80. Music of Bethlehem— SA—Holton.........---.---.80 _ Music of Bethlehem— SSA—Holton...........---.80. Song of the Holy Night—SA—Wilson.....80. Song of the Holy Night—SSA—Wilson...80. Wondrous Story—SSA Kountz — Music Sent on Approval — Use this advertisement cs your order blank ' | DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY | 45-47 South Main | Salt Lake City 1, Utah Please send the music indicated above. DD On Approval DD Charge © Money Enclosed Name Address City & State....... G/ | Daynes Masic 45-47 SOUTH MAIN J Salt Late City 145 NORTH UNIVERSITY, PROVO #" 2260 WASHINGTON BLVD. OGDEN 858, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1954 LESSON DEPARTMENT and customs that grew up over a long period of time in England. Under this Amendment the jury, in cases of common law, has the exclusive right to determine the facts in issue and may not be interfered with in such determination. If error is committed by the jury in its determination of the facts of a particular case, the judge may grant a new trial under prescribed rules of law or the case may be appealed to a higher court which may, if it determines that error has been committed, grant a new trial. Neither the trial nor the appellate (pertaining to appeals) court may invade the province of the jury and make a determination of the facts. Limitations on Bail and Punishments—Eighth Amendment (Y. R. C., pp. 210-211; C. Of U. S., pp. 222- 225) Excessive bail shall not be required, nor excessive fines imposed, nor cruel and unusual punishments inflicted. Bail is the sum which an accused person may be required to deposit in court to guarantee his appearance at the trial. A fine is a sum exacted from the guilty person after conviction of a criminal offense. Whether bail or a fine is excessive must depend upon the seriousness of the offense charged. In capital cases, that is, cases where the sentence imposed may be the death penalty, the right to bail may be denied. It follows that in criminal cases that fines and bail may be fixed higher for serious offenses than in minor criminal offenses. In the case of fines, the general tule followed is that the amount 859 shall not be so great as to seriously impair the ability of a man to earn his living. Cruel and unusual punishments forbidden by this Amendment are the cruel and barbarous punishments inflicted in early times. Examples are torture, branding, mutilation. The death penalty, however, does not come within this classification which is legal sentence in capital cases. Rights Kept by the People—Ninth Amendment (Y. R. C,, pp. 212-213; C. Of U. S., page 225) The enumeration in the Constitution, of certain rights, shall not be construed to deny or disparage others retained by the people. This Amendment is a statement of a rule of construction to be applied to the Constitution of the United States. It indicates that the National Government may exercise only the powers which have been delegated to it and which are enumerated in the Constitution. This includes implied powers necessary to carry into effect the express powers granted. Beyond this the National Government may not go in exercising power either as to the states or the people. Powers Kept by the States or the People—Tenth Amendment (Y. R. C., pp. 214-217; C. Of U. S., pp. 226- 277 The powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the States respectively, or to the people. The Tenth Amendment is the last of the Bill of Rights adopted to guarantee that the National Government would not exercise powers which had not been conferred upon it under the Constitution. This Amendment says, in a somewhat different way than the Ninth Amendment, that the Federal Government is one of enumerated and delegated powers. Beyond the exercise of these powers and the necessary implied powers, it may not go. 'To do so is an invasion of state rights or of rights which have been retained by the people. Such attempted exercise of power would be null and void. Questions on the Lesson 1. How are criminal proceedings instituted against a citizen under the Fifth Amendment? 2. May a person be tried twice for the same crime? 3. May a person be convicted of a crime because he refuses to testify in his own defense? 4. In what way may private property be taken by the Government? 5. What is the meaning of "due process of law"? 6. How must a criminal trial be conducted under the Sixth Amendment? 7. What is meant by the term "bail''? 8. What is "cruel and unusual punishment''? G. Why is the Government of the United States one of enumerated and delegated powers? 10. In whom do the undelegated and unenumerated powers of Government vest? —_— 'As Little Children'' (Continued from page 839) Karl." They bought Bill a sports jacket, and then Sally left the children with the Story Lady on the fifth floor while she shopped for their gifts. She passed a chinaware display and paused. 'There she saw a miniature sleigh and eight tiny reindeer, as fragile as though they had sprung from fairyland. In the sleigh sat a fat ceramic Santa Claus. The reindeer had golden antlers and seemed about to fly into the air. Sally said firmly. "How darling for the mantlepiece!"' Sally breathed, and then remembered that in the brave, new Christmas she championed there was no place for reindeer with golden antlers. She left the display with a feeling very near regret. When she reclaimed the children, the Story Lady had just finished reading them "The Night Before Christmas." "You were wrong about Santa Claus, Mommy," said Karl. "The Story Lady said...." "T don't care what the Story Lady said." Sally was tired and spoke impatiently. "There is no Santa Claus." Everything in the store and on the street belied her words. Santa and his elves were, it seemed, everywhere, she thought. Bi S attitude was no kelp "Doggonit, Sally, I wish you hadn't told the kids. It never hurt me to believe in Santa Claus, and well... You've taken away part of the fun." Three days before Christmas Bill said, "The choral singers are giving the Messiah tonight in the University concert hall. Let's get a sitter and go hear it." They sat in the dark hall and listened to the beauty and sorrow of (Continued on page 862) 860 ent," RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1954 "Come, Between the (Covers of thi 400 page Book rr cgi BNit! Is the story back of the story of © GOD:; Joseph Smith — the Latter - day ip { Prophet. Here is the factual basis AL for all of his unique claims you ' -. Have been awaiting and need to know. Pe} a To fully understand "the why" of; t%, fon, f Joseph Smith and Mormonism, the ee OE story should begin 4000 years ago with his and your literal ancestors, Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, Joseph and Ephraim. The recorded promises of God give a perfectly logical basis for every claim of divine power and priesthood leadership made by Joseph Smith and the church he established. True history and scripture studied in the light of this key, fully vindicates all the prophets of God, both ancient and modern. > Within thi volume i. A chart of Your Pedigree for 2200 Ycars (24 generations from Adam to Ephraim.) It is prepared with dates and references, ready to file in your family record. (See Doctrine and Covenants 27:10; 86:8-11; 103:17; 132:30-31; 136:21-22.) James H. Anderson was one of Enclosed Check or Money Order THIS BEAUTIFULLY BOUND BOOK AND CHART WILL PLEASANTLY SURPRISE YOU. Name Address the best students of scripture ——{————_——— eee ee ee = ever had. Order For "*GOD'S COVENANT RACE" from Genealogical Society of Utah. | 1177 Yale Ave. Salt Lake City S. Utah He has written about Your Please send.....-..-------++--copies to me. | b=... CJ Please send C. O. D. | I | ' Page 86] and history that the Church has_ | He was the first secretary of the | 'Racial Family and birthright. | (DETACH AND MAIL) Pep. Teme Evliehor Per te Pemperib 862 "As Little Children"' (Continued from page 860) Handel's masterpiece. Sally wanted to cry, it was so beautiful, when the white-robed figures shouted, as from one mighty throat, Worthy is the Lamb That was slain And hath redeemed us to God By his blood. They were silent riding home, still held by the spell of the music. "Oh, honey!" Sally said at last, "that's what Christmas ought to be:" "Of course it is," know it, but...." He didn't finish until he had parked the car and they were walking to the house. "Sally, Christmas isn't just for the wise. It's for children. In telling Karl and Ann there isn't a Santa Claus you've taken something away from them. Old Saint Nick represents the spirit of loving and giving, and it doesn't take away anything from the true meaning of Christmas." "You're right, dear. Hadn't." Bill grinned, "Ah, cheer up. I didn't mean to get up on a soapbox. We'll have a good time, any- >? Way. Bill said. ""We I wish I HE day before Christmas, Sally woke feeling as though the day ahead were a loaf of bread with the leavening left out. She worked diligently all day—cleaned the house, made rolls, and set them covered in the refrigerator, and helped Bill and the children set up the tree and trim it. It was fun to work together, but the bubble and sparkle and secret RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1954 excitement of Christmas Eve seemed missing. They had an early supper, and then the children went obediently to bed. Sally remembered _ last Christmas, when they had been like prancing ponies in their eagerness to find out what Santa would bring them. Sally and Bill sat in the living room lighted only by the bright bulbs on the tree. The floor was piled with the packages that had come from relatives. "Shall we put the kids' gifts out now?" Bill asked. "I guess so," Sally said, her heart not in it. Bill rose to go into the basement and bring up the tricycle and dollhouse from their hiding place in the crawl hole. He walked across the room and stopped. "Get back in bed, kids." Two pairs of eyes were peering around the corner. Karl gave an elfish grin. "We forgot something." He held up a large stocking made of red felt and with a bell on the toe. Ann followed suit. Grandmommy had sent the stockings last Christmas. "We didn't hang these up for Santa Claus." 'The two children scampered over to the fireplace, waving the stockings. Why, she thought, they didn't believe me! Not a word! She looked at their hopeful faces. "Yes, we'll hang up the stockings for Santa Claus." "Tl get some tape," said Bill, "'t hold up the stockings." 'They ue the stockings, the children chattering happily. "IT hope Santa Claus puts a dolly (Concluded on page 864) HAPPY HOLIDAYS A big measure of holiday pleasure comes wrapped in the U and | Sugar packages. Home-made holiday sweets, cakes, cookies and candies made with pure U and | Sugar add to the spirit of friendliness and good will that prevails at Christmas time. Next time you're at your grocers, get an extra bag or carton of pure U and | Sugar. (Continued from page 862) in mine," said Ann. "One that cries real tears." "When I was a little girl," said Sally, "we used to put out bowls of candy and nuts for Santa Claus." "Did he eat them?" Karl was bigeyed. "They were always gone in the morning. "Let's crack some nuts for Santa Claus." They sat about the kitchen table. Bill pounded with a hammer, Karl used the nut crackers, and Sally picked the meats from the shells. Somewhere down the street, voices were caroling through the frosty air. Sally looked at the faces of her dear family. The true spirit of Christmas was in all their hearts. "Merry Christmas, darlings. Merty, Merry Christmas." THE WORLD'S FINEST PIANOS Mason & Hamlin The Stradivari of Pianos EVERETT Finest Toned Spinet Piano Built an ee CableNelson Finest Low Priced Piano Built <i All Obtainable At Beesley Music Co. Pioneer Piano People 70 S. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH EOP — Europe In 1999 For Details Write or Phone: VIDA FOX CLAWSON 966 East South Temple SALT LAKE CITY 2, UTAH Phone: 4-2017 Page 864 It's awaiting You... E YES there is still a tremendous amount of outstanding instruction and use awaiting you in this and other copies of the Relief Society Magazine. Your editions may be handsomely bound at the West's finest bindery and printing plant for $2.50 cloth bound and $3.50 leather bound per volume plus postage for mail orders. Follow these postage rates if you send your order by mail: Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles 02... Eeeeeseeeeseeeeoes35 150 to 300 miles _....0.0 ee. 39 300 to 600 miles —..........02220..... 45 600 to 1000 miles, 1000 to 1400 miles 1400 to 1800 miles Over 1800 miles....0000.00... Eee.87 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press 31 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah Phone 4-2581 (HD / i, books for your LDS LIBRARY (1) ISRAEL! DO YOU KNOW? Ee Nee A timely message to the Jewish people, and an inspiring discourse, revealing the interwoven truths contained in the Bible S$? 00 and Book of Mormon. 3) MATTHEW COWLEY SPEAKS An outstanding collection of the wonderful sermons and discourses delivered by Matthew Cowley. Rich in related experiences of people who have gained true S$ 00 and lasting testimonies. ) (2 MAN, HIS ORIGIN AND DESTINY by JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH Natural laws and scientific theories are discussed minutely in their relationship $400 to Gospel truths. -. 44 Fast South Temple - Gentlemen: |; Enclosed you will find ( ) check ( ) money order ( ) charge to my account the | following $..........00.000............. For the encircled (numbered) books: 1 2 3 | Name | Cit ye en Se TG A a ee aeamt ee 5 State: ee! Ee es U Residents of Utah include 2% sales tax. Address............ Bn ey Es ee en es. Pe N REX-R 1-171-27290 JAN 56 "T will honor Christmas in my Heart, and try to keep it all the Year"... Scrooce The gaily colored tissue and tinsel, the plump brown turkey and trimmings, the stockings lumpy with toys and candy, the twinkling Christmas tree... These at best can give us pleasure for only a few brief hours. But the true Spirit of Christmas lives on in our hearts as long as we wish to keep it there. BENEFICIAL LIFE Insurance David O. McKay, Pres.
